
    ----CITATION----
        Dorr, Julia C. R. (1825-1913). Sibyl Huntington .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6298
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               SIBYL HUNTINGTON. 
               A Novel. 
             
            BY MRS. JULIA C. R. DORR, AUTHOR OF "FARMINGDALE," "LANMERE," ETC. 
             
                
                  
                      
                        "O Life, O Beyond, 
                        
                           Art thou fair,-art thou sweet? 
                         
                        "Is the bower lost, then? Who sayeth 
                        That the bower indeed is lost? 
                        Hark! my spirit in it prayeth 
                        Through the sunshine and the frost,- 
                        And the prayer preserves it greenly, to the last and uttermost." 
                     
                   
                  Mrs. Browning. 
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               G. W. CARLETON, PUBLISHER. 
               LONDON: 
               S. LOW, SON, & CO.
             
            MDCCCLXIX. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by GEORGE W. CARLETON, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               Stereotyped by THOMAS P. PEABODY & CO., 
               Eighth Street and Avenue A, New York.
             
          
          
             
             
               Beloved, the first rude songs I tried to sing, 
               When, a mere child with untaught, stammering tongue, 
               I aimed at melodies beyond my reach, were sung 
               For thy sweet sake. Now to thy grave I bring 
               Sad tears of fond remembrance, while I lay 
               These leaves upon it. Ah! it well may be 
               They had been brighter and more worthy thee, 
               Hadst thou been here to smile on me, and say 
               Beholding my poor garland,-"It is well!" 
               But yet, one moment turn thine azure eyes 
               Down from the glories of the upper skies, 
               Where thou, an angel, dost with angels dwell; 
               And by the love that outlives death, I pray 
               Take the poor gift I bring to thee this day! 
             
            
               J. C. R. D. 
               June 1, 1869.
             
          
       
      
         
            Sibyl Huntington 
             
             
            SIBYL HUNTINGTON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               RUTH was three years older than I. She was nineteen-I sixteen-when, in the dewy freshness of that early morning, we stood with our arms about each other, looking off upon the broad and beautiful landscape stretching away before us. A landscape so lovely, with its changing lights and shadows; its wide intervals of meadowland, through which the sparkling Ottar wound like a thread of silver through emerald velvet; its gently swelling hills, amid which the little village of Valleythorpe had so cosily nestled itself; its towering mountains piercing the clouds upon one side, while upon the other, just visible in a clear day, lay the broad expanse of Lake Champlain; so rarely beautiful with all these that even the "familiarity that breeds contempt" had never been able to make us indifferent to its loveliness. 
               I thought that morning, as I think now, that if Ruth had not been engaged to John Gardiner she would have felt differently about going away to school. She, in her sweet humility, always believed that her natural abilities were far less than mine. We were neither of us geniuses. But her love for and her pride in the little sister who always stood first in her classes, and, in the quaint phraseology of the district school, "left off" (at the head, be it understood, O gentle reader!) oftener than any other scholar, made me seem one in her eyes. 
               Dear Ruth! A more unselfish, self-sacrificing being never lived. In her anxiety for my advancement, she forgot all about her own. At that time, more child than woman that I was, it is perhaps not strange that I was willing to take her word for it, and to believe that her love of learning was far less strong than mine. But now that I look at life from an entirely different standpoint, I see the "dramatis person" in a different light. I think to-day that Ruth's thirst for knowledge was quite equal to mine. But she was, perhaps, less ambitious, and better contented with our humble surroundings. Then, too, young as she was, she had taken to her heart the full meaning of the injunction, "bear ye one another's burdens," in "honor preferring" others before herself, and seeking their good rather than her own. 
               But, as I said before, she had been engaged to John Gardiner for some months, and I do not doubt that the strong ties between them, and the new interests clustering about her life rendered it easier for her to say, as she did that morning,- 
               "We cannot both be spared, Sibyl. That is quite out of the question. You are the youngest, and you must go." 
               Our father, Ralph Huntington, was a noble specimen of the old-fashioned New-England farmer-noble in the truest sense of the word. There was not a trace of littleness or meanness about him. He was generous, frank, and open as the day, ever ready to aid a friend, or to forgive an enemy. Of the latter, he had but few. Yet he was a man of decided character, who had opinions of his own, and "knowing, dared maintain." Such a man, of necessity, sometimes comes unpleasantly into collision with the views and opinions of others. And to say of any man that he never had an enemy is either to pronounce him weak and characterless, or to invest him with such rare and godlike wisdom, prudence, and discretion, such saintly love and forbearance, as I dare not claim for my father, who was neither a demigod nor a saint. 
               Highly educated he was not. Had he been, had he enjoyed a tithe of the advantages so liberally bestowed in these days upon hundreds and thousands of young men, who can neither improve nor appreciate them, he might have taken rank with the first men of his age. As it was, his sterling common sense, his sound judgment, his habit of acute observation, his well cultivated reasoning powers, and, more than all, his irreproachable integrity, enabled him to command the respect of his fellow-townsmen, and to maintain a high position among them. No man's opinion was more generally deferred to; no man was so often chosen "arbitrator" in neighborhood disagreements. 
               No one can doubt that such a man fully appreciated the value of a thorough educational training, or that he would gladly have bestowed upon his children every advantage in his power. But, alas! there was much to which his "poverty but not his will consented." At this distance of time, it is impossible for me to say whether, among all his fine qualities of head and heart, the particular one that might have made him successful in money-making was or was not wanting. But this I do know-that we were always poor. Not miserably poor,-not suffering, by any means, for the necessaries of life; but always struggling, always cramped, always obliged to count sixpences, and calculate our expenses closely, lest the outgoes and incomes should not balance each other. 
               Perhaps some fine lady, who daintily turns these pages with her slender, jewelled fingers, may curl her haughty lip as she reads the above sentence, and sarcastically exclaim, "generous, frank, and open as the day, while counting sixpences!" 
               My dear madam, some of the most truly liberal people I have ever known-people of the largest hearts and most open hands, people whose ears were never deaf to the whisper of the distressed or the moan of the disconsolate-have gone on counting sixpences all their days, from the cradle to the grave. The poor widow, doubtless, counted her two mites; but they were not, therefore, the less acceptable in the sight of Him who "seeth not as man seeth." 
               My father had married early in life, and-do not understand me to say, consequently-misfortunes of one sort and another had been his frequent guests. Pecuniarily he had suffered by fire and flood, as well as by the treachery of one in whom he had confided. His two eldest children were sons, both of whom died in the dawn of manhood. One was snatched from his side by a sudden and fearful accident; the other wasted away, day by day, week by week, month by month, until the close of the second year of his illness found him with the quiet sleepers under the sod. I think my father was never quite the same afterwards. I remember that he was thinner and paler, that his tall figure stooped slightly, as if beneath the weight of some steady, never-to-be-thrown-off sorrow, that his dark hair became threaded with silver, and that his manner was quieter and more subdued. Ruth and I used often to wish that we were boys, that we might better fill this void in his heart, assist him in his labors, and be a staff and a support to his old age. 
               In what I am about to say of our mother, let it be understood that I speak of her, not as she appeared to me then, but as I learned to know her in after years, when the kindly illusions of early girlhood had faded. It is a wise, a merciful law of nature, that all mothers, unless they are desperately cruel or depraved, wear the aureole in their children's eyes. That "the king can do no wrong" is no more integral a part of the creed of the sincere royalist than is the absolute wisdom and perfection of the mother in the creed of the child. Thank God that it is so; and bless God to-day, all ye who, wearing yourselves the crown of manhood or of womanhood, behold the brows of your mothers encircled by the same golden nimbus that they wore when you bowed the knee beside them, and they stood to you in the place of God himself. I speak of my mother's shortcomings with great reluctance, and only because many parts of my story cannot be fully understood without such frankness on my part. But I shall endeavor to "extenuate" as far as possible, while my heart, and all the crowding memories of childhood are a sufficient guarantee that I shall "set down nought in malice." 
               Ralph Huntington's wife was by no means his equal. She was in no sense of the word a "helpmeet." On the contrary, she was helpless, inefficient, always brooding over imaginary troubles, always lamenting her own privations, and magnifying her own ailments, whether of mind or body. Had she possessed but half the energy, half the decision of her husband, our home would have been a different place. She never knew what she wished to do, or to have others do; and whatever course was chosen for her or for them was sure to prove the wrong one. 
               Do you think my father knew this? By no means. With him, to love once was to love always; and his earnest, chivalrous nature could see no blemish in the wife of his youth. 
               "We cannot both be spared, Sibyl. That is quite out of the question. You are the youngest, and you must go," said Ruth, as we stood leaning upon the fence that lovely morning in July. Very early it was, for I remember that the whole east was aglow with the crimson and golden tints that heralded the sun; and, in the barnyard hard by, the cows were lowing their grateful thanks to the milkers, and the pails were brimming with their snowy froth. 
               "But, Ruth,-" 
               "There are no 'buts' in the case, dear. You are going to Oakwood next fall. The term begins about the first of September." 
               "But, Ruth," I repeated, "it is easy enough for you to say so. The trouble is, that the saying is one thing and the doing is another. I hardly dare to dream of it." 
               "Do not dream of it, then," she answered, "nor think of it, either, if you can help it! Leave the whole matter to me, Sibyl. I am going to talk to father and mother about it this very night." 
               "Oh, not to-night!" I exclaimed. "Wait a little longer. I cannot bear it yet, Ruth." 
               "Cannot bear what?" my sister asked, as she passed her hand caressingly over the brown hair that still fell in childish curls upon my shoulders. "I do not quite understand you, Sibyl." 
                
               "O Ruth! I have dreamed of it so long," I said. "Ever since I was a little bit of a thing, and Mr. Grayson allowed me to join the boys' class in Latin grammar, the first winter he taught the district school. Do you remember?" 
               "Indeed I do, Sibyl; and how proud I was of my little sister when I heard her decline 'penna, penns.' I determined then that you should go to a better school some day or other." 
               "If I only could, Ruthie!" I sighed, as I gazed lovingly upon her earnest face. "If I only could! But do not say anything about it to-night. I dread it so-and it seems as if a disappointment would kill me." 
               "Never fear," was the cheerful answer. "'Where there's a will, there's a way;' and I have great faith in my own resources and powers of persuasion. But we must go in. Which will you do this morning-set the table, or make the coffee?" 
               All that day Ruth and I were busily engaged in our usual employments,-setting the house in order, performing various feats in the culinary department (which, by the way, I detested, and from which, I am ashamed to say, I escaped whenever it was practicable), or attending to the duties of the dairy, which were always pleasant. The cool, airy, and exquisitely-kept apartment, with its rows of shining pans, its rolls of golden butter, and its fragrant cheeses, formed an agreeable contrast to the often sultry atmosphere of the kitchen. The conversation of the morning was not resumed; but my heart leaped to my throat and my breath came quickly whenever I thought of what Ruth had said, and of her promise for the evening. 
               It was difficult for me to analyze my own motives, or to fully understand my own emotions. Was it strange? What young girl ever even partially comprehended herself? I had completely outgrown our district school, and, for two years, I had longed with an unspeakable longing for an opportunity to pursue my studies under more favorable auspices. My hunger had grown to be an eager, impatient craving. My thirst tormented me day and night. All the books that chance threw in my way were eagerly devoured. But they were few, and merely added to the intensity of my desire. My hungry intellect cried "give, give," and from its extortionate demands there was no escape. Added to all this, there was a daily increasing dissatisfaction with the externals of my life. What ailed me, I did not know then. Whittier has told me since. I, like Maud Mller, was dimly conscious of- 
                      
                        "A wish that I scarcely dared to own, 
                        For something better than I had known." 
                     
                   I had vague dreams of a loftier and more beautiful life, of higher forms of social culture, of elegancies and refinements of which I possessed no actual knowledge. So it came about that to my inborn longing after a fuller and broader mental culture was added an intense desire to prepare myself for a different sphere of action,-to so nurture and improve every gift that God had given me that I might be able to teach, to write, to do something besides housework and dairywork. Even the latter, I felt, was a poor resource for a lifetime. Like Glory McWhirk, I knew that there were "such beautiful times in the world," and I sighed to be "in them." 
               Ruth was my only confidante-the sole repository of thoughts and feelings that I knew instinctively would meet with no toleration from my mother; and many of which would probably seem absurd and fanciful even to my father. He could appreciate my anxiety for an education; but he was himself contented with his lot, and trod with willing feet the comparatively humble path to which God had appointed him. 
               The long summer day slowly waned, and the sun went down in a blaze of glory. The dewy calm and stillness of the evening hours fell like a benediction upon the hot and thirsty earth. My father came in from the barn, where he had been attending to the last duties of the day, drew off his boots, and threw himself into his large arm-chair with a long-drawn sigh of relief. My mother was slowly rocking in her softly-cushioned chair, while her knitting-work, the friend and companion of twilight, lay quietly in her lap. 
               I stood in the doorway, apparently gazing at the sunset clouds, but with thoughts that were far distant. 
               Presently Ruth came in from the kitchen. My heart gave one great throb, and I would fain have slipped quietly from the room, like a very coward, had not a quick glance from my sister, and a slight shake of her head detained me. 
               "Ruth, is the milk strained?" asked my mother. 
               "Long ago, mother," was the answer. 
               "Milk-pails scalded?" 
               "Certainly; I should not be likely to neglect that." 
               "Sibyl, did you set sponge to-night?" 
               "No, mother," I replied. "It is so very warm that Ruth thought it was best to wait until morning. There is bread enough for dinner." 
               "Well, I don't know. I was always taught to set sponge at night, whether or no. But young folks are a great deal wiser than their parents, nowadays." 
               "I will do it now, mother, if you think best," I said, turning toward the kitchen. 
               "Oh, it's too late, now, and the fire is all out. Did you skim the milk for the calves?" 
               "Yes, ma'am. James fed them before he went home." 
               "Well, I wonder what we are going to have for breakfast? I meant to have had hash. Is there any meat boiled, Ruth?" 
               "No, ma'am. I concluded from what you said this morning that you did not wish to have any boiled to-day." 
               "Oh, dear!" said my mother, clasping her hands with a querulous air. "I only wish that I could do everything myself, then I should know what to depend upon. But-" 
               "Never mind, mother," broke in my father's genial, hearty voice. "The girls have been pretty busy to-day. Don't fret about breakfast. Plenty of eggs, daughter?" 
               Ruth was "daughter," par excellence. I was "child," "midget," "puss," or "Sibyl," as the case might be. So she responded, with a smile,- 
               "A great plenty, father, and there's cold pork, too." 
               "And Sibyl's coffee is always good. Breakfast's all right," was the rejoinder. "Girls, did James bring the Gazette? I told him to stop at the post-office." 
               "The paper is here, sir," said Ruth, slipping her arm about my waist, and drawing me closer to her side. "But, please don't open it to-night, father. Sibyl and I want to talk with you and mother, if you are not too tired." 
               "Whew!" said my father, laughing, "what's up now? Some important business matter?-need some new frocks?-or do you want to go to the picnic next week? Speak on,-mother and I are all attention." 
               "Our business is much more important than you imagine," replied Ruth, with an answering smile. "You will think so, I am sure, when I tell you what it is. Oh, father, I wish you would say 'yes,' now, before I go any further." 
               My father laughed again, more heartily this time. 
               "A tolerably cool proposition, I must say. It reminds me of the doggerel of the school-boys,- 
                      
                        'Open your mouth and shut your eyes, 
                        And I'll give you something to make you wise.' 
                     
                   But go on, Ruthie,-what is it?" 
               "Sibyl wants to go to Oakwood to school next fall, father. The term begins in September. If you think she can go, she has no time to lose, but should be getting ready." 
               My father's face grew grave, almost sad, in an instant, while a slight flush rose to my mother's cheek, and her eyes dilated. 
               For some moments there was silence in the room. The moon had risen, and upon the unpainted floor lay the reflection of the window,-a massive oblong of silver, barred off with ebony. The clock ticked with painful distinctness, and a single cricket, in advance of the season, chirped loudly upon the empty hearth. How well I remember it all! Yet, at the time, I scarcely knew whether I was in the body or not. 
               At length, after an interval that seemed interminable, though doubtless it was of only a very few moments' duration, my father spoke,- 
               "Perhaps we shall have a good school here next winter. Mr. Deane is one of the committee, and he told me he should do the best he could." 
               "His own girls are going down here to school," said my mother. "Mrs. Deane told me so, and they are both older than Sibyl." 
               "But, mother," replied Ruth, "they are not nearly as far advanced in their studies. They have neither of them gone beyond the 'Rule of Three,' in Arithmetic. Speak for yourself, Sibyl," she whispered. "Tell them all about it." 
               So, trying in vain to steady my voice, I came tremblingly to the rescue. 
               "Father, mother," I said, "I have quite outgrown our school. My last teacher told me so, more than a year ago. There are no suitable classes for me to enter; and, besides, I feel the need of better teachers than I can have here." 
               "Well," hastily interrupted my mother, "if you have got so far along that teachers like Miss Lane and Mr. Pease can't teach you anything, I think you may as well stop going to school. I never studied Latin, nor Geometry, nor Physiology, nor any of the rest of the 'ologies,'" she added, turning towards my father as she spoke, "and I don't know but I have made you just as good a wife as if I had. The girls are all crazy, nowadays, I do believe!" 
               "Not our girls, Mary," said my father, gently. "They are good and sensible, and I only wish that I could afford to send them both to boarding-school, or to Europe, or to the moon, if they want to go there. But, Sibyl, it seems to me that it would be just about as easy for me to send you to the moon as to Oakwood. It will cost a great deal, and money is scarce this year." 
               "As it always is," said Ruth, with a feeble attempt at a smile. "I cannot remember that it was ever plenty. But, father, if we could contrive to send Sibyl to school for a year or two, even if we made great sacrifices, there would be wisdom and economy in it. She wants to prepare herself to teach, and, if she can get a good situation, her salary would be more than sufficient for her own wants,-wouldn't it, Sibyl?" 
               I felt that Ruth needed my aid, but it seemed to me that my tongue was palsied. After a little, she went on,- 
               "There's Margaret Rice. She has gone South, you know, and receives eight hundred a year for teaching a small family school. But, to say nothing of the money, there are other considerations. Sibyl loves study. It is more than meat or drink to her. She is starving without it," she continued, while her eyes grew soft and dewy, and her voice grew tremulous. "She cannot live without labor. You are not rich enough to support her in idleness, even if that were best for her, and it is easier for her to work with her head than with her hands. Help her to fit herself for the life-work to which she is best adapted, father, and I know you will never be sorry." 
               "The old story of 'Martha and Mary,'" said my father. "Well, I suppose the world has need of both. It is hardly orthodox I know, but, Ruth, in my opinion it would be quite as hard to spare the Marthas as the Marys. You expect to be Martha, I suppose, while Mary sits at the feet of her teachers?" 
               "That's the very thing," said my mother, with unwonted energy, as she stopped rocking, and sat bolt upright in her chair. "That's the very thing. Even if you felt able to send Sibyl to school-and I know you don't-I want to know if it would be right, and proper, and sisterly for her to go off to Oakwood to enjoy herself, and leave Ruth here, among the pots and kettles, to do all the work? For, of course, with my feeble health and all my cares, there can't be much dependence placed upon me." 
               Which last clause was most emphatically true. But I did not know it, then. 
               I cast a deprecatory, repentant glance at Ruth, which she returned with one full of love and trust. I longed to defend myself, to exonerate myself from the charge of selfishness. Young as I was, I felt that my brain was worth more as a worker than my hands or my feet. But words were denied me just then, and I was fain to leave my cause in Ruth's hands. 
               "Sibyl and I have settled all that, mother," she replied, quickly. She hesitated a moment, and I could see by the moonlight the bright crimson flush that rose to her forehead. "Maybe I shall be married one of these years, and then, if Sibyl is teaching, she will be able to help me about my wedding outfit." 
               "I suppose you think John Gardiner will be willing to wait three or four years, while Miss Sibyl here is educating herself, and getting ready to buy you a wedding frock? Now, as I look at it, it would be a good deal better to put the cost of Sibyl's schooling into sheets, and pillow-cases, and so on, at once, instead of sending her off on a wild-goose chase after nobody knows what." 
               "John, himself, thinks that it is not best for us to be married at present," said Ruth, "and we are both young enough to wait. And, meanwhile, father, I want Sibyl educated, and am willing to do all I can to help." Then, turning to our mother, she continued,- 
               "Mother, you were saying the other day that you must get Sally Davis to come here next winter to do that spinning and weaving. I will do it myself, if you will consent to our plan." 
               "And I can do the housework, I suppose," was the sarcastic answer. "That would be a beautiful arrangement,-with my health." 
               "Perhaps," interposed my father, "we could find some young girl who would be glad to have a home here, and would be content with moderate wages; that is, if we should conclude to let Sibyl go." 
               "If we should conclude to let Sibyl go!" 
               My heart leaped. 
               "Not with my consent," rejoined my mother. "I won't have any young girl round. I know all about it. She would just be under foot from morning till night, and make more work than she would do. Why can't Sibyl be contented to stay at home? She's got learning enough, already. Ruth never went away to school, and she is the oldest." 
               Ruth smiled. 
               "Martha and Mary again, mother. Mary longed to sit at the feet of the Great Teacher. But we are not taught that Martha had any such longings. There will be just this difference between sisters, as long as the world stands." 
               I need not repeat the remainder of the conversation. At length my father rose, and placing a hand upon each of our heads, he said,- 
               "Now, good-night, my daughters. Your mother and I will talk this matter over, and I will let you know our decision in a few days." 
               When we had reached our own room, I threw myself into Ruth's arms, and wept passionately. 
               "O, Ruth!" I exclaimed, "I am afraid it is as mother says. Am I indeed selfish to think of leaving you? Is it right that I should be 'Mary,' caring chiefly for my own mental and spiritual needs, and you 'Martha, troubled about many things,' and bearing my burden as well as your own?" 
               "You foolish child," she replied, kissing me tenderly. "I am sorry father made that unfortunate allusion. Don't you know that I am just as anxious to have you go to Oakwood as you are to go? You and I can afford to trust each other, Sibyl. There has never been a shadow of anything akin to jealousy between us. There never shall be." 
                
               "But, Ruth, I am afraid that John will think me thoughtless and inconsiderate, and will-" 
               I stammered, and hesitated, and left the sentence unfinished. 
               She laughed, merrily. 
               "Will think that I have more love for you than for him? Never fear; he knows that I love him well enough, and is willing, as it cannot be helped, to let me love you a little, too. Now, go to sleep, dear. You are worn out with excitement." 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE next two days dragged heavily. No allusion was made to our late conversation, but father's face wore a harassed and anxious expression, and mother's complaints were incessant, while her look and manner were so reproachful that I could scarcely bear it. I have not the slightest doubt that I was myself a most disconsolate-looking object. Ruth alone kept on "the even tenor of her way," giving me a bright glance or a loving word whenever she had an opportunity. 
               One evening John Gardiner came over "across lots," and carried Ruth off for a walk. When they returned, he did not come in, but they stood by the gate talking for some time. Presently Ruth called,- 
               "Come out here, Sibyl. John wants you." 
               I suppose Ruth had told him of my uneasiness with regard to his view of our new project; for, as I joined them, he reached out his hand and took mine for an instant, as he said,- 
               "I am glad there is some prospect of your going to Oakwood at last, Sibyl. If you do go, you must not worry about Ruth. I shall take good care that she does not carry the whole world on her shoulders." 
                
               I shook my head, as I smiled in his earnest eyes. 
               "Much you will know about it, John. Ruth does not even let her 'left hand know what her right hand doeth,'" I replied. 
               At the close of the second day, my father called Ruth and me to his side, and told us that he had determined to yield to our wishes. 
               "With Ruth's help and co-operation," he said, "I will manage to send you to Oakwood for one year. I would be glad to send you longer; I would be still more glad if I could send you both. But, my daughters, fate has always seemed to be against me. I have been frugal and industrious, I have toiled early and late, and yet, at fifty-five, I am still a poor man. If your brothers had lived-" 
               His lip trembled, and his voice ceased. Ruth and I drew closer to him, striving by our mute caresses to show how much we loved and honored him. 
               After a moment, he went on,- 
               "But God knows best. Fate has nothing to do with it. I have had many misfortunes, many sorrows, and I could hardly have borne them if I had not felt that he who 'sees the end from the beginning' has allowed them all for some wise purpose. He knows what is really best for me and for you. And, Sibyl, you, of all others, with your eager, sensitive, impulsive nature, need this faith. Nothing else can sustain you in the trials that will surely come." 
               Were his words prophetic? 
               I strove to speak, but I could not. I could not even thank him. I could only press my lips to his forehead, and then run away to my own room to be alone with my new-found joy. 
               Ruth joined me ere long, impatient to rejoice with and for me. It would be impossible for me to tell how strong I felt that night-strong to do and to dare, to overcome obstacles, and to achieve success. My spirit plumed its wing exultingly, eager for the flight, fearing, in that hour of exaltation, neither wind nor storm. We talked in low, murmuring tones, lest our voices should disturb our parents, whose room was immediately below ours, until long after midnight; and it was not until the gray dawn was breaking that we closed our eyes for an hour or two of restless slumber. 
               It seemed to me that I had hardly fallen asleep when Ruth awakened me with a kiss. 
               "It is too bad to wake you up, Sibyl," she said; "but it is already late, and you know we have some very busy weeks before us." 
               I sprang from the bed before my eyes were half opened. 
               "Why, you are dressed already, Ruth! Why did you not call me before?" 
               But Ruth was half way down stairs before the words were out of my mouth. I went on with my dressing hurriedly, yet in a somewhat subdued and quiet mood, under the influence of the reaction that always follows a period of unnatural excitement, be it long or short. My horizon had narrowed wonderfully since the night before, when it seemed to embrace the universe, and my confidence in my own strength-in my own powers-had diminished in the same ratio. Perhaps it was as well; for the first words that greeted me when I descended to the kitchen were these,- 
               "Well, Sibyl, why didn't you wait a while longer, and have your breakfast sent up to your room? Now you have set up for a lady, I suppose we can't expect anything else of you. I have been up a full half-hour doing your work, and am almost tired to death." 
               I apologized with unwonted meekness, for I really felt conscience-smitten; and, after seeing mother safely established in her rocking-chair, to rest until breakfast was ready, I went on with the preparations for the morning meal. But my heart was sore, and the bitter, sarcastic words I had heard rankled there. At length I went to my mother's side, and kneeling, laid my head in her lap. 
               "Do not speak so to me, mother," I said. "It will spoil all my pleasure in going to school, if I feel that you are unhappy or vexed about it. If you would only say, 'I am glad that you are going, Sibyl, and I do not blame you because you want to go.'" 
               She hesitated, and turned her eyes away. After a while I repeated, laying my cheek to hers,- 
               "Won't you say so, dear mother, just once?" 
               "Oh, I don't know but that I am willing you should go child. Your father has set his heart on it, any way, so there's nothing more to be said." 
               "But you don't blame me, mother? Just think how much more useful I can be to you all as a teacher than I can be here, doing housework and sewing a little! I shall be so much happier, too, and I mean to do a great deal for Ruth." 
               "You ought to. She does a great deal for you, and humors all your whims, besides. But I don't know that I blame you any, to speak of. An education is a good enough thing, of course, though I never could see the sense of making such a fuss about it, and turning things upside-down so. However, I don't know that I have any objections to your going to Oakwood, if your father feels as if he could afford it." 
               And with this admission I was fain to be content. Little as it was, it was more than I had dared to hope for. 
               "Now let us see how soon we can get the work done up," said Ruth, after dinner that day; "and then we will go up to our room, and look over your clothes. O, Sibyl! how are we ever going to get you ready?" 
               I can safely say that I never "did" the dishes in any less time than that afternoon. Meanwhile, Ruth made some gingerbread for tea; and then, while my mother was taking her afternoon nap, we ran up stairs, and were soon deep in the mysteries of closets and bureau-drawers. 
               The prospect was not very encouraging. Ruth and I had always dressed plainly, not only from motives of economy, but because we had neither of us any fancy for "furbelows." 
                
               In our quiet country neighborhood, a very simple wardrobe was amply sufficient for our needs,-with home washing and ironing, and repairing, to render it always available. But it did not require long consideration to satisfy us that mine was utterly inadequate to the demands of an absence from home. Ruth turned the various articles over and over, shook them out, folded them up, spread them out on the bed, and threw them over the foot-board. But, alas! they grew neither in quantity nor in quality. 
               "What shall we do about it, Sibyl?" she asked, at length, with a most rueful expression of countenance. "I do not see that you can possibly get along without two new dresses. And, oh, dear me, there is your cloak! You never can wear that in Oakwood. It is entirely too shabby. Old-fashioned, too. However, I would not mind that; but absolute shabbiness is beyond endurance," and, dropping her chin into the palm of her hand, she stood in a brown study for some minutes. 
               "Can't it be turned, or made over, or something?" I asked, as I went to the closet, and, taking down the offending article, held it up to the light, with a view to possibilities. "I have seen worse-looking garments." 
               "Turned!" said Ruth, slowly, as she lifted one corner of it, and examined the lining. "It has been turned once,-don't you remember?-and I doubt whether a repetition of the process will be of any advantage." 
               "How about dyeing it?" I asked. 
               "It is not worth it," was the answer. But presently the face of my sweet 'consulting partner' brightened, and clasping her hands, she exclaimed,- 
               "I have it, Sibyl! Why did I not think of it before? I am but a trifle taller than you, and you can take my cloak. It was new last winter, and looks very nicely, yet." 
               "But what will you do?" 
               "Wear yours." 
                
               "O, Ruth! what did you say about 'unendurable shabbiness,' just one minute ago?" 
               "Oh, well, you'll see, Sibyl, that when I get it bound over, and give it some new buttons, it will be freshened up surprisingly. Really, it does not look so very badly, after all!" 
               O, Ruthie, dear Ruthie! How my heart leaps back to-day over the graves of the buried years, till I seem to stand by your side again, and to hear your loving voice as I heard it in the long ago! The recital of these simple incidents of our girlhood so quickens my memory of you that I can hardly bear it. 
               The investigation went on. When we went down to get supper, the greatest discovery I had made was with regard to the sudden and amazing enlargement of Ruth's wardrobe. It was truly wonderful to see how much it contained that was of no earthly consequence to her, but was quite indispensable to me. 
               The next few weeks were very busy ones,-very happy ones. Every forenoon was devoted to our usual household employments,-to the "brewing and baking," the sweeping and dusting, the washing and ironing, that formed so large a part of our daily lives. Do not imagine that we were worn down and oppressed with fatigue all the time, for it was by no means the case. Many a fine lady, who would have looked with contemptuous pity upon our humble labors, is far more fatigued by her day's work than we were by ours. We were both in perfect health, and there was a great deal of positive enjoyment in our round of duties. The trouble in my case was, not that I had too much to do, but that I wanted to be doing something else. 
               But there were three or four hours of the long summer afternoon that we generally managed to devote to our needles, and greatly did we enjoy them. Our tongues flew even faster than the tiny shafts we wielded so skilfully. 
               "Sibyl," said Ruth, one day when we were putting the last finishing touches to a new-old dress, made entirely presentable by dint of turning and pressing, and "fixing over" generally, "Sibyl, did it ever occur to you that there is real pleasure in being poor?" 
               "No, Ruth, it never did. But it has occurred to me thousands of times that there would be real pleasure in being rich. So my thought quite overbalances yours. Why do you ask me such a question as that?" 
               "Why, do you suppose that Mrs. Guernsey, who has a new dress for every month in the year, has half as much pleasure from any two of them as we have had in making this old one look 'amaist as weel's the new'? There is real enjoyment, I do think, in planning and contriving; in saving here, so that you may be able to spend there; in making a little go a great way; and in feeling that for every penny you have spent you have received its full equivalent." 
               "And in letting other people wear your best clothes, while you wear the shabby ones yourself!" I interrupted. "No, Ruth, I do not believe in being poor. I do not like it. I hate this pinched, cramped feeling,-this being obliged to consider so long what you can afford, and what you cannot. I want to be able to buy what I need,-yes, and sometimes what I do not need, but what I like,-and then to stop thinking about it. The thinking about it,-that's the worst of it! I verily believe that you and I give ten thoughts to our dress where Mrs. Guernsey give one. If she wants a thing she buys it, and there's the end of it; but we must think it over, and talk it over, and compare notes, in order to ascertain what will be most durable, and where we can make our purchases most economically, till I get so tired of it all that I wish we could wear bearskins or fig-leaves!" 
               "Neither of which primitive styles of apparel is exactly adapted to our latitude," said Ruth, laughing. "Then," she added, with a little sigh, "maybe I have had just such thoughts, myself, Sibyl, more than once. Maybe I was talking for my own benefit quite as much as for yours. But, surely, it is better to count up our blessings than our deprivations; and I really do believe that the poor,-I do not mean the miserably poor-the suffering poor-" 
               She hesitated a moment, and I suggested,- 
               "The comfortably poor,-like ourselves, for instance?" 
               "Don't speak so ironically, puss. Yes, I do believe that the comfortably poor, if that word suits you, have many pleasures of which the rich know nothing." 
               Ruth had never read Elia, neither had I. If she had, she would certainly have quoted from Bridget,- 
               "A purchase is but a purchase, now that you have money enough and to spare. Formerly, it was a triumph. A thing was worth buying then, when we felt the money that we paid for it." And there came a time, but it was not until the discipline of years had taught me patience, when I could have replied to her, as did Elia to dear cousin Bridget, "That we had much to struggle with as we grew up together, we have reason to be most thankful. It strengthened and knit our compact closer. We could never have been what we have been to each other if we had always had a sufficiency." 
               How many husbands and wives who have labored, and struggled, and prayed together,-who have been truly "helpmeets," bearing each other's burdens, while walking side by side over a rough and thorny pathway, and keeping step, notwithstanding its roughness, to the beating of two accordant hearts,-to-day look backward upon their long journey, and thank God for the early difficulties that were but cementing bonds between them! 
               So passed the weeks until September came, with her cool nights and shortening days, and it was time for me to go to Oakwood. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               I WAS to leave the next morning. Oakwood was a large town about thirty miles from the little village of Valleythorpe, near which we lived. In all my sixteen years of life I had never been so far from home, and I was in a strange state of excitement. There was something of exultation-of joy-in my heart, mingled with a large amount of depression and anxiety. 
               "I don't believe old Gray will be able to go so far in one day," said my mother, as we were discussing in family conclave the various important matters connected with such an unwonted occurrence. "Poor old fellow, he has seen his best days." 
               "So has his master," said my father. "We have grown old together. But he is good for thirty miles a day, yet. No fear for old Gray." 
               "Why will people always speak in that way, father?" I asked, ignoring all but his first remark. "Are our young days necessarily our best days? I do not believe it!" 
               My father laid his hand tenderly upon my brown hair, and smoothed it softly, as he answered,- 
               "Don't you? Well, dear, you need not attempt to decide that question for many a year to come. I doubt whether you will ever be able to solve it. But, in my reply to your mother, I was speaking 'after the manner of men,' which means, I suppose, talking to no purpose. This much we know, beyond a peradventure, our best days are those in which we live nearest to God, whether they come early or late. Let us be content with that, and with the knowledge that He careth for us." 
               How those simply uttered words of love and faith soothed and quieted my perturbed spirit! I had not then learned their full meaning from an earnest personal experience, but I caught an inkling of their truth. 
                
               Ruth had been busier than any bee, all day. It was her skill that had packed my small trunk, finding room in abundance after I had given up in despair, declaring that it would not hold half my things. Her hands had fluted and crimped the tiny ruffles that were to be worn on festal days, and given so fine a polish to the narrow cuffs and collars her fingers had stitched so neatly. On the bed in the "spare chamber" were lying the various garments I was to wear on the morrow, the brown delaine, in the neck of which she had basted one of those identical ruffles; the cloak,-her cloak, at which I could not glance without a great rising in my throat,-the simple bonnet, unadorned by feathers or flowers,-the new gloves, and the new shoes. The two new dresses that Ruth had declared indispensable, had dwindled to one. But we felt that we had done wonders, and were quite content. 
               "Put on your shawl, Ruth, and come out of doors with me," I said, rising from my low seat at my father's knee. "Let us have one more little ramble before I go." 
               "You must not go far, children," said my mother. "The dew is falling, and I shall want Ruth to give me my medicine when I go to bed. I'm clear tired out with all this fuss of getting Sibyl ready. And there, I knew there was something else to be done. Those new buttons have not been sewed on to your father's Sunday vest." 
               "We will be gone but a little while, mother, and I will attend to the vest after I come in." 
               "Never mind about the medicine, daughter," whispered my father, as we passed him. "I guess I can drop it for once, without making any blunders." 
               So we went to the barn, where I bade farewell to all my four-footed friends; to the little flower-garden, where my pansies and verbenas looked up in my tearful face with their bright, unwinking eyes; to the gurgling, moss-grown spring, down in the hollow behind the house; to the orchard, ruddy and golden with the ripening fruit that my father declared would go far toward paying my bills at Oakwood; and climbed over the stone wall, that I might gather a handful of green and gray mosses to carry away with me. 
               "They will keep fresh a long time, if I give them plenty of water. Perhaps they will even grow, and they will make a tiny bit of home for me when I am among strangers." 
               As we were retracing our steps, we met John Gardiner coming in search of us. 
               "So you are off to-morrow?" he asked. "What, homesick already?" And he smilingly bent forward and laid a finger upon my tear-stained cheek. 
               "Not homesick, exactly," said Ruth, coming to the rescue. "Only a little sad at leaving us all, and for the first time, too. She will be all right as soon as she is fairly settled at Oakwood." 
               "I know somebody who ought to be glad when I am gone," I remarked. "Somebody who will be glad in spite of himself." 
               "Who?" 
               "You, John Gardiner. You have not been able to monopolize Ruth, after your usual fashion, for at least six weeks. I have monopolized her, sir, and I am not a bit sorry. It is only righteous retribution." 
               He smiled. 
               "Neither am I sorry. You and I must not be jealous, Sibyl. Ruth's heart is large enough to hold us two, I know." 
               "So it is, John," I said, giving him my hand, penitently. "Still, I really should think that you would be glad to get rid of me, so that you can have her to yourself for a while." 
               "'A bad penny always returns,'" he said, with a laugh, as he drew an arm of each within his own. "You will be back almost before we have had time to miss you." 
               We chatted on, quite merrily, until we reached the door. There John left us, saying he only came over to bid me good-by. 
               Mother had gone to bed. Ruth sewed the buttons on the vest; and then, after casting a last glance at the trunk, and bringing the various articles from the spare chamber into our own room, that they might be all in readiness for the morning, we laid our heads upon the same pillow, and fell asleep. 
               The journey to Oakwood was accomplished without any mishaps. It was one of those rarely lovely September days, when the sky seems one vast sapphire, and the earth an emerald. There had been a long drought in August, greatly retarding vegetation, and giving to the meadows and hillsides the appearance of having been parched as with fire. But recent rains had started a growth of fresh, young grass, and hills and valleys were again as green as in June. After the first hour or two, during which my eyes were so tear-blinded that I could see no beauty anywhere, and my heart so full of thoughts of home and Ruth that it had room for naught else, I enjoyed the drive exceedingly. It was one of the days when one feels that it is joy simply to be alive. The dazzling sunshine, the changing lights and shadows upon the mountain-sides, presenting a different picture every hour of the day; the whole glorious sweep of woodland, and lake, and hill, and valley; the snug farm-houses, and the "cattle upon a thousand hills"; the scattered villages, each with its one, or two, or three church-spires pointing heavenward, its school-house, and often its more pretentious academy; the little hamlets where half-a-dozen houses had, with no apparent cause, sprung up in close companionship; the children playing at the cottage doors; the farmers, busy with their fall ploughing; the patient oxen, with their large, half-human eyes; and here and there a mill-wheel flashing in the sun,-all these combined to form one vast panorama, always shifting, but always beautiful. I sighed, from pure delight, as I exclaimed,- 
               "I do not wonder that when God looked upon the earth He pronounced it 'good.' How can heaven be any more beautiful?" 
               "'Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man' to conceive of the glories there, my child," replied my father, with a reverential glance around him, and then an uplifted, yearning gaze, into the blue, unfathomable sky. 
               I could not follow him. I could see that earth was fair and beautiful. But heaven,-that was the dim and vague unknown,-a something intangible, incomprehensible. But my father was no rapt dreamer, and after his brief communing with the angels he came back to me again. The day passed in pleasant talk,-now grave, earnest, and thoughtful, now full of jests and playfulness. 
               Just as the sun was setting, we drove through the broad streets of Oakwood. The seminary was at the eastern extremity of the village, but at length we drew up in front of a large wooden building, painted white, with no architectural adornments, not even so much as a piazza. The contrast between this abode of learning and the elegant stone buildings belonging to the college at the other end of the town,-for Oakwood boasted of its college as well as of its "Ladies' Seminary,"-in externals, at least, was great, and perhaps rather disheartening. The main portion of the house was three stories high, with a basement dining-room, well-lighted and airy. In a wing toward the east was the large apartment that served at once for chapel and lecture-room. There also were the recitation-rooms and the music-rooms. From the latter, six pianos were sending forth upon the evening air as many different tunes, each in a different key, played by performers in half-a-dozen different stages of progress. Together they made most horrible discord. But I had little time to listen, or to make comments. 
               My father fastened old Gray-who, by the by, had carried himself most admirably, thereby proving that his best days were by no means over-to the hitching-post, and rang the doorbell. A tidy servant-girl ushered us into a large, tastefully-furnished parlor, took our names, and retired. My heart throbbed so violently that I could scarcely breathe. No neophyte standing with bated breath before the gate of the temple of the Holy Mysteries was ever more awe-struck or more thoroughly impressed with a sense of his own insignificance than was I at that moment. Probably my face was a true index to my emotions; for my father, who, wearied with his long confinement to the carriage, was slowly pacing back and forth across the room, smiled, as he caught my eye, and, coming quickly to my side, kissed me tenderly,- 
               "Come, come, my little Sibyl, this will never do. What in the world are you trembling so for? Why, my child,-tears? Shall we take French leave, get into the carriage again, and bid old Gray carry us back to Valleythorpe?" 
               For a single moment every other thought and feeling seemed to be merged in the one wish to escape from my present position, and I felt more than half-inclined to say, yes. But very soon, shame and a sense of my folly came to my aid. I hastily crushed back and wiped away the starting tear-drops, quieted my trembling lip, and ordered my silly little heart to stop its tumultuous beatings. Ere the door opened, and Miss Raymond appeared, "Richard was himself again." 
               A tall, majestic woman, of perhaps thirty-five years. Purplish black hair, parted above a broad, calm forehead, and falling in two or three soft curls upon either cheek. Dark eyes, whose color I could never exactly define. Sometimes they were almost black, and looked out from beneath their heavy lashes with an intense, searching light, that an offender would hardly like to meet. Sometimes they were deep and holy, with a soft, brooding tenderness in their violet depths. Sometimes, when their owner was in a merry mood, they seemed a rich chestnut brown, and again they were a bright hazel. The color of Miss Raymond's eyes was a theme for endless discussion among the girls. An almost colorless cheek, yet one that conveyed no impression of ill health. Large, white, well-formed hands, that were always in the right place. A dress of plain black silk, finished at the throat by a small lace collar, with a knot of dark-blue ribbon. Such was the picture that met my eyes as I turned them toward the opening door. 
                
               My father had brought a letter of introduction from the clergyman-there was but one-at Valleythorpe, who happened to be an acquaintance of Miss Raymond's. 
               She smiled, as she read it. 
               "I am glad to see you, Mr. Huntington. You have brought me a new pupil?" 
               Then, as she glanced at the letter again, she added,- 
               "Your daughter's first name is not given here. Is this Miss Sibyl Huntington?" And she turned toward me, with a look of interest and pleasure. 
               I was surprised, and, without doubt, showed it; for, as my father answered,-"Yes, madam, this is Sibyl," she laughingly added,- 
               "You are no stranger to me, Miss Sibyl. I have often heard your old teacher, Mr. Grayson, speak of you; and of your sister Ruth, also. But she must be older than you. Therefore, I concluded that this was Sibyl." 
               If Victoria herself had condescended to inform me that her ladies in waiting had often spoken to her of me, poor insignificant Sibyl Huntington, I do not think it would have seemed one whit more marvellous to me than did this announcement. But it made me feel at home at once. Miss Raymond was thenceforth no inapproachable stranger, but a friend, to whom I might sometimes venture to speak of all that was nearest and dearest to me. 
               My heart went out to her from that very hour. 
               After some further conversation, my father arose, and, taking his hat, said,- 
               "Well, Miss Raymond, I hope this child will not make you much trouble. She has been most anxious to come here, which is a tolerably good reason for presuming that she will attend to her books." 
               "I am quite willing to trust her," replied Miss Raymond, laying her hand kindly upon my shoulder. "She does not look like a very self-willed or troublesome pupil." 
                
               I did not look up. I was waiting to hear my father say "good-by,"-waiting with that stranger aching in my throat which can readily be recalled by all my younger readers, but which the older ones have perhaps forgotten. 
               Presently it came. 
               "Good-by, my child. Be a good girl. Don't get homesick, and write to us often." 
               I clung to his hand. 
               "Can you not come again in the morning, father, before you start for home?" 
               "Not conveniently, dear. I shall leave very early,-before you have opened your eyes, I presume. I want to get home by noon." 
               He kissed me again; and, with a bow to Miss Raymond, left the room. 
               Home! I stood as one in a maze. At that word such a vision arose before me of all I had loved from my childhood up, that I could hardly contain myself. I forgot all that had ever seemed to me tame, commonplace, or prosaic; and home, glorified by love and memory, came up before me. I saw my mother in her accustomed chair, with perhaps an unwonted shadow on her brow; Ruth flitting about as usual from kitchen to pantry, from pantry to dairy, but pausing now and then to look wistfully upon some mute token of my recent presence, and then going quietly about her work again. I saw my cat basking in the sunbeams, and Franco following Ruth about, wagging his tail, and gazing up in her face as if mutely asking for the absent one. My heart at that moment vehemently reproached me that I could ever have fancied that there could be anything or any place better than "the spot where I was born." 
               "Will you go up to your room now?" asked Miss Raymond, gently. "You look very tired, and the young ladies will be coming in from their walk soon. Perhaps you would rather not meet them to-night. You shall have your tea in your own room." 
               I thanked her most gratefully, and we ascended the stairs to the pretty chamber that was to be my home for the coming year. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               I DO not intend to linger long upon my school-days at Oakwood. Important as they were in their bearing upon my whole future, it is by no means essential to the purposes of this history that I should dwell upon the incidents of my life there. Miss Raymond was, in her way, almost as great as Dr. Arnold in his. I have never yet known a teacher whose personal influence over pupils was as powerful as hers. No matter how dull or obtuse they might be, she had the rare gift of inspiring them for the time being with a portion of her own untiring energy-her own glowing enthusiasm. She was the school-its soul, its life. The under teachers were comparatively cyphers, having but little influence out of the class-room. This proceeded from no fault in her or in them. It was simply the effect of a natural law. Stars cannot display their glories when the sun shines in its meridian splendor. 
               As for me, I was so happy that I scarcely noted the flight of time. Days and weeks passed, each bringing with it its own delightful round of duties. "Joy was duty, and love was law." It seemed to me that I had never lived before. 
               Perhaps there is no greater joy in life, unless it may be that of a satisfied love, than that of conscious mental or spiritual growth. Yet it is one seldom felt or understood. Generally we are no more conscious of mental than we are of physical growth. At the end of six months or a year, we measure ourselves by some former standard, and, lo! we overtop it by a half inch or so; and we say, "See how much I have grown!" And so unconscious have we been, during this time, of any increase in our stature, that we find it quite a little surprise, and perhaps congratulate ourselves upon our upward tendencies. 
               This great joy-the joy of conscious mental growth-was mine during at least the first few months of my stay at Oakwood. I had been so repressed, so held back by circumstances, that when the opposing forces were removed, my whole being sprang forward with an impetus that was as evident to myself as to others. Last month I brought from the cellar a fuchsia that had been stowed away for a brief period of rest. Its bare, unsightly stalks showed not a leaf,-not a particle of greenness anywhere. I placed it in the window, where it felt the sweet influences of light and heat. I gave it water, and digged about the roots. Very soon the leaves began to appear, and to-day it is a graceful little tree, delighting my eyes with its soft green branches and its swelling buds. Just so sudden and rapid was my growth during that never-to-be-forgotten term. Perhaps my fuchsia was not aware how suddenly it burst into bloom and beauty. Perhaps, though I confess I do not believe it, it imagines itself to-day just the same naked, ungainly creature that it was when it emerged from the cellar, and shrank back abashed from the clear light of day. 
               But I felt the new influence at work upon me in every fibre of my frame. I laid down every night and rose up every morning with a thrill of delight that I shall never attempt to describe. It would be nothing less than profanation to lift the veil from so sacred, so profound a mystery. 
               "You are making very rapid progress, Sibyl," said Miss Raymond, one morning near the close of the term. "I am more than satisfied with you. Will you spend the vacation here, or are you going home?" 
               I could give no definite answer to this question; for the truth was, I had been so engrossed with the mighty present that I had had but few thoughts for the shadowy future. Still fewer, perhaps, had I had for the past. But now, a great longing for home and Ruth began to strive with my love of study, and there were strong evidences that it would gain the mastery. The vacation would be of only one week's duration; but I felt that I must go home. Great was my delight, therefore, on being summoned to the parlor, on the last evening of the term, to find John Gardiner awaiting me there. 
               "O, John!" I exclaimed, springing to his side, "I am so glad to see you! Where are you going? When did you come from Valleythorpe? Oh, do you know that the term closed to-day? Why did you not bring Ruth? Oh,-" 
               How long I should have gone on with my exclamations and my questions, I dare not undertake to say. Fortunately, John put a stop to them by laughingly touching my lips with his hand. 
               "What a flood of questions!" he said. "Have mercy on a poor fellow, Sibyl, and let him answer one at a time. Let me see! 'Where am I going?' Back to Valleythorpe to-morrow. 'When did I come from the aforesaid place?' This morning. 'Do I know the term closed to-day?' Certainly I do. 'Why did I not bring Ruth with me?' Because the sleigh will not conveniently carry more than two persons for a thirty-mile drive." 
               "Oh, some one else came with you! What are you laughing at, John?" 
               "At you. Sibyl, what business do you suppose brought me to Oakwood?" 
               "You came for me, John. Oh, I am so glad! I had just made up my mind to go home in the stage, even if it does leave here at such an unseasonable hour. But this will be so much more pleasant." 
               "Then be ready to start very early in the morning. At what hour are the ladies of this nunnery in the habit of rising? Because the roads are in a horrible condition, and growing steadily worse. These March winds have not been blowing for nothing." 
               "I can be ready ever so early,-just as early as you please. But did you really come in a sleigh?" 
               "Certainly. There is but little snow in the streets of Oakwood, but plenty of it when you once strike the country roads. Still it is thawing fast, and it would be very prudent in us to start betimes." 
               "The earlier the better, John. I will be ready by five o'clock." 
               "Five o'clock! That's quite too early for me, Miss Sibyl; and, as for you, the 'cradle-holes' would rock you to sleep. You would fall out of the sleigh, and finish your morning nap in a snow-drift. But if you choose to be ready at six, we can drive as far as B--, breakfast there, and be in Valleythorpe in time for dinner." 
               How pleasant it was to rise in the gray dawn of the chilly March morning, to dress hurriedly, wrap myself up warmly, step into the little sleigh, or "cutter," to be half smothered in buffalo robes by my prospective brother's thoughtful care, and then, as soon as we were fairly once out of town, to go speeding onward as if our horse had wings. 
               The stars were paling, but had not quite gone out. The moon hung like a large, lustrous pearl just above the horizon in the west, while the whole east was radiant with beams of crimson and gold, and all the wondrous pomp of the coming day. 
               "Do I drive too fast, Sibyl?" asked John, leaning forward to look in my face. I had not spoken since we started, having been too thoroughly occupied in enjoying and seeing. "Do I drive too fast? The sleighing is comparatively good now, but it will be thawing again by ten o'clock." 
               "You cannot drive too fast to please me," I answered; and on we flew. 
               We had the nicest little breakfast at B--, served in the neatest style possible, and then, rested and refreshed, we started on again. 
               "Now for home and Ruth!" I exclaimed, as I took my seat in the sleigh. "You have not told me much about Ruth, John. How is she looking?" 
               "Just like her own sweet self," was the reply. 
               "Not at all as if she were tired out?" 
               John looked at me curiously, for an instant. 
               "I should not know it, if she were. You were right, Sibyl." 
               "Right, when? Right in what, John?" 
               "When you said Ruth would not let her 'left hand know what her right hand doeth.' Do you remember?" 
               "Indeed I do. O, John! you do not half know how good she is. No one does know but me." 
               "And God and the angels," said John, solemnly. Then, after a moment, he continued, in a lighter strain,- 
               "Please don't enlighten me on that point, Sibyl. I know too much for my own peace of mind, already. Ruth is a great deal too good for me." 
               "I shall not say that she is not," I replied, half in jest and half in earnest. "She is too good for anybody. But I will whisper one secret in your ear, John, that may comfort you a little. She does not know it herself." 
               "That is a comfort, of a surety, Sibyl! And it is not the first time I have thought so, either. If she did-" 
               But what would have happened "If she did" John never told me. Just then, as we were slowly making our way over a sort of cross-road where the drifts were immense, we suddenly discovered that we were in rather a precarious situation. In another instant, the sleigh was overturned. 
               As soon as I recovered my scattered senses enough to open my eyes and look about me, I found myself lying in the midst of a great heap of cushions and furs, while John was standing near me with a funny air of bewilderment upon his honest face. 
               I laughed outright. 
                
               "Oh, you can laugh yet, can you, Sibyl? All right, then. Are you comfortable? Lie still a minute, while I take some observations." 
               The horse was upon his side. John quickly disengaged him from the cutter, when he arose with a tremendous shake, and looked round at me with the air of one thoroughly ashamed of himself. 
               I laughed again. 
               "You take things coolly, I must confess, Sibyl," said John, laughing himself, however. "Here we are, stuck fast in a snowdrift, and no house within two miles, and you do nothing but laugh!" 
               "Would you rather have me cry? If you would, I will try my very best to oblige you. What shall I do? Come, John, make me of some use, if you can." 
               "Could you possibly hold this horse while I examine the sleigh?" 
               "Of course I can. Have you forgotten what a famous horsewoman I am? I'll be there in a minute." And I struggled to extricate myself from the mass of wrappings in which I was buried. 
               "By no means. Stay where you are. I can lead the horse round, and you will be more comfortable. What shall I do if you take cold?" he added, with a comically doleful expression. "Ruth would never forgive me." 
               The sleigh was not broken, and the injuries to the harness were so slight, that, with the aid of a stout string, and a nail purloined from a neighboring fence, John was able to repair all damages, and we were soon on the way again. But all this delayed us considerably, and it was two o'clock before we passed the little village of Valleythorpe and paused at my father's gate. 
               Ruth came flying out. 
               "Sibyl!" 
               "Ruth!" And, in a moment, we were clasped in each other's arms. John looked very complacently from one to the other. 
               "Well," said he, at length, "haven't you so much as a word for me, Ruth?" 
               She gave him one hand, with a flashing glance from her dark eyes, without removing the other from about my waist, as she replied, merrily,- 
               "You are a person of very little consequence to-day, John Gardiner. Your principal claim upon my attention lies in the fact that you have brought Sibyl back to me. In consideration of that, however, I urgently invite you to come in and dine with us." 
               He took off his hat and made her a very low bow, accepting the invitation in "sounding speech." 
               She swept him a stately courtesy in return, and we went into the house together, laughing like three children. 
               It was a happy hour, that first coming home. Ruth had coaxed mother to put on a new cap in honor of the occasion, and I thought she looked younger and prettier than I had ever seen her. She had been a beauty in her youth, and she was really very pretty still. Father came in, presently, with his genial smile and kindly greeting for all, and an especial kiss and embrace for Sibyl. 
               "We waited dinner for you," said Ruth, after my various wrappings were removed. "It is all ready, and as soon as you are warm I will bring it in." 
               "The sooner the better," I answered. "I am not cold, but I am decidedly hungry." 
               It was on the table in a trice. 
               "I wanted to 'kill the fatted calf' for you, Sibyl," said Ruth; "but, unfortunately, there was none to kill. You will have to be content with roast chickens, instead." 
               After boarding-school fare, I thought nothing could have been nicer than Ruth's dinner,-the odorous coffee, with real cream for an accompaniment, the fine white bread, the delicious butter, the crisp pickles, the nicely prepared vegetables that flanked the golden-brown chickens; and, for dessert, the purple plums and translucent apples floating in their clear rich syrups. 
               Franco insisted upon sitting by my side, with his nose in my lap, during the whole meal, occasionally thumping the floor with his tail by way of bidding me welcome; and Jetty purred about my chair, rubbing her upraised back against me after the most approved cat-fashion. 
               "Do turn out that dog and cat, somebody!" said my father. "They are so lavish in their attentions that Sibyl can't eat her dinner." 
               But no. I would not have them turned out. I wanted the whole family together on that glad day. 
               That evening, as I sat in my old seat at my father's knee, he said,- 
               "You have changed somewhat in six months, little one. What have you done with your curls? Were they too unfashionable for Oakwood?" 
               "Not too unfashionable," I replied, "but too troublesome. It took too long to brush them out and arrange them." 
               "Why, what a woman of business we are getting to be!" was the laughing rejoinder. "The wonder is, that we consent to have any hair at all. But, seriously, I believe the change is an improvement. What do you say, Ruth?" 
               "I thought so the moment she took her bonnet off. Those rippling brown waves are far prettier than her curls were." And Ruth looked at me with such loving, smiling eyes. 
               "I do not think that I am fond of changes," said my mother. "She does not look one bit like herself with her hair in that great braid behind, and combed so smoothly over her ears in front. I like the curls best." 
               "Then I will wear curls to-morrow, mother," I said. "You shall have Sibyl back just as she went away." 
               "We shall see." And my mother shook her head rather dubiously. "But you need not curl your hair on my account." 
               "I thought you would be just suited, mother," remarked Ruth. "You used to say that Sibyl's curls were always in the way, and that it was a great waste of time to keep them in order." 
               "When I said that, I did not know how she would look with her hair plain. But I suppose I have a right to change my mind, if I please. It is a matter of no consequence, any way." 
               But I curled my hair all the while I was at home. 
               At an early hour, Ruth and I retired to our own room. I was impatient to be alone once more with the friend and confidante of my childhood. 
               "Now, Sibyl, for a good old-fashioned talk," cried Ruth, as we seated ourselves before the glowing hearth. "Wait till I put another stick on the fire, and then tell me all about the school, and how you are getting along and everything. Your letters have told me much, but I want to hear all the particulars." 
               I told her "all the particulars," all the little incidents of school life,-incidents that interested her not only on account of their novelty, but because they had been part and parcel of my life. Then I said,- 
               "Now tell me of yourself, Ruth. You know far more of my affairs than I do of yours. What has 'Martha' been doing?" 
               "That unfortunate allusion, again! Oh, I have been doing a little of everything. Come with me, and I will show you a part of my work." And, rising from her low seat, she took up the candle. 
               I followed her into another room. 
               "There," she said, "did you ever see smoother yarn or a softer piece of flannel than that?" 
               "And you have been really playing Sally Davis? O, Ruth!" 
               "Yes, and I liked the part, too. It was pleasant work." 
               "Who did the housework? Did you have a girl? You know father suggested it." 
               "No. I found it would disturb mother, and make her uneasy. So I had to contrive another plan,-a more economical cal one, too. Mrs. Murphy comes and helps me about the hardest of the work two days in the week." 
               "And you do all the rest?" 
               "Not all. Mother has done her part, of course." 
               But I was beginning to have some little vague idea of how much mother's part was. So that remark passed for precisely what it was worth, and no more. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               THAT was a very short week. There was so much to see, and to do, and to say, that the fast-lengthening days were not half long enough. Now that my mental hunger was in a measure appeased, it was such a pleasure to resume my old employments by Ruth's side, while we chatted incessantly, making the most of our every moment together. Mother looked at me occasionally with a queer expression upon her face, and one day I overheard her saying to Ruth,- 
               "Sibyl takes hold real handy,-just as handy as ever, for aught I see. I expected that when she came home she would not know a pan from a platter, or a broom from a dust-pan." 
               There were innumerable stitches to be taken, and the new dress was really indispensable now. Then one day was devoted to our neighbors, most of whom wondered in their honest hearts "what on airth Sibyl Huntington wanted of so much schooling," and who thought that the effect of said schooling would be to entirely unfit me for all the duties of practical life. They were good, kindly people, nevertheless, and I would not go back to school without bidding them hail and farewell. All the pleasant memories of childhood forbade it. 
               One afternoon was given to Mrs. Gardiner, John's widowed mother, the roof and chimneys of whose cottage were visible from our upper windows. I had sometimes vaguely wondered why John was so unlike most of the young men in our neighborhood. Apparently he had had no greater advantages than they. His father, who was a clergyman, had died when he was a mere child, leaving his widow nearly destitute; but fortunately she had wealthy relatives, who were willing to assist her. They would have preferred taking her and her fatherless child to their own homes, back to the circle that she had left somewhat against their will when she gave her hand to the penniless young minister; but, finding that her heart clung tenaciously, and, as they thought, foolishly, to the spot where she had dreamed her short, sweet dream of wedded love, and that she could not be prevailed upon to leave the grave of her husband, they purchased for her a small farm in the vicinity of Valleythorpe, and then quietly washed their hands of all that concerned her. Thenceforth her son was her all, and she to him was the embodiment of all that was good and beautiful in womanhood. 
               As I grew older, and learned to know her gentle, refined nature, I ceased to wonder that John differed from most of our acquaintances. When the mother is truly a gentlewoman, the son is very certain to be a gentleman. For years, Mrs. Gardiner had been very feeble; so much so that she rarely went out, even to church. Small and slight, exquisitely neat in her plain dress, with cap and 'kerchief of snowy lawn, she always reminded me of a lily, or anything else that is fair, and sweet, and fragile. 
               I have no doubt that John had had his ambitious dreams. The great West was then the Eldorado of young men. Very few were willing to till the rugged soil of New England, battling with her ungenial climate, and gaining from her stony hillsides but a scanty return for their labor, when the virgin plains and prairies of the valley of the Mississippi stretched out like a fair vision before them,-a vision that might become a reality almost for the asking. But, if John was infected with the "western fever," his mother never knew it. 
               "My mother is too frail a plant to bear transplanting," he once replied to a friend who suggested to him that if their little farm were sold, the proceeds invested in western lands would make him a rich man at once. "She could never endure such a removal, and I shall never leave her." 
               So there was the end of that. 
               I was to return to Oakwood the next day, going in the stage this time. Ruth and I were upstairs packing my trunks, and putting various matters in order. 
               "Sibyl," said Ruth, "you have six months more of school before you. Are you going to be satisfied, then?" 
               Satisfied! Would I be? As well ask the stream well-nigh dried up and exhausted by the long drouth of a rainless summer if it will be satisfied when the sparkling drops of one soft shower fall with a gentle plashing upon its pebbly bed. I was on my knees before my trunk, and I looked up at Ruth, who was folding one of my dresses, for a full minute before I replied,- 
               "Oh, I don't know, Ruth. I suppose I must be." 
               "But you don't expect to be?" 
               "What shall I say, Ruth? There is no use in my saying that I would like to go to school longer, and there is no denying that I am only making a beginning,-only laying foundations this year. But I am so thankful for even this." 
               "On the principle that a half loaf is better than no loaf at all," she said, as she laid the dress in the trunk, and proceeded to fold another. "The course of study at Oakwood is supposed to require four years, is it not?" 
               "Yes; but I entered a year in advance, you know; and, in these six months, I have already gone over three-fourths of the ground prescribed for the second year. Miss Raymond told me the other day that I could easily graduate in two years from the time I entered." 
                
               "Doing three years' work in two! Ah, if you only could, Sibyl!" 
               "If I only could, Ruth! Then I should feel prepared to go out into the world, and take care of myself,-should feel that my loins were girded, and I was ready for the strife; but you see I can't and I must make the best of it. Father is already doing all that he can possibly afford. I cannot ask him to do more; neither must you, Ruth." 
               "I know it, Sibyl. I was not thinking of that. I was only wondering if there was any other way to manage. How would it do to borrow the money? You could pay it in a year or so after you commence teaching." 
               "But what if I should be sick, Ruth, or if something should prevent me from teaching? I dare not do it. I can only study harder than ever, if that is possible, and make this year of school go farther than one year ever went before. If one could only live without sleeping! Did you ever think of it, Ruth? Our lives are so short; and yet two-thirds of our time, and often more than that, we are compelled to devote to the care of these poor, miserable bodies of ours,-to spend in just keeping ourselves alive. If it were not for that,-if it were not for the sleeping, and eating, and dressing, one could accomplish so much. But, dear me, I suppose there's no help for it!" 
               Ruth laughed, but her eyes were moist. 
               "Not a bit of help, dear. I suppose most people go on to the end of their days doing the things they would not, and leaving undone the things they would gladly do." 
               "I do not suppose any such thing, Ruth. Many people do, without doubt. But it seems to me that most people are very easily satisfied with themselves and with what they accomplish. They fall into a humdrum sort of routine. The eating, and sleeping, and dressing, and taking care of themselves fills up their hours from day to day, and they are abundantly content. They aspire to nothing higher,-they forget that they have any souls." 
                
               Ruth looked at me with all her heart in her eyes. 
               "Perhaps not, dear Sibyl. You cannot judge. You see only the surface of their lives, not the depths below; and you cannot know how often those depths may be stirred,-stirred by joys and by sorrows with which the 'stranger intermeddleth not.'" 
               "But what I complain of is, that there are so many shallow lives,-lives that have no depths to be stirred." 
               "Why should you complain of that? You do not blame our tiny little moss-grown spring because it is not the ocean, Sibyl?" 
               "Neither do I blame people who live only on the surface!" I cried, passionately, burying my head in Ruth's lap, with a sudden and uncontrollable burst of tears. "People whose natures have no heights nor depths, but are all one smooth, unbroken plane. I only wish I were like them. I should be far happier, Ruth." 
               Ruth caressed and soothed me with loving, tender words, holding me in her arms as if I had been a tired, wayward child, until the storm was over, and I could look her calmly in the face again. Then she said,- 
               "You did not mean that, Sibyl. You would not be other than you are. You would not exchange your earnest, impulsive,-shall I say stormy nature?" and here she paused, and I felt the soft touch of her lips upon my eyelids, ere she went on; "you would not exchange your temperament, just as it is, for all the shallow placidity in the world. Happier? You doubtless have longings, and aspirations, and regrets, that some of your acquaintances escape. But your capacity for enjoyment is greater than theirs, in just the same ratio." 
               "I don't know about that, Ruth," I answered, with a rueful smile. "A pint cup is smaller than a gallon jar; but if the cup is full, it is full, and the jar can be no more than that. What a muddle life is, after all!" I continued, while the smile quarrelled vainly with a sigh. "Fortune showers privileges and advantages upon those who do not value or improve them, while those who would give their very heart's blood for the blessings squandered before their eyes must struggle on without them as best they may. It is not just!-it is not right! If God loves all that He has made, if we are all His dear children, why are our lives so differently ordered? If an earthly parent should make such distinctions-" 
               I was going on still more vehemently, but Ruth laid her hand across my lips. 
               "Stop, stop, Sibyl!" she cried. "You shall not say another word. What ails you to-night? Are you so wise that you dare arraign the Almighty himself? What spirit of evil is tempting you with thoughts like these?" 
               My tears were flowing again, but more quietly than before. 
               "Oh, I don't know!" I said. "I am all wrong, I know. I am not as good and patient as you are, Ruth. But I was thinking of Alice Brainard, when I spoke. She has been at Oakwood for I don't know how many years. Every advantage that money can buy has been cast at her feet, and she can neither appreciate nor improve them. She is the dullest girl in school, and all she learns is learned through the magnetic power Miss Raymond brings to bear upon her. She cares for nothing but her pretty face, her dresses, and her bonnets, her purple and fine linen." 
               "It is quite evident that she is greatly in need of all the privileges and means of growth that can be given her," said Ruth, quietly. "Poor girl, she is greatly to be pitied!" 
               This was a new phase of the subject. I had never viewed it in quite that light; and I looked in Ruth's face, without a word. 
               "You do not envy her, Sibyl? Wealth and position have made her all that she is. Without them, she would have been the merest nonentity. Indeed, she is hardly more than that now. Would you be willing to be Alice Brainard, with all her money?" 
               The dark mood had fled before my sister's winning and persuasive accents. 
                
               "Not unless she had a sister Ruth," drawing her face closer to my own, "and I know that she has not." 
               "Then let us make haste to finish packing this trunk," she said, laughing. "And you may rejoice, if it gives you pleasure, that you have at least one blessing that she has not." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE next morning I went back to Oakwood. But the conversation of that last evening at home was not forgotten. My desire to remain in school another year grew more and more intense as the months swept on, until at length weeks only stood between my reluctant heart and the close of my probation. I constituted myself a committee of ways and means, and the committee held sessions daily and nightly. I grew pale and hollow-eyed; for the hours that should have been devoted to slumber were spent in restless, waking dreams, or in the formation of plans and projects that, however fair and practicable they might appear in the dark, always failed to bear the close scrutiny of the morning light. My weary labor was all in vain, and "profited me nothing." 
               One evening, after it had become too dark for studying, I sat by the open window of my room, leaning out to catch a breath of the soft flower-scented air. I ought to have gone down and joined my companions, whose merry voices floated up to me from the grounds below, where they were dancing, playing graces, or, with interlocked arms, were walking about in groups of twos and threes, chattering as only girls and blackbirds can chatter. Now and then, one and another would spy me at my perch in the third story, and a gay summons or a merry challenge would reach my ear. But I was in too despondent a mood to join them. I was thinking how soon I must leave these walls, turning my back upon food for which my very soul was famishing. 
               Presently there was a low rap at my door. 
               "Come in," I said, half reluctantly, thinking that some of the girls had come in search of me. 
               It was Miss Raymond. I rose to greet her, in some surprise. She seldom visited us in our rooms, that being the province of one of the under teachers. 
               "Do not rise, Sibyl," she said, taking a seat near me in the window. "I noticed that you were not out of doors with the others, and then remembered observing that you were very pale in class to-day; so I came to see about it. Are you ill, dear? I am afraid you are studying too hard." 
               "That is not it, Miss Raymond," I answered. "It is not the study, but-" 
               "But what, my child?" she asked, softly, as she pushed back my hair, and laid her hand caressingly upon my hollow cheek and temple. "Something troubles you. What is it?" 
               For my only answer, I took her hand in mine and carried it reverently to my lips. I dared not trust my voice. 
               "Have you had any difficulty with any of the girls?" 
               I shook my head. 
               "Have any of the teachers been unjust or unkind to you?" 
               Another shake, more emphatic than the first. 
               Miss Raymond looked at me earnestly. 
               "If I were questioning one of the younger scholars, or one whom I trusted less fully, I should ask, have you been doing wrong, Sibyl? But I cannot ask that of one who has never displeased me, nor given occasion for censure since she has been under my care. But, Sibyl, I should like to comfort and help you, if I may." 
               I found my tongue at last. 
               "O, Miss Raymond!" I exclaimed, throwing myself upon the carpet at her feet, "do you forget that my year is almost up? And how can I go away, leaving so much undone,-so much unlearned?" 
               "So that is it, is it?" she said, with one of her rarely sweet smiles. "Strange that I did not think of it before. Have you said anything to your father about remaining another year? Must this really be your last term?" 
               "My very last, Miss Raymond. I cannot even mention it to my father. I cannot ask him to repeat the effort he has made to send me here, even for one year." 
               "Yet another year's study would be of immense advantage to you, Sibyl. It seems a great pity that you should stop where you are. Cannot something be done?" 
               "Nothing that I can think of," I replied, despondingly. "Miss Raymond, I have thought, and wished, and planned, until it has seemed as if I should be crazy; but it is all of no use. My thinking does not amount to anything." 
               "It amounts to pale cheeks, if to nothing more," said Miss Raymond, touching them with her fan. "You must put more color into them before examination, or Oakwood will lose its reputation. Do not worry any more, Sibyl. You say your thinking amounts to nothing; perhaps mine may be more successful. I want to keep you another year, Sibyl, and I shall try to bring it about." 
               My eyes brightened, but a sudden fear beset me. 
               "You will not say anything to my father, Miss Raymond?" 
               "Not one word,-not one syllable. And do you keep yourself quiet. Attend to your lessons, and let the future take care of itself. 'Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.' Now go to bed and to sleep, my child. Let your heart be at rest; and, in a few days we will talk of this matter again." 
               So saying, she left me. I took Miss Raymond at her word, and, ceasing to be anxious about the future, I gave myself up to the work and to the joy of the present. Sleep returned to my couch, and with it the glow came back to my cheeks and elasticity to my frame. 
                
               Two weeks before the close of the term I was summoned to Miss Raymond's room. I felt that I was about to know my doom, and stood, the veriest coward on earth, with my hand upon the door-knob for a full minute before I could summon courage enough to enter. But the bright smile that welcomed me, when at length I entered the apartment, was very reassuring; and I quietly seated myself, as directed, to await my teacher's commands. 
               "Sibyl," she said, after a little pause, "Miss Allen leaves us at the end of this term. Before she came here to take charge of the fourth division, two girls of the senior class divided between them the duties that she has since performed. Do you think that you and Mary Purcell could do that?" 
               "And go on with our studies at the same time?" 
               "Yes. You would each be obliged to teach three hours a day; or, rather, you would be obliged to remain in the school-room with the younger scholars that length of time. If you can learn the art of doing two things at once,-of keeping one eye on the benches and one on your books,-you can find some opportunity for studying during those hours. What do you say, my child?" 
               I hesitated. 
               "Do you mean that I can pay my expenses here in that way, Miss Raymond?" 
               "You can pay for your board, dear, and we will not talk about the rest, now." 
               "But I must talk about it, Miss Raymond. I cannot be at peace unless I know that everything is settled, and I could not ask my father for one cent." 
               "You need not, my child; neither shall I. You must let me have my own way, this time. Your tuition shall be a free gift. I love you, Sibyl; and will you refuse to accept this much from my hands?" 
               I felt my cheek flushing painfully. Miss Raymond looked at me, earnestly. 
                
               "Remember, before you answer me," she said, gently, "remember that I shall expend nothing on your account. All the difference it will make to me, will be just this,-at the end of the year I shall find my receipts less by a few dollars than they otherwise would be." 
               "If I could only hope to pay you, by-and-by, Miss Raymond," I answered, with a tremor in my voice, as I turned my head to kiss the hand that rested on my shoulder. 
               "Yes, by-and-by, when your 'ship comes in,' you shall pay me, if you please; if it will make you happier to have such an understanding. You shall pay me, and the money shall be credited to some young girl who needs then just the same assistance that you need to-day. Sibyl, do not let your pride-or independence, if you like the word better-deprive me of one of the greatest pleasures of my life. I have thanked God always that my position enabled me, at comparatively little cost, to afford aid and comfort to so many. Can you not see that this places you under no burdensome obligation? It is a very small matter, after all." 
               "It may be small in your eyes, Miss Raymond," I exclaimed, with tears, "but, oh, it is a very great one in my eyes! I shall never repay you, for money cannot cancel a debt like this." 
               She smiled, softly. 
               "Some time, Sibyl, you will have learned that it is more blessed to give than to receive. I am happier to-night than you are. There,-run away, if you like," she added, quickly, as a bevy of young girls entered the hall and approached the door. 
               Escaping by another avenue, I flew up stairs. My whole being sang a jubilant, ecstatic song, such as only the young can sing when the objects of their chief longing are at last within their grasp. After vainly endeavoring to study, I threw away my books, and, seizing pen and paper, poured out my full heart in a long, long letter to Ruth. 
               Thus it was settled that I was to remain at Oakwood another year. 
               And then,-what? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE months flew. I knew very little of what was going on at Valleythorpe. This was before the advent of cheap postage. Ruth and I were not long in discovering that it did not take many letters, at 18 of a cent a piece, to make a dollar's worth, and dollars were as precious as they were scarce. So we were obliged, as were many others in those days, to deny ourselves the pleasure and profit of frequent correspondence. In the few letters that I did receive from Ruth, she touched very lightly upon home matters, writing, as she always talked, vastly more of my affairs than of her own. 
               There were two vacations, but they were crowded full of emergent business,-the sewing and repairing, the mending and making that must be done, and done by us,-for hiring a seamstress was entirely out of the question. Sometimes, as we sat at work together, it would strike me that Ruth looked older and somewhat worn, and I would ask,- 
               "Are you quite sure that you are well, Ruth?" 
               Then the dear face would brighten and grow so radiant with the lovelight from within, that all traces, whether real or imaginary, of care and fatigue would at once vanish, and my question would pass unanswered and unheeded. For myself, the claims of the present were so all-engrossing, every day came to me so full freighted with pleasant duties and all-absorbing labors, that I had little time to think of anything outside of Oakwood. 
               But, as the year rolled round, I looked forward to its termination with emotions very unlike those that had signalized the close of the first twelve months of my boarding-school life. Then I would have retarded the days. Now I wished to hasten them. I longed for the end, that I might go out into the great world, and tread the path that stretched out fair and bright before my eager feet. Earnest, impulsive, enthusiastic, work looked to me like play; and if trials were to come, as undoubtedly they would, was I not strong to meet them? Would there not be a joy in overcoming? 
               I was a great lover of Mrs. Hemans in those days; and I found in the little worn volume that lay beside my Bible earnest, spirit-stirring words, that always thrilled me, as I imagine the sound of the trumpet or high strains of martial music may thrill the warrior on the battle-field. My soul glowed within me as I read, and I felt strong to do or to dare. The battle of life,-was it not glorious? Strange to say, the intense sadness, the deep melancholy of her verse, did not then depress me in the least. I heard the stirring war-cry, the passionate appeal, the thrilling summons, but paid no heed to the undertone that sobbed and wailed beneath them all. 
                      
                        "I thought of the banners on high that hung, 
                        But not of the dust beneath." 
                     
                   Well, well,-let the young dream on. Dreams are not always profitless; and the girlhood that knows no dreams, no visions, that is deaf to all the poetry of being, and blind to all its beauty, inevitably settles at last into a tame, world-worn, prosaic womanhood. Life with its hinderances, its limitations, its repressions, its stern realities, will come soon enough; for ever does 
                      
                        "The real 
                        Follow fast on the steps of the sunny ideal." 
                     
                   Then let the young dream on. Let them say, if they will, to the thought that is within them,- 
                      
                        "Higher and yet more high! 
                        Shake off the cumbering chain that earth would lay 
                        On your victorious wings. Mount, mount! Your way 
                        Is through eternity!" 
                     
                   And although- 
                      
                        "It may be pain 
                        To mount so high yet find on high no dwelling, 
                        To sink so fast, so heavily again,"- 
                     
                  
                   yet even that is better, more blessed, than never to have risen at all, never to have breathed even for a moment a purer, loftier atmosphere than that of time and sense. 
               Dream on, young hearts, and God be with ye! 
               But to return to Oakwood. 
               The school year had drawn to a close. The long-dreaded examination was over. Only one day of your school-life remained to us. That was to be devoted to the reading of essays by the graduating class, and to the presentation of diplomas to those of us who were about to leave that dear roof forever. We might come back now and then as pilgrims to a shrine, but it would be home to us no more. As I cast my eye backward through the months, how brief, how bright, how blessed, did my life there seem! 
               My father and Ruth were to come that night, and on the second day thereafter I was to go home with them. My trunk was packed, and the little room looked dismantled and forlorn. In the closet hung the simple dress that I was to wear on the morrow,-a dress that Ruth had procured for me, heaven knows how. 
               I was not allowed to ask any questions, but I shrewdly suspected that, by some strange alchemy, sundry baskets of eggs and balls of golden butter had been transmuted into white muslin, soft rose-colored ribbons, and delicate gloves. Love can work wonders, where chemistry is utterly at fault. 
               A strange spirit of unrest possessed me. The voices of my companions reached me from above and below, but though I loved them one and all, I was in no mood for listening to their merry chat that night. I longed to go to Miss Raymond, and find rest in a quiet talk with her; but she was engaged with strangers. 
               I rose and paced the floor; and, as I moved slowly back and forth, the little scroll, with its ligature of white ribbon, from which I was to read upon the morrow, peeped at me from a half-opened drawer. I took it out and unrolled it. 
                
               I was the valedictorian,-imposing word!-and I had chosen for my theme one that was as absorbing to all young, earnest hearts then as it is now,-Woman's Work and Woman's Mission. My eye ran over the closely-written pages. I had penned them with a quickened pulse, a throbbing heart, and a glowing cheek, feeling that "as face answereth to face," so must spirit to spirit; and that the words into which I had thrown my whole soul must find a response in the breasts of those who should listen to them. But now, as wearied both in body and mind, and feeling nothing of the strong stimulus of composition, I read sentence after sentence, how "flat, stale, and unprofitable" seemed they all! Where was the glow, the fire, the soul of the thing? 
               Entirely disgusted with it, and with myself as its author, I rolled it up, threw it upon the table, and resumed my march. 
               But I was not left long to my sombre meditations. Presently I heard my name in the hall. 
               "Sibyl Huntington! Does anybody know where Sibyl is? Because her father and sister have come, and Miss Raymond sent me to find her. Oh, my!-isn't she sweet?" 
               "Sweet?" echoed another voice, "who is sweet? Miss Raymond, or Sibyl, or her sister? You had better brush up on grammar, Hetty Dale." 
               I did not wait to hear Hetty Dale's voluble defence of herself and her grammar, but I have no doubt it was well worth hearing. She was undeniably gifted in that direction. As I rushed down stairs, however, her shrill tones followed me, repeating,- 
               "She is real sweet, anyhow! If you don't believe it, just go down to the parlor, and see for yourself." 
               A moment more, and Ruth's dear arms were about my neck, and my father's kiss was upon my lips. 
               Good Mrs. Merrill-the motherly old housekeeper-served up a nice little supper for the tired travellers, and then, leaving my father to attend to a little business in the town, I carried Ruth up to my own room. Half-dismantled as it was, it had looked very dismal and forlorn an hour previous, but after I had removed my sister's bonnet and mantle, and seated her in a small rocking-chair near the window, its whole aspect brightened. I drew forward a little ottoman that I had improvised out of an old packing-box, a bit of carpeting, and a few tacks, and placed myself at her feet. 
               "Now, in the first place, Ruthie, I am going to take a good look at you," I said, and imprisoning both her hands in mine I gazed at her long and earnestly. 
               At length she laughed, and, leaning suddenly forward, kissed my forehead. 
               "This reminds me of the days when we were little girls, and used to 'look each other out of countenance.' What is your conclusion, on the whole?" 
               "That I have seen nothing better worth looking at this long time," I responded, gravely. 
               And it was the truth. I had never before looked at Ruth critically. I knew that she was very dear to me,-that she was the very soul of purity and truth. But I had never thought how she might appear to strangers. Now, I tried to look at her with Hetty Dale's eyes, and I perceived that the child was not mistaken in pronouncing her in school-girl parlance, "sweet." I saw that she was as lovely in person as in character. 
               Describe her? No, indeed, reader mine. I shall do no such thing. I shall only tell you that she was very lovely, and each may paint her picture to suit his or her fancy. There was nothing coarse, or rustic, or uncouth about her. She was as pure and delicate as a snowdrop, and in her simple gingham dress, with the little white ruffles at the throat and wrists, and her plainly banded hair, I felt that she was presentable in any circle, however fastidious or refined. Do you think my statement overdrawn? Is the sketch too delicately pencilled? I trow not. Her image rises before me now, and I see it as distinctly as on that August eve so long ago. Since then, I have wandered over land and sea. I have mingled with the young, the fair, the gay, the gifted, but among them all I have seen no lovelier face or form than that of my own sweet sister, Ruth Huntington. There are natures from which all the dross, and earthliness, and impurity of this "working-day world" falls off as the dust falls from a garment, and hers was one of them. The next day, as she moved in her quiet, ladylike self-possession about the halls, or sat in the crowded chapel, I thought that no one of my schoolmates,-and there were girls there who have since reigned as queens in society, receiving as their just due the homage of the fashionable world,-I thought that no one of them could bear away the palm from that simple country maiden. 
               The trial hour came. Wreathed with evergreens, and filled almost to faintness with incense from a thousand flower chalices, the chapel looked like a fairy bower. On the stage, at the upper end of the long apartment, sat reverend doctors, stately senators, prosy bookworms, brilliant authors and artists, whose reputation was national, if not world-wide. The graduating class-there were nine of us-were assembled in a small room at the right of the stage, arrayed in white muslin, with rose-colored sashes, and with a slight wreath of myrtle resting upon each young head. Ah, how well I remember it all! The low murmur from the expectant crowd, the cheeks that flushed and paled alternately, the nervous rustling of the papers we clasped with our tremulous fingers, the hurried peeps through a crack in the door, from which we could obtain a partial view of the stage and its dignified occupants; then the summons, the slow mounting of the steps, the sea of upturned faces, the eyes-and we thought their name was legion, that seemed to transfix us, the heavily throbbing heart, the painfully quickened breath, the-well-the stage-fright from which many a timid school girl suffers as intensely in her small sphere as does the trained actress in the crowded theatre. It is a fearful ordeal to a young girl's shrinking, sensitive nature; and unless we are preparing our daughters for the rostrum or the stage, is it not wholly uncalled for-wholly unnecessary? What earthly good can come of it? 
               Perhaps I should be the last to say this, for apparently good did come of my appearance in the chapel that day. I had greatly the advantage of my companions in being the last to read. During the two hours that I sat upon the stage awaiting my turn, I had time to recover my self-possession, and become familiarized with my position and surroundings. As I took my place behind the small table that served us for a desk, and ran my eye nervously over the large assemblage, I met Ruth's sympathetic yet reassuring glance, and my father's quiet smile. Courage seemed to flow from their eyes to my heart, and losing all painful self-consciousness, I read as simply and as earnestly as if I had been alone. I lost myself in my theme, and at length resumed my seat amid a storm of applause. That I felt flattered, gratified, I will not pretend to deny. But, nevertheless, Ruth's tearful kiss and my father's simple "I am proud of you, Sibyl," were of more worth than all the rest. 
               The diplomas were presented, the parting hymn was sung, the benediction was pronounced, and my school-days at Oakwood were ended. 
               That evening I received a summons to Miss Raymond's private parlor. 
               "Will you go too, Ruth?" I asked. She was quietly packing away my books, and all the odds and ends that can be dispensed with only at the last moment. 
               "By no means," she answered, "not for the world. Miss Raymond wants to give you a little farewell advice, I do not doubt. Run along,-I can take care of myself." 
               And accordingly, after hastily rearranging my hair, and substituting a more suitable dress for the wrapper I had donned on coming from the chapel, I "ran along." 
               Miss Raymond met me at the door, and, taking my hand, led me toward a lady who sat at the farther end of the room. 
               "Sibyl," she said, as the lady rose to receive me, "this is my dear friend, Mrs. Gordon, of whom you have heard me speak. She heard your valedictory this afternoon, and expressed a wish to know more of you." 
               Mrs. Gordon greeted me very cordially, saying many kind things of my little essay. Then, as I blushingly deprecated her praises, trying to tell her how far I had fallen short of the point at which I had aimed, she checked me, smilingly. 
               "That is a matter of course," she said. "If we could reach our ideal goal at one leap, we should have little inducement for pressing onward. Still, Miss Huntington, your composition is a thoughtful, finished production, greatly superior to most school essays." 
               I bowed my thanks. Miss Raymond drew forward a low easy chair. 
               "This is my 'Pilgrim's Rest,'" she said. "Take it, Sibyl. It is enchanted, I verily believe, for it charms away weariness both of mind and body, after a most magical fashion. You need its good offices, if your eyes tell the truth." 
               I did her bidding willingly, and, nestling in the soft cushions of the chair, resigned myself to the full influence of their enchantment. 
               But a better cure for the weary brain and tired limbs, a cure that was at once a sedative and a tonic, I found in the easy, suggestive, and sometimes even brilliant flow of talk that for the next hour bore me along on its rapid current. At first, I simply listened; but, ere long, by well-timed questions and appeals, Miss Raymond drew me on, in spite of myself, to a free expression of thought and opinion. We talked of books, of things, of men, of nature, and of God. Of course many themes were touched upon of which I did not venture to speak, for my experience was very limited; but does not the conciousness, the instinct, if you will, of every young girl teach her much that her actual life has not yet taught her? 
               It was not until after I returned to my own room and undertook to narrate the sayings and doings of the evening to Ruth, that I became suddenly aware that I had been thoroughly sounded; that I had really been passing an examination, which, notwithstanding the ease and grace with which it had been conducted, was quite as searching as the one I had previously undergone in the school-room,-perhaps more searching, as far as my own individuality was concerned. 
               "Something will come of it," said Ruth, as she sleepily kissed me good-night. "Miss Raymond did not send for you for nothing." 
               The next morning we were up betimes, and before breakfast my trunks were strapped, and everything was in readiness for our departure. What a hubbub there was in the usually quiet halls! Most of the girls were to leave that morning, and there were hasty rushings from room to room, hurried exclamations, little screams of dismay and apprehension because "this trunk never will lock, Mary!" There were loud calls for Peter, and John, and Sam; impatient searchings for missing keys and lost satchels; and, at the last, there were tearful embraces, earnest protestations, heart-warm kisses, and promises of life-long friendship, faithfully made, even if to be speedily forgotten. 
               As we left the breakfast-table, Miss Raymond beckoned me to her side. 
               "Step into my parlor for a moment, if you please, Sibyl," she said. "You are wanted there." 
               Mrs. Gordon was awaiting me. 
               "What, all ready?" she said, glancing at my travelling-dress. "I will not detain you long. Miss Huntington, Miss Raymond tells me that you are designing to teach. I came to Oakwood, where I was myself educated, in search of a teacher for my children. Perhaps you can supply my needs and I yours. What do you think?" 
               I colored, partly from surprise, partly from pleasure, as Mrs. Gordon went on to say, that she had three children-two daughters, aged respectively fourteen and eight, and one son who was about ten. She was a widow, and for many reasons chose to educate her children chiefly at home. 
               "I feel, both from my own observation and from Miss Raymond's testimony, that I can trust them in your hands," she said. "I can promise you a fair salary, kind treatment, and a pleasant home. Now, what have you to say to me in return for this long story?" 
               I hesitated for a moment, as I cast a quick glance at the kindly face that was reading mine. 
               "That I fear I am not fully qualified for such a situation," I replied. "I cannot teach music, Mrs. Gordon." 
               "But you understand it sufficiently to enable you to superintend my daughters' practice, which is all I should require of you, in that line," she responded. "They are taught by a master." 
               It is not necessary to repeat the remainder of the conversation. Suffice it to say, that before I slowly ascended the stairs to join Ruth in the chamber that had been mine so long, but which was henceforth to be mine only in memory, I had promised to become one of Mrs. Gordon's household. I was to meet her in New York on the first of the ensuing October. From thence we were to go at once to her home in Northern Virginia. 
               "Come girls, are you ready?" said my father. "On with your bonnets! We have a long drive before us, and there is no time to lose." 
               Is it strange that I lingered longer than was necessary before the little mirror that had reflected my face so many, many times? 
               Ruth guessed what was in my heart, and went down before me, leaving me a moment to myself. I thanked her inaudibly; for I longed to be alone, as with half-suspended breath and a strange commingling of emotions, I paused for an instant upon the dividing line between girlhood and womanhood. I felt, ah! how keenly, that one chapter of my life was ended, and that when I crossed the threshold of that little chamber I should leave my girlhood behind me forever. 
               But as is ever the case-and is it not well and wisely thus ordered?-the emergent demands of the present forced me onward. The iron law of our nature compels us to move on, and no entreaties, no prayers for delay, can change the inexorable fiat. I cast one farewell glance around the room, stepped slowly over the threshold, and ran down stairs. 
               
                  Vale!
                
               Miss Raymond was waiting for me in the hall, as were a dozen of my schoolmates. She drew me to one side. 
               "So you are going to Mrs. Gordon, Sibyl?" she whispered. "I am so glad. It is just the home for you." 
               "And it is all your doing," I answered. "O, Miss Raymond, what have you not done for me?" 
               She placed her hand upon my lips, smiling. 
               "I did not mean to start you upon that track, Sibyl. You owe me less than you imagine. But I must not keep you longer, for your father is waiting. Good-by, and may God be with you!" 
               "Good-by, Sibyl! Good-by! Good-by!" echoed one and another. 
               I stepped hastily into the carriage, drew my veil over my tear-stained face, and we were off. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               FOR the first week after my return home I did literally nothing. The last year of my school life, during which I had played the parts of both teacher and pupil, had kept every nerve strained, every faculty at its utmost tension, and the reaction must come at last. I slept one-half the time, and the other half I lay upon the lounge in the little sitting-room with eyes that dreamily followed Ruth as she moved about the house; or, from beneath half-closed lids, watched the monotonous motion of my mother's chair, as she sat rocking by the south window. I said but little, and I thought even less, if that were possible. I was content to drift along with the slow current, taking literally "no thought for the morrow." 
               But one day a tonic was pressed to my lips. 
               It was bitter enough. But that is a characteristic of tonics, generally. Sweets cloy; it is the bitters that stimulate and strengthen. 
               I rose from the lounge, went up stairs, put on a close-fitting calico dress in place of my double gown, and sought Ruth in the kitchen. 
               "Ruth, I have come to help you. I am afraid I have been very selfish." 
               She dropped the table cloth she was folding, and looked at me in astonishment. 
               "Help me, Sibyl? You look like it, dear, with those hollow eyes and colorless cheeks. When you get rested, you will find plenty to do. But your first business is to recruit." 
               My eyes filled, and I tried to hide them by gazing steadfastly into the clothes-basket, where I was hunting for towels to fold. 
               Ruth came round the table, and took both my hands. 
               "Look up here, Sibyl. What is the matter? Tell me!" 
               I only shook my head; and, after a moment's thought she went on,- 
                
               "You said you feared you had been selfish. Is that the trouble? my dear Sibyl!" And I felt myself gathered close, close to the great, loving heart. 
               "Mother has been talking to you, I know," she whispered. "I heard her voice a little while ago. It seems a harsh thing to say, dear, but you must learn not to mind her words, not to be troubled by them. It is the only way. I believe I should have died during the last two years if I had not hardened myself." 
               "That's the very thing!" I cried, passionately, and clinging to Ruth in a close embrace. "During these two years, I have left you to bear your burden alone, and I just begin to see what it has been. O, Ruthie! Ruthie!" 
               "Look here, Sibyl, my darling," she answered. "You must stop this. You will be sick surely, and that would be a burden, indeed. We must have some happy weeks together before you go away; and we shall have them, too, if you do not worry yourself into a fever." 
               Holding my head upon her breast, she smoothed back the brown waves of my hair with a slow, gentle, caressing motion, magnetizing me at length into quietude, although my bosom still heaved like the ground-swell after a storm. But that afternoon I spent in a darkened room, in the clutches of that terrible tyrant, nervous headache. 
               The next morning, however, I was up betimes, and Ruth declared herself outdone. The tonic was at work. 
               "Sibyl," said Ruth, one evening about a fortnight after this, "It is time you were giving your attention to something besides housework. It will be the first of October before you know it." 
               I answered, rather gloomily,- 
               "It will not take long to make all the preparations I can make. Heigh-ho! I hate to go among strangers with a shabby outfit. But it cannot be helped," and I fell into a brown study. 
               "Ruth," I said, after a while, "aren't you and John ever going to be married? I think it is high time." 
                
               "Because I am growing so old?" 
               "Yes, of course," I replied, passing my hand lightly over her fair forehead, and down the smoothly rounded cheek. "Old? Yes. Your face is 'all tangled up,' as Willie Granger said of his grandmother's. It is quite time you were married." 
               Ruth laughed, and her color deepened a shade or two. 
               "Please ma'am, mayn't I wait until I am fairly ready?" 
               "If you do not wait too long," I answered. "The truth is, that the spirit has been moving me to speak to you on this subject, Ruth, ever since I came home, and now I am going to make you give an account of yourself. So come to the confessional, lady fair, and prepare to do penance for your sins. Why don't you get married?" 
               It was a lovely evening in September. We were walking in the orchard, under the laden apple-boughs. The west was all aglow, and the pale, crescent moon hung like a silver bow just over our heads. Near us was a tree whose curiously gnarled branches, after twisting themselves into all sorts of fantastic shapes, formed at last a sort of rustic chair. Ruth and I had sat in it together many and many a time in our childhood, and now, with a sudden turn, I pinioned both her arms and forced her backward into the not uncomfortable seat. 
               "Now you are not to get up until you have told me everything," I said. "You have been engaged to John Gardiner for more than two years, and if you ever expectrto marry him, I should think it was about time to have the little ceremony performed." 
               Ruth did not reply, but, with a roguish light in her brown eyes, began singing, in a low tone,- 
                     "'For nobody axed me, sir, she said.'"
                  
                
               "Nonsense, Ruth. You do not expect me to believe that. You have always been opposed to long engagements. Then, why do you make yours so long? I wish you would tell me the truth." 
                
               "Sit here beside me, then," she replied, changing her manner at once, when she perceived that I was in earnest. "Sit here beside me, as you used when you were a wee bit of a girl, and I, like the good elder sister in the story-books, used to put my arms around you to keep you from falling, and I will tell you all there is to tell." 
               "Your arms have kept me from falling a great many times since then, Ruth. But, go on. I am all ears." 
               She paused for a moment, and then said,- 
               "We are making much ado about nothing, Sibyl. There is very little to tell, after all, and not a single mystery to explain. You know John bought a part of the farm adjoining his soon after we were engaged?" 
               "Yes, I remember." 
               "Well, he was unable to pay for it at once,-was obliged to give a mortgage upon his own land. We were both young, and, even if we did love each other, we claimed to have some common sense left. I knew that it was best that John should not burthen himself with new cares, new responsibilities, and-you see how dreadfully prosaic I am-new expenses, until his business matters were arranged more satisfactorily,-in other words, until he had paid for that land." 
               "Heigh-ho!" I sighed. "What a matter-of-fact pair of lovers! Anybody would think you were forty years old, at the very least, to hear you talk, Ruth." 
               "Why? Am I so uncommonly sensible? But, Sibyl, you must remember that we could see each other at any time, every day if we liked. And John did not need me one bit." 
               "Need you! What a girl! I shall not marry my lover, if I ever have one, because he needs me." 
               "Perhaps you will, Sibyl. I hope you will. John needs me, in the highest sense of the word. I should be miserable, if I did not know that. And he shall have me one of these days, when the right time comes!" And for a few moments she sat lost in happy thoughts that I dared not interrupt. How pure, and fair, and sweet she looked that night, with the soft sunset glow about her, and its gold upon her hair! 
               Presently she went on. 
               "But I knew that, giving the word its ordinary signification, John did not need me. I knew he was not lonely or desolate without me, for he has his dear mother to keep his heart warm and his hearth bright. So I told him he had better wait a while." 
               "And John thought you were worth waiting for?" 
               She smiled, but did not give other answer. 
               "But the debt is nearly or quite paid, is it not?" 
               "Nearly; and we shall be married next summer, I suppose." 
               "I am so glad, so very glad!" I exclaimed. "Glad for your sake, and for John's also. Oh, Ruth, I hope you will know what it is to rest and to be taken care of some day! You have been taking care of others all your life. Are you going to keep Matty?" 
               "I suppose so. Mrs. Gardiner says she is as good as gold, and that she could hardly keep house without her." 
               Matty Ridgeway was a child from the poorhouse, a forlorn, friendless waif that Mrs. Gardiner had "taken" several years before, almost against her own better judgment. But the girl's desolate condition and great black eyes had appealed so strongly to her womanly, motherly heart that she could not resist their pleadings. Now, after years of teaching, of trial, and of patience, she was rewarded by such faithful service as money could never have bought,-services born of love and gratitude. I was glad that Ruth was to have so efficient a helper. 
               We talked on for some time longer. This new theme was so absorbing that we lost sight entirely of the one with which our conversation commenced. At length Ruth said, wrapping her light shawl more closely about her shoulders,- 
               "Is my little sister satisfied? Has she heard the whole truth? Because, if she has nothing more to ask, I think we had better go in. The nights are growing cool, already." 
                
               Just as we reached the gate, we met our father coming in search of us. 
               "Here is a letter for you, Sibyl. I can't quite make out the postmark." 
               It was too dark to see. I had never had many correspondents, and it was with some curiosity that I hastened into the house, lighted a lamp, and sat down to read my letter. 
               As I opened it, a slip of paper fell out and fluttered slowly to the floor. 
               Ruth picked it up. 
               "What's this? 'Bank of Oakwood, pay to order of Sibyl Huntington.' Why, this is a check for one hundred dollars, Sibyl, as sure as you live." 
               "There must be some mistake," I said, anxiously, glancing at the paper which Ruth held out for my inspection. "But wait till I read my letter." 
               It was from Mrs. Gordon. She said it had occurred to her that I might possibly find a small advance on my year's salary a great convenience, just at this time. As far as her observation and experience went, girls always left school with dilapidated wardrobes. Perhaps I might need some money for which I would rather not apply to my father. Therefore she took the liberty of enclosing a check for one hundred dollars. She feared now that it would be impossible for her to meet me in New York, as she had designed. But if so, she would make such other arrangements as seemed necessary, etc., etc. 
               Ruth and I looked silently in each other's faces for a full minute, after reading the letter. This thoughtful kindness had relieved us of a great perplexity. 
               "Now you are all right, dear," whispered Ruth. "I am only too glad." 
               "It is all Miss Raymond's work," I replied, as, with a thankful heart I folded the letter, placing the check carefully within it, and deposited it in my father's secretary for safe keeping. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               ONE hundred dollars! Two hundred half dollars! Four hundred quarters! It was an enormous sum to me, who had scarcely ever spent even so much as one quarter without first sitting down to count the cost. I presume many a millionaire feels far less rich than did I when I awoke the next morning and remembered that I had money enough not only for my own most pressing needs, but enough to enable me to buy some presents for the friends I was about to leave. It so happened that John was going to Oakwood that very week, to make some arrangements about repairing his house. 
               "Was there ever anything so lucky, or, rather, so timely?" said Ruth, when he informed us of his intention. "How are you going, John?" 
               "Going to drive over," was the reply. "Then I can return whenever I get through with my business." 
               "Why not go with him, Sibyl? John can go to the bank and draw the money for you, and you can make your purchases far better there than here. It's the very thing." 
               John thought so, too; and it was decided that we should go on the ensuing day. Meanwhile, there was enough to do. One day was not any too long for our deliberations and discussions over the comparative merits of merinos and delaines, blanket shawls, and ladies' cloth. 
               What a happy girl I was when I returned, on Friday night, with my numerous brown paper parcels! 
               Even mother came eagerly forward, looking pleased and animated, as John placed package after package upon my outstretched arms. 
               "There, run in, little one," he said. "You've got as much as you can carry. I'll bring the rest after I have fastened this horse." 
               I ran in. 
                
               "You look as bright as a May morning," said Ruth, as she met me. "What a number of bundles! But do not open them until after tea. We'll have it just as soon as John comes in. Ah, here he is!" And she greeted him with the shy frankness that gave so peculiar a charm to her bearing towards him. 
               "Now, come! The biscuits are just done, and everything is ready." 
               Tea was soon disposed of, for the unopened parcels were powerful incentives to haste. 
               "Oh, there are the dishes!" I exclaimed, as Ruth began to gather up the tea-cups heroically. "But never mind. It will not take long to get them off our hands." 
               "And out of our heads, which is still more important," added Ruth. 
               The last plate was soon in the cupboard. Then, when the crumbs were brushed up, and the rug straightened, we carried all the papers to the table. 
               Why do I linger so? Memory plays strange freaks with me, to-night, and I grow garrulous. 
               My purchases were duly displayed, examined, and duly admired. There was a slight shadow upon my father's brow, but that was growing to be habitual. It was not a cloud. It was, as I said, simply a shade. But it spoke eloquently to my mind of care, of trial, and the approaching infirmities of age. 
               It was a trifle deeper than usual this evening, and I wondered at it a little, as, passing round the table, I merrily challenged his admiration for some new wonder. 
               But I ceased to marvel, when, putting his arm about my waist, he drew me to his knee, and whispered,- 
               "They are all pretty,-all just what they should be. You have been very judicious. But it was your father's place to have done this for you, my child." 
               I read it all, then,-all the love and all the sorrow. Heart-warm kisses were the only reply to be given to such words. 
                
               "Here is one more package, the very last," said Ruth. "Come and open it, Sibyl." 
               I obeyed gladly, and my color deepened as I broke the string in my haste, almost cutting my finger in doing so. 
               "Sibyl must have left the good wine till the last," said John, with a sly glance at my flushed cheeks. 
               There was a dress for Ruth,-a fine, soft merino, of the rich purple hue that I knew would be so becoming to her pure complexion; a nice shawl for mother, a pair of warm driving gloves for my father, and some trifle, I forget what, for John. 
               I think they were all pleased, all happy. They could not be otherwise, for my own delight was infectious. It was the first time that I had had the deep joy of giving what was my very own. 
               There was a great deal of pure enjoyment in the hours that Ruth and I spent together during the next few weeks, albeit it was often shadowed by the thought of our approaching separation. 
               "Ruth," I said, one day, as we sat in our little chamber, busily plying needle and thread, "Ruth, I am going to contrive some way to put an end to your hard-work. You must have a girl, and I will pay her wages." 
               "Not yet," she replied, as she carefully cut a button-hole. "By and by, perhaps, we will talk about it." 
               "When?" 
               "Well, next year, sometime. I do not think it best at present, Sibyl. I can manage very well, with Mrs. Murphy's help about the heaviest of the work; and you had better save your money. It will all be needed, sooner or later." 
               "But I do so want to make your life easier, Ruth. There is no use in waiting until you are worn out." 
               "If we could only do something to make father's life easier, Sibyl. Have you noticed how worn he looks?" 
               "Worn and old," I replied. 
               "While I am here," she continued, "we can do well enough without a girl; but when I go you and I must attend to that matter. Father's life will be utterly comfortless unless we do." 
               "I know it, Ruth. I have thought of it often. Where can we find a person who will be willing to take all the care and responsibility? And yet-" 
               I paused. How could I speak of my mother's failings, even to Ruth, who knew them so well? 
               It was not necessary. She understood me perfectly, and, with a slow shake of the head, answered,- 
               "I am sure I do not know, Sibyl." 
               Neither did I. 
               From this time until my departure, this was the problem that was daily presented for our solving. But we were no nearer its solution at the end than at the beginning. That our mother was far from being strong or perfectly well we were entirely aware. But that she was at the same time unnecessarily and hopelessly inefficient was equally plain to every observer. As she grew older, her disposition to fretfulness and her wearisome complainings continually increased. If she had slept or if she had not slept, if she had eaten or if she had not eaten, if she had had a drive or if she had not had one, if it was warm or if it was cold, if the bread was new or if it was old, if the meat was rare or if it was overdone,-it was all the same. Ruth had borne it, because, as she had said, "she had hardened herself." But what stranger would bear as she had borne? 
               "There, do not let us say another word about it," said Ruth, at the end of a long talk upon this and kindred matters. "Our worrying will do no good; and perhaps something will turn up, who knows?" 
               Something did turn up. But how little did we then imagine what that something would be. 
               "Sufficient unto the day," I sighed. "However, I shall take care to have the money ready, and that will remove one difficulty." 
                
               The first of October came all too soon. I was eager to begin my work, and yet, with no uncommon inconsistency, I shrank tremblingly back as it approached. I stood shivering on the brink, shrinking from the first plunge into the cold waters of actual life. It was not strange. My slight acquaintance with Mrs. Gordon was enough to prove that she moved in a cultivated and perhaps fastidious circle, familiar with all the elegancies and refinements of life. I was but a simple country girl, untrained and crude, I thought, as I sat brooding half impatiently over the whole matter. Why had I accepted Mrs. Gordon's offer? Why, if I must teach, had I not sought a situation nearer home, among those who were more like myself than were these haughty, aristocratic Virginians? 
               And yet, at that very moment, I was better satisfied to have it as it was. Half unconsciously, I yet longed to measure myself with others, to test myself by new standards, to judge myself with new judgements. 
               At length the last hour arrived. This was long before the snort and scream of the iron horse had startled the echoes among the wild glens and shadowy ravines of the Green Mountains. The stage for Troy passed my father's door, however; and, by that conveyance, passengers, after a tedious ride of about eighteen hours, reached the city in time to take the evening boat for New York. 
               "Sit down, and keep yourself quiet, my child," said my father, as I was restlessly roving from room to room, travelling dress and shawl on, and the little lunch-basket that Ruth had prepared for me in my hand. "You are only wasting the strength you will need before you reach your journey's end. The stage won't be along this half hour." 
               "This does seem to me like starting off on a fool's errand," said my mother. "Of course the girl has got to teach, after being to all this expense for her schooling. But why she need go trapsing off so far, when there's places-lots of 'em-to be had for the asking, nearer home, is past my understanding. It beats me!" 
               "Hush, Mary!" interrupted my father. "We ought to be only too glad that she has obtained so good a situation. Ruth, has she wraps enough? This night ride will be cold and tiresome." 
               "I think so," and "a great plenty, father," responded Ruth and I, in the same breath; and, with a quiver at my heart that I was vainly endeavoring to still, I stepped out into the little porch. My father followed me. 
               "I hate to have you go off alone in this way, my dear child," said he, placing his hand under my chin, and lifting up my troubled face. "But you will be well taken care of. Mr. Thompson drives the stage himself, to-night, and he says he will look out for you as he would for his own daughter, and see you safely settled on the boat before he leaves you." 
               This was a great relief. Mr. Thompson, who was one of the owners of the line of stages, was an old friend, and I felt sure that I should have no annoyances that his care could avert. 
               "Are you sure you have money enough, Sibyl?" 
               "I have enough," I answered, "more than enough. I am to go directly to the Astor House, on reaching New York. So Mrs. Gordon says," I added, taking a card from my pocket, upon which were pencilled minute directions as to the journey. "Some one will meet me there, she writes." 
               "Well, I hope you will have no difficulty. I believe you will have none. Keep your wits about you, and do not allow yourself to be hurried or excited. Take time to think, and you will do nicely. But it is too cool for you out here. You must come in." And, putting his arm about my shoulders, he turned towards the door. 
               "Wait a moment, father," I whispered, in a choked voice; "just one minute! Father, take care of yourself while I am gone-do, please." And I pulled his face down to mine, and kissed him with tremulous lips. "I feel so worried about you." 
                
               He looked at me for a moment, with a troubled expression in his dark gray eyes. Then the cloud passed, and he answered, gravely,- 
               "God will take care of me, my child,-and of you. We can trust him!" 
               "And, father, there is one thing more. Won't you be looking out for some good girl to live with you, and take care of things after Ruth is married? I will pay her wages, myself. You must father." 
               He smiled, and kissed me, without replying. But just as he was about to open the door he paused, laid both hands upon my bowed head, and said, solemnly,- 
               "Now, may the Lord bless my little daughter. May He watch over her, and guard her going out and her coming in, now and forever. Amen!" 
               We went in, and, with intertwined arms, Ruth and I stood in the window, watching for the first glimpse of the stage, as it should appear on the brow of the hill. I seem to stand there again, to-night,-to see the whole grand sweep of the encircling mountains, clothed to their very summits with towering pines and stately hemlocks, interspersed with clumps of scarlet maples, yellow birches, dark red oaks and brown beeches. I seem to see the creek winding about between emerald banks, and playing hide-and-seek with the willows, the red, and white, and brown cottages of Valleythorpe, the one lone church-spire standing out in bright relief against a darkening sky, the windows of the distant farmhouses all aflame in the last red glow of sunset, the green below and the blue above. I seem to see them all to-night even as I saw them through my tears that evening, long ago. I feel Ruth's arm about me, and her breath upon my cheek, although,-but I must not anticipate. 
               "There it comes!" exclaimed Ruth. "Here, Sibyl, here's your bonnet. Have you your shawl, and gloves, and everything?" 
               "There's no hurry," said my father's calm, deliberate voice. "No hurry. Take your time, midget." 
               Five minutes more, and I was off. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               I NEED not dwell upon that long and tedious night ride. Its discomforts were alleviated as far as was possible by Mr. Thompson's cheery kindness. But still it was a dreary, wearisome journey, and I was heartily rejoiced when about two o'clock the next afternoon, the four powerful steeds swept round in a stately circle, and drew up before the door of the old Mansion House in Troy. 
               "Here we are, Sibyl," said Mr. Thompson, as he opened the stage door. "Tired? Of course you are. But a chance to wash and brush up a little, and a good dinner will set you all right. Boat don't leave till five, so you will have plenty of time." 
               He took excellent care of me, giving me but little opportunity to think; and we went down to the boat early, in order to secure a good berth. Then, after having seen me comfortably established, he put half a dozen oranges into my basket, shook my hand heartily, bade me be a good girl, and left me to my own devices. 
               For awhile I sat upon the upper deck, watching the changing lights and shadows on the shore, the play and sparkle of the small, white-crested waves, the long line of foam in our wake, the thousand and one objects of novelty and interest that surrounded me. I dared not trust myself to look backward or forward. The present demanded my every thought, and I felt that all remembrances of the past, all anxieties for the future, must be forced to lie dormant for awhile, even if they were to awake with redoubled strength to-morrow. Hundreds of strangers were around-me, and I was indeed alone in a crowd. 
               At length the sun went down, the sky grew gray and cold, the air damp and chill, and, feeling utterly desolate and forlorn, I went down into the cabin. 
                
               Here at least there was warmth and light, song and laughter, the voices of gay, young girls, and the shouts of merry children. But, though cheered and soothed, I was not in a mood for forming any acquaintances, and at an early hour I retired to my berth. 
               It was long ere I slept. The slow wash of the waves, the noise of the machinery, the tramping of feet over head, the narrow, uncomfortable bed, the confined air of the cabin, the crying of babies, and the murmur of many voices-all combined to drive sleep from my pillow. But at length my eyes closed, and I did not awake until the gray dawn was breaking. 
               Everything was still. I drew aside my curtain, and looked out. The whole crowd were yet asleep. Turning, I drew the shade from the little window behind my berth, and discovered that we were lying at the dock in New York. I arose hurriedly, but noiselessly, that I might arrange my toilet before my travelling companions should awake, and then stole out upon deck. It was dreary, damp, and cold. The black wharves, the great storehouses, the tall chimneys, the huge smokepipes, looked grim and cheerless. The water had lost all its glow and sparkle, and the few men who were crawling about the dock seemed sleepy and overtasked. But gradually the aspect of things brightened somewhat. The inmates of the various cabins and state-rooms aroused themselves. There were shouts and vociferations, the tramping of hurried feet, the rolling of carriage wheels,-all was bustle and confusion. 
               Mr. Thompson had advised me to wait until the first rush was over, before I left the boat. So I sat quietly enough to all appearance, but with a great quivering and quaking within, watching the motley throng, and dreading the moment when I must leave my perch upon the deck and mingle with the seething crowd below. 
               Soon I found myself watching a carriage that was slowly approaching the wharf, and that finally stopped at a convenient distance. A gentleman sprang out, exchanged a word with the driver, and my eye followed him as he made his way through the crowd, now cordially grasping the hand of a friend, now recognizing an acquaintance, now confounding a noisy hack-man by a steady, unconscious gaze, now quietly putting aside some obtrusive newsboy, until he reached the lower deck and disappeared from my sight. 
               I had just arisen from my seat, gathered up my shawl and satchel, and was about to go below, when the gentleman whom I had been observing came rapidly up the stairs, glanced hastily at one or two groups upon the deck, and then approached me, lifting his hat. 
               "Miss Huntington?" he asked, with a slight hesitation and in a deferential tone. 
               I assented. 
               "I am very glad that I have found you, Miss Huntington," he said, extending his hand. "I am Guy Tremaine, the brother of your friend Mrs. Gordon, who found it impossible to come to New York just at this present time. But stay, I have my credentials here," he added, drawing a letter from his pocket. "Perhaps you would like to examine them before we go farther," and he brought forward a chair for me, while he himself remained standing by my side. 
               I hastily broke the seal. I had so hoped to find Mrs. Gordon at the Astor House after all, and to shelter myself beneath her wing. But the "credentials" were not to be disputed, and I could only bear my disappointment with as much grace as I might. 
               Mr. Tremaine smiled reassuringly as I turned slowly toward him, after reading my letter. 
               "A poor substitute for Mrs. Gordon, I know," he said, in return for a glance from eyes that without doubt wore a slightly troubled expression. "I am very sorry she is not here; but I will take very good care of you, Miss Huntington. Now, shall we go?" 
               The morning brightened perceptibly, as we drove rapidly through the streets that were already fast assuming their working-day ing-day aspect. Mr. Tremaine, who was entirely at ease himself, soon succeeded in making me feel almost equally so. Diverting the conversation from a personal channel, he kept both eye and brain busy with the various objects of interest along our route,-noble buildings, famous churches, streets whose very names were historic. My pulse quickened. I caught the impulse of the hurrying crowds. I felt eager and excited. 
               Mr. Tremaine looked at me keenly. Smitten suddenly with the fear that I was making myself ridiculous, I leaned back upon the cushions, determined that I would look no more. But after a moment, the weakness, the folly of such a fear, showed itself clearly to my mental vision. This was my first visit to New York, and should I allow a silly dread of betraying my ignorance, my want of world-knowledge, to deprive me of whatever benefits might otherwise accrue to me? No, I would see, and hear, and ask questions. So, regaining my self-possession, I looked, admired, and wondered to my heart's content. 
               We left New York that afternoon, having devoted the morning to the National Academy and a walk up Broadway; and at the close of the second day found ourselves at the small railway station five miles from Greyhurst, the estate of Mrs. Gordon. 
               "At our journey's end at last," said Mr. Tremaine, as he handed me from the cars. "I am glad for your sake, Miss Huntington. For an old traveller like myself, this has been by no means a hard experience. But you must be very tired, although you have carried yourself like a heroine." 
               "My heroism has exhibited itself under the greatest of drawbacks," I replied, with a laugh, as we entered the little bare, uncomfortable dpot,-"the drawback of having had nothing to contend with." 
               The train thundered on, and Mr. Tremaine went out to reconnoitre. Presently he returned. 
               "We are all right," he said. "Bob is here with the carriage. He says they hardly expected us to-night, but his mistress thought best to run no risks, and consequently sent for us;" and, hastily gathering up shawls, satchels, books and blankets, we went out on to the platform, by the side of which stood Bob and his coal-black steeds. 
               "Ise mighty glad to see you, Massa Guy," said that sable coachman, bowing and scraping as he opened the carriage-door. "Greyhurst 'nuff lonesome without you." 
               The carriage rolled smoothly on over a well-kept albeit a hilly road. The sun had gone down, but it was yet light enough for me to discern by the roadside masses of dark green leaves, and large clusters of scarlet berries. Something about them instantly carried my thoughts far over land and sea to "Merry England." 
               "The holly!" I exclaimed; "Mr. Tremaine, surely this is the holly!" 
               He smiled. 
               "Yes, this is the holly," he replied; and, ordering Bob to stop, he sprang from the carriage, and presently returned with a long, shining spray. "It is cousin german, if not own brother, to the holly branch that 
                      
                        'Shone on the old oak wall, 
                        When the Baron's retainers were blithe and gay 
                        Keeping their Christmas holiday.' 
                     
                  
                
               You have never seen it before?" 
               "Never," I answered. How beautiful it is! The berries remind me of our mountain ash. But then there is so much in association, and the ivy and the holly are a part of all our thoughts and fancies connected with the land of our fathers-dear old England. I wish Ruth could see this wreath," I continued; for while speaking I had been arranging the smooth, shining leaves, and glowing coral drops, twining them together into a graceful coronal. 
               "'Ruth' shall see the holly," said Mr. Tremaine, toying with a tiny bit of the red and green. "We must send her a Christmas box. But look, Miss Huntington; there is your new home-there is Greyhurst," and he pointed to a large and elegant mansion just visible in the distance. 
               The horses, impatient for home and supper, sprang eagerly forward in response to the slight touch of Bob's whip, and we sped onward. Soon we paused for a moment at a large, and to my New England educated eyes, somewhat clumsy and inconvenient gate; which with much noise and laughter, and many exclamations, was at length opened by a troop of little black boys who rushed after the carriage with shouts of "Massa Guy, Massa Guy!" 
               Mr. Tremaine put his head out of the window, laughed, and scattered some pennies among the noisy group. But Bob cracked his whip most ominously. 
               "Dar! dat's 'nuff. Massa Guy don' want dis nonsense; clar out, young uns! Hope de young lady please to 'scuse the noise, Massa Guy. Dese little nigs great nuisance," he added, with so lofty an air that I laughed heartily, and the troop scampered away as fast as their sturdy legs could carry them. There were at least a dozen of them. 
               "One of the beauties of our 'peculiar institution,'" said Mr. Tremaine, as I watched them flying off like so many black-birds. "What would one of your New England farmers think if he had such a tribe of incapables to support? Nuisances? Bob is not far from right. But they are funny little elves after all." 
               We were rolling along a semicircular avenue, bordered on either side by stately live oaks. Through the trees I caught occasional glimpses of the grounds, elegantly laid out, and bright with vines, and flowers, and blossoming shrubs, with here and there a gleam of white marble, a vase, or a fountain. Soon we stopped before the house, a large, square, brick building, with a wing on either side. Light streamed from the open windows, making the broad piazza as bright as day. As the carriage stopped, Mrs. Gordon's tall and graceful figure appeared in the doorway. 
               "Ah Guy! Here you are," she exclaimed, as Mr. Tremaine sprang out. "I feared you would not come to-night. Have you brought Miss Huntington?" 
               "Here she is," he answered, gaily, as swinging my holly wreath upon his arm, he helped me from the carriage. "Here she is, not looking at all the worse for the long journey, night ride included, which proves that I have taken the best possible care of her, as you bade me, Mrs. Gordon!" 
               "I do not doubt that you have done your devoir as a true and loyal knight," she said, laughing, as she came forward to meet me with the most cordial of greetings. I was received not as a stranger, but as a friend, to be cherished and cared for. A sweet home feeling crept into my heart, even before I had laid aside my bonnet and partaken of the warm supper that was awaiting us. 
               "I am most ravenously hungry," Mr. Tremaine had said. "Do pray dispense with ceremony to-night, Mary, and give us poor benighted travellers something to eat, without compelling us to make ourselves presentable first; we are not in such very disorderly plight, are we?" 
               "You always were a lazy boy, Guy," replied his sister, laughing. "But you shall have your supper. Aunt Lucy has done her best for your benefit." 
               "Now you are too tired to talk, too tired to do anything but go to your room and rest," said Mrs. Gordon, after we left the supper-room. "I have made the journey from New York to Greyhurst too many times not to know that. But you must see the children first." 
               Edith, a slight, pale girl of fourteen, inheriting her mother's dark eyes and hair, as well as her graceful bearing, I had already seen at the table. In obedience to a glance from Mrs. Gordon, she left the room, and soon returned bringing with her a sturdy boy of ten years, who looked at the new governess askance, and yet half defiantly, from beneath his short brown curls; and a shy little beauty of about eight, who clung to her sister's dress, and peeped at me furtively. 
                
               "This is Miss Huntington, Arthur," said Mrs. Gordon,-"your new teacher, of whom I have told you so much. Come and shake hands with her." 
               Arthur looked at me intently for a moment. Then marching across the room, he placed his hand in mine without a word. I kissed him, saying a few pleasant nothings the while. But without answering, he kept his steady gaze fixed upon my face, as if he were reading me through and through. 
               "Well, Arthur, my boy," said Mr. Tremaine, smiling, "have you made up your mind? What have you to say about it?" 
               "She is real pretty," said Arthur, very deliberately; "not at all like a governess." 
               What a merry peal of laughter rang out just then, in which I joined as heartily as any one! 
               "Well said, my lad!" exclaimed Mr. Tremaine. "You should have a half holiday for that." 
               "But, Arthur, my son, you should not speak in that way," said Mrs. Gordon. 
               "Why not?" asked the child, coloring, but maintaining his ground manfully. "It is nothing to laugh at, Uncle Guy. I only told the truth." 
               "But even the truth is not to be spoken at all times," said his mother. "Besides, what do you know about governesses?" 
               "Did you ever see one?" asked Mr. Tremaine, with a quizzical glance at Arthur and me. 
               "No, Uncle Guy," replied the boy, "I never saw one; but I've read about 'em, and they're old and ugly, always. Yes, and cross, too. Will Deane has seen one, and he can't bear 'em." 
               "Mary," said Mr. Tremaine, with a look of great amusement, "I am astonished at the heterodox notions of your son. All the literature that is allowed to fall in his way should hereafter pass under the eye of a censor, armed with a pair of shears of gigantic dimensions. So, Arthur, you don't think Miss Huntington looks like a governess?" 
               "Stop, Guy! Don't lead the boy on. You spoil him with your nonsense," said Mrs. Gordon, in a low tone. 
                
               But Mr. Tremaine laughed, and went on. 
               "Doesn't she look like a governess now, really?" 
               "Not a bit," said the valiant little champion of free speech. "I think she is just as young, and just as pretty as Miss Sarah Wynne." 
               "Who is the belle of the county," said Mr. Tremaine, laughing, and clapping his hands. "Mary, you must really look out for this son of yours, or he will be getting into serious difficulty. All governesses old and ugly!" 
               "He will be in less danger if you will let him alone, Guy," was Mrs. Gordon's answer, as she led the half-indignant boy from the room, and then attempted to draw the timid Fanny toward me. She, however, shrank behind her mother, refusing to let me so much as touch the hem of her garment. 
               "Never mind for to-night, then, Fanny," said Mrs. Gordon, as she patted the shyly drooping head. "She will find a kiss and any desirable quantity of words for you to-morrow, Miss Huntington. Fanny always wants to dream over new acquaintances before she will admit them to the rank of friends. Now will you go to your room?" 
               I assented most gladly, for I was indeed greatly fatigued; and Mrs. Gordon herself led the way to the large, handsomely furnished chamber that had been set apart for my use. 
               A small fire blazed brightly in the open fireplace, that was evidently built, not because it was needed, but for the cozy, cheerful air that it gave to the room. A young girl stood upon the hearth, whose dusky face brightened as we approached. 
               "Now, Violet," said her mistress, "you are to take good care of Miss Huntington, and see that she is made perfectly comfortable. Have the trunks been brought up?" 
               There they stood, unstrapped, and ready for opening. Repeating her charges to Violet, and begging me to call upon her without hesitation for whatever assistance I might need, Mrs. Gordon bade me good-night, and went down stairs. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               TRULY 'the lines have fallen unto me in pleasant places'" was my first thought when I awoke the next morning and glanced about the bright and cheerful room, to which my work-basket, portfolio, a few books, and one or two trifling ornaments that I had brought with me-gifts one and all from dear ones far away-already gave a familiar, homelike air. Springing from the bed, I approached the window, and, cautiously lifting the delicate chintz curtain, peeped stealthily out. 
               I found that my room was upon the eastern side of the house, overlooking a smoothly-shaven lawn, dotted here and there with stately forest trees-a lawn covering so wide an extent of ground that it might almost have been termed a park, although no deer trod daintily upon the green turf, or raised their antlered heads to browse among the branches. Not a human being was in sight; not a sign of human habitation in the whole extent of country that lay within my vision, save two or three smoke wreaths curling upward in the distance, and the tall, ornamented chimneys of a mansion that was itself hidden from sight by intervening trees. Feeling secure from observation, I drew the curtain completely aside, that I might take in the full beauty of the scene. 
               Truly beautiful it was. Very different from the grand, majestic beauty of my own mountain home, but perhaps all the more impressive from its novelty. I gazed a long time with still unsatisfied eyes. Then when the sounds of life about the house came more and more frequently to my ears, I turned away to make my morning toilet; and my thoughts flew far away over hill and valley, as I buttoned the dainty cuffs, and fastened the tiny collar that Ruth had stiched for me with such loving care. 
                
               Presently there came a faint, hesitating knock at my door, and, upon opening it, I found that little Fanny, proving her mother a true prophet, had come voluntarily to escort me down to breakfast. I had the promised kiss,-a tiny bit of one, it is true, but still a kiss; and then, hand in hand, we descended the broad oaken staircase, chatting as we went. 
               The family were all assembled in the breakfast-room. Mrs. Gordon, Mr. Tremaine, (whom I had already ascertained to be one of the household,-almost as much at home at Greyhurst as at Tremaine Lodge, his own place, about four miles distant,) Edith, Arthur, Fanny, and myself. Myself,-that was strangest of all. I half doubted my own identity, so novel were all my surroundings. Was I really at home here? Not an alien, not a stranger, but a friend? 
               "I must ride to the Lodge this morning," said Mr. Tremaine. "Tom, my good majordomo, will think I have left the place to its own destruction. Arthur, has Grey Eagle been out every day since I went away?" 
               "Every day, Uncle Guy. Bob has made Csar ride him for an hour every morning. Do you want him saddled? Oh, may I go to the stables, mamma, and tell Bob?" 
               "Yes, dear, run along." 
               "And stay till he is saddled?" 
               "Yes, if you won't get into mischief." 
               "And Uncle Guy," whispered the boy, excitedly, as he seized his cap, "mayn't I ride Grey Eagle just a little bit of a way, when you come back? Bob wouldn't let me lay my finger on him,-much less mount him, while you were gone." 
               Mr. Tremaine laughed, as he pinched the round, ruddy cheek. 
               "What next? I shall not be back to-day, Arthur; perhaps not until next week. We will settle that matter when I return. But run along now, and do your errand." 
               After we rose from the table, I asked Edith if she would show me the school-room. 
               "Yes," replied Mrs. Gordon. "You shall see it. But you are not to begin your work there until next week. You must have time to rest, and to become quite at home with us first. Come, children." 
               A light, airy room, sufficiently large, and furnished with maps, a blackboard, a globe, and an orrery. A well-filled bookcase stood in one corner, and there were three low desks furnished with writing materials, slates, and all other requisites. At one end of the room, between the windows, was a pretty table and a chair for my occupancy. Upon the table stood an exquisite figure of Silence, with her finger on her lip; and above it, in a simple frame, hung a lovely picture of a young girl poring over a large book, that might have passed for a missal. 
               I looked around with brightening eyes. 
               "How convenient and pleasant it is!" I exclaimed. "Children, if we are not good and happy here, it will be our own fault, surely." 
               "There is one serious defect in this room, Mary," said Mr. Tremaine, who had followed us. "Or, rather, one omission. I wonder that you have not noticed it." 
               Mrs. Gordon looked at him inquiringly. I glanced over the room again, with keenly observant eyes this time. 
               "What can you mean, Mr. Tremaine?" I asked. "The room is perfect in all its appointments." 
               "There is not a single seat for visitors," he said, with his gravest face. "A most unaccountable omission, truly." And, as the tramping of Grey Eagle's hoofs was heard upon the gravel walk, he bowed and left us, before Mrs. Gordon had time to reply. 
               The routine of our daily life was speedily established, and the days and weeks sped on in a tranquil happiness that was almost dreamlike. My duties were light and pleasing. The morning hours were devoted to the school-room. After lunch, my time was at my own disposal; although I generally kept the children with me, walking with them, driving with them, reading, working, and playing, until it was time to dress for dinner. 
                
               At first I found Edith very quiet and reserved. Ever since the death of her father, she had been her mother's companion, and friend; and I think that the presence of a stranger in the household was at first a little distasteful to her. She dreaded lest it should disturb that full and free intercourse with her mother that she had so long enjoyed. But this gradually wore away, and, ere many weeks had passed, her morning greeting was given as frankly, as warmly, as that of the other children, who had clung to me from the first,-ever since that eventful night when Master Arthur announced his discovery of the fact that governesses were not necessarily old and ugly. 
               At last my beauty-loving eye, and that large part of my nature that had rebelled against the plain, prosaic, homely details of New England farm-life were fully satisfied. Wherever my glance fell, it rested upon something that delighted and charmed me. Mrs. Gordon had spent some years abroad, and her house was filled with the choicest garnerings of European travel. The drawing-room and library, especially, were like enchanted ground to me. There were fine copies of world-noted pictures-copies that were by no means palmed off upon the inexperienced as originals-the very names of which were enough to set my heart on fire, and to send my thoughts wandering to the far ends of the earth, or away back through the ages to the hour when Mary first bore in her young, girlish hand the fair lily of the Annunciation. There were tables of the exquisite mosaics of Rome and Florence, of buhl-work, and of rare Italian marbles. There were ancient Roman lamps, far too beautiful for use, and wonderful Swiss carvings, light and airy as frost-work. There were vases of translucent alabaster, urns and pitchers of wedgewood,-quaint and full of riddles to the uninitiated,-statuettes as lovely as a dream, rich bronzes and antique cameos. In the library there were treasures that seemed to me beyond all price,-costly books of which I had read, but which I had never hoped to see with mortal vision, huge folios of engravings,-a whole art-gallery in themselves,-which opened to me a world of new delights. I was never weary, never satiated. 
               I was fond of luxury and ease, and here they enveloped me as impalpable atmosphere. I smiled at myself sometimes when I perceived how easily I fell in with the habits and customs of those around me,-habits entirely opposite to those of my former life. On the day after my arrival, Mrs. Gordon had said to me,- 
               "Miss Huntington, the house is, as you perceive, full of servants. I wish you to call on them without scruple. Many things that, like other New England girls-you perceive that I know their ways-you have been in the habit of doing for yourself, it is entirely unnecessary for you to do here. Indeed, I greatly prefer that you should not do them. Violet has nothing to do but to wait upon Edith and yourself. I hope you will not fail to make her of service to you." 
               It was perfectly easy for me to oblige Mrs. Gordon in this respect; and it was very pleasant to find my wants supplied with scarce a thought upon my part. To find my room always in perfect order, the articles required for my simple toilet laid out ready for use, and Violet ever at hand to perform any little service that I might require. Yet every moment was occupied. There was so much to see, so much to learn, so much to study, that I felt that I had no time to lose. 
               "Oh, laws, Miss Sibyl!" said Violet, one day while she was brushing my hair, "you Northern ladies so curus. Why you no lie down after lunch and take a nap? Ladies always does." 
               "I can sleep enough in the night, Violet," I replied, smiling, "can't you?" 
               "Course I can, Miss Sibyl. But ladies, you know, they is different. They has to sleep in the daytime." 
               But Violet's suggestion was of no avail. Here, as at Oakwood,-here, as at home, I felt that life was too short for all that I had to do. 
               One afternoon, at the very hour when, according to Violet's philosophy, I should have been taking a siesta, I was in the library, poring over one of the large folios of which I have spoken. With some difficulty I had succeeded in placing it upon the frame designed for it, and was now seated before it in happy contentment, comparing the engraving with a graphic description of the original picture. Presently Mr. Tremaine came in, hat and riding-whip in hand, having just ridden over from the Lodge. 
               "It does one's very heart good to see that bright 'morning face' of yours, Miss Huntington," he said, taking a seat near me. "I believe you wear a 'morning face' always, no matter what the hour may be. Busy as a bee, as usual. What are you about now?" 
               "At no very severe labor," I replied. "Merely looking at a picture book." 
               "But making a study of it, nevertheless. Miss Huntington, do you know what ennui means?" 
               "Weariness, dulness of spirit, languor, uneasiness, connected with a feeling of disgust. So Webster says, and my French books give a like definition," I replied, gravely. 
               "But experimentally, I mean. Do you know the sensation from a personal experience?" 
               "I cannot say that I do." 
               "I believe you,-I thought not," he exclaimed. "Your time never hangs heavily on your hands? You are never at a loss what to do with it?" 
               "Never," I answered. "I have never yet found half enough of that precious commodity. Mr. Tremaine, people who have to work for a living are not apt to be troubled with such fine lady grievances as those you speak of." 
               He looked at me curiously for a moment, moving his whip restlessly the while. Then saying that he must go and find Mrs. Gordon, he left the room. 
               Before I left home, Ruth and I had determined that no considerations of economy should prevent us from keeping up a frequent correspondence. If we must be separated, we would at least grant ourselves the pleasure of writing to each other. So every fortnight brought me a long, precious letter from Ruth, as pure and dainty as herself. The children, Edith, Arthur, and Fanny were never weary of hearing me talk of our life among the Green Mountains, so unlike that with which they were familiar that it almost seemed to them like a tale of foreign lands. They always claimed a part of every letter from Ruth, and greatly interested they were in many of the details of our home life. 
               "And you really do such things for yourselves at the North?' said Edith, one day, when they had been listening to a letter in which Ruth referred to some of her dairy work. "You do not have servants, as we do here?" 
               "Not so many," I replied, "and many people have none." 
               "I do not think it is nice," said Fanny, shaking her pretty little head, "not nice at all." 
               "I think it is nice, Miss Fanny," said Arthur. "I think it would be jolly fun to do everything for one's self. I should like it first-rate." 
               Fanny tossed her curls triumphantly. 
               "Why don't you begin, then, right off? here, at this very time? You called Csar not five minutes ago to bring you your boots; why didn't you get them yourself?" 
               "Ah, but-that's a different thing! As long as it is Csar's business to bring me my boots, I make him do it, of course. If I hadn't him to do things for me, I should do them for myself, as the boys at the North do, and think it jolly good fun, too." 
               I left the children to finish the discussion by themselves. The last I heard, as I descended the stairs, was Fanny's shrill little voice, declaring that no gentleman would say "jolly." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               WE must send her a Christmas box," Mr. Tremaine had said, in response to the wish I had expressed that Ruth could see my holly wreath. As the holidays drew near, the remark often recurred to me. In those days-the days when I was young-the sober-minded descendants of the Puritans were grievously afraid of engrafting upon their daily life aught of the grace and beauty that pertained to the ceremonials and holy days of the Church of England. Life was so real, so intensely earnest, to them-death and eternity were words of such solemn import, and such terrible meaning, that they had no time for what they deemed idle frivolities. Now, thank God! a broader, a more generous, and a happier religious sentiment has sprung up among the rocks and hillsides of New England, and her sons and daughters have learned that God made the flowers as well as the cedartrees; that his voice is heard in the song of the robin and the twittering of sparrows, as well as in the muttering thunder or the roar of the cataract. Ruth and I had known that Christmas fell upon the twenty-fifth of December; that was all, or nearly all. We had never had a Christmas gift in our whole lives; had never sung a Christmas carol, or heard the choral voices chanting, "Peace on earth, good-will toward men." 
               Now the children and servants were beginning to talk of Christmas, and the house was full of delightful mystery and happy suspense. One could scarcely enter a room without hearing a little shriek of dismay, witnessing a sudden hiding of working materials, or being implored "not to tell" something or other. My heart went out toward Ruth with a great longing. 
               If I could only do something to brighten this coming Christmas for her,-could give her even the smallest share in the joy and festivity that at this season pervaded almost every corner of the civilized world save that which she inhabited! There was nothing I could do save to send her a Christmas gift; and that seemed impossible, the distance was so great, and the risk of loss or injury even greater. 
               One stormy evening, the second week in December, we were all-Mr. Tremaine included-assembled in the library. The room was warm, and bright, and cozy, large as it was. There was a bright fire on the hearth; the crimson curtains fell in heavy folds to the floor; the busts over the dark bookcases seemed to brighten, and grow lifelike in the flickering glow of the firelight; the shaded astral lamp shed a soft radiance upon the centretable where Edith and I were sitting with our work. Arthur was helping Fanny to put together a Chinese puzzle, and Mrs. Gordon and Mr. Tremaine were playing chess at a little table near the hearth. 
               "Checkmated, I declare!" said Mr. Tremaine, as he arose from his seat. "Mary, you improve, or I am losing my skill; I hardly know which it is. One gets rusty in everything here, where there is so little going on, and where one can find nothing on earth to do. There is nothing to keep one's faculties bright and ready for use." 
               Mrs. Gordon smiled. 
               "I can find plenty to do, Guy." 
               "Yes, I presume so. You women have an unfailing resource in your housekeeping. Besides, most of you are content to potter for hours and hours over a bit of canvas and a few worsteds, imagining all the while that you are hard at work, and performing a very meritorious act." 
               I looked up with a quick glance. 
               "Not you, Miss Huntington; I entirely acquit you of any such folly. Abominations in worsted-work cannot be laid to your charge. But, seriously, what is there for a man to do? Or, to make it a personal matter, what is there for me to do? I have all the money I want, and vastly more than I need; so I cannot set to work to make myself a Crsus. That would be the height of folly. Tom understands all about my affairs better than I do myself. If I should attempt to take the reins, it would break his heart, and I don't doubt things would get into a terrible tangle. Mrs. Wood superintends all my domestic arrangements at the Lodge in a most unexceptionable way. There is no chance for me to put in my oar anywhere. I have half a mind to study law, Mary, or else to go abroad again." 
               "Study law, at your age?" 
               "Why not, at my age? Pray, how old do you take me to be, Mrs. Gordon?" 
               "Twenty-seven years and three months, precisely, Mr. Tremaine." 
               Mr. Tremaine brushed back his raven hair, and looked at his sister, with a queer smile playing about his mouth. 
               "You don't say it, Mary? Upon my word, I thought I was only twenty-five. Well, 'tempus fugit,' which is about all the Latin I remember. What was the good of my going to college, I wonder?" 
               "'Pour passer le temps,'" said Mrs. Gordon, sweeping the red and white chess-men into the drawer. "What ails you to-night, Guy?" 
               "Nothing new. Come here, puss, and tell me what you expect me to put in your stocking. Or, are you to have a tree this year?" And, as Fanny sprang to his knee, they went off into a profound discussion, part of which was conducted with the strictest privacy, Fanny carrying her uncle off to one of the windows, and drawing the curtains around them both. 
               "Well, we will consider it settled, then," he said, as he emerged from his concealment. "But stay a moment, Fanny; let me look at your tongue." 
               The child obeyed, wonderingly. 
               "It will never do," said Mr. Tremaine, "never! It is too long. It must be cut off." 
               "Why, Uncle Guy!" And Fanny drew the offending member back far more quickly than she had put it forth. 
                
               "Because," said he, very gravely, "no little girl could be expected to keep a secret with a tongue as long as that. And Christmas secrets must be kept. It must come off,-half of it at least; so here goes." And, drawing his knife from his pocket, he made a feint toward catching Fanny. 
               With a little scream of mingled laughter and dismay, she rushed from the room, and Mr. Tremaine walked soberly back to the fire again. 
               "By the way, Mary," he said, "I had nearly forgotten. Have you any commands for New York? Mr. Wilson goes thither next week, and bade me say he should be most happy, etc., etc. I cannot begin to do justice to his anxiety to be of service to Mrs. Gordon; so I won't try." 
               "Mr. Wilson is very kind," said Mrs. Gordon, meditatively; "but, really, I don't know that I have any errand for him. Perhaps I may think of one before he goes." 
               I dropped my work, with an eager look at Mrs. Gordon. Mr. Tremaine noticed it. 
               "Have you no commands for him, Miss Huntington? Mr. Wilson, gallant old bachelor that he is, will be in despair if he can do nothing for the ladies at Greyhurst." 
               "I was thinking," I said, "that I would like to send a small package as far as New York, if it would not be too much trouble to Mr. Wilson, and if he would be willing to mail it from thence." 
               "For your friends at home? If so, Mr. Wilson can do still better than that for you. He goes as far north as Albany." 
               "Oh! does he?" I exclaimed. "That will be the very thing! If he will take the trouble to leave the package at the store of an acquaintance of ours in Albany, it will be sent directly to Ruth." 
               "The Christmas box?" said Mr. Tremaine, smiling. 
               I smiled in reply. 
               "What is it?" asked Arthur, leaving his puzzle. "A Christmas mas box for Ruth? How do you know anything about it, Uncle Guy?" 
               "And how do you know anything about Miss Ruth, you young scapegrace?" 
               "Oh! I know a great deal of her, Uncle Guy. She writes such nice letters, and-and-I do know all about her; don't I, Miss Sibyl? And if anybody is going to send her a Christmas box, I shall put something in it, for I like her first-rate." 
               "Where do boys learn so many slang phrases?" said Mrs. Gordon. "Arthur, why could you not have said, 'very much,' instead of 'first-rate'? But as to the Christmas box, I think it is a good idea." 
               "So do I," whispered quiet Edith, laying her hand on mine beneath the table. "I want to send her something too, Miss Sibyl." 
               I smiled in the gentle, upturned face. "You shall if it pleases you, dear," I whispered. "But we will talk about it by and by." 
               Here Fanny came bounding back into the room, exclaiming, 
               "Uncle Guy! My tongue hasn't grown any shorter!" 
               But before Mr. Tremaine could reply, Arthur vociferated, 
               "O Fanny! We are going to send Christmas presents to Miss Sybil's sister Ruth, every one of us!" 
               "Why Arthur!" and "How you do jump at conclusions, my son!" broke simultaneously from my lips and those of Mrs. Gordon. 
               "Well, Miss Sybil and I are, at any rate, which is about the same thing," said Master Arthur. 
               "Complimentary to the rest of the company," remarked Mr. Tremaine. "Miss Huntington, when can you have your box or package ready? Mr. Wilson goes Monday morning. Perhaps it would be best for me to take it to him Saturday night." 
               "Thank you. It shall be ready," I replied. 
               We soon separated for the night, and, as I gathered up my work, Mr. Tremaine drew near to the table. 
                
               "May I send 'Ruth' a bit of holly, Miss Sybil?" he whispered. 
               "Certainly, you may," I replied; "and she shall know who sends it, too, Mr. Tremaine." 
               Breakfast was not over the next morning before the children began to talk about "Ruth's Christmas box," and of their prospective contributions to it. Finding that their ideas on the subject were rather Utopian, I brought them to reason by stipulating that their presents must be something of their own handiwork. This was rather too much for Arthur, who had talked largely of a pearl ring or a came brooch; but, finding me inexorable, he submitted with a good grace, and on Saturday afternoon brought me a pretty little bracket, in the form of an oak-leaf, that he had manufactured from some bits of rich, dark wood, sandpapered and polished to the last degree. 
               "Bravo, Arthur!" I said; "you are as good at whittling as any Yankee." 
               "I cut it out myself," he said; "but Csar helped me put it together. It is pretty enough, perhaps, but it isn't worth sending way up to Vermont." 
               "Ruth will prize it far more highly than she would the pearl ring, dear," I said, kissing him. "It is beautiful. Now lay it carefully on my bed, till I am ready to pack the other things." 
               Edith brought a little scarf, daintily embroidered by her own cunning fingers, and Fanny a small sachet of rose-colored ribbon and white lace, perfumed with ottar of rose. 
               "This is not quite enough, Fanny," I said. "I want one thing more." 
               "What is it, Miss Sibyl? You shall have it, surely." 
               "One of your golden curls." 
               "Oh, Miss Sibyl! Arthur says they are rosy-no, red, I mean." And off she darted, returning, presently, with a long, soft curl, of that peculiar shade of reddish gold that the old painters loved to give to the Madonna. Years afterward, I found it carefully laid away among Ruth's few treasures, wrapped in the same bit of silver paper in which I folded it that day. 
               Mrs. Gordon added a pretty collar of real lace. I do not intend to tell what my own gift was. Suffice it to say, it was something that was not in the least bit useful. For once, I was resolved that Ruth's eye and taste should be gratified, and that utility should stand on one side. She should have something with which this "work-a-day world" had nothing to do-something that was simply and purely beautiful. 
               I was packing the things in a small box, when Fanny came bounding into the room. 
               "Uncle Guy has come for the box," she said. "He is going right over to Mr. Wilson's, before tea. And here is something he wants you to put in it." And she handed me a little oblong package, carefully wrapped in tissue-paper. 
               Upon it was written, "A bit of holly for Ruth." I was about placing it with the other things, when a little twinge of woman's curiosity induced me to open it. Within the tissue paper was a little pasteboard box, and within that, upon a bed of cotton, lay the "bit of holly,"-the loveliest spray imaginable, with coral drops for berries, and tiny, lustrous leaves of green enamel, veined with gold. It was intended, evidently, as an ornament for the hair. 
               "Oh!" exclaimed Fanny, "isn't it lovely?" 
               I ran down stairs, with the spray in my hand. Mr. Tremaine was pacing the hall, riding-whip in hand, and turned to meet me, with an air of most perfect unconsciousness. 
               "All ready?" he asked. "The roads are bad, and I wish to return before dark." 
               "No, it is not ready," I answered. "Mr. Tremaine, I did not mean this when I said you might send Ruth a bit of holly." 
               "No, I presume not," he said; "but for the credit of Old Virginia, I felt compelled to send the holly in such a shape that it would not be faded and shrivelled before it reached its journey's end. You see it was a serious matter,-reputation at stake, and all that." 
               "Mr. Tremaine, there is a holly-bush under that window. It is but a step or two. Bring me a branch of it." 
               "With great pleasure," he said, laughing. 
               Presently he came back with his hands full. 
               "There is a pretty spray," I said, "and a very perfect one, too. Take your knife and cut it off, please." 
               He obeyed. I took the holly from his hand, laid it in the little box from which I had removed the costly bauble that he had placed there, and wrapped it in the tissue paper again. 
               "I think the credit of Old Virginia will be safe now," I said, not venturing to meet his eye. 
               "Miss Sibyl, are you in earnest? This is too bad!" 
               "Mr. Tremaine, this is too much. Ruth would so regard it." 
               "Maybe so. But you-I supposed you considered nothing 'too much,' too choice, or too rare for this sister of yours." 
               "Neither do I,-nothing that I can do for her. The case is different with a stranger." 
               "A stranger! I had hoped that, if not yet numbered among your friends, Miss Huntington, I had a right to be regarded as something more than that," he replied, with a scornful emphasis upon the last word, and a shade of displeasure in his bearing. 
               "Mr. Tremaine! you are incorrigible. You have been very kind to me, and I thank you for it; but you are a stranger to Ruth, and she would not like to receive such a gift from you." 
               "Then you need not tell her who sent it." 
               I shook my head. 
               "I cannot send it, Mr. Tremaine. And do not be vexed with me; for, truly, I do not deserve it." 
               He lifted the jewelled spray from the table where I had laid it. 
               "Very well," he said. "I thought to please you, and am sorry that I have failed. But it is no matter. Will you get the box now, if you please? I must go." 
               I turned away, with tears in my eyes, and he went into the library. As I reached the head of the stairs, I glanced backward, and, through the open door, saw him toss the beautiful cause of this disturbance upon the bed of coals that lay upon the hearth. He watched it for a moment, as the strong heat dimmed the lustrous green of the leaves; then, taking the shovel, he buried it from sight beneath the glowing embers. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               I TOLD Fanny that I had given the little spray back to Uncle Guy, for I thought Ruth would rather see the real holly than ever so beautiful an imitation; but that perhaps it would not be pleasant to her uncle to hear the matter discussed, and that I hoped she would not mention it. The veriest child in many respects, in others she was womanly beyond her years; and I think that a sort of instinct taught her, in some degree, what was the feeling that had compelled me to do as I did. 
               "I will never say anything about it, Miss Sibyl," she answered earnestly. "I never will, truly." 
               And, to my knowledge, she never did. One of the servants, in raking up the ashes the next day, found some broken and discolored fragments of what seemed to have been some article of jewelry; but none of the family were aware of having lost anything, and the matter was soon forgotten. 
               Mr. Tremaine could not immediately forget my rejection of his gift,-for it really was a gift to me,-and for some days although no outward act of courtesy was wanting, there was a distance and reserve in his manner toward me that affected me painfully. But I knew he was both too sensible and too good-hearted to bear malice long for so slight a cause, and waited patiently until the cloud should be lifted. 
               One morning I was in the library searching for an author to whom reference had been made in one of Edith's text-books, and with whom she was anxious to become acquainted, when Mr. Tremaine rode up the avenue, tossed the reins to Csar, and entered the room upon a similar errand. He bowed courteously as he saw me, but marched straight to the opposite bookcase, and began taking down one book after another. Having found the one I was looking for, I was stealing silently from the room, when he turned round. 
               "Don't let me drive you away, Miss Sibyl," he said. "This is not a pleasant way of living. Let us shake hands, and be friends." 
               "With all my heart, Mr. Tremaine," I answered, placing my hand in his. "I was very sorry to wound your feelings, or to displease you in any way; but, really, I could not do differently." 
               "Could not? Well, I surely ought not to blame you, then. But do not run away. What are you reading?" 
               "This is a book for Edith. I must go, Mr. Tremaine. The children are waiting for me in the school-room." 
               "Let them wait, then, the little monkeys. Sit down here. I want to tell you about a new poem that I have just seen." 
               "Some other time," I answered; "but, really, I must go now; it is time for Arthur's arithmetic lesson." 
               He walked with me to the school-room door. 
               "I believe I have forgotten the multiplication table, Miss Sibyl," he said, with his very gravest face. "It is impossible for me to remember which is the most, nine times seven, or seven times nine, and you have no idea how perplexing it is. Mayn't I come in and look it over a little?" 
               "You have forgotten that there are no seats for visitors," I replied; "besides, you are too unruly a pupil. You set a bad example to my other scholars, Mr. Tremaine. No, I can't allow you to come in to-day; you must let Tom teach you the multiplication table." 
               He turned on his heel and walked off, laughing, while I went into the school-room to hear Arthur say his lesson. 
               Mr. Tremaine seldom spent the night at Greyhurst, but almost every day we heard the clatter of Grey Eagle's hoofs, as he bore his master up the avenue. He was companionless at the Lodge, and at his sister's home he was always sure of a hearty welcome from old and young. 
               "We must have some sort of a Christmas frolic at the Lodge, Mary," he said, two days after the above conversation. "What shall it be?" 
               "What do you wish it to be,-a ball?" 
               "No, nothing on a large scale; it is too late to make preparations now. I want to have the children there; I promised them a frolic last year. Suppose we have a family dinner, with two or three friends, perhaps, and a general gathering of the neighbors in the evening?" 
               "Very well; I will do all in my power to assist you. Is Mrs. Wood equal to the emergency?" 
               "Entirely so; if you will only oversee the arrangement of the rooms a little, and be on hand to receive the ladies." 
               "Have you plenty of flowers in the conservatory now?" 
               "An abundance. Miss Sibyl, you can be of some service there." 
               I smiled my assent. Nothing could have suited me better. "You have never seen any flowers." I had said in a letter to Ruth; "neither had I until I came here. Ours at home are but weeds in comparison." This I had written of the hardier out of door blooms, whose fragrance, luxuriance, and richness of color were a continual delight to me,-a continual marvel. But the conservatory, with its choice exotics, its tropical plants, wonderful in their perfection of form, their glowing rainbow dyes, and odors rarer and sweeter than those of Araby, was enchanted ground to me. I fairly held my breath whenever I entered it, lest the charm should be broken, and the beautiful creations vanish "like a dream when one awaketh." 
               "Mayn't we have a party, too, Uncle Guy?" asked Fanny. 
               "Yes, Edith shall invite as many of her young friends as she pleases, and so may you and Arthur. There is plenty of room at the Lodge. Edith may receive her guests in the blue-room, if she likes, and you may have the north parlor." 
               There was a general exclamation of delight on the part of the children. 
               "Such fun!" shouted Arthur. "Three parties in one house; won't it be glorious?" 
               "But, Uncle Guy, you must be here Christmas Eve, and stay all night, so that you can hang up your stocking, you know," said Fanny. "We are all going to hang up ours, for we had a tree last year, and we don't want to do just the same thing this time; you must hang up yours, too." 
               "So I shall; right at the head of the bed, in my own room, at the Lodge." 
               "Oh,-but-" stammered Fanny, with a look of dismay; "that won't do at all, Uncle Guy, because, we shouldn't know, and its so far, and, besides, if-" 
               She stopped, hopelessly entangled. After a little, she went on more deliberately,- 
               "I don't think Santa Claus is going to Tremaine Lodge this year." 
               "Ah, indeed! Perhaps you are his saintship's privy counsellor, Miss Fanny? In that case, I have nothing to do but yield at once; for it would really be a terrible thing if I should find my stocking empty Christmas morning. I should shed rivers of tears, Fanny!" 
               "Now you are just laughing at me, Uncle Guy; I can tell by your eyes, if your mouth does look so sober. But you'll surely be here?" 
               He kissed her, and gave the required promise; and Fanny ran off to tell Violet of the pleasures in store. 
                
               Christmas fell upon Wednesday that year. On Tuesday, Mr. Tremaine carried Mrs. Gordon off to the Lodge, saying that he needed the benefit of her taste. While she was gone, Edith and I, with Violet and Csar, devoted ourselves to robing Greyhurst in its Christmas greens. There were wreaths and garlands in every room, stars and crosses, and all the hallowed symbols of our faith. How beautiful it seemed to me, this outward expression of the inward joy! I longed for Ruth to share it with me. Alas! she was far away, and a homesick yearning for the touch of her hand, the pressure of her lips, stole into my heart. But the house looked so festal and cheery, with its bright lights and glowing fires; the children were so gay and happy,-all the children, black as well as white. Mrs. Gordon and Mr. Tremaine came in from their drive so full of cordial kindness, finding so much to admire in our work, and with so much to tell of theirs, that the cloud speedily vanished. After tea, we all drove to church, about three miles distant, listened with grateful hearts to the beautiful service, and joined in singing the choral hymns. Then came the rapid drive home in the clear starlight, and the quiet chat after the children had hung up their stockings, and ours too, for the matter of that. It was not yet late when we retired for the night; and, until long past midnight, one heart at least beneath that roof kept singing softly to itself. "Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good-will toward men." It was my first Christmas, although I had lived nineteen years. 
               I was awakened very early the next morning by shouts and laughter, songs and vociferations, hymns and prayers, all strangely mingling in my dreams. Raising myself upon one elbow, I listened. Soon perceiving that the uproar came from the negro quarters, I rose softly, lest I should disturb Edith and Fanny, who slept in the next room, dressed myself hastily, and, throwing a shawl about me, stole to a window in the hall to reconnoitre. It was a wild, strange scene. The cabins were brilliantly lighted up, but it seemed to me that they must all be deserted, so many of the people were rushing about hither and yon in all directions, to no more purpose, apparently, than butterflies or humble-bees, in their zigzag courses. Many of them bore flaming torches in their hands, although the dawn was brightening in the east. At first I was somewhat startled, but after a little the whole affair became intelligible. The negroes had been "watching in Christmas," maintaining their vigil all night. Now, as the blessed sun of Christmas was beginning to dawn upon the darkness of the earth, the younger and gayer ones were running about with songs and shoutings, dancing and exchanging good wishes; while from one or two of the houses, the intoning of prayers still arose clearly and devoutly upon the morning air. 
               I kept my watch at the window for a quarter of an hour, many sad emotions mingling with the joy of the Christmas tide. I had felt from the first the deepest interest in the strange race of beings with which I was now brought in contact. Thus far, I had seen outwardly nothing that was peculiarly hard, peculiarly painful, in their lot. Mrs. Gordon's servants were well cared for; as well fed, and better dressed, perhaps, than most of the laboring classes at the north. As for work, the army of men, women, boys and girls who were about the house accomplished no more in twenty-four hours than three active, capable New England women would accomplish in half that time, and without dreaming of hardship. But still, beneath all the apparent ease and comfort of their lives, there was the one great underlying fact of slavery. They were not their own. Any day, any hour, might change the flowery garlands into corroding chains. I deeply felt the pathos of these dumb, patient lives, in whose lightest songs there was an undertone of sadness, a minor strain; in whose hymns the wail was ever alternating with the pan, and ever overpowering it. Do you say that this is true of all lives? Perhaps so. God knows that there is enough of unsatisfied longing and aspiration, that there are hinderances enough, limitations enough, repressions enough, in even the happiest destiny tiny. But if this is true even of us who can, under God, work out our own destiny, and create our own fate, what must it not be when predicated of those who for weal or woe, for the possession of wife, or child, or home, are dependent solely upon the caprice or the prosperity of another? For I well knew that Mrs. Gordon, who was the kindest and most conscientious of mistresses, if misfortune or poverty should overtake her, would be utterly powerless to save or to help. The law, stern and ironhearted, would come in between her and the helpless ones over whom her heart might yearn with indescribable pity. 
               But these were no thoughts for Christmas morning. They seemed farfetched, even to myself, as I listened to the singing voices, and witnessed the uproarious merriment of the mercurial throng. So I stole back to my room again. 
               Presently I heard a little voice calling me. 
               "Miss Sybil! Miss Sibyl! wish you merry Christmas! Are you awake?" 
               I opened the door between the rooms. 
               "All dressed!" exclaimed Fanny, ringing the bell for Violet. "Hurry, Edith! But you won't go down to look at your stocking until we are ready, will you, Miss Sibyl?" and the little fingers tugged so hard at the nightcap string that it became hopelessly entangled. 
               "Have patience, dear," I said, "even if it is Christmas morning. There, Violet, you can wait upon Miss Edith, and I will attend to this little lady. No, Fanny, I will not disturb my stocking until you set me the example. Shall I part your hair for you? Where is your dress?-is this it?" 
               "Not that, the blue one. Edith, how can you keep so quiet? Why don't you make a fuss about things, as I do?" 
               Edith laughed,-a clear, sweet, ringing laugh. 
               "Because I am in a hurry to go down stairs, and, 'making a fuss' won't help, but will hinder me. You have so much jumping and dancing to do that you will never be ready. There, when Violet fastens this sleeve-button, I shall be all dressed." 
                
               "So am I ready, too, almost! Button my apron, quick, please, Miss Sibyl." 
               Miss Sibyl was as expeditious as possible, and very soon we were on our way down stairs. The stockings had been suspended in a row by the side of the chimney in the library, and a compact entered into by which the first comers in the morning were compelled to await the arrival of all the others before they could examine the strange excresences and protuberances by which the aforesaid shapely articles were transformed into like-nesses of nothing whatever upon the face of the earth. 
               "Oh, what lazy girls!" shouted Arthur, as we descended the stairs. "Here we've been waiting and waiting for ever so long!" 
               "I did not expect you would put me to the torture in this way, Fanny, after insisting so positively that I should hang up my stocking here rather than at the Lodge," said Mr. Tremaine, catching the little girl up, and seating her on the mantelpiece. "There, now, you are out of harm's way; how long must I keep you up here to punish you for all the sufferings you have inflicted upon Arthur and me?" 
               "Put me down, Uncle Guy, quick! I thought you were in such a great hurry to look at your own stocking." 
               "So I was, half an hour ago; but I have gained the mastery over my impatience. How do you like the appearance of that bit of your own personal property, Miss Fanny? A queer looking monster, surely! I never supposed your leg was shaped like that." 
               "It isn't, Uncle Guy! There, Edith has opened her stocking. Oh, what a beautiful book!" and, in her excitement, the child gave a little spring that would have sent her to the floor, if Mr. Tremaine had not caught her in his outstretched arms. 
               The stockings were examined amid much mirth and laughter, and a chorus of questions and answers, explanations and surmises. Some of the gifts were costly, others not; but all were well-chosen, and adapted to the tastes and wants of the recipients ents. My own stocking was well filled. But that was not all; upon a little table close beside it stood a tiny silver vase, holding a white camellia, a half-opened rosebud, a purple pansy, and two or three geranium leaves. A small scroll of paper was attached to one of the flower stems; and, upon unrolling it, I read these words, "Not sham holly for Ruth, but a few real flowers for Ruth's sister." 
               There were more valuable gifts given and received that day, but I saw nothing that seemed to me as purely beautiful as my vase and its contents. I took it up stairs to my own room, and placed it on the little table at the head of my bed, beside my bible and hymn book. I had taken it for granted that I should have no Christmas token from Mr. Tremaine, after the rebuff I had been compelled to give him a few days previous. In fact, I had hoped that I should receive none. But this was at once a peace-offering and an apology, and touched me with a sense of the grace and delicacy of the giver as well as of the gift. 
               After breakfast, the servants were assembled, and the wants of each remembered. Often a word of praise, or of gentle warning, as the case might be, accompanied the presents. The children received candies and toys, the older ones articles of wearing apparel, or some coveted bit of furniture for the comfort or adornment of their cabins. Violet rejoiced in the possession of a pair of showy ear-rings. 
               "Dey is real gold, Miss Sibyl," she said, as she exhibited them with great delight; "Bob says so. Reckon dat Juno Wynne won't feel so mighty grand 'bout hers when she sees dese yer. Oh, laws! dose Wynnes,-dey tink dey're mighty great folks, case dey's got a big new house; but dey ain't no 'parison to de Gordons,-never was!" 
               The morning passed rapidly. At lunch, Mrs. Gordon said, as she passed me the biscuits,- 
               "I think we had better go over to the Lodge immediately; as soon as we can dress, Sibyl. I must be there early, myself, and Guy would like to have you assist in the arrangement of the flowers. Can you be ready soon?" 
               "Very soon," I answered; "in half an hour at farthest. How about the children?" 
               "They may as well go with us. It will save another journey. We will take Violet, also. And, Sibyl, as you pass the conservatory, please step in and ask William to cut a basket of flowers; one cannot have too many." 
               I did the errand, and then went up stairs to dress. Edith and Fanny had just come from Violet's hands, tastefully and carefully arrayed, from the shining tresses to the neatly-fitting gaiters; and now she stood upon the hearth, ready to commence her labors in my behalf. 
               "What you gwine for to wear dis evenin,' Miss Sibyl?" she asked. 
               I went to the closet and took down my one silk,-a dark brown,-which, though sufficiently handsome, perhaps, had yet been selected more for utility than beauty. 
               Violet eyed it askance, an expression of great dissatisfaction settling slowly upon her face. 
               "Dat never do, Miss Sibyl," she said; "never do for dis evenin'. Dat dress old 'nuff for your mother." 
               A similar idea had occurred to my own mind, I must confess. But my wardrobe held nothing that was more suitable. 
               "We must make it do, Violet," I answered. "It must be the brown silk or the green merino, for I have nothing else." 
               "But you should have something else. Young ladies dey must have tings. You should have a white-what is dis dey call it?-tarletane, and a blue silk, and a pink one. Miss Sarah Wynne, she has everyting dats nice." 
               "I do not doubt it," I said, as Violet proceeded to braid my hair. "But Miss Sarah Wynne is rich, and I am not. I shall have to wait awhile for the blue silk." 
               "Laws, Miss Sibyl, don' tell me!" exclaimed Violet, flourishing ing the brush; "I knows poor white folks fur's I see 'em. You ain't dat sort. You's a lady, you is." 
               I laughed. 
               "I must wear the brown silk, nevertheless. But what are you doing to my hair, Violet?" 
               "Braidin' it in de new style, Miss Sibyl,-dere!" and she held the broad, open braid over her hand, to display it more effectually. "Dere,-ain't dat 'bout right? Juno Wynne can't beat dat, no how. Hain't got no such har to work wid, in de fust place." 
               "Who taught you the new braid, Violet? It is very pretty." 
               "Well, Juno she went to New York with Miss Sarah. She came back, oh, bery grand, my lady! who but Juno! One day she telled me 'bout dis yer braid; nobody could do it in dis county but jes' she self. 'You dun no noting 'bout dressin' har, Vi'let,' she says; 'Jes' you wait till you been to de city, like I am!' 'Jes' you wait, my lady,' I says to myself, 'jes' you wait an' see if Vi'let don' ketch all yer new braids and tings.' So Missus sends me of errand up to Massa Wynne's. Miss Sarah, she comes out to speak to me, har all braided up, oh, my! While she was stooping over, putting some tings in a basket for me to carry to missus, I looked at dat ar braid. Laws! I see how 'twas done jes' in one minute. Ketch dis yer chile! Dere 'tis, Miss Sibyl, New York style and all." 
               I looked in the glass. The broad, shining braids were very becoming, and it seemed a great pity to spoil Violet's tasteful handiwork. But I could not wear them. 
               "It is very pretty, Violet, and I am sorry to trouble you when you have taken such pains; but I would rather wear my hair the old way." 
               Violet stood aghast. 
               "O, Miss Sibyl! For de massy's sake! Why for you no war it so?" 
               "I presume Miss Wynne will be at the Lodge," I replied, "and it might make her uncomfortable if the new braid was not hers exclusively. It would make me uncomfortable to wear it, at any rate." 
               Violet could not understand my scruples, and proceeded to rearrange my hair so slowly and reluctantly that I took the brush from her hand, and hastily gathering up the heavy, wavy mass, twisted it into one large coil, and fastened it with an ivory comb that had been Edith's gift to me that morning. 
               "That will do, Violet," I said, pleasantly; "we will try the new braid some other time. Now for my dress, for I must not keep Mrs. Gordon waiting." 
               Violet was still disconsolate at the loss of her anticipated triumph over Juno. 
               "You look too drefful plain, Miss Sibyl!" she said, as I was fastening my collar with a small brooch containing some of Ruth's hair. "I don't like to have my young ladies look jest like old ones. If you would ony wear bright ribbons, or someting." 
               "I will, if you wish me too," I said, smiling in her troubled face. "Will this do better?" and I substituted a knot of scarlet velvet for the brooch. "Anything else?" 
               The pretty, though dark face, brightened. 
               "Yes, dat is better. But I shall put some flowers in yer har for de evenin',-shall, surely." 
               The weather was uncommonly mild for the season, even in Virginia. There had been no snow, and but little frost, and our drive to the Lodge was more like a drive in October than in December. Mr. Tremaine met us in the hall with a cordial welcome, and Mrs. Wood hurried us up stairs to dispose of our cloaks and hoods. 
               The Lodge was a queer old building, large and low, roomy and unpretending, full of unexpected nooks and quaint surprises. Evidences of its master's refined and cultivated tastes were to be seen on every hand; and it, as well as Greyhurst, was rich in garnerings from storied lands beyond the sea. 
               But to-day everything was in company trim. Mrs. Wood and her handmaidens had been hard at work, polishing, and renovating, and putting in order, until a certain air of stiffness, of uninhabitedness, pervaded the whole house. 
               "I can't tell what is the matter here," said Mr. Tremaine, in a whisper, after we had descended to the parlor, and Mrs. Wood had left the room; "but, after all Mrs. Wood's pains, the Lodge does not look as pleasant as usual." 
               Mrs. Gordon glanced at me, significantly. 
               "We can set it all right very speedily, can't we, Sibyl? Things are in too good order, Guy; that's the only trouble." 
               "Arthur will relieve us of that difficulty," I said, as the boy bounded into the room with an armful of playthings, and, stooping down, pulled out the backgammon board from beneath a bookcase. "What now, Arthur?" 
               "I am going to take all these things into the north parlor, where Fanny and I are to have our party," he answered. "She's got lots of dolls and things for the girls. Oh! say, Miss Sibyl," he added, pausing at the door, "we want some flowers in our room, too. There isn't a single one." 
               "You shall have some," I replied; "I am going to work this very minute;" and, tying on large aprons Violet had taken the precaution to bring along, Mrs. Gordon, Edith, and myself adjourned to another room where the table was covered with freshly-cut flowers, and empty baskets and vases were waiting to be filled. 
               The house brightened as we scattered them everywhere. Here a saucer of pansies, there a basket of roses, here a great, creamy lily, there a cluster of "small sweet blossoms, delicately fair." Edith arranged the flowers for the blue-room, and Arthur and Fanny were not forgotten. Our host looked his appreciation of our pleasant labors, and we found an abundant reward in his gratification. 
               Dinner was announced as we brushed the refuse leaves into the waste basket, and we ran quickly up stairs to lay off our aprons and make ourselves presentable. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE very spirit of Christmas reigned at the Lodge that day. What with holly and cedar wreaths, flowers, and ivys, bright fires in every room, warmth, and light, and radiance everywhere, the old house was all aglow with festive cheer. 
               "We haven't the mistletoe, Miss Sibyl," said Mr. Tremaine. "More's the pity. But there's a regular Yule log in the dining-room." 
               "Now I, for one, am tired with all the fun and frolic of this day," said Mrs. Gordon, after dinner, "and I am going up stairs to rest for awhile, before our friends assemble for the evening. Sibyl, I advise you to do the same thing,-and you, too, Edith. As for Arthur and Fanny, they are too much excited to keep still, and it will be useless for them to make the attempt." 
               I felt the advice was very judicious, and followed it accordingly. Contrary to my expectations, I fell asleep, and was only awakened by Violet's touch upon my shoulder. 
               "Please, Miss Sibyl, missus said I must wake you up. She's gone down to de drawin'-room herself, and de ladies and gem-plemens is comin'." 
               I sprang from the lounge where I had thrown myself. 
               "And where is Miss Edith?" 
               "In de blue-room, receivin' her company; and Miss Fanny is in de oder parlor. Three parties in dis house dis very night. I must do yer har over, Miss Sibyl. It's all comin' down." 
               Violet brushed down the folds of my dress, and smoothed my collar, all the while lamenting the obduracy and want of taste that had led to my rejection of the new braid, and then produced a cluster of scarlet geraniums and dark green myrtle leaves. 
                
               "Now you jes' sit down here, Miss Sibyl, and let me put dese in yer har. I got dem out of de servetry my own self. Dere!" 
               I went downstairs slowly, regretting that I had overslept myself, and had consequently lost the opportunity of entering the great rooms under the shadow of Mrs. Gordon's wing, when I suddenly remembered that by going through the conservatory, which adjoined the large drawing-room, I could make my entre quietly and unobserved. 
               The conservatory was charming in its softened light, calm, and sweet, and still. Through the glass doors I could see Mr. Tremaine and Mrs. Gordon receiving their guests; and, as there were scarcely half a dozen persons among them with whom I had the slightest acquaintance, I felt in no haste to leave my seclusion. I had remained there five minutes, perhaps, when I heard the sound of approaching footsteps, and almost instinctively stepped behind some broad-leaved tropical plants, the beauty of whose veined leaves I had just been admiring. 
               Two young girls-I beg their pardon, two young ladies-came slowly sauntering down the central avenue, and stopped near my retreat to look at an aloe that had just completed its century of growth, and was at last crowned with the pale, insignificant flower that was the sole reward of so many years of patient waiting. It saddened me to look upon it, fit emblem that it was of many a waiting life. 
               One was a tall and stately blonde-a fair-haired Saxon beauty. The other was petite-a rosy brunette, whose saucy black eyes looked as if they might flash scorn and defiance if their owner willed. I was about to emerge from my hiding-place, when the taller of the two spoke, and her first words held me silent. I could not have spoken or stirred then if my life had depended upon it. 
               "I did not see the new yankee governess in the drawing-room," said she. As she turned her head, my eye fell upon her locks of "paly gold," and lo! there were the identical open braids, the "new style," just from New York. It was Miss Sarah Wynne. "I expected she would be hanging upon Mrs. Gordon's arm, as large as life." 
               "Do you know her?" asked her companion. 
               "Not I," was the reply, given with a contemptuous toss of the head. "Neither do I wish to know her. But I've seen her several times-saw her at church last night, in the Tremaine pew, of course." 
               "With Guy Tremaine?" 
               "Oh! they were all there,-Mrs. Gordon, and the children, and all. This Miss Huntington sat next to Guy though. They do say Mrs. Gordon is quite carried away with her. She takes her everywhere, and treats her just like one of the family. Absurd! What is a governess but a sort of upper servant, after all?" 
               "What is the charm?" asked she of the black eyes. "Is she handsome?" 
               "No! A little, pale, insignificant thing. She has no air, no manner at all. I expect she'll be setting her cap at Guy Tremaine. Such people have no sense of propriety." 
               "Does he seem to fancy her?" 
               "How can I tell?" petulantly, and tearing a white rose to pieces as she spoke. "It is not likely. But I wish such people could be taught their place, and made to keep it. The idea that I must be civil to Mrs. Gordon's governess!" 
               "Or to Guy Tremaine's flame," said her friend, with a sly glance at the face above her,-a face that, deformed by the expression it then wore, was not fair to look upon, notwithstanding the chiselled beauty of its outlines. "In which case would civility be the hardest task? But don't be vexed, Sarah. I was only joking. Though I did think, when I was here last winter, that you had a slight penchant for the gentleman, yourself." 
               "You were greatly mistaken, then, let me tell you," replied the blonde. "I can't endure him! I wouldn't have come to this party, only that it is Christmas, and we have so few frolics. Besides, I wanted to wear my new dress. And, oh! how do you like my hair? Juno is so quick, and I took her to New York with me on purpose to have her learn something new. These braids are all the fashion there, and I told Juno not to teach any of the girls how they are done. But come, let us go back." 
               They slowly retraced their steps, while I still cowered in my hiding-place. My cheeks burned hotly, and my heart throbbed painfully. I ought to have had sufficient self-respect to have felt that such gratuitous insults as those I had been compelled to listen to were not worth minding. I ought to have felt that the adventitious circumstances of wealth and position did not render Miss Sarah Wynne my superior, and that they gave her no right to look down upon me with scorn and contempt. But I was a young girl, surrounded by comparative strangers. Far from home and friends, it is, perhaps, not strange that at first I felt utterly humiliated and cast down. What should I do? Where should I go? Not to the drawing-room. That was out of the question, for the present, at least. Pressing my lips closely together, and crushing back the hot tears that would have been such a relief, but to which I must not yield, I stole out into the hall. Creeping within the shadow of the staircase, I paused to collect my senses, and determine upon my course. 
               Song and laughter, the sound of merry voices, and the soft rustling of garments came floating to my ears. Through the open door I caught glimpses of elegantly dressed women, the sheen of satins, and the lustre of jewels. There were fair young girls in robes of fleecy muslin and cloudlike lace, elegant and costly in their very simplicity. 
               I glanced down at my dark dress, unrelieved save by the bit of scarlet at the throat. It was a weakness, I know. But I had not outgrown my weaknesses, then. Alas! I have not outgrown them yet. Will I ever, until Death is swallowed up in Victory? 
               I could not join the gay throng in the drawing-room. The conservatory was dangerous ground, and my present position was doubly so. Suddenly I bethought me of the north parlor, where Arthur and Fanny were entertaining their little friends. Darting from beneath the stairs, I sped down the hall, through a long, narrow passage to the right, and reached the door. 
               A shout of welcome greeted me. 
               "O Miss Sibyl! we are so glad you have come! We were wishing for you!" exclaimed Arthur and Fanny, seizing each a hand, and drawing me into the centre of the noisy group. "Miss Sibyl knows so many games," Arthur continued, turning toward his companions. "Now, what shall we play?" 
               I suggested one game after another; but blind-man's buff was at last decided upon. 
               "Who'll be blind-man first?" said Arthur. "Shall I? Oh, where's there a large handkerchief?" 
               "Here is one," I said. "I'll blind, if you like." 
               The children screamed with delight. 
               "Oh, that will be such fun!" they cried. "Miss Sibyl plays blind-man splendidly. Sit down in this chair, please, and we will tie the handkerchief." 
               "Don't crush the flowers in her hair," said one thoughtful little spirit. "They are so pretty!" 
               Arthur arranged the folds very carefully, and went through with the preliminary formula of "How many fingers do I hold up?" 
               Then the game commenced in earnest, and the frolic waxed fast and furious. To prolong their sport, I made wonderful feints at catching; but somehow my seeming victims continually escaped me, now darting under my outstretched arms, now dashing past me with a reckless daring that won the day. In the midst of the fun, there was a knock at the door. 
               I stood still, and in a moment heard Mr. Tremaine's voice. 
               "Fanny, have you seen Miss Huntington to-night? Ah! here she is." 
               I tore off the handkerchief, and he went on,- 
               "I have been hunting for you for the last fifteen minutes. Where have you kept yourself this evening? Children, this will never do. We want Miss Huntington in the drawing-room. Can't you entertain your friends without her help?" 
               "Oh, but she does play so nicely!" cried they all. "We have ever so much more fun when she is here. Do let her stay, Uncle Guy," added Arthur. 
               "You selfish boy!" said Mr. Tremaine, laughing. "Do you think I shall consent to that? No, indeed. Miss Huntington is going with me, now that I have at last found her." 
               "Let me stay here, please," I said, in a low voice. "The children want me, and I had rather remain with them than not." 
               "But I cannot allow it," he replied, drawing my arm within his own. "The children have you day in and day out. They shall not have you to-night. I forbid it." 
               "But I want to stay, Mr. Tremaine. I prefer it." 
               "I understand. You prefer it, because you think they are made happier by your presence. Come, I shall be missed." 
               "Go, and leave me, then," I said. "I wish you would, Mr. Tremaine!" 
               He looked at me intently, as I drew my arm from his and shrank back toward the group of children, and I saw that his countenance changed. 
               "Come with me for a minute, then," he answered. "I want to speak with you." 
               He led me into a small room adjoining, and closed the door. 
               "Are you in earnest, Miss Sibyl? Do you really mean that you would rather pass the evening with these little scapegraces than with the gay party in the other room?" 
               "I really mean it, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "Then there is some reason for it. Tell me what it is," he said, decidedly, but very kindly. 
               I stood with my eyes cast down, and a shake of the head was my only answer. 
               "Something disturbs you," he went on. "I never saw you look as you do to-night. Your cheeks are crimson, and your eyes have a strange fire in them. What kindled it?" 
               "Don't ask me, Mr. Tremaine," and I felt that a fast gathering moisture was putting out the fire of which he had spoken. "Go back to your guests, and leave me with the children." 
               "You are my guest, and I shall not leave you at present," he answered. "Forgive me, Miss Sibyl. But I must know where you have been this evening." 
               "I overslept myself, and it was late before I came down." 
               "I know that. Mrs. Gordon told me. But since?" 
               I hesitated. 
               "In the next room-most of the time-and in the hall." 
               He hesitated, in his turn, and a crimson flush passed over his face also. 
               "Have you been in the conservatory to-night?" 
               My heart leaped to my throat, and I covered my face with both hands, while my head sank lower, and lower. 
               "I am answered," said Mr. Tremaine, dropping his hand for an instant upon my head. "I have been suspecting as much for the last five minutes. Miss Sibyl, I heard that interesting and womanly conversation between Miss Wynne and her friend, as well as you. Knowing that you did not come down with Mrs. Gordon, I left the drawing-room in search of you. You were not to be seen, though Violet told me that you were certainly not up stairs. So I thought of the conservatory, and was just about entering it, by the back door, when I heard your name and mine. I could not draw back without being discovered; and, as that would have been very awkward for all parties, I stood still and heard all that was said. I need not add that I was greatly edified." 
               I did not reply, but hot drops, wrung from womanly feeling and wounded pride, trickled through my fingers. 
               "This grieves you," said my companion. "I am so sorry. Not sorry that the remarks were made," he added. "They are so silly, so false, and so absurd, that they are not worth a thought. But I am sorry that you were forced to hear them." 
               The tears that I had shed, though they were but few, had relieved the heavy pressure on my heart, and I looked up quietly; without attempting to speak, however, for I felt that my voice was not yet under my own control. 
               Mr. Tremaine smiled, as he met my eye. 
               "Now, when you are quite yourself again, you must go into the drawing-room with me." 
               "I cannot, I cannot!" I replied. "Do not compel me to go where-where I am not wanted, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "Not wanted! But I wish to prove to you that you are wanted. Miss Sarah Wynne is not an exponent of the principles or the practice of our society, thank heaven! You must let me take you in, Miss Sibyl." 
               I reflected a little. 
               "I will come by and by, Mr. Tremaine. Let me go up stairs now. My hair is disarranged. Do not wait for me. You have left your guests too long already, and I will come in alone. I will, truly," I added, as he looked at me doubtfully. 
               To steal in unobserved, stay there a few moments, and then slip out again, very quietly. Such was my cowardly thought. But it was detected. 
               "I cannot allow that," said Mr. Tremaine, laughing. "You are a stranger; and, for aught you know, that drawing-room may be full of shoals and sunken rocks. I must pilot you." 
               It was useless to contend further. 
               "Well," I said, resignedly. "Let me go to my room a minute, then." 
               "I will give you five," he answered, drawing out his watch. "You can go this way," he added, opening a door that led to the back stairway. "Come down the front stairs, at the foot of which I shall be waiting for you." 
               I bathed my flushed cheeks, smoothed my hair a little, and ran down. Having at last put my hand to the plow; it was useless to look back. 
               Mr. Tremaine was leaning carelessly against the railing, conversing with a gentleman who stood near. He bowed courteously, as I approached. 
               "Good-evening, Miss Huntington. Mrs. Gordon was asking for you a few moments since. Shall I take you to her?" 
               "Why, my dear Sibyl," said that lady, in a low tone, as we reached her side, "where have you been hiding? I shall never advise you to lie down again, never! Where did you find her, Guy?" 
               "Playing blind-man's buff with the children," was the reply. "And such a time as I had getting her away! The little rogues were determined to monopolize her." 
               I had abundant proof during the remainder of that long, bright evening, of the truth of Guy Tremaine's assertion, that Miss Sarah Wynne was not "the exponent of the principles or the practice" of the circle into which I was thrown. Received with simple, sincere, and cordial politeness, I soon felt that I was not merely tolerated, but heartily welcomed. Occasionally I caught a wondering glance from some young girl's critical eye, as it took a hasty inventory of my dark, unpretending attire. But it did not trouble me in the least. Strange as it may seem, after the tremors and excitement of an hour before, I felt entirely at my ease,-as much at home as if I had been in our own little parlor in Valleythorpe, helping Ruth entertain a few of "the neighbors." 
               Dancing was proposed. Quite forgetful that there was a possibility of my being called upon to take any other part than that of spectator, I was watching the arrangements with much interest, when Mr. Tremaine approached, and begged my hand for the first quadrille. 
               I laughed as I replied, just allowing the toe of my slipper to peep from beneath the folds of my dress. 
               "I have a Quaker foot, Mr. Tremaine. It does not dance." 
                
               "O Miss Huntington! not dance? You have no scruples of conscience, surely?" 
               "No," I replied, "but I do not know how to dance. What will you say if I tell you that I have never even seen any dancing except that of Edith and Fanny? But I should like to see some very much," I continued, "so pray choose another partner as speedily as possible." 
               "This will never do," he answered as he turned away, "you must learn to dance before we have another party." 
               Later in the evening, as, left alone for the moment, I was turning over some engravings at one of the tables, Mr. Tremaine came to me. Indeed, he had not, seemingly, lost sight of me since we entered the room, and his thoughtful kindness had enveloped me all the while, shielding me from whatever was cold, hard, or disagreeable. 
               "Have you been introduced to Miss Sarah Wynne?" he said, bending down and speaking softly, while a lurking smile trembled about the corners of his mouth. 
               "No," I replied. 
               "Neither do you care to be, your eyes say; but I am going to bring her here, and present her to you, with all due formality." 
               "Why?" I asked, dropping my eyes before his, which were brimming over with mischief. 
               "Just for fun. Nothing else in the world," and off he went. 
               I had recovered from my discomfiture so entirely that I smiled inwardly as I heard him say,- 
               "Miss Wynne, if you have not already had the honor, I would like to present you to our new acquisition, Miss Huntington. Shall I have the pleasure?" 
               The fair-haired, graceful beauty-for she was beautiful, undeniably so-accepted the offered arm with the greatest apparent pleasure. But I fear her self-complacency would have received a terrible shock had she known that both of the twain with whom she was conversing so affably had listened to her voice at an earlier hour of the evening, under somewhat less favorable auspices. 
                
               It was late before we reached home, and Arthur and Fanny were fast asleep in their respective corners. It had been a day of great and varied excitement, and I was not sorry to throw off my trappings and prepare for bed as speedily as possible. But, late as it was, I did not forget to put fresh water in my little silver vase, and give an admiring glance at the cluster of "real flowers for Ruth's sister." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               SNOW fell soon after Christmas,-a regular driving snowstorm, that would have done credit to the wildest valley among my native hills. Hoary old Killington himself never looked down upon a broader or deeper expanse of white. Fences disappeared, roads were blockaded for a time, and Lapland seemed to have drifted downward on the northern blast, and settled itself quietly in the lap of Virginia. Walking was out of the question for some days, and we turned our attention with renewed zest to indoor pursuits and pleasures. I was daily growing more and more interested in my pupils. Edith was a rare girl. So very quiet and unassuming that an unobservant eye would scarcely note her presence,-saying but little, while thinking, doing and feeling much,-it was only by degrees that I learned how precious a charge was committed to my keeping. It was a pure delight to go with her over the ground I had so recently trodden myself, or to lead her into new fields, where my own soul reaped even a richer harvest than hers. The lessons of the younger children were, of course, less interesting; but they, that is the children, were bright, and generally docile, and the hours devoted to their instruction were never wearisome. 
               Mrs. Gordon, without wearing the least appearance of pedantry try or "bookishness," had been well and thoroughly educated, and had kept up, throughout her life, an intimate acquaintance with the best authors in our own and foreign tongues. As time, and circumstance, and a deeper insight into each other's nature drew us more nearly together, I found her an invaluable friend and counsellor. We read together, studied together, and, from her wide experience, her knowledge of the world, of life, and of society, I derived quite as much benefit, it may be, as that derived by her children from my more methodical instructions. 
               But, although one particular nook in the library was speedily set apart as "Miss Sibyl's corner," and although Mrs. Gordon fully appreciated my eager anxiety to avail myself to the fullest extent of every opportunity for mental culture within my reach, still I was by no means allowed to devote myself exclusively to my books. From the night of the Christmas party, I became-certainly without any desire for such success on my part, and greatly to my own amazement-quite a favorite. Almost every family in the neighborhood-said neighborhood embracing a circle of several miles-called upon me. Even Miss Sarah Wynne-whether disarmed of her prejudices or guided by some instinctive stroke of diplomacy, I do not pretend to say-paid her respects to the "Yankee governess," and actually prevailed upon her mother to give a "tea-party," to which I was invited, together with Mrs. Gordon and Mr. Tremaine. On which occasion I wore the broad braids, to Violet's inexpressible delight, and Miss Wynne's equally inexpressible astonishment. 
               Invitations flowed in upon me, and Mrs. Gordon was seldom willing that I should decline them. 
               "A living dog is better than a dead lion," she said to me one day, as I rose slowly from my seat, reluctant to leave the converse of some olden worthy for that of my compeers. "You must not forget that, Sibyl. You know already more of books than of men-more of the past than of the present-more of literature than of society. True culture means broad culture-the culture of one's whole being, not of a part of it merely." 
                
               There was one serious objection to going out so much, an objection that I could not make to Mrs. Gordon. It rendered necessary, even imperative, purchases and expenditures that I was reluctant to make. Ruth's marriage was approaching, and what did I not wish to do for her! There was no end to my desires, and I begrudged every penny that was spent for my own adornment. 
               But there was no help for it. A blue silk and a white tarletane were successively added to my wardrobe, with gloves, and ribbons, and divers little articles that were equally indispensable,-not without much demurring and no little hesitation. Finally, I shut my eyes, plunged my hand into my pocket, and drew out the money required, in much the same spirit that a child makes a wry face and swallows an unpalatable dose of medicine. 
               Do not misunderstand me. I am not claiming for myself any exemption from feminine weaknesses,-if it be a weakness to love the beautiful, whether in dress or elsewhere. I liked to have everything about me fresh, and spotless, and dainty. I liked "purple and fine linen." I enjoyed the sheen and lustre of costly silks. Bright ribbons were a delight to my eyes, and delicate laces a real joy. I could have been a very Sybarite in matters of dress easily; but my father's pale, careworn face, and Ruth's patient, loving eyes, came between my soul and every such temptation. If my position in Mrs. Gordon's family had not demanded a different course, I should have worn my brown silk to the end of the chapter. 
               Even Violet's satisfaction was not quite unalloyed. 
               "Now you do look someting like, Miss Sibyl," she said, exultingly, the first time she arrayed me in the blue dress. "I calls dis yer silk 'spectable-genteel, in fac'. 'Tain't got no flounces," she continued, catching the skirt dexterously between thumb and finger, and spreading it out to its fullest extent. "Wish 't had, dat's sartin. Miss Sarah Wynne, she's got twelve on hers. Counted 'em, I did. But dis yer child ain't got no fault to find. Dis dress mighty becomin', Miss Sibyl." 
                
               Weeks and months passed, until the air was laden with the sweet breath of the jessamine and hyacinth, and I knew that, at home, the trailing-arbutus-the lovely May-flower of our Northern woods-had awakened from its winter sleep and was filling the dim aisles of the forest with beauty and perfume. My little vase was never empty, but now it held, in place of the costly exotics of the conservatory, sweet wild violets, forget-me-nots, and anemones. 
               With the coming of the spring, a change had come over Violet. She was a pretty creature,-a light mulatto, so light that one could sometimes mark the rose-flush on her cheek-with soft dark eyes, and glossy curls that were a source of no little pride and joy to their owner. She had been tenderly nurtured and tenderly cared for,-petted and caressed in childhood, and assigned to light and easy tasks as she grew older. When I first came to Greyhurst, I had been forced to contrast her life with that of many a maid-of-all-work at the North, and was obliged to acknowledge to myself, however unwillingly, that as far as externals were concerned, her lot was by far the most desirable. She sang at her light labors from morning till night as full of fun and frolic as a merry child; as thoughtless and careless, apparently, as the birds that had builded their nest in the rose-bush beneath my window. 
               But, as I said, with the coming of the spring there was a change in Violet. Songs died upon her lips; or, if she sang at all, there was such a wailing sadness in the strain that it made my heart ache. Her movements grew languid and listless, and she moved about the house in a vague, uncertain way, like one in a dream. 
               "How Violet does mope!" said little Fanny, one day. "She acts as if she did not know what she was about. She has not parted my hair straight in a week." 
               "I don't know what to make of her," replied Edith. "I asked her if she was sick, and she said no." 
               Several times I had observed Violet in conversation with her mistress,-conversations that generally ended in a flood of tears on Violet's part, and in an air of great abstraction and disturbance on that of Mrs. Gordon. But the latter, notwithstanding our growing intimacy, never spoke to me of her relations to her servants; feeling instinctively, without doubt, that upon that one point we should not harmonize. I could not even guess what the trouble might be, and a certain feeling of delicacy kept me from making inquiries. 
               But one day, when Violet was in my chamber performing some trifling service,-very trifling, for I had felt, of late, that I could lay no additional burden upon the child,-her sorrow, whatever it might be, swept over her like a flood. A sound of stifled sobbing met my ear, and, looking up from my writing, I saw her crouching in one corner of the room, her face buried in her hands, and her head bowed down until its long curls swept the floor. 
               I could control myself no longer. A feeling of unutterable compassion bore me across the chamber and placed me on the carpet by her side. 
               "Violet," I said, laying my hand upon her shoulder, "Violet, you are in trouble. Tell me what it is, that I may help you, if it is possible." 
               "Nobody can help me, Miss Sibyl," she moaned, "nobody-nobody!" 
               "You are not sure of that," I answered, lifting one of the dark ringlets that lay upon the carpet. "I am very sorry for you, Violet. I wish I could help you." 
               "I knows it. You very good to me, Miss Sibyl-very good, always." 
               Still the small brown hands were clasped over the face; still the slender frame swayed to and fro in its paroxysm of distress. 
               "Then won't you trust me, Violet? Can't you tell me what ails you? Perhaps I could comfort you a little, if I knew your trouble." 
                
               "'Twon't do no good, Miss Sibyl,-no good at all. Nobody in dis world can help me. My heart's done broke; dat's all." 
               What could I say to the child? I did not know. But the tears sprang to my own eyes, and one drop fell upon her neck, as I bent over her. She raised her head, with a look like that of a startled fawn. 
               "You cry for me, Miss Sibyl,-" she said, eagerly, "for poor black girl like me?" And, seizing my hand, she kissed it with passionate fervor. "You so sorry as dat for poor Vi'let?" 
               "Yes, just so sorry as that," I replied. "If you would only let me comfort you, Violet!" 
               "You does comfort me," she sobbed. "But nobody can help me, Miss Sibyl. No help for Vi'let in dis yer world." 
               I did not answer her, feeling sure that, if left to herself, she would at last tell me her story. Gradually her sobs ceased, and, with a long sigh of exhaustion, she threw back her hair, and sat upright. Finally she said, interrogatively,- 
               "You know Joe, Miss Sibyl?" 
               I paused to consider the matter. 
               "Joe? Mr. Maynard's Joe, do you mean, Violet?" 
               She nodded her head. Evidently there was no other Joe in the whole universe for poor Violet. I remembered him perfectly,-a tall, fine-looking man, a shade darker than herself, with an air of superior intelligence and refinement. I had seen him about the place, at rare intervals, and only remarked him because he seemed to tower above his comrades in character as far as in stature. 
               "Yes; I have seen him several times, but not lately." 
               "You never see him no more, Miss Sibyl. Him done gone forever-forever!" 
               I cannot convey to you even an idea of the indescribable pathos of those last two words. 
               "Dead?" I exclaimed. "Is Joe dead?" 
               "Worse nor dat, Miss Sibyl! Oh, worse nor dat!" 
               I must have been strangely obtuse, but the truth did not dawn upon me even then. Presently she went on, calm and tearless now, for the storm had spent its fury. 
               "Him sold, Miss Sibyl,-him sold Souf. I shall never see him no more-never, never!" 
               Sold South! I did not know then all that those words meant to the heart and fancy of the poor child who uttered them; but I felt that to her the "Souf" was a realm of mystery and dread-the very "valley of the shadow of death." 
               "Is Joe a particular friend of yours?" I asked, after a little. 
               "He loved me, Miss Sibyl. He all I had. I got no father, no mother, no anybody. No Joe any more now!" And again the passion of her grief tossed her to and fro, like a leaf shaken by the wind. 
               By slow degrees she told me the whole sad story. 
               "Joe too good for me," she said, rolling up the corner of her apron. "I never thought dat he cared 'bout me till las' summer, one day, down by de 'simmon-tree. He telled me so den, and he want me to marry him." 
               "Why didn't you?" I asked. 
               "I do' know as I ken tell you, Miss Sibyl, but I'll try. Joe, he understan' all 'bout it. Joe's right smart," she added, a gleam of womanly pride in the object of her love lighting her face for a moment. "He ken read in a book, Miss Sibyl. He larn hisself; picked out de letters in de newspaper. Joe told his marster 'bout me, two, three months 'go, and he very angry. Said he never let one of he's boys done marry any of missus' wenches." 
               "But why, Violet? I don't understand." 
               "I 'spect not," she said, quietly; "but dis is it,-Massa Maynard, he no like my missus, nor Massa Guy, neither. Dey have some trouble 'bout de property-oh, long time 'go, an' he owe 'em grudge ever since. He mighty mean man." 
               "Did your mistress know about it?" 
               "Yes; I tole her, an' Joe, he telled her, too. She very good to us. She sorry, Miss Sibyl. She say, 'I'll buy Joe, Vi'let; then it all come right.' But laws! Massa Maynard, he too cute for dat. Missus couldn't buy him. She not got money 'nuff to buy dat one poor nigger. Dem's de very words Massa Maynard say when Massa Guy ax him 'bout it." 
               Violet was silent for some time, and I was silent too. What words of comfort could I speak in such a case? After a while, she went on,- 
               "Massa Maynard telled Joe he musn't come here no more; said he have him flogged if he been come. But he kep' comin', Miss Sibyl, an' my heart, oh! it lep up in my mouf every time, I so 'feared. Joe say he have to come; he could not live 'thout comin'. I s'pose it was jes' 'cause he loved me." 
               Her voice sank to a low whisper, and a strange, frightened look came into her eyes. 
               "Dey flogged him, Miss Sibyl! Dey did, surely." 
               "Did you see him afterward, Violet?" I asked, when the choking at my throat would allow me to speak. 
               "Ony once-jes' once. He stan' up so straight-so tall, Miss Sibyl, an' he say, 'Massa never have me flogged 'gen, Vi'let-never! I'se gwine to be free!' I axed him,-'Where you gwine, Joe?' an' he said, 'Off to Can'da, Vi'let, where there ain't no marsters nor no slaves.' I feared of him, Miss Sibyl, he looked so, so awful. Then he tole me not to be skeered if I heered he was done gone off, and sometime he would send for me. But de very nex' day he was sold! Dey took him right off, way down Souf, where de cotton grows! I never can see him again in dis yere world, Miss Sibyl! My heart's done broke!" 
               Poor stricken child! 
               You don't believe in broken hearts, reader? Well, neither do I; at least, I believe that few people die of them. But I must tell you my story, and you can draw your own conclusions. Violet grew weaker and thinner day by day. Medical aid was summoned, the best that the county afforded. But the learned doctor only prescribed good nursing, which she had had from the first. 
                
               "I see no evidences of actual disease about the girl, madame," he said. "Some slight derangement of the digestive organs, probably, and she needs a tonic." 
               Violet had slept in a little room adjoining that of her young mistress, that she might be near at hand at all hours of the night. She remained there still, for Mrs. Gordon would not have her removed to the negro quarters. All day she lay upon the little cot, her eyes half closed, suffering nothing, apparently, save from mere debility. The children hovered about her from morning till night, and Mrs. Gordon watched over her with anxious care. It was all in vain. 
               I think she might have lived if she had wished to live; but the will was wanting. She made no complaints; she did not weep nor murmur; she simply resigned herself to the current that was bearing her away, and would not so much as lift a finger to save herself. 
               One balmy night in June, she died. Half an hour before she passed away, as Mrs. Gordon was bathing her forehead, she said, in a low whisper,- 
               "You very kind to me, missus,-very kind. You do one ting more for poor Vi'let?" 
               Mrs. Gordon bowed her head. She could not speak. 
               "Bury me under de 'simmon-tree, missus. You knows,-down in de lane." 
               Pretty soon she added,-"Sing 'bout Jesus, Miss Sibyl." 
               I sang,- 
                      
                        "Jesus can make a dying bed 
                        Feel soft as downy pillows are"- 
                     
                   sang it in a low, tremulous voice, that, as I closed the verse, went out in tears. 
               "Death is better nor life," she said, "better, better!" 
               She was buried under the persimmon-tree. No one but myself knew why she had chosen that burial-place, and I kept her secret. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               IT was the last of July. The day was oppressively close and sultry. The heat penetrated even into the school-room, generally the coolest apartment in the house. Edith, weary and languid, had turned with almost equal distaste from Cicero and Legendr, and had just taken up a volume of English history, as requiring less severe study; Arthur was half asleep over his sum, and Fanny making terrible blunders in her spelling lesson, when Mrs. Gordon made her appearance. 
               "How tired and uncomfortable you all look," she said. "Put up the books, Miss Sibyl, and proclaim a holiday. It is too hot for anything like study." 
               We obeyed gladly,-teacher no less gladly than scholars,-and, going to our own rooms, kept as quiet as possible through the remainder of the day. As the sun went down, a cool breeze sprang up, and the whole family assembled on the piazza the better to enjoy it, Mr. Tremaine among the rest. 
               "Now for a walk," he said. "Come, ladies, where are your veils? You will need nothing else, for there is no dampness. The air will do you good after the excessive heat of the day; will you go, Mary?" 
               "Not to-night. I would rather sit quietly here. But Miss Sibyl will like to go, I don't doubt, and so will the children." 
               Exercise was not our object, but mere enjoyment. We loitered on our way, now pausing to watch the purple and golden clouds that lay in heavy masses in the west, now plucking the wild flowers that sprang up at our feet. At length Edith's slow steps came to a full stop. 
               "Good-by," she said, laughing. "I am going back to mother, who still sits on the piazza in solitary state. I believe I am not in the mood for walking to-night." 
               She retraced her steps, while we were still so near that we could see the smile with which Mrs. Gordon greeted her as she dropped on a low seat at her feet, and laid her head upon her knee. Arthur and Fanny began pelting each other with the red hips from the wild rose-bushes that bordered the lane, and, finally getting into a real frolic, ran on laughing and playing until their voices grew indistinct in the distance. Mr. Tremaine and I followed them very slowly, saying but little; and I was hardly conscious in what direction we were going until we stood beside the small grave beneath the persimmon-tree. It had been carefully turfed over, and nature had already taken it to her loving heart. So smooth, so green, so undisturbed in its repose that you would have thought the sleeper had lain there years instead of weeks. 
               "Poor Violet," I said, as I stooped to brush off one or two dried leaves that had fallen upon the mound, and to lay a handful of fresh flowers in their place. "Poor little Violet!" 
               Mr. Tremaine stood for a moment gazing steadily upon the grave, with a dark, pained look upon his face. 
               "Come, let us go on," he said, turning away with a slight shudder. "I can't bear to stay here. Whatever possessed Mary to have that child buried in this lane, where one must be all his life stumbling over the grave half unawares?" 
               "Violet asked to be buried here, don't you know?" 
               "Yes, I know. But what of that? It was a mere whim, and very probably she was wandering when she made the request." 
               "She was not," I answered. "I was present. She had her senses as perfectly as you and I have ours at this moment, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "Well, perhaps so. But it was a strange fancy of hers, and if I had had my way she would have been buried with the rest of the servants, upon the hill yonder. I shall try to persuade Mary to have the body moved yet." 
               "I hope you will not succeed, Mr. Tremaine," I said, turning to look back at the little green hillock over which the boughs of "de 'simmon-tree" hung half caressingly. "I hope you will not try. Let the body remain in its chosen bed. It is all you can do for her." 
               He did not reply at once. The shadow upon his face deepened and darkened. 
               "The truth is, Miss Sibyl,-"he said, at last, flinging away impatiently a cluster of grasses with which he had been toying "the truth is, Violet's death is not a pleasant thing to think, about. I want to put it out of my mind entirely and forever; and how can I, if I must pass that grave once or twice a week for the remainder of my days?" 
               "Is that the best way? To put all unpleasant things 'out of our minds entirely and forever?'" I asked. 
               "It is my way," he replied, "whether it is the best way or not. What it is not pleasant to see, I shut my eyes to. What I do not wish to hear, I hear not. It is the only way to live comfortably in this queer world, where things are so terribly awry." 
               I smiled faintly. 
               "You do not agree with me? What are you smiling at?" 
               "I was wondering what would become of the world if all were to act on that principle; and if it might not be better to try, as far as in us lies, to set these crooked things straight." 
               "As if it could be done! done by one man alone, or by a thousand combined." 
               We walked on silently, while ever and anon the shouts of the children floated, softened by the distance, to our ears. After a while, my companion turned suddenly. 
               "What do you think of us down here?" he asked. 
               I hesitated, and laughed as people often do, because I did not know how to reply. 
               He repeated the question. 
               "Perhaps if I should tell you," I answered, "you might find it necessary to shut your ears, as you do to other unpleasant things." 
               "No; I'll promise to keep them open. I believe you came among us free from prejudices. As free from them as a New Englander could reasonably be expected to be. You have been with us nearly a year. What do you think of us now?" 
               "If you must know the whole truth, I think you are greatly to be pitied, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "Pitied?" He looked at me earnestly. "I did not expect you to take that view of the subject. What for?" 
               "It would take me a great while to tell you that. But you know why, as well as I do," I answered. 
               "But do you not think us terribly cruel and depraved,-hard-hearted monsters, base slaveholders, you know, and all that sort of thing?" 
               "I think human nature is pretty nearly the same thing the world over," I replied. "It averages about alike, I imagine. Some of you are hard-hearted and depraved, there is no doubt of that. And I suppose I could find some rather poor specimens of humanity in Vermont, if I should look long enough." 
               "You are frank, at any rate," he returned, with a smile. "But you say you think we are to be pitied. How is that? Sibyl Huntington, I have learned enough of your tastes, your nature, if you will allow me to say so, during these last few months, to know of a surety that our life here, with its freedom from manual labor, its comparative ease,-giving as it does greater leisure for higher things,-suits you, pleases you better than the ordinary life of New England. I was educated at Yale," he added, "and have travelled extensively at the North. So I know something of what that life is." 
               "I admit all that," I answered. "It is very pleasant to have Paul to plant, and Apollos to water, while you have merely to take the increase after it is garnered. I have no doubt that if I should go home to-day I should look back yearningly, hankering after the flesh-pots of Egypt. Yet I repeat what I said before. You are to be pitied, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "But why?" 
               "Because such frightful responsibilities rest upon you; and because however irksome they may be, however much you may shrink from the load, however unfitted your shoulders may be for the burden placed upon them, you must bear it to the last. Because you are bound fast in the shackles of law and custom, and cannot be free if you would." 
               "But if one bears the burden bravely, and discharges faithfully every duty arising from those responsibilities,-what then?" 
               "Even then your load may be rendered almost insupportable, and your efforts to promote the happiness of those dependent upon you thwarted by the sins, the spite, the petty malignity of others,-as Mrs. Gordon's were thwarted last spring, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "Miss Sibyl, do you wonder that I have learned to shut my eyes and my ears?" he said, turning upon me with an expression I had never seen upon his face before. "Violet's face will haunt me till I die! And Joe's,-did you know about it?" 
               "Not at the time. Violet told me afterward." 
               "I saw Joe the morning he was carried away. It was terrible. I cannot talk about it. But Maynard looked on with a leer that was perfectly satanic. I could have strangled him. Thank heaven, no one has ever been sold from Greyhurst, or from the Lodge! We have been spared that at any rate." 
               I made no response. The subject was one upon which I did not care to talk, when talking could do no good. Presently he went on, in a low, subdued tone,- 
               "As for me, I do not pretend to be satisfied with our social system. Bad as it is for the servants, it is worse for the masters. It has been the ruin of me." 
               I could not forbear smiling, as I glanced at the stately form and fine face of the gentleman who made this doleful statement. 
               "You do not look like a ruined man, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "Do I not?" he said, smiling in his turn. "Perhaps this statement was rather broader than the facts would warrant. But I should have been a nobler man, a better man, a stronger man, to-day if I had been reared under a different regimen. I am as conscious of that as I can be of anything. Ay, and a happier man, too." 
               "I am surprised to hear you say this," I responded. "I supposed you, of all men, were entirely orthodox on these points." 
               "I seldom express my opinions," he answered. "What good would it do? Besides, I am not pretending to be any better than my neighbors. They say that I spoil my negroes, that no sane man would buy one of the Tremaine hands, etc., etc. It is just an easy way of satisfying my conscience. I believe I am an intensely selfish man, Miss Huntington." 
               "You!" 
               "Yes, I,-Guy Tremaine. I treat my servants well, not so much for their sakes as for my own. I shrink from the sight of suffering instinctively. Shrink from it more because it is painful to me than because I am sorry for the sufferer. Of course I am a kind master. But how much credit do I deserve? It is all a matter of nerves." 
               "Commend me to a master who has sensitive nerves, then, if I am ever to be a slave," I said. "But how much of what you are saying do you really mean, Mr. Tremaine? Have you not some friend who will kindly relieve you of your estate and your servants, and allow you to go out into the world untrammelled by the cares of wealth, to carve out your own fortune?" 
               "Now you are laughing at me, Miss Sibyl. Was I not just saying that I was no better than my neighbors? I am dreadfully tired sometimes of my aimless, useless, purposeless life. I am frightfully ennuied very often. Yet I presume if the choice were given me, I should choose the savory mess of pottage rather than my glorious birthright. I am constitutionally indolent, and education and circumstances have rendered me still more so. You spoke a while ago of 'setting these crooked things straight.' Did you really mean anything, then?" 
               "I hardly know. It was a chance thought, suggested by some remark of your own. But one evening-it was sometime before Christmas-you were complaining of your lack of employment ployment, and spoke of studying law or of going abroad. Do you remember it?" 
               "Perfectly." 
               "May I make a suggestion?" 
               "Certainly,-as many as you please." 
               "There is one broad field open to you, Mr. Tremaine. That of political life." 
               "Politics are a humbug," he answered. 
               "Too often, I grant. But should it be so? How can it be otherwise, if upright, honest, honorable men refuse to enter the arena, and leave the lists in the undisputed possession of unprincipled demagogues? If I were a man, Mr. Tremaine, I could not be content without at least an attempt to make some of the crooked things straight. If you do not like your social system, do what you can to amend it." 
               He shook his head. 
               "There is so much that is awry," he said. "And any one man would be utterly helpless,-swallowed up in the great mlstrom. But I thank you for the thought, nevertheless. You have sown the seed, and, if the ground were not so sterile and stony, it might spring up and bear fruit an hundred fold." 
               "What are you two talking about?" asked Mrs. Gordon, as we ascended the steps of the piazza where she and Edith were still sitting. "You seem to be having some grave topic under discussion." 
               "Politics," said Mr. Tremaine, with immovable gravity. 
               "Of all things!" laughed Mrs. Gordon. "I did not know that you ever talked politics, Guy. And as for Sibyl, I supposed she felt far more interest in the affairs of Greece and Rome than in the contests of the present day. I shall really be obliged to take a political paper for your especial benefit, Sibyl. Which shall it be, whig or democrat?" 
               "Neutral, if you please," I said, with an answering laugh. "In which case, we may possibly hear an approximation to the truth." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               A LETTER for you, Miss Sibyl." 
               It was from Ruth. 
               "When are you coming home?" she wrote. "The 'bird-cage' is freshly trimmed and garnished, and will be ready for occupancy in a very few weeks. We shall be married about the middle of September. Will you not be here by the first? You must come, dear Sibyl. The ceremony will not seem valid if you do not witness it. And you must be here by the first, so that we can spend a week or two together in our old home before I leave it for another, not less dear. I am very happy, Sibyl, and my future looks fair and bright. The only cloud comes with the thought of father. He never complains, but he looks feebler and more careworn than when you went away. When you get here we will talk it all over, and try to make such arrangements as seem best. You must be sure to come; and having full faith that you will, I shall not write you again." 
               There was much more, but it is not necessary to repeat here all the little details that went to make up Ruth's letter. She did not enlarge upon her own happiness, nor dwell upon the joy in store for her. It was not her way. But to me, who knew her so well, her simple "I am very happy, Sibyl," spoke volumes. Nothing more was needed. 
               "Good news from home?" asked Mrs. Gordon, as I finished the last page. I tossed it into her lap. 
               "Read it, if you please," I said. "Ruth is to be married next month, and this letter is a strenuous demand for my appearance in Valleythorpe." 
               "You must go, of course," she remarked as she folded the letter. "If there were a dozen sisters of you it would not make so much difference; as it is, Ruth is quite right in feeling that her only sister should be present at her wedding. Let us see. What day of the month is this?" 
                
               "The second of August," I replied. 
               "You must start in about three weeks, then," said Mrs. Gordon. "And now I think of it, I must go to New York myself before a great while, and may as well take that time for the trip, so that we can go in company." 
               I expressed my pleasure, adding- 
               "Then you can assist me in making some purchases in New York. I must get some things for Ruth as I pass through." 
               "Very gladly," she answered. "How long will you wish to remain at home, Sibyl? About a month?" 
               "Probably. I have been here nearly a year, Mrs. Gordon. It does not seem possible." 
               "The children have improved very much. I do not know how they will get on without you, even for a few weeks. But they must make the best of it. Ruth's claims are stronger than ours. You have been a godsend to us, dear Sibyl," she added, coming to my side and kissing my forehead. "Some good fairy it surely was that kept whispering in my ear last fall, 'Go to Oakwood, go to Oakwood.'" 
               What heartfelt words of love and gratitude sprang to my lips, I need not say. As I rose to leave the room Mrs. Gordon called me back. 
               "Sibyl, have you not sewing,-mending, or making, or repairing to do before you go home? If you have none you are more fortunate than most people." 
               "A little," I replied. "A little for myself; and there are a few articles I would like to finish for Ruth, if it is possible. I shall have plenty of time, I think." 
               "Don't try to finish them," she said. "Eliza and Amy have but little on their hands just now, and can do it as well as not. You can use your time to better advantage." 
               I mention this as one instance of the thoughtful kindness that had smoothed my path for me ever since I had been at Greyhurst. 
               Ruth had said she should not write me again before I left for home. Consequently I was greatly surprised when, just four days afterward, I received another letter bearing the Valleythorpe postmark. 
               It was from my father. They were in great trouble, he said. On the very day that she last wrote me, Ruth had fallen from a step-ladder upon which she was standing, gathering a few early plums for tea. The distance was not great, a very few feet merely. She herself said she had often fallen thrice as far, without receiving any injury whatever. It did not seem possible that she was seriously hurt. Yet she had been confined to her bed ever since, suffering great pain whenever any attempt to move her was made. Could I come home a little earlier than I had anticipated? 
               "We still hope that the wedding will take place on the fifteenth of September," he wrote, "but if you can come to us immediately it will be a great comfort to all of us. You know your mother is not well enough to be of much use in a sick-room, and I think Ruth needs you, although the neighbors are very kind. I might say to you, my child, what I do not allow myself to say here, that my anxiety is very great. Yet the Doctor's words are all encouraging, and my uneasiness may be entirely uncalled for. Come as soon as you can. I, as well as Ruth, have need of you." 
               I knew it but too well; and my heart sank within me as I thought of the days that must necessarily elapse before I could be in Valleythorpe. But this was no time to yield to despondency. I must act promptly, and do my thinking afterward. 
               I could not leave until the next morning. Long before night my trunks were packed, and everything ready for my departure. 
               Tea was over. The children hung around me, tearful and distressed. 
               "We shall miss you so much," they said; "but the worst of all is that Ruth should be sick. What if you should not come back again?" 
               "Do not speak of such a thing," said Mrs. Gordon, "do not mention it. Not come back? Of course she will. I am afraid myself that the wedding will have to be deferred for awhile. Sibyl, do you insist on its coming off at the time appointed, if Ruth is able to sit up. I never like to have a wedding post-poned. It is a bad omen." 
               I did not say much. My heart was very heavy, and I was fain to take refuge in silence. Mrs. Gordon went on- 
               "Everything goes wrong. If Aunt Lucy was not sick I could go to New York with you this week, as well as any other time. As it is, it is impossible. And I do so dislike to have you go alone." 
               "But she is not going alone," said Mr. Tremaine, who had made his appearance just before tea. "Not by any means. I had the honor of escorting her from New York, and do you imagine I shall allow her to return thither unattended? What are you thinking of, Mrs. Gordon? Besides, I have business there." 
               This was a great relief, for I had so dreaded the long tedious journey, doubly tedious now that I longed for wings to bear me more speedily onward. Just before dusk I slipped out, unobserved as I thought, and ran down the lane to place a parting tribute of roses and heliotropes under the persimmon tree. 
               It was nearly dark, and the long, dusky shadows looked weird and ghost-like in the faint light of the rising moon. The sight of the little grave, the thought of the sad fate of its occupant, and of her last words, "Death is better nor life, better, better," the chill gloom of the hour, and my own tormenting anxieties, all combined to break down the fortitude for which I had been struggling all day. I did not weep, for I was not greatly given to tears. But I dropped upon my knees beside the mound, and pressed my cheek to the cool turf, while I was held fast in the grasp of a wordless sorrow. 
               A strong hand lifted me. 
               "This will never do," said Mr. Tremaine. "What possessed you to come down here alone in the gloom and darkness? You were sad enough before. Let Violet and her troubles rest. Surely you have enough of your own just now." 
               I grasped his arm. 
               "Will you let her rest?" I said. "Promise me before I go away, Mr. Tremaine, that she shall lie where she is. I know why she chose this strange burial-place. To her it was a holy spot, holier than consecrated ground or minster-aisle. Let her body rest here. Promise me." 
               His hand touched mine for one instant. 
               "I promise," he answered. "But it is for your sake, not hers. You must go back to the house now. The night is damp and chilly." 
               He drew my arm within his own and we walked home in utter silence. There was a strange oppression upon my spirits. Was it merely natural anxiety, or was it the shadow of approaching evil, the "inborn sense of coming ill that sometimes whispers to the haunted breast?" 
               "Good-night," he said, as he left me in the hall. "I must return to the Lodge immediately, if I go to New York to-morrow. The cars leave the depot at nine. Will you go to bed now and sleep quietly, that you may gain strength for the journey? You are looking pale and tired. No, do not go that way," he added, as I turned toward the library. "Mr. Wilson is in there, and you are in no mood for listening to his platitudes. Go to your own room and rest. I shall not stir an inch until I hear you close your door." 
               He watched me as I ascended the staircase, giving me a parting smile and bow as I paused at the top and looked over the banisters. Then I went to my window and watched him in return, as he rode rapidly down the avenue and up the broad, moonlit road in the direction of the Lodge. 
               We left the next morning, amid the tears of the children, and bearing with us the good wishes of Bob and his coadjutors. Mrs. Gordon's face was grave as she kissed me. 
               "If you were just going to the wedding, it would be a different ent thing," she said by way of apology, "but this is such an uncertain world." 
               "One thing is certain, Miss Sibyl," said Arthur, "and that is, that we want you back again, just as soon as you can come." 
               I had no heart for shopping when we reached New York. How could I buy bridal robes for Ruth while in this state of suspense? "She may need graveclothes instead," whispered my despondent heart; and I did not so much as glance at the shop windows as we drove down Broadway. 
               I had intended to take the day-boat for Albany, that I might see the storied Hudson in its summer glory. But I could not wait. I was in season for the night-boat, and how could I tell what a day or an hour might bring forth? Mr. Tremaine tried to induce me to wait until morning. 
               "You will be worn out," he said. "You will need nursing yourself before you reach Valleythorpe. Do listen to reason." 
               But I was deaf to its warnings, for a still more importunate voice was urging me onward. So we drove to the wharf and my berth was speedily selected. The air of the cabin was close, and the heat very oppressive. 
               "You will be better off upon deck for several hours," said Mr. Tremaine. "Shall we go up?" 
               I assented gladly, and found a comfortable seat where I could have an unobstructed view of the broad river and its green shores, so wondrously beautiful in the shifting, shimmering light. My companion paced up and down the deck, never going far from my side. The first bell rang, but he did not seem to heed it. 
               "Mr. Tremaine," I said, "you will surely be carried off. Don't you hear the bell? Good-bye," and I extended my hand. 
               "I never refuse to shake hands with a lady," he answered, laughing, as he took mine. "But I am going up to Albany, Miss Sibyl." 
                
               "You are? I am so glad. I did not know you had occasion to go farther north than New York. Unexpected business, is it not?" 
               "Very," he answered, gravely. "A man there whom it is necessary for me to see." 
               We chatted on for a long, long time. The boat was a blessed exchange for the crowded, dusty cars, and the cool, fresh air revived and invigorated me. The shores grew dim and indistinct, the stars came out one by one, as the large moon slowly arose-the same moon that we had watched a few nights before as we stood by Violet's grave. 
               I made a strikingly original observation- 
               "How many different scenes that same round moon looks down upon! What a medley life is, to be sure!" 
               "A medley and a mystery," said the dark figure by my side. "But before that moon has filled its horns twice more we shall have you back at Greyhurst, Miss Sibyl. I always believe what I wish to believe." 
               "You are fortunately constituted, if your faith depends solely on your wishes," I answered, rising. 
               "Who do you suppose I am going to see in Albany?" he whispered, teasingly, as he left me at the door of the ladies' cabin. "The man who drives the stage from that city to Valleythorpe." 
               I slept very well that night, despite the heat, the crying babies, and my anxiety, and awoke in Albany greatly refreshed. There was time only for a hurried breakfast before the stage would leave, and it would be late at night before I could be at home. But there would be no more changes, no more hurrying crowds, no more bustle and confusion. I was a more experienced traveller than when I had taken that weary night-ride under Mr. Thompson's care the year before, and the remainder of my journey seemed as nothing. 
               "Now are you all right?" said Mr. Tremaine, as he slipped the broad leather strap in front of the back seat into its place. "I hope you may have that seat to yourself, or at least that you may have endurable companions." 
               "All ready," shouted the driver. 
               My hand was clasped for an instant, and a low whisper met my ear- 
               "God bless you, Sibyl. Good-bye." 
               My heart gave one great throb, and then I drew my veil over my face, and leaned back against the brown leather cushions, heaving a long sigh, in which memory and anticipation, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, were strangely mingled. My brain was in a whirl, and one image chased another through its haunted chambers, like the phantasmagoria of a dream. Greyhurst and Valleythorpe, Mrs. Gordon and Ruth, my father and Mr. Tremaine, Edith and Fanny and Arthur and Violet-my thoughts flew from one to another as the revolving wheels bore me rapidly over the dusty road. I sat with closed eyes, leaning far back in the corner, hearing with ears that heard not the murmur of talk that flowed on around me. The overdressed girl with her bandbox and fringed parasol alighted at a small house by the wayside, after exchanging a running fire of bantering repartee with the red-faced driver. The two old men opposite me droned away hour after hour about the price of cattle and their want of faith in the new-fangled mowing machines. An elderly woman on the next seat opened her lunch basket and offered me a doughnut and an apple; and my neighbor on the right-I had not been able to keep my seat to myself-entertained me with a long account of Hannah Maria's wedding, and the dreadful illness of Sally Ann's last baby. I saw and heard all this, but it was as one hears the humming of bees at noon; and I thought my own thoughts straight on through all the interruptions. 
               At last the rushing stream flowed more calmly, more clearly. Its channel narrowed by slow degrees, and its tone grew softer and stiller, until its low voice whispered only- 
               "Ruth needs me-Ruth needs me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               IT was nearly midnight when the stage stopped at my father's door. The sky was overcast; nor moon nor star was visible. A faint light stole out from the windows of an upper chamber, but the rest of the house was enveloped in darkness. No one came out to meet me, and it was evident that my coming that night was entirely unlooked for. 
               I paused a moment to consider the matter, and then telling the driver there was sickness in the house, I asked him to put my trunks upon the door-step with as little noise as possible. He did my bidding very gently, and then said- 
               "I s'pose you don't want me to knock 'em up for you, if there's sick folks here, ma'am? How be you a-goin' to get in?" 
               I thanked him, and said I thought I could manage the matter quietly, as I was acquainted with the premises. 
               "Then I'll go back to my team," he rejoined in a kindly, cordial voice. "Good-night, ma'am." 
               He mounted the box, gathered up the reins, chirruped softly to his horses, and drove off more quietly than I could have believed was possible. 
               I stole round to the back door. It was fastened, as I expected. But I remembered that the little door opening into the wood-shed was seldom locked. It was scarcely noticeable from the road, and my father had an old-fashioned idea that it was best to leave some mode of egress open, in case of fire or sudden alarm. 
               It was not even latched, and yielded easily to my hand. I slipped in. It was intensely dark, but I knew my ground, and moved to one side mechanically and almost without a thought to avoid the very pail that stood in its accustomed place. An ascent of two steps, and I reached the kitchen door, lifted the latch softly, and went in. 
                
               For a moment I stood motionless that my eyes might become accustomed to the dim, uncertain light. The windows were without blinds, and one of the green-paper curtains was rolled up. After a little I could discover objects quite distinctly, and moved noiselessly across the floor to the fire-place. There was a dark spot on the white wall beside it, which I knew to be the old match-box, and close at hand, on the corner of the mantel-piece, a candle was invariably left at night. 
               I lighted a match. The blue flame curled and spattered, wavered, and went out. But it had burned long enough to enable me to see the candle, as I anticipated. It looked like the identical one that stood there the morning that I went away. Another attempt was more successful, and I looked round me upon the tables, chairs, and cupboards, that seemed at once so strange and so familiar. The water-pail stood in one corner of the sink, with the bright tin dipper hanging over it, and between the sink and the door was the roller with the long, round towel, clean and fresh, and still creased as it had come from the ironing board. 
               Before I go on I must tell you something of the house itself, which has thus far been entirely overlooked. It was a "story-and-a-half" house, facing the south. The front door opened into a narrow hall. On the right was the "spare-room," in other words, the parlor, and on the left was the sitting or dining-room. The hall ran straight through to the kitchen, which lay directly back of the aforementioned apartments, or, I should rather say, back of the parlor and hall. Back of the sitting-room, with doors opening both into that and the kitchen, was the "bed-room" where my father and mother always slept. This last room did not extend the whole width of the kitchen, but one end had been partitioned off to make a large, light pantry. The dairy was still farther back, in a lean to or "linter," as it was called, that had been added since my remembrance. 
               From the kitchen, consequently, I could go directly into the hall, or the sitting-room, or my mother's bed-room,-to say nothing of the dairy and pantry. Ruth used to say that its walls were all doors and windows, which was a pretty fair statement. There was an occasional gap, however, where one could stow away a chair or a table; and the sink was a fixture immovable as the house itself. 
               I smiled to myself as I stood with my candle in my hand looking round on the old, familiar objects. I had evidently come as a "thief in the night;" listen as intently as I might, I could hear no sound, save the ticking of the clock. I touched the stove. It was not yet quite cold, and the tin tea-kettle filled, ready for the morning, stood on the top. Ruth must be better, I thought, or the household would not be hushed in such quiet repose; and I began to meditate a pleasant surprise for the family. The light I had seen up-stairs was not in the chamber that Ruth and I had occupied together, but in a larger one at the other side of the house. If I could only steal up-stairs unseen and unheard by the "watcher" who was undoubtedly with Ruth, I would go to bed, and create a sensation when I made my unexpected debut in the morning. 
               My shoes creaked a little. I unlaced them and took them off, tied the strings together, and hung them over my arm. If I could only get rid of my mantle, which seemed in the utter stillness to make such a rustling whenever I moved! and my bonnet and veil were in the way. But if I left them in the kitchen, my arrival would be detected by the earliest riser in the morning. 
               "I will go softly into the parlor," I thought, "and leave them. No one will be likely to go in there before breakfast." 
               My trunks were on the door-step. But there was small danger of thieves in that quiet country neighborhood. And there was scarcely more danger of their being observed by the family, who ordinarily went in and out at what we called the "side-door." 
               I gathered my skirts closely about me, and was about to open the door into the hall, when a cat that had been lying asleep upon a mat behind the stove, alike unheeded and unheeding, awoke from her nap and came toward me, purring so loudly that it seemed to me the whole house must hear her. 
               "Jetty's great-grandchild," I said, as she rubbed herself against me, arching her back after the manner of cats. I petted her a little, put her to bed again, and made another move. This time I succeeded in getting into the hall and closing the door behind me, without so much as a sound. 
               Moving stealthily along, I reached the parlor door. One loose board under the single breadth of striped home-made carpeting creaked loudly, yet I thought not loudly enough to disturb unlistening ears. The small, old-fashioned brass knob was in my hand, and I turned it gently. As the door swung silently back, a sudden gust of wind from an open window within blew my light out. 
               I was dismayed at first, but soon remembered that I had dropped two or three matches into the tray of the flat-bottomed brass candlestick. I would first disencumber myself of my various inconvenient appendages, and then re-light my candle. There was a little table, as I well knew, between the two front windows, and upon it I placed the candlestick, while I untied my bonnet, and deposited that, with my mantle, upon an adjoining chair. My shoes and my satchel found a place upon the floor beside it; and then, with one stroke of the match, the reign of darkness ended, and I turned with a smile upon my lip to take a cursory survey of the apartment before I went up-stairs. 
               I have been loitering by the way, lingering unnecessarily over little incidents, in sickening dread of the vague, undefined horror that seizes hold upon me even yet, whenever I recall that midnight hour of darkness, terror, and despair. Now may God give me strength to tell what met my eyes as the light flashed into a far corner of the room, and I will never, never speak of it again. 
               A white, ghastly thing stretched out upon the trestles, at which I stared for an instant in mute bewilderment, not dreaming ing what it might be, yet dumb with unutterable dread. A moment more and I saw it all-the rigid outlines, the upright feet, the folded hands, the elbows sharply defined, the stiffened limbs, the motionless head, beneath the linen sheet that fell heavily to the floor, covering all and yet concealing nothing. 
               In a frenzy of horror and affright I would have rushed from the room, but I could not move. I would have screamed, but my throat was paralyzed. The candle dropped from my nerveless hand, and darkness encompassed me again-a darkness that could be felt, but out of which the outlines of the white, horrible wonder loomed with more terrible distinctness than before. I could not turn my eyes away; they were bound to the spot by some weird fascination; and at length it seemed to me that the sheet moved, and that the ghastly thing beneath it stirred. I fell heavily to the floor, and unconsciousness mercifully sealed my senses and wrapped me in forgetfulness. 
               Strange as it may appear, I did not once think of Ruth or of my father or mother. The surprise and terror were so great, so overwhelming, that there was room for nought else. To get out of that fearful place, to escape from that horrible presence, was my only thought. 
               When I partially revived, a strong shuddering seized me. I would not attempt to lift my eyelids, lest I should again behold-what? 
               "She's coming to," whispered some one beside me. "Speak to her. She will know your voice, and, most likely, she's forgotten mine." 
               "Sibyl, my dear child," said a voice that I knew at once to be that of John Gardiner, "take this for me; just a swallow-there;" and he smoothed back the hair from my forehead with a tender touch. "Are you better now?" 
               Some one was rubbing my feet, and there was a strong odor of camphor in the room. I cannot smell it to this day without feeling the same sense of weight and oppression at my heart that I felt then. 
                
               "A little more of that cordial now, if she can take it, John." 
               He gave me another teaspoonful. 
               "That fan, if you please, Miss Maxey. Her color is coming back. Poor child!" and I felt his lips upon my forehead. I put my arm about his neck, and the tears forced their way through my still closed eyelids. 
               "Let her cry," whispered Miss Maxey, in a voice that was perfectly audible. "It'll do her good; a great sight more good than medicine." 
               "Where am I?" I asked. 
               "On the lounge in the sitting-room, dear. And here is Miss Maxey. You remember her, don't you?" 
               I nodded my head, and tried to force my lips into a smile, but the attempt was utterly abortive. Pretty soon I opened my eyes, but as they met John's, so full of tender sympathy, the tears burst forth afresh. There were questions that I longed to ask and dared not. 
               "This won't do," said Miss Maxey, decidedly. "John Gardiner, do you tell her all about it. She may as well know it first as last, and the sooner it is over the better. I'm going upstairs. When you want me, just step into the hall and whisper. I'll hear you." 
               She went. But there was silence between us. I felt now what I had failed to realize before, that some one whom I loved lay beneath that winding-sheet-that the awful presence from which I had tried to flee was in truth nothing to fear, but something to be mourned over-ah, how bitterly! 
               "Is it Ruth, John?" I whispered, drawing his face closer to my own. 
               "Not Ruth," he answered, "I thank God for that in the midst of all our darkness." 
               He hesitated. Then as he met my imploring, questioning gaze, he bent over and kissed me twice ere he went on- 
               "But it is your father, Sibyl." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               AFTER the first fierce tumult of my grief had subsided, John told me what I dreaded yet longed to hear. My father's death, terribly sudden as it was to us, was neither sudden nor terrifying to himself. For years he had walked in the valley of the shadow of death-walked there consciously,-sometimes sorrowful, but never dismayed. Dr. Hyde, who had been his confidential adviser for a long time, said that for the last five years he had known, and my father had known, that he was liable to die at any hour, at any moment. At the same time they were both aware that he might live for years; and pledging the Doctor to secrecy, my father had kept his own counsel, preferring to suffer in silence himself, rather than to divide his burden with us. 
               "But," said John, "he had no strength to bear the weight of an additional sorrow. Ruth's injury was a great shock to him, seemed to unnerve him as nothing else has. In the midst of my intense anxiety for her, I could but notice his increasing pallor and his faltering step. Night before last I spoke to Dr. Hyde about it. He shook his head. 'Keep watch of him, John,' he said; 'do not let him be left alone. He is in more danger than Ruth.' I so longed for you, Sibyl! I could say nothing to Ruth, of course, and it was worse than useless to disturb your mother. Yesterday morning, when Dr. Hyde came in, he looked up at him with a faint smile. 'It has come, Doctor,' he said. We laid him on the bed, and he lived about an hour, but he never spoke again." 
               "Where is mother?" I asked, after a little. 
               "Up-stairs asleep, I presume. She did not like to stay down here, and we thought she would be less lonely if near Ruth." 
               "Where were you when I came in?" 
               "Lying here on this lounge. I have been up for several nights, and though scarcely conscious of having closed my eyes, I must have been in a deep sleep, for I heard nothing until-you fell." 
               I shuddered. 
               "It was terrible, John, terrible!" 
               "My poor child! I know it was. Miss Maxey was up-stairs with Ruth. She never sleeps, I verily believe; and she heard the stage. But we did not dream of your coming to-night, and she did not notice that it stopped. The sound of your fall startled her as it did me, and we met each other at the parlor door. I saw how it was in an instant." 
               "Did I frighten Ruth?" I asked, starting up. "Let me go to her. Oh, John, I must!" I added, as he laid me gently back upon the lounge. 
               "Not to-night, dear," he answered. "She does not know you are here, and has heard nothing of the disturbance. She has been under the influence of strong opiates all day. Wait until to-morrow. The excitement of meeting thus will be too much for either of you. You must go up-stairs and go to bed now. Shall I call Miss Maxey? She has been here for several days and knows where everything is. She will make you comfortable." 
               "You must let me see him first, John." 
               My voice trembled a little, but I was trying to be calm. 
               "Not to-night," he said again, but this time with a question in his voice. "Is it best? You must judge for yourself, Sibyl." 
               "It is best," I answered, after a moment's thought. "I cannot rest until the horrible phantasm that my imagination conjured up has been exorcised by the reality, dreadful as that may be." 
               He rose without another word, took up the candle, and we went into the other room. I turned pale as he opened the door. 
               John passed his arm about my waist, and drew me close to his side. 
                
               "My dear sister-you are that, Sibyl-there is nothing dreadful here. You never saw your father's face when it wore as calm a smile as it wears to-night." 
               I have never been able to read without a shudder, as well as a sense of its absurdity, the hymn commencing- 
                      
                        "Ah! lovely appearance of death! 
                        What sight upon earth is so fair? 
                        Not all the gay pageants that breathe, 
                        Can with a dead body compare." 
                     
                  
                
               Nothing more untrue was ever written. Death is not lovely. Life instinctively recoils from contact with it. Yet it cannot be denied that Azrael leaves upon some faces a look of superhuman beauty-a solemn grandeur before which life sinks into insignificance. I saw that look once in an Irish hovel, on the face of a poor woman who died reaching beyond the priest and the holy chrism, and the-shall I dare say it?-almost pagan rites-reaching beyond all these to Christ, the Crucified. It was such a look as a martyr might wear when the cross, borne bravely to the last, through fire and flood, through storm and strife, is at length exchanged for the palm of victory. 
               I saw that look upon my father's face that night, when John reverently turned back the sheet, that I might gaze upon it through fast-falling tears. 
               "But, oh, John! he said he needed me!" I exclaimed at last, as I bent over the cold form in a paroxysm of uncontrollable anguish. "He said he had need of me. Why was I not here?" 
               John knew me too well to attempt to comfort me with any stereotyped commonplaces. He did not tell me that it was God's, will and enlarge upon the duty of submission. He did not bid me remember that God loveth whom he chasteneth, nor bid me kiss the rod lest He that held it should be angry. He simply said- 
               "It is very hard, Sibyl. I understand it all. But by and by the Comforter will come." And he wiped away my tears and soothed and caressed me as if I had been a tired child. 
               Pretty soon he called Miss Maxey. She took me up-stairs, undressed me, and put me to bed in my old room,-Ruth's and mine. 
               "Don't you go to worrying about Ruth," she said, in answer to a question. "We'll have her round after a while, I hope. Now do you feel as if you could go right straight to sleep? Because if you don't, I am going to rub you. There's more virtue in one good rubbing than in a cart-load of Dover's powders." 
               "I will try," I answered. "I am tired enough to sleep." 
               "Too tired. That's the trouble. There ain't a great deal of sleep in those eyes of yours at this present speaking, Sibyl, and I'm just going to rub you, whether or no." 
               Down she got upon her knees. 
               "If I had spent half as much time praying," she said, as she unbuttoned the wristband of my night-gown, and gently passed her hand down my arm, from the shoulder to the tips of my fingers, "as I have spent on my knees rubbing sick folks and tired folks, I should be the best Christian in the United States of America." 
               Despite my sorrow, I smiled into the rugged but kindly face that was so near my own. 
                      
                        "'He prayeth best who loveth best 
                        All things both great and small, 
                        For the great God, who loveth us, 
                        He made and loved them all,'" 
                     
                   my heart whispered, but not audibly. Coleridge's beautiful thought never came nearer the truth than when applied to this plain, homely, husbandless and childless woman, whose long life had been spent by the bedside of the sick and dying. 
               Slowly, gently, steadily the tireless arm moved on, and pain and weariness surrendered at the touch of the pitying fingers. I grew quiet and drowsy, and must have been asleep before she left me to resume her watch by Ruth, for I knew nothing more until the sun streamed into my room at nine o'clock the next morning. 
               In the dreamy, semi-conscious state in which I lay for amoment or two before I opened my eyes, I thought I was at Greyhurst, and lazily wondered if it was not time to get up, and why Lina, a daughter of Aunt Lucy's, who had taken poor Violet's place, did not come in with fresh water, as usual. Then the truth flashed upon my mind, and the waves and the billows swept over me anew. It is terrible-this morning wrestle with the influx of a fresh sorrow, after a night of forgetfulness. 
               I rose soon, dressed myself hurriedly, and went out into the entry. There I met Miss Maxey, looking none the worse for her night of watching. 
               "Better this morning?" she asked, taking my hand in her broad palm. "Can you be calm and reasonable if I let you see your sister?" 
               "Is she awake?" I questioned eagerly. "Does she know I am here? Do let me see her, Miss Maxey!" 
               "I will, if you think you can behave yourself," she answered. "Yes, she knows you've come. I told her just as soon as she had had her breakfast. She's so sensible that there ain't any danger of her ever going into conniptions. Besides, I don't believe in having secrets with sick folks. But she had a hard day yesterday, very hard." 
               "I will be very quiet," I said, "and very-" 
               "Yes," she said, "and you're all in a flutter this very minute. But come along; I guess it'll grow worse and worse the longer we put it off." 
               Ruth stretched out her arms with a look of unutterable love, but she did not speak. I laid my head upon her breast with a low cry that I could not have kept back if my life had depended upon my silence. 
               "My poor dove," she said at last, smoothing back my hair with her old, tender touch. "This is a sad coming home for you, Sybil; not such an one as we looked forward to." 
                
               "Father," I whispered, touching her cheek with my quivering lips. 
               "Is with God," she said, with a sort of solemn brightness in her look and in her voice. "That is better, than to be with us, Sibyl, far better." 
               Just what Violet had said-"Death is better nor life-better, better." Was life then the same the world over? 
               Miss Maxey interposed- 
               "There-that will do for this time. Kiss her once more, Sibyl, if you want to, and then run down and find your mother, I guess she is in the sitting-room." 
               I obeyed, saying, "But I may come back again, pretty soon, mayn't I, Miss Maxey?" 
               She nodded, smiling kindly- 
               "If I see that you are a good girl. But you must have your breakfast first. It is almost ten o'clock." 
               I went down to the kitchen. Mother was not there; but Matty Ridgeway, Mrs. Gardiner's waif, was washing dishes at the sink. She gave me a shy but most cordial greeting. 
               "Mis' Huntington's out in the garden, I guess," she said. "She was in there," motioning toward the parlor, "a spell ago." 
               I went out in the garden. Mother was at the currant bushes with a little pint basin in her hand. She kissed me with tears in her eyes. 
               "Folks must eat," she said, "whether death comes into the house, or life-dying or being born, it is all the same. I'm glad you've come, Sibyl. It's a real comfort. I'm most worn out.' 
               I helped her fill the basin, and we walked slowly back to the house, where Matty had made breakfast ready for me. I drank a cup of coffee, but pushed the broiled ham and toast away untasted. 
               "You hain't eat nothin'," she said, despairingly, as she removed the dishes. "Mr. John he told me to be sure you had a good breakfast." 
                
               "When is the-the funeral to be, mother?" I asked, as Matty left the room. 
               "To-morrow afternoon, I believe. John said he would see to it. Your father's death was dreadful sudden, Sibyl-dreadful. I never supposed there was a thing ailed him. It was a great deal harder to have it come so kind of unexpected. If he had only told me that most likely he should go sudden, it wouldn't have been such an awful blow. But he always had such a way of keeping everything to himself." 
               That afternoon I sat with Ruth while Miss Maxey went to lie down for a while. She had objected strenuously; being one of those singularly constituted persons, those born nurses, to whom sleep seems to be a superfluous luxury,-not the necessity that it is to ordinary mortals. She would remain in a sick-room night after night for weeks, never undressing or going to bed in orthodox Christian fashion, but "catching a nap" now and then upon a lounge, or in an easy-chair; and at the end look brighter and less worn than any other person in the house. 
               "Don't talk to me about watchers," she would say, "I don't want 'em 'round. When I ain't smart enough to take care of sick folks nights, I can't take care of 'em daytimes neither. The truth of the business is," lowering her voice to a confidential whisper, "'too many cooks spoil the porridge.' Some fussy, fidgetty stranger, with a doleful, sick-room face, who don't know where things are nor how to take hold, whispering, tiptoeing, and asking questions, will undo in one night all that I can do in a week. No watchers for me, if you please!" 
               But that day I over-persuaded her, and she consented to seek a little rest. 
               "You two girls will talk too much. I am just as sure of it now as I shall be by and by, when I come back to find Ruth's cheeks flushed with fever, and her pulse going like a trip-hammer. However, I s'pose it can't be helped. You've got to have your say out some time." 
               But we were not very talkative. "Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh." Yet sometimes the heart is too full for much speaking, as were ours that August afternoon. No one but John and Miss Maxey knew of my terrible experience of the preceding night. The grass had grown green above my father's grave, and the white snows drifted over it more than once or twice, before I told even Ruth. 
               I thought she was asleep. She had lain for a long time with closed eyes. One pale hand lay in mine, while the other clasped a little bunch of mignonette and sweet peas that John had brought her. It was fast fading; fading like their hopes, I thought, as I caught a breath of the faint perfume. The fancy seemed utterly uncalled for, but it came unbidden, and I could not drive it away. With a long maple wand I brushed away the intrusive flies, keeping up a slow, monotonous motion, and hushing my very breath lest I should disturb her repose. 
               She lifted her eyes suddenly. 
               "Does he look like himself, Sibyl?" 
               "Oh! haven't you seen him, Ruth? Of course not, I had not thought of that." 
               "If I only could see him," she said, her voice faltering, "just once more. But I never can until we meet beyond the river." 
               One or two tears gathered slowly, hung for a moment on the long, curling lashes, and rolled silently down her cheek. 
               "Ruth, could you not be carried down stairs very carefully?" 
               She shook her head. 
               "I cannot be moved at all, dear, without excessive pain. It would not answer." 
               I could not bear to think that in the midst of her own suffering she must be denied the sad consolation of a last look at the dead face of him whom she had so loved. 
               "Perhaps," I said, hesitatingly, "perhaps they could-" 
               "No, Sibyl," she answered. "I know what you are thinking of, but I could not ask that. I would not wish it. I do not think I could endure to have him borne a dead weight up the stairs, and through the rooms his presence has brightened for so many years. It would be too sad a sight. I can wait." 
               The funeral services were conducted as quietly, as briefly as possible, for Ruth's sake. The door was left open that she might hear the hymn-a low, tremulous wail at first, rising gradually to the heights of triumphant harmony. It was the mortal suffering, struggling, dying, yet in nature's extremest hour grasping hold of the Infinite, and able to cry exultingly, "O Death, where is thy sting? O Grave, where is thy victory?" There was a fervent, heartfelt prayer. God was thanked that he had given, and that he had taken away so peacefully, so gently, with so little of severe and protracted agony. Tender mention was made of the daughter up-stairs, who might not even look upon the face of her dead; and the promised blessing was claimed for the widow and the fatherless. No words of eulogy were spoken. None were needed. And then, one by one, the friends and lifelong neighbors of him who lay there wrapped in the cerements of the grave, passed into the little parlor for one farewell glance at the pale, impassive features. Slowly, tearfully, reverentially the coffin was borne from the house and placed upon the bier. No black-plumed hearse, with costly trappings and funereal pomp, bore it to the grave. But loving, careful hands-albeit some of them were darkened by toil and roughened by years of labor-lifted it tenderly and carried it over the hills and along the meadow-road, till they reached the quiet burial-ground. Then they laid their precious burden down beneath the yellow sands, and stood with uncovered heads while their pastor pronounced the solemn benediction, and returned thanks to those present, in the name of the departed and of those whom his death had left desolate, for all their kindly offices towards him and towards them. The little gathering dispersed, and Ralph Huntington "slept with his fathers." 
               The yellow sunshine filled the earth with golden glory. The birds sang as they had sung last week. The Otter sparkled on its winding way, stealing through grassy fields, beneath the willows lows, and among the roots of gnarled and moss-grown trees. The skies were as blue, the mountains as royally magnificent, the woods as full of solemn anthems. 
               Ah! it may be true that "nature never did betray the heart that loved her." But cold and unsympathetic, she heaves no sigh for human woes, she sheds no tears over mortal sorrows. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THERE was no wedding on the fifteenth of September. All that day Ruth lay with closed eyes in a state of great prostration, the effect of the severe suffering of the twenty-four hours preceding it. She betrayed little or no interest in the deliberations of the council of doctors that met at the house in the afternoon for the consideration of her case; and only roused herself enough to give a faint smile in return for the kiss John left upon her forehead when he went home. I supposed she was unaware what day of the month it was, and I purposely avoided any allusion to it. 
               But as I was smoothing her pillows and arranging her bed for the night, she whispered- 
               "This is the fifteenth, Sibyl." 
               "I hoped you did not know it, Ruthie," I said, dropping upon my knees by the bedside, and drawing her face close to mine upon the pillow. "I hoped you would not remember." 
               She smiled sadly- 
               "I could not forget. Poor John! he has waited so long, and now-" 
               I did not answer her save by a kiss. Presently she went on- 
               "He has waited for this day so long. And now it has almost passed, and I could not so much as tell him that I was sorry for him." 
               "And for yourself," I answered softly; "but he knows, Ruth; there was no need that you should tell him." 
               She lay quietly for some minutes, with her arm about my neck. 
               "What did those doctors say, Sibyl? Tell me!" 
               I was so glad that I could answer truthfully- 
               "I do not know much about it, Ruth. They were going to Dr. Hyde's to tea, and to talk the matter over, I believe. He will tell you himself, to-morrow, I presume." 
               I was glad that I could say that. For I knew by unerring signs that the anxiety Dr. Hyde had felt from the first was more than confirmed by the judgment of his associates. 
               September died. October wore her crimson and gold right royally for thirty-one days of gorgeous pomp and wonderful magnificence, and then came brown November, clad in russet, with withered leaves for a coronet, and a naked branch for a sceptre. And still Ruth lay upon the bed in the front chamber, not suffering as she had suffered at first, but just as helpless. 
               Miss Maxey had been with us all this time. I do not know what we should have done without her. Every one in the house had looked to her for help, for consolation, for encouragement. One morning she came into Ruth's chamber, where I was busily employed setting things to rights, fidgetted about after a very unusual fashion, and at length seated herself upon the foot of the bed. It was plain that something was going wrong; for the good woman's face, usually so bright and cheery, wore a look of perplexity and uneasiness. 
               "What is the matter, Miss Maxey?" said Ruth. "You look troubled." 
               "Well, I am troubled, that's a fact," was the answer. "When you know what your duty is, it is easy enough to do it, generally speaking. When you don't know, then you're in hot water right away. I'm in a regular quandary this time." 
                
               Ruth's quick wits helped her to a solution of the mystery in an instant. 
               "Who is sick now, Miss Maxey?" 
               She laughed. "Well, you are a Yankee. Good at guessing, if you do have to lie on your back. It's Widow Mason. Her folks sent round word to me this morning before breakfast. She's been bleeding at the lungs again. Bled half a pint, they say. But I don't believe it. Folks always do stretch things so. The next man that speaks to me about it will say it was a quart." 
               "Bleeding at all is bad enough," said Ruth. "Where's Mary?" 
               "She's gone home-had to go, for her baby was sick. And I suppose the widow has been overdoing. Eliza Ann is old enough to go ahead with the work. But she hain't ever been put to doing anything, and I don't suppose she could make a bowl of gruel fit for her mother to eat to save her life. And the other children are too young to be any help." 
               "Only an additional care," said Ruth. "You must go to them, Miss Maxey. Your duty is plain enough, I think." 
               "Well, I suppose it is," answered Miss Maxey. "It does seem as if Mrs. Mason needed me more than you do now. But I do hate to leave you, Ruth." 
               Ruth took the large, tender, helpful hand in hers, as she replied, lifting her eyes to the homely, kindly face- 
               "And we hate to have you leave us, Miss Maxey. I cannot tell you how we shall miss you, any more than I can tell how we can ever repay you for all you have done for us. You have helped us through some dark and stormy days, and now we must not keep you from those who need you more than we do." 
               Miss Maxey bent over and kissed her- 
               "You're a good girl, Ruth; I'll say that for you any day. I did hate to speak about going, for fear you might feel kind of hurt about my leaving you. But you don't?" 
               "Not a bit of it," said Ruth, bravely, although I knew very well that she shrank inly at the thought. "Not the least bit hurt. When must you go?" 
               "Not yet awhile. I told them I'd be round by and by. I've been talking to your mother, Ruth, and now I've come to talk to you and Sibyl. You've got to be moved down-stairs. It will be a great deal easier for those who take care of you, and a great deal better for you in every way. I'm going to get you all settled before I stir one peg." 
               Ruth's countenance fell. 
               "Moved down stairs? Oh, Miss Maxey!" 
               Miss Maxey glanced at me, as if in doubt whether or no she could depend on my co-operation. I returned her glance with a slight nod of assent. 
               "I have been thinking of this very thing myself, Ruth," I said. "You will be much more comfortable down-stairs, and less lonely." 
               "But where will mother sleep? I cannot drive her out of her bedroom, Sibyl." 
               "I do not wish to have you," I answered. "I had not thought of putting you there." 
               "We must put up a bed in the sitting-room," said Miss Maxey, very decidedly. "That's as clear as spring-water." 
               Ruth demurred. But one by one we overruled all her objections-all but one. 
               "But how am I ever to get down-stairs? Have you thought of that?" 
               "That's easily managed," said Miss Maxey. "John Gardiner and I can carry you down just as easy as not." 
               A queer, rueful smile played around Ruth's mouth. 
               "What is it, Ruthie?" I asked. "The fable of the boys and the frogs?" 
               "Something akin to it, I confess," she answered. "However, if it is for the best I can endure it." 
               The bed was prepared in the little sitting-room, and then Ruth was carried down-stairs very carefully, very tenderly, and laid upon it. 
               "There you are," said Miss Maxey. "A little tired, most likely. But I'll fix all that before I leave you, and I shall feel a great deal better about you than if you were up-stairs. It's best for you to be down here amongst folks." 
               So she chatted on while she gave Ruth the inevitable rubbing, and made her comfortable. 
               Ruth's eyes wandered wistfully about the room. 
               "What do you want, child? What are you looking after? Anything that I can get for you?" 
               "Nothing that I can have, Miss Maxey," and the pale face was turned toward the wall, that no one might see the tears that trickled slowly from beneath the closed lids. Ah! I knew what she wanted, what she missed, what she could never have on earth again. So did Miss Maxey; for she said in a low, tremulous voice, quite unlike the quick, brisk accents in which she usually spoke- 
               "You want something that you have lost, dear. So do I. Something that I lost before you were born. But what we have lost God will take care of. And he will give it to us again some time-when we are worthy to receive it." 
               After everything was prepared for the night, and our invalid was rested and refreshed, Miss Maxey came into the room with her bonnet on and her carpet-bag in her hand. 
               "Now, I'm just going to run down to Widow Mason's," she said. 
               "No-I am not going to say good-bye-just good-evening, ladies. That's all. I shall run in very often," and giving Ruth a hasty kiss, she left the room. 
               I followed her. 
               "Don't you get down-hearted, child," she said, patting my cheek as we stood on the door-step. "Keep up your spirits and Ruth's too. That's the only way." 
               I watched her as she walked quickly down the path to the gate, which closed behind her with a sharp clang, and over the "cross-lot road" to Widow Mason's. I had not realized how much I had been supported by her strong arm, her kind heart, and sterling common-sense, until I turned into the house and felt that my prop was taken from me. I went slowly through the hall into the kitchen. Mother sat by the window looking out upon the garden, where a few late cabbages still lifted their heads forlornly amid the prevailing desolation. Naked flower-stalks and great heaps of rubbish told but too plainly that the hands that had kept order there as elsewhere about the place were at rest, where there is no work and no device. I went up to her and laid my hand upon her shoulder- 
               "Do not sit here, mother. It is growing dark, and is too lonely. This is a gloomy evening at the best." 
               "Where else shall I sit?" she asked. "In the bedroom or in the dairy? You and Ruth have taken possession of the sitting-room. This is the best place that is left." 
               "Not taken possession of it," I answered. "We can all sit there just as we used to. It will be better for Ruth to have company." 
               "I told Miss Maxey it would be dreadful inconvenient to have her there. But that was all the good it did. It is no matter. I don't expect to have any attention paid to my wishes now. I never did, for the matter of that." 
               "But, mother, we could not take care of Ruth up-stairs,-just you and I, with everything else to attend to. Only think of it! Now we can leave the door open when it is necessary for us to be out here, and it will be much better for all concerned." 
               "I should like to know where you expect to sleep, and who's going to take care of Ruth nights?" 
               "I shall sleep on the lounge for the present, and take care of her myself. She rests very well now, and does not need a great deal of attention." 
               "It's strange that Miss Maxey should go off in this way. It is really unkind of her, I think. But then there's no dependence to be placed upon anybody nowadays. They're all of a piece. I s'pose she had got tired of us and wanted a change. She always was a great gadder, running about from pillar to post." 
               "Now, mother! when she has been here nearly three months helping us in every way, just as cheerfully as if she had been one of our own kith and kin! We never can repay her, never, never. And she only left us because Mrs. Mason really needed her more than we did." 
               "There may be two opinions about that. But I don't want to dispute about it. I expected you would stand up for her. Has that boy brought the milk in yet?" 
               "That boy," being a synonym for Peter Wells, a young lad of some fourteen summers, who, in consideration of a satisfactory equivalent, had kindly promised to "do chores" for us through the winter. In other words, he was to work for his board and go to school when the winter term began, which would not be until the first Monday after Thanksgiving. 
               I responded in the affirmative, as I lighted a lamp and moved toward the sitting-room door. 
               "Oh! there's a letter for you on the farther end of the mantel-piece. I forgot to tell you. Peter brought it while you were up-stairs. Well, I'm going to bed. It is not very pleasant sitting here alone. What is there to do for Ruth yet?" 
               "Nothing but what I can do. But, mother, you will be very tired before daylight, if you go to bed so early. Won't you come in the other room?" 
               Not she. So I lighted another lamp for her, drew down the curtains, and then went to look after Ruth, first securing my letter. 
               She was asleep, or appeared to be. I shaded the light with my hand as I carried it across the room and placed it on a stand in a far corner where the rays could not reach the bed. Then I drew a chair softly forward and proceeded to examine my treasure. 
               It was from Greyhurst, as I had expected. It was not the first, nor the second, nor yet the third token of remembrance that had reached me from there since Mr. Tremaine bade me good-bye in Albany that August morning, now three months ago. Only three months! It seemed three ages, as, holding the still unopened letter in my hand, I let my thoughts run backward through the weary weeks. 
               I broke the seal. It was a family letter. Mrs. Gordon's delicate, graceful chirography; Edith's dainty yet still unformed hand; Arthur's bold, broadly-marked hieroglyphics, and Fanny's "spider-tracks," as Mr. Tremaine styled his little niece's efforts at penmanship. The different chapters were very unlike in appearance and expression. But the same sentiment ran through them all. "We love you, we miss you, we are lonely without you. When are you coming back to us?" That was the sum and substance of the two large sheets that I read in that silent room, hearing nothing but Ruth's regular breathings as I turned the pages carefully lest the rustling of the leaves might awaken her. I read them over and over again. 
               Ruth stirred at last. I laid the letter upon the stand and went to the bed. She put up both her arms, as I leaned over her and clasped them about my neck. 
               "My poor Sibyl," she said, "you look worn and sad to-night. These have been hard weeks for you. Is it not bedtime?" 
               "I am going to bed presently," I answered, keeping my face out of her sight as much as possible;" just as soon as I get your drinks prepared for the night. My bed is all ready." 
               "Where?" 
               "There, on the lounge." 
               "You must sleep here with me, Sibyl. There is plenty of room, and you will not disturb me. I should so like to have you, dear." 
               "Not to-night; some time, perhaps, when you are less tired, but not now. You must not talk any more, Ruthie, or you will have a sleepless night, and Miss Maxey will think me a careless nurse." 
                
               She drank a cup of gruel and was soon asleep again. I threw myself upon the lounge, and closed my eyes. But it was all in vain. For weeks I had not trusted myself to look backward or forward. I had not dared to do it. I did not dare now. Thought seized me, an unwilling victim, in its grasp, and compelled me to yield to its resistless sway. In the dark hours of that long, wakeful night, I was forced to see what I had been wilfully determined not to see for a full month. 
               My couch became a bed of torture. It would have been a relief if I could have tossed about, and fought bodily with the demon of unrest. But that would have awakened Ruth. At length I rose from the lounge, noiselessly moved the rocking-chair close to the stove, for the night was damp and chilly, wrapped a shawl about me, put my feet upon the hearth, and looked destiny full in the face. 
               There was no use in trying to disguise the fact any longer. Ruth, in all human probability, would never walk again, never be moved save from her bed to the lounge and back again. My tears flowed silently, noiselessly, for her. All the bright dreams of her girlhood and early womanhood had come to this. Bedridden! I tried to comprehend it, to take in its full meaning. She might live for years, for she was regaining her health. She was stronger, I could see, than she was three weeks since; and I knew that even a fortnight earlier she could not have been moved down-stairs as she had been moved that day. But though she was suffering less, the injury of the hip, which was the apparent cause of all the difficulty, did not yield to medical treatment. The doctors looked grave, and were loth to express an opinion. Dr. Hyde had said to me but a day or two ago, in answer to a direct question- 
               "I cannot say, Sibyl; wisdom was not born with me, and I do not flatter myself that it will die with me either. And time, as a remedial agent, sometimes accomplishes wonders; does far more than we dare to expect." 
               "But you do not expect much in this case?" 
                
               "Not a great deal, I must confess. And yet, as I said before, my dear child, my judgment is not an infallible one. The case is not utterly hopeless because it is beyond my skill. It is a very sad affair. I would give worlds to be able to set your sister on her feet again. I am told she was to have been married last month, or early in September." 
               "She was," I answered. "It is very hard. But, Doctor, you are not the only physician who has seen her. Do the others give no encouragement?" 
               He hesitated. 
               "They agree with me more nearly than I could wish, Sibyl," he said, laying his hand upon my head as he spoke. "I loved your father. He was one of the first friends that I made when I came into this town, and he was also one of the truest. I promised him and my own soul, as I stood by his grave, that I would watch over his daughter as I would over my own, if I had one. I shall do for Ruth all that it is possible for me to do. I shall bring to her aid all the skill that I can command, whether it be my own or that of others. Do you trust me?" 
               "Perfectly," I replied, "as I would have trusted my father himself." 
               I had not allowed myself to go over this little conversation mentally since it took place. I had driven it from my mind, saying, "Get thee behind me," to its remembrance. But now it held me in its grasp relentlessly, and would not let me go. The tiny night-lamp for which I had sent to Oakwood, shed a faint, dim light throughout the room, and I turned to look at Ruth as she lay motionless upon the bed. I imagined her lying there year after year. I saw the brown hair turn gray, the soft eyes lose their light, the sweet young face grow old and wan. Bed-ridden! I had seen two or three old women to whom that word applied. I recalled their countenances, inane and vacant, peevish and querulous, or wearing a look of hopeless, pitiful patience that was sadder than either. Cut off from busy, earnest, helpful, active existence-a dead weight, a listless burden-breathing ing but not doing-suffering, waiting, but not performing-was this death in life all that remained for my poor Ruth? 
               I thought of John Gardiner, her betrothed lover, her plighted husband. I saw him, too, a lonely, stricken man, bearing his crushed hopes, his disappointed love, his dreams that might never be realized, onward with him to the grave. Or, after years of hopeless waiting had absolved him from his allegiance, transferring to some other the love that he had given her; seeking elsewhere the home, the rest that he might not find with Ruth. This alternative seemed the saddest of the two. For I knew that while she lived no other woman could fill her place or sit upon her throne. I knew that if he should wed another the ghost of the "might have been" would haunt him until his dying hour. 
               Was it strange-did it betray aught of selfishness or self-seeking on my part-that at last my thoughts came round to myself? What was to become of me? How was I to lift the burden thus laid at my feet? How bear this sudden change in all my plans and hopes and prospects? Of what avail now was the toil and labor of years? Of what profit the aspirations that had led me on from one plane of advancement to another?-aspirations that I had fondly hoped might bear me still from height to height, until I should stand upon the mountain-top, with nothing to obstruct my vision or hide from me the promised land. I was too young then to see that no earnest heart-labor is wholly lost; that no true and pure aspiration is utterly profitless. I only felt that my future had changed its aspect suddenly and entirely; that I had nothing to look forward to save years of the hard, uncongenial toil, the daily drudgery, that had been so distasteful to me from my very childhood, and from which I had striven so earnestly to escape. Before me lay the same struggle with comparative poverty; the same cramped, narrow life; the same want of leisure for higher things; the same inability to do anything but minister to the ever-recurring needs of the body. Life must begin and end with the effort to keep myself and those around me alive and tolerably comfortable; must be merged in the attempt to keep soul and body together. 
               I rose softly from my chair, and stealing across the room, got my letter, and crouching upon the floor by the side of the night lamp, read it over again by the dim, uncertain light. "Come back to us!" It was impossible. I could as easily have obeyed the summons if I had lain in the tomb four days, bound hand and foot with grave-clothes. The record of that year, as of others that followed it, is a painful one. There was much in it to regret, much to repent of, much to mourn over with unavailing sorrow. But I thank God to-day that the thought that it was possible for me to go away, and leave Ruth in her helplessness to the care of one who was scarcely less helpless than herself, never flitted across my brain. Had the idea even so much as occurred to me, I could never have forgiven myself; never have recovered from a sense of degradation, of humiliation. But that night my heart sent up a bitter, wordless cry. It wept and bewailed itself. Why had I ever gone to Greyhurst? Why had that glimpse of such a life as my soul pined for been granted me? A life filled with pleasant duties and congenial tasks; tasks that stimulated but never exhausted, and that left abundant leisure for improvement, for self-culture, for growth. As I looked back to the year I had spent there, it seemed like a dream of ideal beauty, making the actual, by contrast, all the more hard and unendurable. The atmosphere of beauty, of refinement, that had surrounded me there, seemed necessary to my very existence. I felt as if I was stifling without it. 
               My glance fell upon the letter again, dwelling longest where Fanny had written these words- 
               "Uncle Guy has just bought two ponies-such little beauties, as white as snow-and he is going to give you and Edith riding lessons when you come back. We all hope Ruth will get well fast. Aren't you coming home pretty soon, Miss Sibyl? He sends his"-"love" had been written first, then crossed out and "respects" substituted-"I mean Uncle Guy. He is here now, bothering me so that I can't write nicely, as you taught me." 
               Underneath the message a bold, manly hand that I easily recognized, had written: "The first version pleases me best. Fanny's correction is no improvement." 
               I folded the letter again, and went back to my seat by the stove, still holding it in my hand. How vividly "Uncle Guy's" handsome, kindly, mischievous face rose before me! Perhaps it lacked the impress of earnest thought, the stamp of conscious power. Perhaps. But how sensitive, how refined, how graceful it was! My heart had not yet ceased to thrill at the remembrance of his last words to me, "God bless you, Sibyl"-a benediction that went with me through all the dreary days that followed. He had never called me Sibyl before, in all our years of frequent, almost household, companionship. 
               I do not think that I loved Guy Tremaine. If I did, it was unconsciously. I had never thought about the matter at all. And I was far from cherishing the idea that he held for me anything more than a passing liking, such as he might feel for any tolerably pretty and attractive girl with whom he was almost daily associated. But I had enough regard for him, enough appreciation of the courteous and unfailing kindness of his bearing toward me, to make the thought of dropping entirely out of his life, of being nothing to him henceforth and forever, exquisitely painful. I cannot deny that it was one additional drop of bitterness in the cup that was held to my shrinking lips. It was a sprig of rue floating upon the wormwood and the gall. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE next day I wrote a long letter to Mrs. Gordon, telling her that my fears as to Ruth's condition were fast subsiding into certainties, and that there was no probability that I would ever be able to resume my place in her family. Meanwhile the children must have a teacher. She had already waited for me longer than I should have dared to ask, and now she must wait no longer, but procure another governess as speedily as possible. Much more I wrote, out of the fulness of a grateful heart, but it is not necessary that it should be repeated here. I folded and sealed my letter, and dispatched Peter to the post-office in season for the afternoon mail. 
               "There!" I whispered softly as I turned into the house again, after waiting to see him fairly started for the village. "Another chapter of my life is ended. What next?" 
               The very next thing was to unpack one of my trunks that had not been opened since I left Greyhurst. It had contained nothing that I needed for ordinary use; and in the shock of my father's death and my continuous anxiety for Ruth, I had entirely overlooked it. It stood in an unused chamber where it had been placed on the day after my arrival at home, locked and strapped, with the dust of travel still whitening its lid. It was time it was opened and its contents taken care of. 
               A flood of pleasant memories rushed over me as I raised the cover. There in the first tray lay all the pretty nothings that my position in Mrs. Gordon's family had required-many of them gifts, including Edith's ivory comb-some of them purchases. A strange, subtle sweetness pervaded them all. Whence came it? Tucked down in one corner, crushed and faded, lay a little bunch of white jessamine stars, and the golden balls of the acacia. Fanny had tossed them there, when I was packing my trunk, saying they were better than any of her mother's costly perfumes. More enduring, perhaps, for I have them still, pressed between the leaves of a book where I tearfully placed them that day. Even yet I cannot open it without catching a faint breath of the fragrance that floated through my room when Fanny brought them to me, and seeing for one brief moment the gleam of her golden hair. 
               Beneath them were the blue silk and the white tarlatane. I smiled a little bitterly as I shook out the shining folds of the one, and the airy fulness of the other. Much good they were likely to do me. 
               "Hang away your fineries, Sibyl," I said to myself, with a grim attempt at laughter; "calico's your only wear. You may count yourself lucky if you get enough of that." 
               A long, slender something, wrapped in tissue paper, lay in the bottom of the trunk. I knew what it was before I opened it. My little silver vase. I put away the various articles that were scattered about upon the floor, the tables and the chairs, strapped the trunk and carried it up to the garret, and then went down to Ruth with the vase in my hand. 
               She had heard of it before, for of course I had written of my Christmas gifts. 
               "Your little vase!" she said, as I held it up for her inspection. "How pretty it is! Where are you going to put it?" 
               "Where is Arthur's bracket?" I asked in return. 
               "It was hanging in the parlor," she replied, "but I took it down to dust it the day that I had my fall, and it has not been put up since. I think Miss Maxey said she put it in the table drawer." 
               "In the parlor?" 
               "Yes,-the little table between the windows." I went after it. 
               "What now?" asked Ruth. 
               "I am going to hang the bracket here, and put the vase on it. You can never see it in the parlor, and I but seldom. If we only had some flowers!" and my thoughts flew back to that bright Christmas morning. My eyes beheld the white waxen petals of the camellia, with its setting of richest green; and I inhaled again the fragrance of the half-opened rose, the great purple pansy, and the spicy geranium leaves. 
               "There are a few crimson amaranths and some white everlastings in a box on my bureau," said Ruth. "Wouldn't they answer in lieu of something better?" 
                
               "Yes," I replied. "They will do very well, with some sprigs of cedar. I'll get them right away." 
               As I sat by the bedside, arranging the little bouquet, putting an amaranth here, and a few grasses there, in a vain attempt to avoid the stiffness that is inseparable from dried flowers, I felt, rather than saw, that Ruth's eyes were fixed upon me. 
               I looked up and met them, brimful of tears. Down went the flowers, and her hand was clasped in both mine. 
               "What is it, Ruthie? Tell me." 
               "I was thinking;" she said, trying to speak calmly-"I was wondering whether you perceive as clearly as I do the difference between your life now and what it was a year ago. The contrast is as great between the then and the now as between those stiff, odorless spectres that you are trying to arrange, and the vivid bloom and beauty with which your vase overflowed last winter. Oh, Sibyl! I can bear this for myself, but when I think of you and of John, it breaks my heart." 
               This was the first time that Ruth had spoken to me in this way since the fifteenth of September. As I have said before, she was not demonstrative, in the ordinary acceptation of the word. She was not given to enlarging upon her own joys or her own sorrows. Perhaps the hardening process to which she said she had been obliged to subject herself, had taught her self-control. No tenderer or more loving heart ever throbbed. Yet she never babbled of her loves or of her griefs. She was the broad river rolling silently onward to the sea; not the little brawling brook making a great noise and a great plashing as it dashes along over the pebbles and against the rocks for one half of the year, and, perhaps, dwindling to a mere thread the other half. It meant a great deal when Ruth said "it breaks my heart." 
               I was dumb. What could I say to her? What could I do but mingle my tears with hers, and strive by mute caresses to charm away the pain? I could not say that it was a little thing for John or for me. She was clear-sighted, and subterfuges were of no avail in dealing with her. I could not comfort her by saying, "It is far harder for you than for us." She was too unselfish to find any balm in that thought. I could not say, "It will be better by and by-we must wait and be patient," for she had long believed that the injury was irreparable, and was as well acquainted with the opinion of the physicians as I was myself. 
               Should I say, "It is the Lord. Let Him do as seemeth Him good?" 
               Alas! I did not feel it myself. No words of Holy Writ came to me in those dark days with sweet sustaining power. I read my Bible, it is true. I had been taught to read it daily, and the habit retained its olden force. But I turned invariably to the speculations and expostulations of Job. If I had quoted Scripture to Ruth that day I should have repeated passages like these: 
               "For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause. He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitterness." 
               "Is it good unto thee that thou shouldst oppress, that thou shouldst despise the work of thine hands?" 
               "Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about; yet thou dost destroy me. Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay." 
               "Are not my days few? Cease then and let me alone, that I may take comfort a little, before I go whence I shall not return, even to the land of darkness, and the shadow of death." 
               "My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts of my heart." 
               Ruth was the first to recover herself. Shall I tell you what she said, lying there upon that bed of pain, hopeless of recovery, and feeling that if her calamity were "laid in the balance, it would be heavier than the sand of the sea?" 
               "'Like as a father pitieth his children,'" she murmured with a long weary sigh, "He pities us, Sibyl. Think of that. It means so much. 'Pities us,'" she repeated, slowly and thoughtfully. "He will not lay upon us more than we are able to bear. And He knows best. I should die if I did not believe that. 'Ye are of more value than many sparrows.'" 
               I broke out impulsively. Was sorrow hardening rather than softening my heart?- 
               "I cannot feel that, Ruth! 'Lord, if thou hadst been here my brother had not died.' What a reproach that is! And he might have been there. He might have spared those whom he professed to love all the sorrow, all the anguish. But he did not. He came afterward and performed a miracle. It would have been far better to have warded off the suffering in the first place." 
               She folded me in her arms with a close clasp of indescribable tenderness. 
               "My poor Sibyl! I do not wonder that you have grown pale and thin under your troubles, if you have been feeding on such dry husks as that," and she stroked my face as it lay upon her pillow. "Let me try if I cannot give you something a little more substantial." 
               Keeping up the caressing motion of her hand, she repeated, in a clear, soft voice:- 
               "'I have loved thee with an everlasting love.' Everlasting, Sibyl. Not merely when the skies are bright, and He is leading us in the green pastures and beside the still waters. But always, no matter how rough and dreary the pathway may be. 'For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perisheth, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.'" 
               I did not reply, but lay with my eyes closed, thinking that I would give worlds for Ruth's unquestioning faith. It was easy for me to perceive that she tasted manna that I knew not of. After a while she spoke again- 
               "I am not going to try to instruct you, Sibyl, or to reason with you. You know of the doctrine already. And you know, too, although you do not feel like admitting it to-day, that His 'ear is not heavy that it cannot hear, nor his arm shortened that it cannot save!' But do not forget, darling, that while 'the letter killeth the spirit maketh alive.'" 
               She said no more, and presently I arose from her bosom, and went back to my flowers. 
               The winter was an eventless one. Nothing occurred that was worth recording, save a visit from a celebrated New York surgeon, who happened to have been a class-mate of Dr. Hyde's. The latter announced to us one day that his old friend, Dr. --, was about to make him a visit, and that he should take the liberty of bringing him to see Ruth. I knew just as well then as I do now that he had sent for him for that very purpose, defraying all the necessary expenses himself. But he would not acknowledge the benefaction. 
               Again her case was carefully examined-this time with great minuteness of detail. But no good came of Dr. --'s visit, except the satisfaction of feeling that nothing had been left undone-nothing untried. His opinion coincided entirely with that of Dr. Hyde and the other physicians. I thought there was an added look of patient suffering in Ruth's eyes for many days afterward. But she said but little about it; that little evincing that she had buried hope and rolled a stone to the door of the sepulchre. And I took my cue from her and kept silent also. 
               John was all to me that a brother could have been, save that I had too much pride to tell him of any of my pecuniary troubles. No one, not even Ruth, knew how closely I was obliged to calculate and economize in order to keep the purse from becoming entirely empty. There had been severe droughts the summer of my father's death, rendering the rugged little farm even less productive than usual. Then there were the expenses attending his funeral, and those occasioned by Ruth's condition. In addition to this, the winter was remarkably cold, or we were unusually sensitive. It seemed to me that it required thrice the amount of wood to keep the house warm that it had ever required before. I used to count the scanty coins in the household purse like a very miser. But though they were often very scanty, they never entirely disappeared. There was pork to sell-a "fine lot of it," the neighbors said, but hardly anything else. John attended to the selling of that for me. The apple crop had failed entirely. 
               My own money-that paid me by Mrs. Gordon when I left Greyhurst-was untouched. That I determined to reserve for emergencies, and deposited it in the savings bank. Mother often insinuated that I must have been very extravagant, and wondered what had become of my year's wages. But, taking Ruth into my confidence, we both concluded that it was best that I should keep my own counsel, and make the farm support us if we could. 
               There was one comfort. Mother was perfectly willing, while she was nominally at the head of the family, to allow me to bear the burden of care and responsibility. I soon learned that I could manage far better without her aid than with it. Perhaps she learned the same lesson; for after a while she ceased to interfere with my arrangements, while she reserved the right to find as much fault as she pleased. But I hardened myself as Ruth had done, and submitted to what could not be avoided or escaped. 
               I do not wish to be continually dwelling upon the details of our household life. Suffice it to say that, greatly as I felt the need of one, it was impossible to hire a servant. Mrs. Murphy came to my assistance, as she used to come to Ruth's, once or twice a week. That was all that I could afford. My life was very fatiguing, very laborious. Perhaps it was as well on the whole, as it left me less time for looking backward or forward. 
               I have said that John was all that a brother could have been to me. I cannot tell you what he was to Ruth. He hovered about her like a ministering spirit. He was never out of the way when he was needed. He was never in the way when he was not needed. "Tried as by fire" was the thought that oftenest est occurred to me when I looked upon his face. He never alluded to the crushing of his own hopes-never said, "This is an hard thing. Who can bear it?" If there had been any dross, any earthliness, any selfishness in his love-and who shall say there had not been, for he was but mortal?-it had all melted away in the furnace of affliction, leaving the gold pure, the silver unalloyed. You have seen Ary Scheffer's "Dante and Beatrice?" I had not seen it then. But I have thought since that John's face sometimes wore just the look that Dante's wears in the picture. Ruth was his saint-his Verena. Yet at the same time she was 
                      
                        "A creature not too bright and good 
                        For human nature's daily food." 
                     
                  
                
               She was something to be petted, and cherished, and cared for all the more tenderly because God had laid his hand so heavily upon her. His presence never called a blush to her cheek. She would take her food from his hand as she would from mine, with no more of hesitation or reluctance. I often looked at them, with a sigh, when I remembered that life held nothing for either of them better than those hours of communion when he sat by her bedside with her hand clasped in his, in a silence that was more eloquent than speech. 
               Letters from Greyhurst came at irregular intervals. I was not forgotten and was still missed, although the new teacher had come in my place, and the lessons were going on with their wonted regularity. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               WITH the spring the aspect of things brightened somewhat. Ruth had many days of intense suffering, days when her whole frame seemed racked with pain; and such days were always followed by a period of extreme prostration tion. But they were by far less frequent than they had been, and alternated with intervals of comparative ease. I learned how to arrange the bolsters and pillows so that she could sit in a half-reclining position, and one day she said- 
               "I am so tired of doing nothing, Sybil. Do bring me my work-basket." 
               From that time she began to amuse herself with light bits of needlework, and the long hours dragged less wearily. The little basket, with its pretty accompaniments, always stood on the stand at the head of her bed, and it were vain to tell how many yards of "tape trimming" and "tatting," and delicate ruffling emerged from its depths. A fresh influx of life and a sort of tranquil happiness came into the house with the soft spring winds. There are few things for which man has greater reason to bless his Creator than for the power of adaptation with which he is endowed. As he becomes accustomed to the yoke, it grows less grievous. The burden that was at first intolerable, comes at last to be borne more patiently, if not more easily. The bitter cup loses a little of its intense bitterness after repeated tastings. The darkness that at first seemed impenetrable-a dense black void-as the eye adapts itself to its surroundings, lightens into a misty twilight. The road that seemed so rough, so hedged up with difficulties, so full of thorns, grows a trifle smoother as he advances, or else he learns to avoid some of the pitfalls and to escape a part of the brambles that lie in wait for the tender flesh. God does not "temper the wind to the shorn lamb," Shakespeare to the contrary notwithstanding. But he gives the lamb an instinct that teaches it to seek a covert from the storm. And just such a covert he gives to man in that necessity of his being that compels him, though he may struggle for awhile desperately and defiantly, at last to submit to what is inevitable. With submission comes rest, comparative peace, and the power of discovering alleviating circumstances and small mercies that were overlooked in the first delirium of his anguish. 
                
               All these had not come to me yet, but they were on their way. I felt their foreshadowings and began to realize that perhaps I might some time learn to look resignedly upon a lot that still seemed one of unmitigated hardship. 
               Unmitigated? No, for I had Ruth. By a strange paradox she was at once the source of all my sorrow, and the one great blessing of my life. 
               What to do with the farm that spring was a question of great importance, and one that gave rise to innumerable discussions. We at last decided to "let it on shares," reserving only the garden and right of pasturage for one cow. "That boy," as my mother invariably styled Master Peter Wells, proving efficient and capable, we invited him to continue his sojourn with us; and under our joint supervision and labors, lettuce, green peas, and early potatoes grew and flourished. So did mignonette and sweet peas, roses and violets. The little vase was not empty from the time the lovely arbutus blossomed in April, until the late frosts cut off the asters and gillyflowers. 
               In July I had a letter from Mrs. Gordon. 
               "My brother has gone abroad," she wrote. "He sailed on the 10th of June. You know he said, as long ago as when you were here, that he meant to do some desperate thing, such as studying law, or going back to Europe, and he has at last chosen the latter course. He will probably be gone two or three years. Guy told me that you once suggested political life to him as a broad field wherein he might labor for his own good as well as for that of others. I wish he had hearkened to you, for I do not like this roving, unsettled way of living. And at present he has no close family ties, and no emergent business to keep him at home. I asked him where he was going, and he said, 'To the ends of the earth for aught I know.' Encouraging, is it not?" 
               "Anything new?" asked Ruth, as I folded the letter. 
               "Nothing particularly unexpected," I answered. "Mr. Tremaine has gone abroad again." 
                
               "On business?" 
               "Hardly," I replied, with a laugh that had but little merriment in it. "I never heard of his having any business, except that of enjoying himself as well as circumstances would permit, and trying to make those around him happy also. He has the kindest heart. But oh, Ruthie, what a difference there is in lives! Wealth, leisure, travel and culture for some. Privation, repression, and endless drudgery for others." 
               I repented the remark in a second, for Ruth's countenance fell, and she looked at me with such a yearning tenderness in her brown eyes. 
               "Yes," she said softly, "and sharp pains and life-long weariness for others. But, Sibyl, He who appointed these differences knows our needs. Perhaps-nay I should rather say doubtless, you and I needed just the discipline we are now having. I believe that every one that is born into the world has, sooner or later, to learn one lesson-how to submit." 
               "You have learned it already," I said. "You know the whole alphabet of submission from Alpha to Omega. But I have hardly commenced it yet. I never can learn it, Ruth, never! It is too hard." 
               That evening John came in with a smile on his lip. 
               "A compliment for Miss Ruth Huntington," he said, tossing a handful of half-opened roses on to the bed. "What will she give for it?" 
               "Whatever it is worth," she replied laughingly. "Though compliments must be expensive at present, there are so few in the market. Who has them for sale now?" 
               "Old Mrs. Peabody. She says that 'Ruth Huntington is a sight to behold. She's prettier 'n a picture any day.'" 
               Ruth turned to me hastily- 
               "Bring me a looking-glass, Sibyl. Do, quick!" and she tapped the edge of her work-basket with a funny gesture of impatience. "I always did like to look at pictures." 
               I brought the little mirror, and she took a deliberate survey of herself, scrutinizing the image reflected therein with great nonchalance. 
               "It is not badly done," she said, with imperturbable gravity, as if giving her opinion of a portrait. "Nose turns up a little too much, and there's something wrong about the chin. But shamming sick, I should say. John, anybody would think I was an arrant cheat, a real make-believe." 
               It was all true. Nothing could have been prettier than Ruth was that summer. She had one of those rare countenances upon which disease makes no impression, unless it may be to give to them a more delicate and etherealized beauty. Her face was neither wan nor wasted. There was a faint flush upon her cheek, and the long freedom from exposure had given a childlike delicacy to the texture of her skin. Her brown hair was as soft and luxuriant as ever. It had been cut off when she was at the worst, and now clustered in a rich, wavy mass about her forehead and behind the small, shell-like ears. It was a matter of pride as well as pleasure with me to keep everything about her pure and white and dainty. I had drawn upon the savings bank but once; and that was for money enough to procure material for half-a-dozen fine linen wrappers, some of them finished with narrow, linen cambric ruffles, and the rest with soft embroidery. Ruth had protested against the extravagance, but for once I turned a deaf ear to her expostulations. 
               "I saved the money for you, Ruth," I said. "I cannot use it in the way I intended, and you must let me please myself this time. It will please you too in the end," I added, kissing her. "You have too much taste not to prefer fine linen to coarse cotton." 
               She said no more, and I made the wrappers to suit myself. Very fair and sweet and dainty she looked in them; and with the white drapery of her bed, her little work-basket, the pretty trifles over which her slight fingers were always hovering, and the flowers that were about her all summer long, she was indeed as "pretty as a picture." John and I decided that old Mrs. Peabody was a woman of rare taste and discernment. 
               "Have you heard of the wonderful things that are about to happen in Valleythorpe?" asked John, after the looking-glass was restored to its place. "No? Then I have some news for you. Our water-power is to be turned to some good account once more. We are to have a great woollen-mill down in the village." 
               "Who is going into the business?" I asked. "Mr. Guernsey?" 
               Mr. Guernsey was our "rich man;" a species of the genus homo of which every New England village boasts at least one specimen. 
               "No. A gentleman from New York. Mark Halsey is his name, I believe. It will be a fine thing for the town. He has bought the water-power that has been running to waste ever since the paper-mill burned down, and several acres of land adjoining." 
               "It seems like such an undertaking to start an enterprise like that," I said, "where one must begin at the very beginning. When are they going to work?" 
               "At the buildings? Immediately. Mr. Halsey was making contracts for lumber to-day. I haven't seen Valleythorpe so wide awake this many a day. Every man is on the alert, and nothing is talked of but the new factory." 
               "Is Mr. Halsey going to live here?" 
               "He is to be here himself most of the time while the building is going up, I believe, and will bring his family next year. Didn't I tell you? He has purchased the old Belden House, and it is to be thoroughly repaired. He was going over it this morning with a carpenter and a mason." 
               "Very foolish of him," said my mother, who had come in a little while before and stood leaning against the foot-board with her knitting-work in her hand. "I know all about that old house. It's nothing but a shell. The cheapest thing he can do is to set fire to it. Sibyl, you mark my words. After that factory gets to running you won't have any garden sauce, nor a cherry, nor a currant. The town will be chuck full of loafers and rowdies. Valleythorpe will laugh out of the other corner of her mouth before she is five years older." 
               No one disputed her dictum, and the conversation soon drifted away in another direction. 
               Our little farm was less than a mile from the village, and the walls of the new mill, or "the factory" as it was always called by the villagers, were distinctly visible from Ruth's window. She found much amusement in watching their steady uprising, and in admiring their rapid progress towards completion. Before the first snows fell the roof was on, and during the winter the inside work was to be done, and the machinery put in. 
               "This Mr. Halsey is evidently a man who does not let the grass grow under his feet," she said one day, as we were remarking the ascent of one of the tall chimneys. "No piece of work was ever done in Valleythorpe as systematically and with such thoroughness as this." 
               "Perhaps the credit is not all due to Mr. Halsey," I answered. "He has experienced workmen, plenty of money, and-" 
               "Plenty of brains and energy," interrupted Ruth. "I need no better proof of that than the way this building has gone up. Now, Sibyl, give me my basket, and read me a chapter in my beloved Thomas  Kempis." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               MARCH came again-the second March since the death of my father. Ruth had lain upon the bed where Miss Maxey's strong arms had helped to place her, for eighteen long, tedious months. And the day of her uprising was apparently no nearer at hand now than then. 
                
               She had always a smile for me, a look of love, or some sweet word of cheer and encouragement when, worn and wearied with my multiplied duties and with the weight of cares that were often harassing and burdensome, I turned to her for the cordial for which my fainting spirit yearned. Yet I who knew her so well, and who watched her so closely, perceived that as the March winds whistled, and the last snows drifted against the windowpanes, there was a new trouble in the brown eyes that followed John with such wistful tenderness. I noticed that she was always sadder after a visit from him. Her work-basket lost its attractiveness, and she would lie for hours with closed eyes and hands at rest. I should have thought her sleeping if the changeful mouth, now compressed as if to crush back a cry of pain, and now tremulous with emotion, had not told a tale of inward suffering. 
               One stormy evening, after the doors were locked and mother had gone to bed, I drew the little table close to the stove, designing to finish the week's mending. But before I had put on my thimble Ruth's voice arrested me- 
               "Do not work to-night, Sibyl. It is too late. Besides I want you." 
               When Ruth wanted me there was nothing more to be said. So I rolled the table back again, and seating myself by the bed, I laid my cheek beside hers upon the pillow. She clasped my hand in both her slender ones, and caressed it softly. 
               "Poor little hand," she said at length, "poor little tired hand that works so patiently all day long. And you hoped for such a different life! I wonder if it would be wicked for me to pray that I might die?" 
               I checked her with kisses and tears, and murmured expostulations. But it was only for a moment. Soon the low, plaintive voice was heard again- 
               "Eighteen months! Do you know it, Sibyl? I have lain here eighteen months; and it must be eighteen more and eighteen more, over and over, until I die. Months and years of useless, hopeless, weary waiting, a burden and a hindrance to those who love me. Oh! it would surely be better that I should die!" 
               It was so unusual to hear such words from Ruth that I was utterly at a loss. I knew not what to say, and answered at a venture- 
               "Hush! Ruth. You will break my heart if you talk so. What ails you to-night? Are you worse?" I questioned, as a sudden fear shot through my heart. "Let me call Peter, and send him for the doctor, or for Miss Maxey." 
               "No, no, Sibyl," she answered, as she drew me to her side again, for in my anxiety I had arisen; "no, no, I am no worse. I am only-rebellious! Wicked and rebellious. Setting up my will against that of my Maker. Only that, Sibyl." 
               
                  I was wicked without doubt, for it seemed to me that her words brought us more nearly together than we had ever been before; they touched me as I had never been touched by her meek submission; and, by some strange inconsistency, the words that I had never repeated for my own comfort now sprang to my lips for hers. 
               "'For He knoweth our frame; He remembereth that we are dust,' I whispered. "Not wicked, dear Ruthie, nor wilfully rebellious, but strongly tempted and sorely tried." 
               She drew a long weary breath. 
               "Sorely, sorely," she repeated, "tempted and tried. That is it, Sibyl." Then she added, slowly and deliberately, dwelling on each word, "'But He knoweth the way that I take: when He hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.'" 
               "Pure gold already," I thought, "gold that needs no refining." But I did not utter my thoughts; I only bent down and kissed the sweet face that was pillowed on my bosom. 
               It was some time before she spoke again. Then she said, as she suddenly lifted her arms and looped them about my neck- 
               "Strengthen me, if you can, Sibyl, for I have a hard task before me." 
                
               I looked at her wonderingly. 
               "John," she whispered. "It is not right that he should be bound to me any longer. I must loosen his bonds, and bid him go." 
               I started. This thought had never occurred to me before. John and Ruth had been associated in my mind, as well as in my affections, for so many years, that it was impossible for me to separate them. I smiled at length. 
               "You can offer him his freedom," I said, "but he will not take it. He will not thank you for the gift. John does not find his fetters burdensome." 
               Her lip quivered. 
               "Perhaps not yet. But he will at last. It is like binding the dead to the living, Sibyl. He is still young, and has a long life before him. I must not let him waste it in weary waiting for me." 
               Our conversation continued for a long time, Ruth still persisting that it would be dishonorable and unwomanly in her to allow a continuance of the engagement between them. There was no denying the soundness of her arguments, or the force of her conclusions, and I declared myself convinced. But "a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still;" and so is a woman. I did not believe that words, whether spoken by Ruth's lips or no, could sever the ties that bound their hearts together. 
               The next morning as we sat at the breakfast-table in the kitchen, the door opened, and Matty Ridgeway walked in. 
               "What now, Matty?" I asked, as the girl went up to the stove and drew off her woollen mittens; "you are out early this cold morning." 
               She came quickly to my side, casting a shy glance at Ruth through the open door, and said in a low voice- 
               "Mister John sent me. He wants you to come down to our house right off. Miss Gardiner she was took sick in the night." 
               "Very sick? I will go at once," I said, pushing back the half-emptied cup of coffee; "just as soon as I can arrange Ruth's room." 
                
               "'Charity begins at home,'" said my mother, fretfully. "Why did not John Gardiner send for some one else? You've quite enough to do to attend to your own sick folks. Now I suppose I've got all these dishes to wash?" 
               "Hush, mother!" I whispered, with a quick glance at Matty. "For Ruth's sake, if not for your own. Probably I shall not be gone long." 
               Matty had thrown off her hood, and was quietly gathering up the cups and saucers. 
               "Mister John said I was to stay here till you came back," she said. "I'll wash the dishes and take care of her too"-peering into the room. "I don't want no better fun. Besides, that's what I come for." 
               I explained matters to Ruth as I tied on my bonnet. 
               "Poor John," she sighed. "I wish I could go to him. Tell him so, Sibyl. Tell him-" 
               She paused; and by the shadow that swept over her face, I knew that the thought of our conversation of the previous night had silenced her. She turned her face to the wall, and I went back to the kitchen again. 
               "What's the matter with Mrs. Gardiner now?" my mother was asking. "Seems to me she's been complaining ever since I knew her." 
               "No she hain't, nuther, Mis' Huntington," said Matty, more bluntly than politely, it must be confessed, and flushing up to the very roots of her hair. "She don't never complain. 'Tain't her way. And if'twas, she's past complainin' this time. She hain't spoke one word since Mr. John found her a lyin' on the sofy last night when she'd ought to have been abed." 
               I waited to hear no more, but hurried down the winding road until I reached the pretty cottage, with its bay window looking towards the east, its broad piazza, and its sheltered flower-garden. John had beautified and adorned it for Ruth's sweet sake, shrinking neither from labor nor from self-denial, if so he might make a fitting home for the wife of his choice. 
                
               And now!- 
               I wiped away a tear as I closed the gate softly behind me, and went in. 
               Dr. Hyde met me in the hall, and grasped my hand silently. 
               "What is it, Doctor?" I asked, looking up into the rugged but kindly face. 
               "It is death, I expect," he said, in a voice that would have been low and soft if any effort of his could have made it so. He had the strangest voice. I never heard another like it; something half-way between a grunt and a growl. It used to frighten me, until I learned that, gruff as it was, the heart from which it spoke was gentle and tender as a woman's. 
               "You are not going away, Doctor?"-for he was putting on his overcoat. 
               "Only to see if I can find Miss Maxey. I want her. That woman is worth her weight in gold in a sick-room any day. Do you know where she is?" 
               "No; she was at Mr. Watkins' last week." 
               "Will you stay here until I come back?" 
               "Yes." 
               He opened the door, and started back with a smile. 
               "Of all things! Here she comes, bag and baggage. Miss Maxey, your most obedient. I was about to throw myself at your feet, and you have saved me the trouble." 
               She nodded. 
               "Just my luck, Doctor. You see I got home last night; have been staying at Mr. Watkins' for a fortnight. That baby of theirs is going to get well this time, but it's a feeble little thing. I doubt whether they'll raise it." This last in an aside to the doctor. Then she went on: "Half an hour ago Mary Ann said she thought there was trouble down here from the appearance of things. So I took my carpet-bag-I hadn't unpacked it yet-and here I am." 
               "Your good angel always tells you where you are wanted, Miss Maxey," said the Doctor, and he went into Mrs. Gardiner's room again. 
               "I am so glad you are here," I said, as Miss Maxey proceeded to take off her shawl and bonnet. "Can you stay?" 
               "Just as long as I am needed," she answered, slipping off an overshoe with the remark that rubbers were cold things. "That's all I'm good for-to take care of other people's sick folks. You know I haven't a chick nor a child of my own to worry about." 
               It was death. Not sudden nor terrifying; but the quiet, painless going out of a flickering flame. Just a week from that day John Gardiner kissed for the last time the lips that smiled in dying, laid his mother's still form back upon the pillow again, and went out to be alone with his grief. 
               Do you say that Azrael stalks across the stage too often? that his baleful shadow comes too frequently between our souls and the daylight? 
               Alas! it is not optional with me. While Life and Death walk hand-in-hand, it is impossible to tell the story of the one and ignore the existence of the other. As long as it is true that 
                      
                        "Leaves have their time to fall, 
                        And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath, 
                        And stars to set, but all, 
                        Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!" 
                     
                   just so long there can be no record of human life in which Death does not bear a conspicuous part. There is no hill-top, the wide world over, that does not look upon a grave. 
               The night after the funeral, Ruth lay looking out of the window with a grave, unsmiling face, watching the smoke-wreath arising from the desolate hearth, and thinking, as I well knew, of the desolate heart beside it. 
               "What will John do?" she said at length. "He has no home any longer. Oh, Sibyl! Only to think of what might have been!" 
                
               I did not make any reply. I was putting away various articles from the week's wash. But when I had finished my task I came to her side and bent over until I could look into her face. 
               "You will not do it, Ruth?-what you said the other night? You will not lay another burden on him, now that he has so much to bear?" 
               She looked at me steadily, but with a world of sorrow in her dark eyes- 
               "I will not place a burden upon him, Sibyl. I only want to remove one. That I must do. It is more my duty now than when I made the resolve. I must make him give me up; and maybe after awhile he will find another love and be happy." 
               I shook my head incredulously. 
               "You can never be his wife, Ruth. I know that as well as you do, and so does he. But, accepting the fact, he will say to you as one bearing your name said to Naomi, 'I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.'" 
               "You do not know," she answered, wearily. "I pity him so, Sibyl. Tied to a clod! I would be glad-I really would-to see him with a fair wife by his side, and to know that henceforth he would give me only a brother's love." 
               "I would not," I cried, with a sudden burst of hot, indignant tears. "It would kill me, Ruth!" 
               She smiled faintly- 
               "It takes a deal of trouble to kill one, dear. I learned that long ago." 
               "When do you intend to carry this brave resolution of yours into effect?" I asked, half sarcastically, as I put my handkerchief into my pocket again, and choked back a rising sob. 
               "Just as soon as ever I can. The first time that I have a good opportunity," she answered, and I went out to strain the milk and make ready for the night. 
               But it was not easy to find the opportunity she sought. She saw John every day, sometimes twice a day. He came to her with his sorrow, his loneliness, as to his best friend, his truest comforter. He came for bread, and could she give him a stone? I perceived, half smiling to myself, that although Ruth could talk to me quite stoically, it was hardly easier for her to broach to John himself the topic that all the while lay uppermost in her thoughts, than for a loving wife to discuss the question of a divorce. 
               About the first of May John came in one evening with a handful of trailing-arbutus. 
               "The May-flowers are later than usual," he said, tossing them upon the bed. "These are the first that I have seen this spring. I left part of them up yonder," nodding his head toward the graveyard. "She was so fond of them, you know;" and his voice trembled a little, although his face was calm. 
               I was passing in and out of the room on various errands, sometimes pausing to join in their conversation, but oftener intent upon my own business, when I heard John say in a low, constrained voice- 
               "Ruth, the factory is going into operation next week, and Mr. Halsey wants to rent my place for his foreman." 
               I did not hear her reply. Presently John's heavier tones reached me again- 
               "But I cannot live there myself, Ruth. Don't you see? Matty can't keep house for me. I have prevailed upon Miss Maxey to remain thus far simply because no one in the town is sick enough to need her care. If any child should have the whooping-cough or the measles, money couldn't keep her." 
               "What will you do, John?" 
               "I hardly know. Get a boarding-place somewhere in the village, I presume. Sibyl!" 
               I responded to the call by appearing in the door-way. 
               "Come in here a minute and let us hold a council of war. I want you to do something for me." 
               "It shall be done," I answered. "What is it?" 
               "I want you to take Matty off my hands. I cannot cast the child off to seek a home among strangers. It would break her heart. And of course she cannot be with me. May I send her here?" 
               I mused a moment, realizing at my heart's core what a blessed help and relief it would be if Matty were a member of the household; and perfectly conscious also that John's motive in making the proposition was not half as much a wish to provide a home for his young handmaiden, as it was to give me that relief. But while I hesitated he went on- 
               "I think her work would pay for her board, and I will clothe her as I always have done." 
               The color flushed my cheek. 
               "Pardon me," I said, "but you will do no such thing. If she works for us, lives with us, we will provide for her wants. I shall be very glad to take her, John, if mother will consent." 
               "Will you leave that to me?" 
               "Certainly, if you wish it." 
               He went off in pursuit of mother. I never knew what arguments he brought to bear upon her, but they accomplished their purpose. In less than a week I awoke one morning with a strange sense of irresponsibility as I lay listlessly listening to Matty's footsteps in the kitchen, and to the sound of the coffee-mill; and felt that I need not rise until half-past six, for there was some one else to get breakfast. 
               In due time the "foreman" took possession of John's house and three or four acres of land, and two of his neighbors were glad to rent the rest of the farm. 
               "What will you do with yourself this summer, John?" I asked. "You are quite a gentleman of leisure." 
               "I think I shall go West," he said; "partly in fulfilment of a long-cherished wish, and partly on business. I have a little matter of my own to attend to, and Mr. Guernsey offers me liberal inducements to look after some affairs of his in Ohio. So I presume I shall be gone several months. Can you spare me for so long a time, Ruthie?" 
               Ruth glanced at me imploringly. Obeying the mute signal I left the room, closing the door behind me. I felt that she would never be at rest until she had told John all that was in her heart; and now the right time, for which she had been waiting so long, seemed to have come. 
               For more than an hour the low murmur of their voices reached me in the adjoining room. Then John opened the door and called me. 
               I joined them. The faces of both bore visible tokens of strong emotion; but I was blind as a bat and saw nothing. John put his arm about my waist and drew me towards the bed. 
               "What do you think, my little sister?" he said, with a quivering lip. "Ruth has been trying to make me give you up!" 
               I laid my head upon his shoulder. 
               "But she did not succeed, John? What should I do without my brother?" 
               He held me closer, and I felt the pressure of his lips upon my forehead. Ruth's hand had stolen into mine. 
               "What did I tell you, Ruthie?" I whispered. "I hope your conscience is at rest at last. She has been in great trouble, John." 
               "So I have just learned. Has she betrayed any other symptoms of insanity, Sybil? My own darling, my life-long love," he murmured, pushing back the brown hair from her forehead and looking into her deep, unfathomable eyes. "You have been unjust to me and to yourself. What if the accident that laid you here had taken place on the sixteenth of September? Would you have considered it sufficient ground for a divorce?" 
               The prayer-book that I had brought with me from Virginia, and in which Ruth had learned to take great delight, although she herself was not an Episcopalian, lay upon the little table at the head of the bed, together with the Bible and a volume of Thomas  Kempis which Mrs. Gordon had sent her. John took it up and turned to the beautiful marriage service. 
               "'For better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health till death us do part.' It is true we had not uttered tered those words in presence of priest or minister, Ruth, but, what is far more, we had said them to God. Till 'death us do part.' In his sight you are my wife. The vows we have taken cannot be annulled. I claim the right of loving you, caring for you, watching over you until the end-whether it comes sooner or later." 
               The day had been dark and gloomy-the sky a vast dome hung with sackcloth, gray and sombre. But just then the clouds broke, and the long, slanting sunbeams streamed in at the western window. They fell upon Ruth's soft hair, changing each wavy lock to gold, and lit up John's face with a radiance that seemed almost divine. They had forgotten my presence, and I drew silently apart, gazing upon them with emotions that were beyond expression. Their hands were clasped, and the eyes of both were turned toward the mountains behind which the sun was slowly sinking-going to his rest with royal pomp beneath cloud-canopies of purple and of gold. 
               "See!" said he, as his eyes turned slowly from the glowing sky to Ruth's dear face again, "'At eventide there shall be light.' Who knows? Ruth, I accept the omen. Do you?" 
               She did not answer save by drawing his hand to her lips. Stealing softly from the room I left the two together. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               SIBYL, do you know you have been poring over that old account-book for just one hour and twenty-five minutes, by the clock? What's the trouble?" 
               I closed the book wearily. 
               "I don't know exactly. But I shrewdly suspect that Lysander Moore is either incompetent or dishonest. At all events I am very sorry that we let him have the farm again this year. It has troubled me for a month past." 
               "And you have kept it all to yourself! Why did you not tell me before?" 
               "Because it would have done no good. I did not mean to tell you now, but you took me unawares. Besides," I added, laughing, "I was warned by the example of old Mrs. Merry-field, with whom suspicion and distrust are chronic. She seems to suppose that all men regard widows and single women as their lawful prey-born to be cheated. I was afraid to mention my fears, lest you should think I had caught her distemper." 
               "Well, but, Mrs. Merryfield, what has aroused your suspicions? I thought Lysander did very well last year, although of course I cannot tell much about it." 
               "I cannot go over the whole ground now, Ruth. It would take too long, and my head is confused with those interminable lines of figures. The long and short of it is that the farm does not support us. We must retrench somewhere, and I must contrive some way to earn money." 
               "Retrench! I do not think we are very extravagant in our way of living, Sibyl. You need I cannot tell how many things this very day." 
               "Oh, dear!" I answered, glancing down at my calico dress, which showed plainly the effect of repeated washings, "I know it. Ruth, I could manage better if it were not for mother. I really think she is a little wild on the subject of expenditures of late," and I laughed faintly. 
               "Mother? That is something new." 
               "So new that I can hardly account for it. She certainly is forgetting her old habits of economy, and spends twice as much as she ever spent during father's lifetime. I know it, because I keep the purse and she comes to me for the money." 
               "What does she do with it? Where does it go?" 
               "I hardly know. It slips through her fingers some way. Goes for little things that do not amount to anything. Like the table-cover that she would buy of that peddler last week. We did not need it in the least; and there are many things that we do need badly, but cannot have for lack of the wherewithal. It troubles me, Ruth." 
               Ruth looked thoughtfully out of the window. At length she said- 
               "I see; it is strange that I have not thought of it before. Sibyl, do you remember that we used sometimes to wonder why father, no matter how busy he might be, always preferred to make the family purchases himself? Perhaps he had learned that it was best." 
               "I do not doubt it," I answered. "My own experience makes all that matter clear. But what is to be done about Lysander?" 
               "We can only watch him this year, and if satisfied that your suspicions are correct, refuse to let him have the land next spring. Meanwhile, we must bear patiently what we cannot avoid." 
               "Patience is very well in its way, but it will not furnish us with bread and butter. I shall try something else. I wonder if Matty numbers milking among her various accomplishments?" 
               "What has that to do with the matter under consideration?" 
               "I was wondering if we could not spare Peter? He is a good boy, but his appetite is something extraordinary. You have never had the pleasure of seeing him eat, Ruthie, and I assure you his powers in that respect are wonderful." 
               "But there's the horse. Matty could not take care of him." 
               "No; we must sell him, old friend that he is. I felt last year, even, that we could not afford to keep him; now I know that we cannot. And besides we hardly need him." 
               "But how will mother ever get to church?" 
               "She walked to the village twice last week. Don't you remember? A thing that she has not done in years. She is growing young, Ruth." 
                
               "And how will you sell Sir Thomas? If John was only here, he would take the whole matter off your hands." 
               "But he isn't. Peter said yesterday that Mr. Halsey wished to buy several horses, and I am going down to the factory this very afternoon. That is, if mother will consent to the sale." 
               "That will not be pleasant, Sibyl," said Ruth, shaking her head. "Write a note asking Mr. Halsey to call here." 
               "No; if I am to do a man's work, I'll do it in a man's way. I don't like it-I hate it, Ruth! But what must be, must." 
               At that moment Matty came into the room, her big black eyes bigger than ever- 
               "There's two gentlemen comin' into the front gate, Miss Sibyl. One on 'em's the Doctor. T'other one I don't know. Guess he's a stranger in these parts: leastwise I hain't never seen him before." 
               "Some physician to see you, probably," I said, turning to Ruth. "I must arrange the room a little first. Show the gentlemen into the parlor, Matty," I continued, as the knocker rose and fell two or three times in quick succession. "I should know Dr. Hyde's knock if I were to hear it in Egypt." 
               Presently Matty came back- 
               "They want to see you, Miss Sibyl. They didn't say nothin' about Miss Ruth. I guess t'other one 's that 'ere Mr. Halsey. I seen him once when I was goin' by the factory." 
               Ruth and I looked at each other for an instant. 
               "It cannot be possible," said I. "What would Dr. Hyde bring him here for?" 
               "Some little bird has told him that you want to sell Sir Thomas," answered Ruth, laughing. "But do run up-stairs and slip on another dress, Sibyl. It will not take a minute. Your hair looks nicely." 
               "Not I. They must take me as they find me. And really I have nothing suitable for morning that is any better than what I have on. It is some strange doctor to see you, Ruth, and I shall bring him in here in just two minutes." 
                
               Both gentlemen rose as I entered the parlor. 
               "Miss Huntington, allow me to introduce my friend, Mr. Halsey." 
               A deferential bow on the part of the stranger, and one rendered a little awkward by surprise and embarrassment on my own part. I glanced involuntarily at the low door-way, and found myself vaguely wondering whether Mr. Halsey had been able to enter it without bending his stately head. But before I had fairly crossed the room and seated myself, that question was merged in another. What had brought him here? 
               I was not left long in suspense. After the usual preliminary commonplaces, Dr. Hyde said with a smile- 
               "We came on business this morning, Sibyl. Mr. Halsey has a niece in his care for whom he desires to procure a teacher. He consulted me with regard to the matter, and I took the liberty of mentioning your name, although avowing myself entirely ignorant of your plans and wishes. That you would be able to give entire satisfaction I do not doubt at all; but I am aware that you have more upon your hands already than most young ladies." 
               I bowed. "May I ask the age of your niece, Mr. Halsey?" 
               "She must be twelve or thirteen, I should think," he answered. "Let me see, she was born in 18-. Yes, Marion is in her thirteenth year. But she is a mere child. You would hardly suppose her to be more than ten or eleven. She is not very robust, Miss Huntington, and knows nothing of the fresh, free life of the country. I wish-her to run and romp, get sun-burned and tear her dresses, hunt for last year's birds' nests, and become acquainted with mosses and lichens; consequently she would not make large demands upon your time. Two hours a day would be amply sufficient for all that would be required of you." 
               I hesitated. 
               "Would she come to me, Mr. Halsey? Or would you prefer that I should go to her?" 
               "She shall come here if you say so," was the reply. Then in a moment he added, earnestly, "I wish you to suit your own convenience in the matter, both as to time and place. Marion shall come to you if you prefer it. Still if you could come to my house it would be better, as my library is well provided with maps, globes, books of reference, and so on." 
               "I must think about it a little," I said, "and will give you my decision to-morrow, Mr. Halsey. Will that do?" 
               "Certainly," he replied, courteously, "but I shall venture to hope that your decision will be in our favor. My sister has taught Marion hitherto. Now that we are making a new home for ourselves, however, she finds that she has less leisure than formerly, and is obliged to relinquish the task. I trust you will be able to take it up." 
               He rose and glanced at the Doctor. 
               "Wait a minute, Halsey," said that gentleman. "I must run into the other room and shake hands with Ruth," he added, turning to me. "I have something in my pocket that she will be glad to see," and he gave me a glimpse of a letter from John. 
               Mr. Halsey resumed his seat, and began talking of Valleythorpe, showing a most intelligent appreciation of its needs and capabilities. I listened with both ears and one half of my brains. The other half was busy with Sir Thomas. Could I speak of buying and selling horses to this tall and stately stranger? What would he think of me? Yet why should I hesitate? He had come to buy sundry hours of my day. Why was it any more degrading to my womanhood to sell horses than time and brains? Thus meditating, I had not replied to his last remark, but sat in silence, nervously pulling the petals from a white rose that peeped in at the window, courting its fate. 
               I looked up at length, and met his eye. He smiled, and I felt that I was coloring painfully. 
               "He will think me a self-conscious simpleton," I thought. "I will speak to him about Sir Thomas, if I die for it." 
               "I was told yesterday that you wished to purchase several horses, Mr. Halsey. We have one in the stable at which I would like to have you look, if you have the leisure." 
               "You have made 'much ado about nothing,' Sibyl," I said to myself, as Mr. Halsey quietly thanked me, saying that I had been correctly informed, and that he would be very glad to examine the horse. 
               "Heigh-day! talking of selling Sir Thomas?" cried the Doctor, coming back, "what does this mean?" 
               "It means that we need money more than we do the horse," I answered. "At least that is my own impression, and I shall endeavor to persuade my mother to adopt my views; but it is possible that she may not consent to the sale. Doctor, will you show Mr. Halsey the way to the stable?" 
               The gentlemen walked toward the barn, and I returned to Ruth, eager to talk over the whole matter with her. 
               "My dear Sibyl!" she said, extending her hand, "Dr. Hyde has told me what brought him here. You do not hesitate about accepting Mr. Halsey's proposition?" 
               "Not if you think you can spare me two or three hours each day," I answered. "I had fully determined upon doing something to 'put money into my purse,' and this plan seems very feasible. It will be better than making shirts for a living." 
               "And pleasanter. It is so fortunate that Matty is here. Will you go to the house or will the little girl come to you?" 
               "Mr. Halsey said I could do as I pleased, but I think he would prefer the former course. And so would I. You don't know, I have never told you, but oh, Ruthie! I am starving for books. Maybe it will appease my hunger a little if I can but breathe the atmosphere of a library once again. I have felt for many months the same prolonged torture, the same 'hungering and thirsting' that I felt before I went to Oakwood." 
               "My poor child," she said, passing her hand caressingly over my cheek. "It has been very hard, I know. And you have borne it silently-silently and patiently." 
               "I have been afraid to speak," I answered, with lips that trembled as I kissed her. "I dared not trust myself. Relief seemed so far off, so improbable. But now Matty is here to relieve me of some of the drudgery, and perhaps this may be the dawning of a brighter day." 
               And all this joy and self-congratulation was in view of an opportunity to teach a little girl grammar and geography! 
               Mr. Halsey bought Sir Thomas. Mother demurred at first, but the price he offered was so liberal, that she was at length convinced that it was better to accept it. Matty proved both able and willing to milk, and Peter Wells was requested to procure another boarding-place. 
               "I'd a great sight rather milk, and fodder the cow to boot," Matty had said when questioned, "than to have him hanging 'round. It'll save lots o' work not to have him to cook for. Peter's a master case at victuals, he is, Miss Sibyl. I never seen the beat of him." 
               Pretty soon, as I was passing through the kitchen on another errand, she called me. 
               "Miss Sibyl! I'm good at gardenin' too. I can weed and hoe like everything. Me and Mis' Gardiner, we used to take most all the care of the garden after it was once dug up in the spring. I like garden sass and flowers first-rate." 
               I promised that she should have an opportunity to exhibit her skill, and Matty returned to her ironing with great content. 
               It was arranged that I should commence my new duties on Monday afternoon. Mr. Halsey had kindly allowed me to choose my own hours, and I felt it to be necessary to Ruth's comfort, and to the proper oversight of my housekeeping and business affairs, that my mornings should be spent at home. I treated myself to a couple of pretty gingham dresses, and went to sleep Saturday night with a lighter heart than I had borne for many a day. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               IF I only had an old shoe I would throw it after you for 'good luck,'" said Ruth, as I tied on my bonnet Monday afternoon. "How much time have you allowed yourself for your walk." 
               "Fifteen minutes," I answered, "and I shall walk slowly at that. Take good care of yourself, Ruth. Good-bye." 
               My heart beat as I walked quickly up the gravelled path that led from the gate to the piazza of the old "Belden place," now the home of Mr. Halsey. I saw at a glance that the house had been thoroughly renovated-made over, in fact. But as yet little had been done to the grounds, which were ample and capable of great improvement. 
               I ascended the steps, rang the bell, and was ushered into a small reception-room at the right. I had inquired for Miss Halsey, giving my name to the servant, and was glad of a moment to collect my thoughts. The truth was that it was so long since I had had any intercourse with strangers, that I felt shy and ill at ease. Presently I heard a footstep pattering down the stairs, and looked up expecting to see my new pupil. Instead, I beheld an old lady of sixty-five or seventy years, clad in a black dress of heavy, lustreless silk, with an under-handkerchief of snowy linen, finely plaited. Her dark hair, thickly threaded with silver, was parted smoothly beneath a widow's cap, and her eyes, which were strangely brilliant and very beautiful, were black as night. 
               She looked at me for a minute or two in perfect silence, and I felt my color rising. After examining me for that length of time, a bright smile broke over her face, and stepping quickly across the room, she laid her hand gently upon my shoulder. 
               "This must be Marion's teacher," she said. "I heard them say you were to be here to-day. Are you going with us to Jerusalem, my dear?" 
                
               "Going where, madame?" I asked, falteringly. "Did you say to Jeru-" 
               "Yes, to Jerusalem," she answered, toying with the heavy black tassel that she wore about her waist. "We are all going up to Jerusalem next week, my dear, and I hope you will go too." 
               I looked at her in mute astonishment, and then feeling sure that she had mistaken the name of some one of our mountains. I ventured to say- 
               "Are you sure of the name, madame? We have Killington, and Pico, and Bald Mountain, and several others of note in this vicinity. But I know of none called Jerusalem." 
               It was her turn to look astonished. 
               "I am not speaking of a mountain," she said with great dignity. "I speak of Jerusalem, the Holy City, the Beloved of the Lord. Yes, we are all going there next week. For He hath said, 'Ye shall worship before this altar,' and we must obey him. If we do not, 'Woe to the rebellious children, saith the Lord, that take counsel, but not of me.' Will you go, Miss--? Pardon me, I cannot recall your name, although my son mentioned it this morning." 
               "Huntington, madame. Sibyl Huntington," I replied, too much bewildered for further speech. 
               "Huntington. Yes, I remember," she answered. "A good name. A branch of the Connecticut stock, I presume." Then before I could reply, she went on speaking very rapidly. "We ought to have gone to Jerusalem long ago, long ago. But now we are really going next week. I fear you will forget to make your preparations. You won't need much. Only a staff, and some unleavened bread. You must be ready, my dear. We cannot wait any longer." 
               I was just saying- 
               "Really, madame, there must be some mistake. I-" when a petite, childish figure ran hastily into the room, and with a slight bow as it passed me, took the old lady's hand, and said soothingly- 
                
               "Yes, grandma, we will all be ready. But hadn't you better come up-stairs and talk with Aunt Agnes about it? Besides, she has a headache, and wants to see you." 
               "A headache! Of course I must go to her. You should have told me before. She must take some hot tea, and have a mustard plaster on the back of ner neck immediately. Excuse me, Miss Huntington. I must go to my daughter, who needs my care," and off she went, while the little maid Marion-for of course it was she-whispered as she passed me, "I will be back in a minute. Just as soon as I take grandma up-stairs." 
               Ere they had reached the hall above, I heard a quavering, but still sweet voice singing. 
                      
                        "Jerusalem, my happy home, 
                        Oh! how I long for thee!" 
                     
                  
                
               It was scarcely a minute before the small figure flitted back again, and coming directly to my side, gave me its hand with quiet self-possession. 
               "Aunt Agnes hopes you were not alarmed or disturbed, Miss Huntington," said the little lady. "It was only grandma. She is a little-" the child hesitated for a moment in her choice of a word, and then went on,-" a little peculiar, sometimes, and talks a great deal about going to Jerusalem. Will you please to come into the library now?" 
               I stooped to kiss the small upturned face that seemed to belong to a child of ten rather than to one of thirteen, and then followed its owner across the hall. 
               "Aunt Agnes bids me say that she is very sorry she cannot see you herself. But she is really unable to leave her room this afternoon. But here are the books, and maps, and everything, and she says all you have to do to-day is to find out whether I know anything and what I am fit for," and Marion's hazel eyes flashed a bright, mirthful glance at me from beneath their heavy lashes. 
               A long, low room, occupying a wing that had been recently added to the main building. Low, because the good taste of the owner had compelled him to make every enlargement and improvement in entire harmony with the old structure. The wood-work was of dark oak, well polished; the wall paper a soft neutral tint, threaded with a delicate arabesque of green and gold. The carpet was a mat of green and brown mosses, flecked here and there with a dash of sunshine. Just opposite the door at which we entered was a large bay window, around and over which luxuriant ivies were making haste to clamber; and within the recess, upon a light Chinese table, bloomed a large scarlet geranium, one mass of brilliant coloring, a white rose, and two or three graceful, drooping fuchsias. All the brightness in the room seemed centred there. On the right and left the walls were lined with books from floor to ceiling. An oval table stood in the centre of the room, and here and there in the large apartment were grouped great, comfortable looking chairs, cozy lounges, and low, cushion-like ottomans. 
               I saw all this at a glance. Then, quick as a flash, my thoughts flew back over the waste of years to Greyhurst, even while I still held Marion's hand, and mechanically picked up a geography that lay upon the table. Before me rose the dear old library there-the room in which I had spent so many happy hours, and which I might never see again. I saw Mrs. Gordon sitting in her accustomed place, with Arthur and Fanny by her side. Edith's graceful figure was half hidden by the curtains of the far window, where she sat poring over her book, deaf and blind to all intrusive sounds and sights; and Mr. Tremaine, with hat and riding whip in hand, leaned against the mantelpiece, smiling and careless as ever, while Grey Eagle pawed and pranced upon the gravelled road outside. I saw the pictures upon the walls-the statuettes, the bronzes, the beautiful and costly trifles scattered, with lavish hand, here and there, wherever space for them could be found. 
               Here there was no such lavishness, on such profusion. On either side of the bay window hung a large painting: one a Roman scene-the desolate Campagna, with a few goats feeding, an ancient, crumbling ruin, moss-grown and ivy-clad-the dome of St. Peter's in the distance, and over all the wondrous sky of Italy; the other a view of one of our own mountain passes, magnificent in its virgin solitude. Beneath the one, upon a pedestal of black marble, stood a "dreamy-lidded Psyche;" beneath the other a Diana with bended bow, severe, calm and self-contained. There were no other pictures in the room-no graceful prettinesses, no ornaments of any kind, unless one chose to apply that term to an enormous antlered head, whose great lustrous eyes looked down upon us from above the door. 
               I gave one sweeping, comprehensive glance at the rows of books that looked at once so strange and so familiar, wondering the while if I should ever be made free of their treasures, ever feel enough at home to take them, as I longed, to my heart of hearts; and then turned to Marion. 
               For half an hour we kept up a brisk conversation. She was a quaint, womanly little thing, who, as I soon discovered, had learned far more from observation and from intercourse with people of culture and intelligence, than from school-books. 
               "Auntie says she expects that you will find me very backward, Miss Huntington," she said, gravely turning the leaves of her French grammar. "I was very ill four years ago." She lowered her voice here, and a pained expression swept over her face. "It was when my mamma and my little brother died, and I suppose I was near dying too. Since then Uncle Mark has not been willing that I should study much. Aunt Agnes has read to me a great deal, and we have talked of what she has read. But I have never learned many real lessons, such as other girls learn." 
               "And you are quite well now?" I asked, smiling in the glowing, upturned face. 
               "Oh! yes, indeed. And it is so lovely here among the mountains, that I expect to grow stronger every day. I am so glad that Uncle Mark came to Valleythorpe!" 
               So was I glad-although it was not until long afterwards-not until a passing interest, a chance acquaintanceship, had grown with years into an earnest, a life-long friendship, that I knew what reason I had for rejoicing that "Uncle Mark ever came to Valleythorpe." I was glad to sit in that spacious, elegant room, surrounded by all the delights that my soul most craved. I was glad to feel that a way had opened by which I could "put money in my purse"-a very modest sum, O my reader!-in the very pleasantest possible way. I was glad to feel that between my little pupil and myself there was a mutual attraction; glad to perceive that my work was likely to be a pleasant one, not only in and of itself, but for her sake. 
               Lessons for the morrow were assigned, and with Marion tripping along beside me, I walked slowly down towards the gate, stooping now and then to pluck a pink or a pansy from the straight old-fashioned beds that bordered the path. 
               "These flowers are lovely-don't you think so?" asked Marion, burying her nose in a great damask rose. "But they won't be here long. Uncle Mark says he must get rid of these stiff, straight walks. The grounds are to be laid out anew next fall." 
               I hoped inwardly that "Uncle Mark" would spare every one of the magnificent elms and maples that adorned the place, but, ere I could reply, a voice from an upper window called- 
               "Marion! Grandma wants you to come right in and help her with her sandals. Tell Miss Huntington that she must not forget where we are going next week. To Jerusalem-Jerusalem!" 
               Then, in a low recitative, the voice went on- 
               "'Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion, on the sides of the North, the city of the great King.'" 
                
               "Poor grandma!" sighed Marion. "But she has forgotten that she called me, so I need not go in yet. She is a little worse than usual this afternoon, because she is worried about Aunt Agnes' headache." 
               "Has she been long-in this way?" I asked. 
               "Ever since I can remember," was the answer. "And long before, too. She has always talked, just as you have heard her to-day, about going to Jerusalem, and keeps urging us to get our staffs and sandals ready. Sometimes it is funny, but oftener it makes me just a little sad. She is such a dear old lady." 
               I had noticed that the child sedulously avoided the use of the words insanity or derangement, and consequently hesitated a little before asking- 
               "Is she right otherwise? She spoke to me clearly and intelligently about my name, when I first came in." 
               "Nearly so-excepting about Jerusalem and-mustard plasters!" said Marion, with a low but merry laugh. "No matter what ails one, she always prescribes a mustard plaster." 
               "Not a bad prescription, either, in very many cases," I replied, smiling in my turn. "I presume she has been a very good nurse in her day." 
               "That is just what Aunt Agnes says. But she thinks a mustard paste will cure everything. This morning at breakfast Uncle Mark was repeating to us what Dr. Hyde had told him about your sister, and grandma insisted that a plaster would cure her immediately. May I go to see her-your sister, I mean-some time, Miss Huntington-when we get a little better acquainted?" 
               "Indeed you may, dear, just as soon as you please. Tomorrow night, if you like. But I must go now, or Ruth will wonder what has become of me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               THE road between our house and Mr. Halsey's was nearly straight, running north and south, and was intersected about half-way by one which led directly to the village. As I reached the point where the two roads met, that afternoon, I saw my mother coming towards me from the direction of the village, and waited until she came up. 
               "This is fine weather to be out, mother," I said by way of salutation, "but it is something so new and strange for you to walk that I can hardly become accustomed to it. Aren't you very tired?" 
               "Some," she answered. "But I may as well die one way as another. I've tried staying in, and now I'm going to try going out. That is, if you and Ruth have no objections. It is hard," and here she began to cry, "if I can't have the privilege of going abroad once in a while now, when I have been cooped up all my born days, making a slave of myself for the sake of my family." 
               "Now, mother, you are talking absurdly," I said, softening the harshness of my words with a smile, however. "You know that Ruth and I are only too glad to have you even comparatively well again. But you are so unused to the exercise that we feel afraid you will walk too far. The change in your habits is very abrupt." 
               "One cripple in a house is enough, quite," was the curt reply. We walked along in silence for a minute or two. I noticed that she held a brown-paper parcel under the folds of her light summer shawl, a recent purchase, but as she was not disposed to be communicative with regard to her errand, I did not seem to see it. After awhile she said- 
               "I have been down to Guernsey's to see his new goods." 
               "Have you? Were they worth looking at?" 
               "Yes, and they're real cheap too-cheap as dirt. Simmons says Guernsey bought 'em at a bargain, and can afford to sell 'em for less than they would bring in Boston to-day." 
               "Perhaps so," I answered, "but for all that I doubt very much whether he will sell them for any less. But it will make no difference to us whether they are cheap or dear, mother, for we have no money to spare for fineries." 
               "There! if that ain't your father right over again! No money, no money. For my part, I've heard that story enough. I'm sick of it!" 
               "So am I," I replied, and opening the gate I hastened in to receive Ruth's heart-warm welcome, and to make amends for her lonely afternoon by giving her an account of my seeings, sayings, and doings. 
               After tea was over-what a blessed relief it was not to be obliged to wash the dishes, scald the milk for the calf, and prepare for the morrow's breakfast!-I took my basket of mending and sat down by Ruth's bedside. She had just received another letter from John, who was accomplishing his own business and that of Mr. Guernsey to his entire satisfaction. 
               "When is he coming home?" I asked. 
               "Not until late in the fall. Perhaps he may conclude to stay all winter. If it were not for me, Sibyl, I suppose he would stay always." 
               "I wish he were here," I said, "to help me manage Lysander. That man will be the death of me yet. Ruth, you always used to be the business woman of the family. Suppose you take him in hand." 
               She laughed. "I think he is quite beyond my management. But if it will help you any, dear, I will look over that terrible account-book one of these days, and see if I can draw any comfort out of that." 
               Thus we chatted on. Mother fidgeted in and out of the room, after a very unusual fashion, now opening a cupboard-door, now setting a chair straight, and now coming to my basket for thread, needle or thimble, which somehow she always failed to find. Ruth and I wondered what was the trouble, and ere long the mystery was solved. Drawing up her large rocking-chair and seating herself, with a determined air she said- 
               "Girls, I'm going down to Maysville, over in York State, a-visiting. I hain't seen Huldy Wood-Huldy Mason that was-since she and I was girls together, and now I'm bound to make her a visit." 
               Neither of us replied at once. Not that we had any objections to raise; but simply because the idea of mother's leaving home alone for a journey of even one hundred miles, was absolutely startling. She had taught us, both by word and deed, to regard her as a confirmed and feeble invalid, incapable from bodily infirmities of caring for others or of waiting upon herself. We could not at once unlearn the lesson. 
               "Are you sure you are well enough, mother? Will it be quite safe?" Ruth asked presently. 
               "I'm going, whether or no," was the answer. "I expected you'd find something to bring up against it. But I tell you I am going to have a little rest and recreation now. I've worked and slaved beyond my strength all my days. When your father was alive he never seemed to care whether I ever went anywhere or not, and now-" 
               "But, mother," I exclaimed with my cheeks burning, "you always said you were not well enough to go anywhere-that you had not strength even to ride to church." 
               "No more had I-to ride in our old wagon. If he would have got me a nice little low chaise, like the one Mr. Wilson got for his wife, and I had had somebody to bundle me up, and take any sort of care of me, I don't doubt it would have done me a sight of good." 
               We did not answer. Where was the use? But my father's pale, careworn, tender face rose up before me, and I knew that he had worn himself out in loving, patient, uncomplaining care for this woman, who had only reproaches for his memory. 
                
               "When do you think of going, mother?" said Ruth, after a little. 
               "Just as soon as I can get my things fixed up. I ain't going unless I can go decent. I'm going to have me a new black silk-my old Turk satin ain't of much account now-and an all-wool delaine. Guernsey's got a splendid piece. And I must have my bonnet done over. That's all, I guess, except some gloves, and shoes, and pocket-handkerchiefs, and such things." 
               I looked at Ruth in blank dismay. Mother caught the look. 
               "You needn't draw your face down, Sibyl. You had your good time when you went off to Virginia, gallivanting 'round. Now I'm going to have mine." 
               "But where is the money coming from, mother?" I asked in a voice that would tremble. "You know I told you last week that under Lysander Moore's management the farm was bringing us little or nothing." 
               "Didn't you sell Sir Thomas last week for one hundred and twenty-five dollars? And ain't you earning money for yourself every day of your life? I shall fix myself up and go to Maysville, and there's nothing more to be said about it." 
               With these words she flounced out of the room. Dropping the stocking I was mending, I buried my face in my hands. I abhorred strife and dissension. They were utterly hateful to me. I longed for all things that were lovely and gentle and of good report, and a sense of bitter humiliation was added to the burden of anxious care that seemed weighing me to the earth. The day had been one of unusual excitement, and I had come home from Mr. Halsey's thinking that the future wore a brighter look than it had worn for many a month. The money we had received from the sale of Sir Thomas would suffice for our most pressing needs, and would enable me to procure some additional comforts for Ruth. I was in the way of earning at least a trifle myself, and had certain ambitious dreams of great things that I would do next year when the land would be in our own hands again. I even contemplated turning farmer myself, feeling very confident that with the advice of one or two reliable neighbors, and the aid of sundry odd volumes of the New England Farmer, I could render the farm more profitable than it was likely to be this year-more profitable to us. That Mr. Moore was doing a pretty fair business on his own behalf, I was beginning to have no doubt at all. 
               Ruth touched my hand as I sat beside her with my face still hidden. 
               "Sibyl." 
               I shook my head, but did not answer. 
               "Sibyl, my dear child," the tender voice went on, "do not struggle nor resist. It will be of no avail, and strife and altercation wear upon you more than anything else." 
               "I know it, I know it. It is horrible; but oh, Ruth! we owe Guernsey fifteen or twenty dollars for groceries already, tea, sugar, and that last barrel of flour that we were obliged to have when I could not get one penny from Lysander. I meant to have paid that bill this week, and Matty says there is only flour enough for one more baking. What can we do?" 
               "Mother will go," said Ruth, thoughtfully considering ways and means. "She has made up her mind, and nothing will change it. But perhaps we can persuade her to do without the black silk." 
               An attempt in which we did not succeed. She refused to see that there was even more necessity for economy now than there had been during my father's lifetime. I have alluded once or twice before to her personal beauty. She had been a belle in her girlhood, and was much younger than our father. Even now she looked younger and was prettier than many women not two-thirds her age, and the old vanity and love of display that circumstances and her husband's influence had controlled, now that that influence was removed, re-awoke in full force. And it was impossible to make her perceive that Ruth and I were influenced by any nobler motives than parsimony and a desire to thwart her wishes, when we attempted to dissuade her from unnecessary and, in our circumstances culpable purchases. 
               It is with bitter pain and humiliation that I write these things. Do not, I pray you, deem me unwomanly or unfilial. I am not wanting in a sense of what is due from a child to a parent, a daughter to a mother. But the obligation is a mutual one. We had been to all intents and purposes motherless from our earliest childhood. This woman had, it is true, slept by our father's side, presided at his table, and ruled, often with a pitiless sceptre-all the more pitiless because it was so vacillating and uncertain-over his household. But she had never been our mother in any high and holy sense. She had given us birth-but that was all. The pangs of the second birth, whence spring true mother-love, self-abnegation, and self-sacrificing devotion, she had never known. 
               The next two weeks were very busy ones. Two hours of every afternoon I devoted to Marion Halsey-pleasant hours they were, during which I managed to forget the anxieties that crowded upon me. My little pupil had made her promised visit to Ruth, and a sudden friendship sprang up between them-a friendship that grew and strengthened day by day. 
               The rest of my time was chiefly occupied in helping mother prepare for her journey. Do not let it be supposed, from what I have written above, that we lived in a perpetual quarrel. When Ruth and I found that our reasonings and persuasions were of no avail, we ceased to utter them. The dresses were bought, the bonnet was sent to the milliner's, and we devoted our best energies to making and repairing. We, I say-for Ruth was able to do many light bits of needlework, and yards and yards of ruffling and fine stitching grew beneath her busy fingers. Mother, having gained her points, was in excellent spirits and in the best of humors. 
               "I don't know how long I shall be gone," she said, the night before she started. "I don't much think I shall be back until the first of September-may be not till October. You can keep house well enough, Sibyl, and it isn't much to take care of Ruth. I don't see but I can be spared just as well as not, and while I am about it I may as well get the worth of my money. So if Huldy Wood seems glad to see me I shall stay quite a spell." 
               The next day she was off in the stage for Maysville, and the house subsided into more than its usual quiet. Ruth looked over the accounts, as she had promised, but no good came of it. We discovered that we were no richer and no wiser than before. 
               "I wish we had not sold Sir Thomas," I said, as I rose, wearily, to put away the great marbled-covered book that had been the wonder of my childhood. "Every cent of the money has gone, except the thirty dollars that mother took with her. The bill at Guernsey's has grown larger instead of smaller, and we have not procured one of the necessaries for which we hoped to exchange him. Poor old fellow! I wish we had him back again!" 
               "You hain't got him to feed anyhow, Miss Sibyl," said Matty, who had entered the room in time to hear the last sentence. "And feedin' on him was pretty considerable of an item. 'Tain't no loss to be well rid of him, I guess." 
               With which thought for consolation I was fain to be content. How we planned, and calculated, and economized during these long summer weeks, I have neither time nor space to tell. How we-meaning Matty and I; we had some secrets of our own-gave up the use of flour almost entirely-how sparingly we made use of tea, coffee, and sugar-how we denied ourselves fresh meat because we had not wherewithal to pay the butcher-how we begrudged every egg that went into an omelette because eggs brought eighteen cents a dozen-and how I wore my worn and faded calicoes all the morning in order to keep my delicate ginghams fresh and bright for the afternoons at Mr. Halsey's. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               RUTH had had one of her worst days. For several months she had been much stronger, and suffered much less than formerly. Still, at no distant intervals, she had periods of extreme suffering, followed of course by great prostration. I had been obliged to send Matty with a note to Miss Halsey, begging to be excused from my attendance upon Marion that afternoon. By way of answer she brought back a basket laden with the most tempting fruits, such as rarely found their way to Valleythorpe-peaches that were great balls of crimson and gold, plums that were "globes of honey rare," and clusters of hot-house grapes, purple, white, and amber. 
               "And Miss Halsey told me to say, with her love, that you wasn't ever to come there when Miss Ruth needed you," said Matty, placing the basket upon the table, and speaking very softly lest she should disturb Ruth, who had fallen into a troubled sleep. "Oh my! but ain't them beauties!" 
               Casting an anxious glance at Ruth, whose sweet face was almost as white as the pillow upon which it lay, a glance in which love and reverence were strangely mingled, she stole out to the kitchen again, and I resumed my watch by the pale, exhausted sleeper. Toward night, however, she was much relieved, and smiled upon me as I gave her her food. 
               "The worst is over for this time, Sibyl," she said. "I am quite easy now." 
               I was showing her the beautiful basket of fruit, when a voice at the gate said- 
               "Yes, mother; next week, if we all get ready. But you know you want to see about Miss Ruth now." 
               It was Mr. Halsey's voice. Of course I knew who was with him. Whispering a word to Ruth, I stepped into the hall to meet them, and led them into the little parlor. 
               After a most cordial greeting, Mrs. Halsey, whose eyes were as busy as they were bright, paused a moment by the small table to look at a pretty moss-basket; and her son said in a low tone, as he shook hands- 
               "I fear this is an unseasonable visit, Miss Sibyl; but really I am not to blame. Mother would come, and I came to take care of her." 
               "It is all right," I answered, in the same key. "Ruth is better now." 
               The old lady soon finished her examination of the basket and seated herself upon the chintz-covered sofa. 
               "I have been uneasy about your poor sister all day long," she said, "and I felt that I must come and prescribe for her. I was a famous nurse once, did you know it?" and she laughed a little low, childlike laugh. "They used to say I was better than half the doctors." 
               "They told the truth, I don't doubt, dear Mrs. Halsey," I answered, seating myself beside her; "and I shall not only be very glad to hear your prescription, but shall be very grateful for it." 
               She cast her eyes upon the carpet and laughed again-a little shyly this time. 
               "When I was young," she said, "it was generally thought necessary for a physician to see his patient before prescribing. I have never seen Miss Ruth, you know." 
               "You shall see her this very night," I replied, "unless she is too tired. Excuse me for a moment." 
               Ruth expressed not only a willingness, but a strong desire, to see one of whom she had heard so much. Without more ado, therefore, I ushered Mrs. Halsey into the other room. 
               Going directly up to the bed she took Ruth's pretty white hand in hers. 
               "My poor child," she said, gazing tenderly and compassionately into her brown eyes, "they tried to keep me at home, but I felt that I must come to see you. I have suffered a great deal myself-I am not quite what I used to be"-here an expression of pain and weariness swept for an instant across her face-"and it has taught me how to feel for others." 
               Ruth said a few earnest, kindly words, such as she so well knew how to say, and then Mrs. Halsey went on- 
               "There are some things I want to say to you, and that is what brought me here to-night. I felt that I could not sleep until I had told you all that is in my heart. You must go to Jerusalem. We are all going next week, if we can only get ready. But it takes so long-so long!" 
               A strange, far-off, dreamy look came into her eyes, and with her hands folded upon her breast she chanted in a soft monotone-" 'I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem!'" 
               But in a moment she came back to the present again. 
               "Yes, you must go to Jerusalem. It is a long, weary journey, I know, but you could be carried upon a litter; and when you were there you would be healed-you would be healed! Don't you know the pool of Bethesda is there, close by the sheep market? We would lay you down beside it, and watch with you day and night until the angel troubled the waters, and then you would be made whole." 
               By this time the tears were streaming from Ruth's eyes; and, catching the old lady's hand, she kissed it reverently. Mrs. Halsey looked at her in troubled amazement. 
               "What is it, my child? Does your faith fail you? 'Fear not, little flock. It is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.' 'The things that are impossible with man are possible with God.'" 
               "Oh, my dear Mrs. Halsey," exclaimed Ruth, sobbing passionately, "some day I hope we shall both stand within the jasper walls of the New Jerusalem, where 'there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain.' I do not expect to be healed until I get there." 
               I felt that the interview had lasted long enough, and hurried Mrs. Halsey out of the room. It was a real relief to my highly-wrought feelings when my companion paused at the door, and in the most commonplace and practical way imaginable, said- 
               "If you would just apply a good, strong mustard paste to your hip, Miss Ruth, I think it would do you more good than anything else in the world!" 
               Mr. Halsey gave me an inquiring glance as we re-entered the parlor. I presume my face was eloquent. 
               "It has been better than any sermon," I whispered. "They are a pair of saints, Mr. Halsey, of whom the world is not worthy!" 
               They left immediately, and I went back to Ruth. 
               The next day, Lysander Moore-who, as perhaps I have forgotten to say, was a bachelor of about thirty-five, and owned the farm adjoining ours-stopped at the gate in a brand new buggy, and wearing the shiniest of new hats. I heard him call Matty in an unnecessarily loud voice, and presently she came in to tell me that the gentleman wished me to step to the door a minute. 
               "He says his horse is kind o' skittish, and he guesses he won't come in." 
               I went to the door, accordingly, expecting to listen to some detail of business. But instead of that I received an invitation to accompany Mr. Moore to Slab City, a settlement at the foot of the mountains. He said he was goin' out there to see some timber they was gettin' out for him, and thought, mebbe, as I didn't often have a chance to ride, I might like to go 'long. 
               I declined very respectfully, and went into the house again with a flush upon my face. 
               "What now?" asked Ruth. 
               "An invitation to ride," I answered quietly, keeping my face out of sight. 
               "What, with our friend Lysander?" 
               "Yes; to see about some timber." 
               "Are you going?" 
                
               "Going!-Ruth, are you crazy?" 
               She laughed, and the subject was dropped. 
               Two or three days afterwards, Matty came into the sitting-room, bringing a very small basket of fall apples. 
               "Lysander Moore sent 'em," she said. "They're for you, Miss Sibyl. He said so. And he told me to tell you they came off of his trees, but he didn't calculate to charge nothin' for' em!" 
               Placing the light burden on the table, she returned to her work again. I went on with my sewing, for a moment or two, with fearful rapidity, not daring to look up, lest I should meet Ruth's eyes. I knew, without looking, that they were brimming over with fun. Presently she laughed; such a hearty, downright laugh as I had not heard from her in many a day. 
               "I suppose I cannot have a single one of those apples, Sibyl. But really they look very tempting. It isn't every day that one gets such for nothing." 
               I took the basket and placed it on the bed. 
               "You will eat every one of them-you and Matty-or else they will decay," I said, resuming my seat. "I think Lysander has, to use one of Matty's favorite phrases, 'broken out in a new spot.' It is too ridiculous to be laughable." 
               But Ruth did laugh, nevertheless, and I went on with my work. 
               A few evenings afterwards I was out in the garden, tying up some asters and gillyflowers with which the wind had taken undue liberties, when Lysander came sauntering round the corner, and leaning with both arms upon the fence, watched me as I lifted the slender stalks. 
               "Fine weather for crops," he said, at length. 
               "Yes," I replied; "I suppose it is." 
               "That 'ere piece of corn is turnin' out rather better'n I expected. It looks pretty fair, considerin'." 
               "I am glad of it," I answered, laconically. 
               A pause of several minutes. 
                
               "When's your mother comin' home, Sybil? She's been gone considerable of a spell." 
               Neither by hint nor frown had I ever been able to convey to Mr. Lysander Moore's mind the idea that the use of any prefix to my name was customary or desirable. 
               "I do not know. Before a great while, I presume." 
               "Hain't heerd nothin' about her gettin' married, I suppose? Oh! you needn't color up so. Maybe 'tain't true, and 'tain't nothin' dreadful if 'tis true. I don't know nothin' about it one way or t'other; only a teamster that was over from Maysville last week said that Squire Mason was a courtin' of her." 
               I did not believe one word of the statement; yet I could not deny it, as one having authority. So I said nothing, but hurried on with my work, impatient to escape from my tormentor. Having completed my task, I gathered up scissors, twine, and gardening gloves, and proceeded towards the house. 
               But Mr. Moore followed me straight through the kitchen, and into the hall, where I went to hang up my hat. Then when I waited for him to take his leave, he said, turning towards the parlor-door- 
               "Come in here, just a minute, Sibyl, I want to talk to you a little-about business." 
               I took a chair by the window, and he seated himself upon the edge of one nearly opposite, drawing his feet beneath it, and twirling now his hat, and now his thumbs, in great perturbation of mind. 
               "Well, sir, what did you wish to say?" I asked, after waiting a sufficiently long time for him to make known his business. 
               "Well, Sibyl," he said, deliberately placing the troublesome hat beneath the chair, "I wanted to talk to you about them turnips. Do you think 'twould be best to feed 'em out this fall, or bury 'em till spring?" 
               "I do not know anything about it," I said, rising, with a desire to close the interview as speedily as possible. "You know that I do not. If you have nothing of more importance to say, I must go to Ruth." 
               "Well, I didn't mean no offence, and there ain't no need of your being so techy. Hold on a minute, Sibyl; I have got something real important to say, and you'll think so when you know what 'tis. You see I kind o' thought that like enough-that mebbe you might-anyhow I thought I'd ask you if-" 
               He came to a dead stop. 
               "If what?" I asked, when there seemed to be no probability of his proceeding without help. "Do you want to make any change in our contract?" 
               "No, that ain't it. You see, Sibyl," he went on desperately, "I thought I'd just step in to-night, and ask you if you didn't want to change your situation." 
               "Change my situation!" What did the man mean? Teaching Marion Halsey two hours a day could scarcely be dignified into a "situation." 
               "No," I answered, thinking that, nevertheless, must be what he meant. "I cannot leave home to teach, and am doing very well at Mr. Halsey's." 
               "That ain't it nuther. I ain't saying nothin' about teachin', though I did hear that you might ha' had the deestric' school this summer. I meant to-to-to ask you if you didn't want to get married?" 
               I stood stock still-dumb as a stone. Was I to regard this curious question as a bon fide offer of marriage, to be answered accordingly; or was the speaker dealing in "glittering generalities," engaged in the "pursuit of knowledge under difficulties?" I could not decide. 
               "I ain't in no hurry," he went on glibly enough now that the ice was broken, or, to be classic for once, after he had passed the Rubicon. "Take time to think on't for a spell. You see, Sibyl, the land lies real convenient and handy, and if you and me could make up our minds to hitch our teams together, 'twould be a downright good thing for both of us. I do believe, sure's you live, that the old woman's going to get married herself, so she'd be out of the way; and as for Ruth-" 
               "Do not say another word, Mr. Moore," I exclaimed, as soon as I could catch my breath. "Not another word. I cannot entertain your proposition even for a moment." 
               "I don't want you to give me no answer now," that gentleman replied with great nonchalance. "I expected it would come kind o' sudden to you. Just think on't a spell. Mebbe you'll change your mind." 
               "Never!" I replied with quite sufficient emphasis. "I cannot think of it at all." 
               "Women folks allus talk just so when a feller first pops the question," said Lysander, who grew cool and self-possessed as I grew excited. "They allus say 'no' when they mean 'yes.' Want a little coaxin'. I'll come in agin some time, and we'll talk the matter over." 
               His hat was already on his head, and before I could utter a syllable, he was half-way to the gate. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               MOTHER came home the first week in October, and, contrary to her usual custom, began making preparations for the fall house-cleaning with great zeal and assiduity. Chests and closets were overhauled and examined, slight inventories of their contents made, curtains were taken down, carpets were taken up, and everything betokened that unusual events had occurred, or were about to occur. 
               "Ruth," I said, one night after a day of great bustle and confusion, during which mother had several times hinted at some great secret that she could tell, if she only would, "what can it all mean? I half believe that Lysander Moore's story was true." 
               But Ruth refused to harbor the thought. Perhaps it was because she so loved our father, so cherished his memory in her heart of hearts, that she could not believe it possible that she who had been his wife could so soon give his place to another. 
               It was now two or three weeks since the interview with Mr. Moore, narrated in the last chapter. I had seen him nearly every day during this time, but never once, by word or act, had he alluded to our late conversation. I was beginning to hope that after sober second thought he had concluded to take me at my word, and let the matter drop at once and for ever. 
               "Sibyl," said my mother, one morning, "it is most a fortnight since I came home, and I think it is very strange that you haven't told me you were going to be married." 
               "It would have been much more strange if I had told you so, mother, for I have not the slightest idea of marrying." 
               She dropped the work she was cutting out and turned quickly round, shears in hand- 
               "Don't you expect to marry Lysander Moore?" 
               "Indeed I do not, mother. What put that idea into your head?" 
               "He did. He said last night that he had offered himself to you, and that although you hadn't exactly said 'yes,' he thought you would come round after a while." 
               "No mortal man was ever more mistaken, then. I told him in perfectly plain English that I could not give his proposition even as much as a thought. And I meant what I said." 
               "Then you are a greater fool than I ever took you to be, Sibyl Huntington. You needn't turn up your nose at a sensible, well-to-do man like Lysander Moore." 
               "I do not intend to, mother. Neither do I intend to marry him. He is coarse and uncouth, and not any too sensible either." 
               "He knows enough to make money, anyhow," said my companion panion, angrily, "and your father never could do that. If he had, he would have left his family a little better off. Now, Sibyl, do be reasonable. You ain't any too young. Ruth was born before I was as old as you, and it isn't anyways likely that you will ever have a better chance." 
               "Then I will never marry at all," I answered. "Mr. Lysander Moore is likely to fail in one of his speculations, at least. He doesn't want me, mother. It is the farm he is after." 
               "I suppose you want him to go down on his knees to you, talk poetry, and all that? I tell you he is a real sensible man, who's got an eye for the main chance. He'll make a good, steady husband for somebody, and hain't got any bad habits that I know of. If you know what's good for yourself you'll have him." 
               "He sits down to dinner in his dirty shirt-sleeves, and has several other bad habits that I might mention," I answered laughing. "But come, mother, we won't quarrel about him. I cannot marry him, and that's enough." 
               "Your father always said that these two farms were meant to go together." 
               "Yet he would never have chosen Lysander Moore for a son-in-law, mother. He understood his daughters too well." 
               "It would be a first-rate thing for you and Ruth, Sibyl. Lysander says he should just as lief have Ruth live with you as not-she could pretty near pay her way doing light sewing." 
               "And what would become of you?" I asked, "or does Mr. Moore intend to do us the honor of marrying the whole family?" 
               "Oh! no." She hesitated, and her face flushed a little. "I have been calculating to tell you and Ruth about my plans just as soon as I could get round to it. The fact is, I am thinking about getting married again myself. You may tell Ruth if you have a mind to." 
               I did not answer for a long time, but my thoughts were very busy. At last I said in a low tone- 
               "She will want to know who it is that you intend to marry." 
                
               "It's Squire Mason, Huldy Wood's brother. Don't you remember him? He used to live down in the village, but sold out and moved to Maysville several years ago. I wouldn't have gone there for anything," she added, casting down her eyes, "if I'd thought about his living so near Huldy's." 
               "I do not see why that need to have made any difference," I said. "I supposed his wife was living. When did she die?" 
               "Oh! I don't know. Three or four years ago, I guess. She was dreadful jealous of me, when we was girls. I don't mind telling you, Sibyl, that the squire and I kept company when we was young-before I ever saw your father. We had some kind of a tiff or a miff, and by and by he married Sue Barker. From what he says about it, I mistrust that he never was sorry but once." 
               I wondered-could I help it?-if she had repaid her early lover's confidence in the same coin. The conversation was growing too painful, and, rising, I said- 
               "Tell me one thing more, mother. When will it-the marriage, I mean-take place?" 
               "Before a great while-next month, maybe. The squire thinks there ain't any use of putting it off, now that we have made up our minds. Huldy's real pleased. She and I were always cronies, and she says she does believe there was a Providence in my going to Maysville. And so does the squire. He's coming here in about a fortnight, so you'll have a chance to get acquainted with your new father"-and Mrs. Huntington laughed lightly, as she stepped to the glass and rearranged the cap, that was much less a cap than any head-gear she had worn since my remembrance. 
               My new father! 
               "Do you remember him, Ruth?" I asked that night, when we were talking the matter over." 
               "Indistinctly," she answered. "I used to see him at church and in the street. I never spoke to him a dozen times." 
               "What sort of a person is he?" 
                
               "Don't ask me, Sibyl; judge for yourself when he comes. Probably he will not impress me now as he did when I was a child." 
               "Which is to say, that you did not entertain any very profound admiration for him then?" 
               "Sibyl, darling, we will not talk about him, nor prejudge him. Mother has an undoubted right to marry if she pleases, and we-" 
               "Must make the best of it," I added, as she paused and hesitated. But I knew that for her heart, as for mine, earth held and could hold no father save him who, with hands at rest and heart that had done with pain, slept tranquilly in the little grave-yard on the hillside. 
               I drew aside the window-curtain and looked out. Away over the fields and across the meadows the slender palings of "God's Acre," and the low unpretending head-stones gleamed ghostly white in the fair moonlight. I could even distinguish the willow-tree whose drooping branches shadowed the one grave for which my eyes were searching,-searching through a mist of tears. 
               "Come to bed, Sibyl," said Ruth, at last, and I did not need to see her face to know that her thoughts were following mine. "Come to bed, dear. You will take cold if you stand there longer." 
               I crept softly to her side, shivering as much with sorrow as with cold. 
               "How can she?" I sighed. "Oh, Ruth! how can she? He loved her in spite of her faults. We cannot doubt that." 
               "Where he is there is neither marrying nor giving in marriage," said Ruth, in a low, trembling voice. "Do not grieve for his sake, Sibyl. This cannot harm him, cannot disturb his serene repose even for an instant. He does not need our tears, he who has done with them forever. Good-night, my little sister!" 
               But it was long ere I slept. My heart kept questioning, "How can she? how can she?" Not for my father's sake alone, If his memory was not enough to keep her from the embrace of this new wooer, how could she leave Ruth to struggle with lifelong suffering and helplessness? How could she desert her bed-ridden child, and establish her household gods beside another hearth-stone? 
               In less than a fortnight, Squire Mason came. A large portly man, with a bald spot on the top of his head, a pair of gold spectacles, and a great length of watch-chain displayed upon a vast expanse of black satin waistcoat. He at once made himself entirely at home, going all about the house and over the farm as if it had belonged to him and his from time immemorial. Toward Ruth and myself his manner was as balmy and bland as a May morning. Toward my mother it was at once obsequious, dictatorial, and lover-like. Anything but an ascetic in taste and habit, his couch must be of the softest, his food of the choicest. Delicacies to which we had not treated ourselves for years graced the table during his stay, and mother ran about at the call of her master like a little spaniel. Matty looked on with great, wondering eyes. 
               On the third evening of his visit, when mother and Squire Mason were closeted in the parlor, she, that is our young but efficient hand maiden, came into Ruth's room and dropped into a chair by the door. 
               "Miss Sibyl," she said, smoothing out her apron, and pushing her hair back with a tired air, "if 'tain't no secret, I do want to know if Mis' Huntington calculates to marry this 'ere Squire Mason. Lysander Moore says she's a going to, and so do lots o' folks." 
               "I suppose she will marry him some time," I answered. "It is no secret, Matty, but I do not know how soon it will be." 
               She took up her apron, pinched the hem into narrow flutings, shook it out again, folded the two corners together, and then catching my eye, laughed slightly as she straightened it upon her lap. 
                
               "Well, Matty, what is it?" I asked; "what is the trouble now?" 
               "Oh, nothing! only I was just thinking that I hoped he meant to keep her in help, for he does need a master sight of waiting on, Miss Sibyl, that's a downright fact." 
               The next day Squire Mason went home. The wedding was to take place the twentieth of November. He gave us each a fatherly kiss when he went away, and the house presently settled into its accustomed quietude. 
               To be soon broken, however, by the preparation of the marriage garments, and the making of arrangements for the wedding feast. November came on apace, and the fast shortening days were all too short for what we had to do. The preparations and arrangements were by no means upon an extravagant scale; but still, as Miss Maxey, who kindly volunteered her aid, said, "a wedding is a wedding, and there's always just so much to be done." Ruth and I, feeling that the thing was unavoidable, crowded all our queryings and questionings down deep in our hearts and locked them there, resolving that our mother's last days in her old home should be as happy as we could make them. With Mr. Halsey's consent I gave Marion a week's vacation, and devoted myself exclusively to basting and trimming, stoning raisins and baking cake. 
               It was the night but one before the twentieth. Mother had been in a strange flutter of excitement all day, and a bright red spot burned in the centre of either cheek. Troubled and restless, she flew from place to place like one beside herself. If "coming events" do ever "cast their shadows before," I should think that some presentiment of the evil to come fell across her path that day. Just before sunset she came to the bedside where Ruth and myself were putting the last stitches into the under-handkerchief and cap she was to wear. "The Squire" and "Huldy" were coming to-morrow. The few neighbors, who had a right to be present, had been invited. The cake was baked, and the house was in order. 
                
               "Oh dear me!" she sighed, putting the hair back from Ruth's forehead, with a caressing gesture I had never seen before, "I do hate to leave you, girls, when it comes to the point. I hadn't any idea I should feel so about it. I 'most believe that if I hadn't told the Squire I would have him, and hadn't got all ready, I would stay after all." 
               "It's too late now," said Miss Maxey, with a grim smile, while she stitched away as for the dear life. "It's too late now, Mrs. Huntington; you should have thought of that before." 
               We-her two daughters-said nothing, there was nothing to say. She went to the window and looked out. I saw which way her eyes were wandering, and crushing back the tears that sprang to mine, I rose quickly and went into the kitchen. Presently she followed me. 
               "Sibyl," she whispered, "would you mind going over to-the graveyard with me, just for a minute or two? It seems as if I should like to go there once more before I leave Valleythorpe." 
               I shook my head. It was impossible. I could have walked over burning ploughshares as easily as I could have stood with her beside my father's grave that night. Yet my heart softened to her strangely as she kissed me and said- 
               "Don't lay anything up against me for this, Sibyl. You nor Ruth either. I feel kind of lonesome and miserable to-night-as if something was going to happen!" 
               She put a shawl over her head and went out into the garden. I do not know whether she went to the graveyard or not. Late that evening I heard footsteps in her bedroom, and having occasion to go to the kitchen for a glass of water for Ruth, I saw a light shining through the key-hole. 
               But the next morning "Richard was himself again." The shadow, whithersoever it sprang, had vanished with the night, and on the succeeding day she left us in the Squire's "two-horse carriage," with two trunks and a bandbox strapped on behind. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               MEANTIME letters from John Gardiner had informed us that circumstances-which were detailed at length in his frank, loving communications to Ruth, but which it is unnecessary to dwell upon here-rendered it advisable that he should remain in Ohio through the winter. Ruth missed him, I knew, more than words could tell. Yet I thought, and think still, that on the whole it was a relief to her to feel that he was away, mingling with men, and doing better for himself than it was possible for him at that moment to do in Valleythorpe. So we settled down quietly for the winter. I resumed my attendance upon Marion Halsey immediately, and as the days rolled on, learned to feel more and more that I had found in the family invaluable friends. Their coming had reestablished my intercourse with the world of literature and art, from which, since my return from Greyhurst, I had been entirely excluded. Books and pamphlets found their way from Mr. Halsey's library to our little sitting-room, and, stimulated and strengthened, I no longer felt that I was perishing for lack of food. Neither did their benefactions end here. Mr. Halsey's visits to New York were very frequent, and he never came back empty-handed. Now he brought a basket of choice fruit; now rare flowers, fresh and odorous as May; and in the distribution of these treasures Ruth was never forgotten. 
               One short, cold afternoon, late in December, I hurried home, bearing under my cloak, carefully wrapped from the stinging blast, a tiny bouquet. Mr. Halsey had returned from one of his flying trips to the city, while I was giving Marion her lesson; and placing a pasteboard box, filled with buds and flowers packed in damp moss, before me, had bidden me choose such as I thought would best please Ruth. With a half-smile upon my lips, I selected a white camellia, a half-opened rosebud, a purple pansy, and two or three geranium leaves. Hastily throwing ing off my wraps, I took my little silver vase, which still stood upon Arthur's oaken bracket, and arranged them in it, before I allowed Ruth to take one fair look at them. 
               "There," I said, giving a final twist to a geranium leaf, "I could imagine those to be the very flowers that were in that vase the first time I saw it. They look wonderfully familiar." 
               "Better than dried everlasting flowers, are they not?" she said, with a quick glance at my face, before she kissed me by way of thanks. "Sibyl, are the Halseys like the people at Greyhurst?" 
               "They are as unlike as families of equal culture, refinement, and good-heartedness-is there such a word, Ruth?-can possibly be." 
               "How so?" 
               "I doubt if I can tell you. I hardly understand the difference myself. It seems to me that life has a deeper meaning for the Halseys than it had for my friends at Greyhurst. But I do not mean this as a reproach for the latter, who were as attractive and lovable as they could possibly be," and I gave a "sigh to the days that are past," as I touched my lips to the flowers, and then replaced the vase upon the bracket. 
               "Mr. Tremaine played with life," I went on, as I took up my sewing. "Very gracefully, often very beautifully, it is true. But still it was all play. Mr. Halsey grapples it with heart and hand, intent to make the most of it-to win all it holds that is best worth having, for himself and for others." 
               "You don't think him a selfish man, Sibyl?" 
               "By no means-he is anything but that. But he is an earnest man, intent to accomplish whatever he undertakes. All the Halseys are in earnest, Ruth," I added, laughing, "from the dear old mother whose heart is so fixed upon Jerusalem, to Marion with her French lesson." 
               The first of January brought us the following letter from mother: 
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              MAYSVILLE, Dec. the 30th, 18-. 
                              DEAR DAUGHTERS:
                            
                           I wrote you a few lines when I first got here, to let you know that I had arrived safely, and received Sibyl's letter a little while afterwards. I was glad to hear that Ruth hadn't had any of her poor spells since I left. There's an Indian doctor here that has cured some dreadful bad cases, and the Squire says that if you feel able to stand the expense, you had better write for him to come and see Ruth. I meant to have written again before this, but I hain't had time. We hain't got a very big family, only two men folks besides the Squire, and I and a hired girl about fifteen year old. But the Squire's appetite is dreadful poor, and he can't eat a mite without the victuals is just so. I most always have to conjure up some nice thing or other for him, different from what the rest have, because if I don't he can't eat a bit. I told Huldy the other day that I didn't see how he got along before I came, for Sally don't know the first thing about cooking, and she said she used to send over to him pretty often, and that he wouldn't live long if he was not well taken care of. I think on the whole he is a sicklier man than your father was, for all he looks so healthy. Sometimes he has to have his back rubbed till I am just ready to drop. 
                           You know that there wasn't anything said about my thirds that the law allows me, before I was married. I thought about it, but concluded that I would wait till I got here, and could see what there was in the house. I'd been in the parlor, and once Huldy and I went out into the kitchen, but I hadn't looked no farther. I thought, too, that maybe as the Squire was so fore-handed and well-to-do, and my thirds wouldn't be anything great, he would think it wan't worth while to do anything about it, but would think it was best for you and Ruth to live right along on the farm, just as we did after your father died. But the Squire is a very far-seeing man. He says that as long as your father didn't leave no will, it is our bounden duty to go according to law, and I suppose it is-for what is the law good for if folks don't pay attention to it? I hadn't looked at it in just that light before. The Squire has talked it over with me considerable, and made it all very plain to me, though I tell him I hain't got much of a head for business. He thinks the best plan would be for us to have him appointed administrator, and have the farm sold. Then I could take my third, and you two girls could put your money out at interest, hire a room somewhere, and live real easy. Then about the furniture, &c., and so on. The Squire says his house is chock full already, and he don't want to be bothered with any more old traps. So you and Ruth could pick out what you need to furnish a room, and the rest could be sold. I'm willing to give you that much, for you know, I suppose, that the personal property all belongs to me. The Squire thinks this is a first-rate plan, and so do I, now that I come to think it over. Write me right away, for the sooner it is settled, the better. The Squire sends his respects, and hopes you'll always look upon him as a father. 
                           
                              Your affectionate mother, 
                              MARY MASON. 
                              (Huntington, that was.)
                            
                         
                         
                           P. S.-I shouldn't wonder if Lysander Moore should want to buy the farm. Then if Sibyl should make up her mind to marry him (and I guess she will when she has considered of it, for a spell), it would be all right.  
                           
                              M. M.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               We looked at each other in mute consternation. Sell the farm! every acre of which was hallowed by precious memories of the dead. Sell the trees our father had planted, the fields that he had tilled! Sell the house which he had built-the rooms where he had lived and loved, sorrowed, suffered and died-the well from which he had quenched his thirst after the burden and heat of the day-the chairs in which he had sat-the beds on which he had rested-the cups from which he had drunk! What could we do? how could we bear it? 
               "It may be all right, as far as the letter of the law is concerned cerned," I said, while my cheeks burned, and I was too excited for tears. "But it is a cruel, cruel thing, Ruth! To turn us out of house and home! and you, as you are, a helpless sufferer. It is an outrage. I will not hear of it!" and rising from my seat, I paced the room in uncontrollable agitation. 
               Ruth took the matter more calmly, but even she was more excited than I had ever seen her. 
               "Come here, dear," she said, after a while. "Come here and let us talk the matter over. I am sure that the farm cannot be sold without our consent." 
               "But to think that they should propose such a thing! To think that the Squire should dare to lay his meddling fingers upon our father's small estate!" I went on, half beside myself. I am sure I had never been as angry before, and never have been since. "This is his doing, not mother's. She was often selfish, hard and unmotherly. But she would never have robbed us of our home, Ruth. It is all the Squire's, doing, and then he has the impudence to hope we will regard him as a father! This is a fatherly course of procedure, I must say." 
               Ruth took the letter out of my hand and read it carefully. As she laid it down with a sigh, she said- 
               "I don't like the tenor of this letter at all, Sibyl, even as far as mother is concerned. I doubt if she is happy. The squire will rule her with a rod of iron by and by, and I fancy 'Huldy' will help him. Remember their honeymoon is hardly over yet. She wrote just as she was ordered to write." 
               "That is plain enough," I answered. "Poor, foolish mother! But what are we going to do, Ruth? Oh! if John were only here!" 
               "It would only trouble him," she said, "and I do not see that he could help us." 
               "But he could advise us, Ruth. I'll write to him this very night." 
               "No, for he would come straight home if he knew we were in such trouble, and I would not have him come for anything. We must manage for ourselves. Couldn't you talk the matter over with Dr. Hyde?" 
               "He has gone to Boston to attend a medical convention, and won't be home in three weeks." 
               "Mr. Winslow, then?" 
               "Mr. Winslow is a dear, good man, Ruth; but I imagine ministers, especially old ones, are better advisers in spiritual than in temporal concerns. No, I should not wish to consult him about this matter." 
               "Mr. Lysander Moore is a fair business man," said Ruth gravely, while she glanced at me from under her long lashes "Perhaps he would consent to advise you." 
               "Perhaps he would. That's a bright thought of yours, Ruthie. Shall I put on my hood and run over there this very minute, or would you prefer to send for him that we may consult him jointly?" 
               She pulled my face down to hers and kissed me. 
               "I have made you laugh, Sibyl, at any rate, and that is worth something. No, we won't consult Mr. Moore to-day." 
               "Nor any one else," I said. "The letter need not be answered immediately. We will take time to consider the matter. One thing is certain, Ruth. This house shall not be sold. You shall live here where our father lived, until-" 
               "Until I follow him," she said, finishing the sentence I had left incomplete. But my spirits, which were of most elastic fibre, had rebounded a little, even so soon, and I would not be sad myself, or allow Ruth to be so. 
               "No, until that Indian doctor cures you. 'Stand the expense'-Heaven save us!" 
               Our conversation continued far into the night. Matty came in to say that she had covered the kitchen fire, brought in a pail of fresh water, and bolted all the doors. Then she bade us good-night, and went up-stairs to bed. The wind whistled drearily without, the snow drifted against the window-panes, the fire burned out upon the hearth, but still we talked on and on. 
                
               Arriving, however, at no conclusion, save this, that we would keep our own counsel, be in no haste, and try to see our way clearly before answering the letter. 
               But sometimes the birds of the air and the very winds of heaven seem to carry news from point to point, without the help of any human agency. Certain it is that we never mentioned the letter or its contents to any one, and never alluded to the matter between ourselves, without first closing the doors, lest even our faithful Matty should overhear us. We did not care to have the matter become "town's-talk." Yet in less than four days, Mattie came rushing home from the village one evening, exclaiming, before she had untied her hood- 
               "Oh, Miss Sibyl! folks say that Mis' Huntington-Mis' Mason I mean-is a going to have this farm sold, and that we won't have no place to live!" 
               I comforted her with the assurance that "folks" were often mistaken, and that I did not myself regard the farm as sold-not by any means; and she proceeded to set the supper-table with her usual equanimity. 
               The next afternoon, when I went to Mr. Halsey's, Mrs. Halsey, in spite of the cold, met me at the door with outstretched hands. 
               "Heaven is removing all obstacles out of your way, my dear child," she said. "Let us rejoice together, for 'hath not the Lord done great things for us whereof we are glad?'" 
               I did not suppose she had any especial meaning in what she said, and, as we were all in the habit of doing, attempted to lead her thoughts in another direction. But she went on, impetuously, while her dark eyes flashed with all the ardor of youth. 
               "What do we care for farms and lands?-we who have our staffs and sandals ready, and are about to commence our pilgrimage? We will not grieve for what we have left behind, when we 'walk about Zion, and go round about her; when we tell the towers thereof!' My dear child, I give you joy!" 
                
               Mr. Halsey stepped out of the library-to my surprise, for this hour found him generally in his counting-room. "Mother," he said, "Miss Sibyl is cold. Ugh! how the wind blows! Would you prepare a little cordial for her? No one can do it as well as you." 
               Calling him a flatterer, she went off gayly to do his bidding, and Mr. Halsey led me into the library where Marion was awaiting me. The cordial did not come. The good old lady forgot what she was going to do, long before she had gotten together the ingredients she needed. It was safe to send her on almost any needless errand. 
               Mr. Halsey seated himself in one of the large arm-chairs, and was soon lost in the columns of the Courier and Enquirer. Marion and I, at the other end of the room, went on with our verbs and our decimals, and rehearsed the exploits of long-buried kings, quite oblivious of his presence. It was nearly sundown of the short winter afternoon, when, closing the book, I resumed my bonnet and cloak, and prepared myself for my homeward walk. As I fastened the last button, Mr. Halsey laid aside his paper. 
               "I hear Brown Betty making a merry jingling of bells at the door, Miss Sibyl. You must allow me to take you home. A sleigh-ride will be more comfortable than a walk this cold evening." 
               Of course I protested, said it was quite unnecessary and all that. But in less than two minutes I was wrapped in buffalo robes, and flying along at Brown Betty's utmost speed. 
               "You look a little pale and worn to-night, Miss Sibyl; I think I will not take you directly home. A longer ride will do you good." 
               So saying, as we reached the point where the road branched off towards the village, Mr. Halsey turned his horse's head in that direction, and again we flew onward. 
               Down through the straight street with its single church, its "hotel," its lawyer's office, its three stores, its small, unpretend. ing, white houses, and two or three larger and more stately edifices of brick and stone where the lite of the village lived-down the hill where the pines towered aloft and the hemlocks trailed their snow-laden branches nearly to the ground-over the bridge, just below which the little brawling stream fell over a ledge of rocks, tossing up showers of spray which congealed as it fell-and past the blacksmith's shop with its glowing forge, until we paused before the great mill, the growth of whose tall chimneys Ruth and I had watched with such interest two winters ago. 
               Tossing the lines to a boy who stood near, Mr. Halsey sprang from the sleigh. 
               "You will not be afraid to sit here just one moment, Miss Sibyl? I must speak to my foreman, but will be back in an instant." 
               He was gone scarcely longer than that; but as I leaned back in the softly cushioned sleigh, shielded from wind and cold by the warm furs in which I was wrapped, I ran my eye leisurely over the great pile, marked its solid masonry, that looked as if it might endure for ages, listened to the hum and whirr of the machinery, and could even distinguish amid the multitudinous noises the plash and dip of the great water-wheel making its steady revolutions-a tireless Titan hidden underneath a mountain of stone, and forced to labor for the good of man. Some of the doors and windows were open, for huge black stoves-the veriest salamanders-kept the air within at a summer temperature, and I could see the operatives busy at their work-the great bales of cotton and wool, the piles of finished goods, stacked up and ready for the market. A second village was springing up about the mill-rows of pretty cottages for the use of the "mill hands"-a store, in the upper story of which, at the left-hand corner, a brand-new sign, glittering with jet and gold, announced that "Dr. Gregory" was both able and willing to ameliorate all the ills that flesh is heir to, and a school-house that looked far more convenient and comfortable than its elder sister at the upper village. 
                
               Presently Mr. Halsey came back, and smiled as he met my eager eyes glancing rapidly from point to point. 
               "This is pure prose," he said, as he resumed his seat and took the reins again, "does it interest you?" 
               "On the contrary, it is the truest poetry, I think. You are making the 'wilderness bud and blossom like the rose,' Mr. Halsey." 
               "Not an apt quotation," he replied, laughing, "unless you consider the mill a great-what do they call it?-cabbage-rose, and let the cottages stand for pinks and pansies. But to change the subject," he added, turning suddenly to look at me, and checking the speed of his horse, "Miss Sibyl, will you consider me an intrusive meddler if I venture to speak to you of your own affairs, taking my mother's remarks to you this afternoon for my text?" 
               "Certainly not," I answered; but I felt that the brightness fled from my face as the shadow of care and painful recollection swept over me again. "I judge, from what Mrs. Halsey said, that you have heard of the painful position in which we are placed, and I shall be only too glad of your advice." 
               "I have. It seems to be generally understood in the village. Mr. Mason, 'the Squire,' I should say," he added, smiling, "has written to Lawyer Page about it, I believe. Miss Sibyl, knowing that you are young, and that you have no male relative to counsel you-seeing too the troubled face you brought with you to my house to-day-I have felt that I must speak to you about this matter. You must not consent to the sale of the farm. It would be ruinous." 
               "I am sure of that, Mr. Halsey. But what can we do? Mother has a legal right to her 'thirds,' and Mr. Mason insists that she shall claim her just due." 
               "Even to the 'pound of flesh!' Had your father no bank stock-bonds-money at interest-nothing of that sort?" 
               I shook my head. 
                
               "We have nothing but the house and its contents-the farm and its belongings," I replied. 
               My companion was silent for a few moments, tracing figures in the lately fallen snow with his whip-lash, as we rode slowly along. 
               "Which must not be sold," he said decidedly. "We will consider that point settled. Two-thirds of what they would bring, at interest, would not support your poor sister Ruth, to say nothing of yourself. It is outrageous to think of turning her out of her home. But we will let that pass. Now what is to be done?" 
               "That is the very question we have been asking for a week," I replied. "We have found it easier to ask than to answer it." 
               "Shall I tell you what to do?" 
               "If you will; and I will do just as you say. I am tired of considering ways and means." 
               "My poor child, your tired little face shows that," and his hand just touched mine for one instant. "But we can manage this matter in spite of Shylock. You must write to your mother, telling her that you can never consent to the sale of the farm, and ask her what she will take for her 'thirds' and for such of the personal property as she claims. After you get her answer we will consult further. Meanwhile you are to promise me that you will not worry." 
               I looked gratefully into the clear, steady, trust-compelling eyes that sought mine, and gave the required pledge. 
               "A promise more easily made than kept," I said. "I am proving Marion's words true, Mr. Halsey. She says 'People always do what Uncle Mark wishes them to do.'" 
               "You will keep it," he answered quickly. "Now let us talk of something else, and forget our troubles." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               I WROTE to mother immediately, and in about a week her reply came. She said the Squire thought we were dreadful blind to our own interests, and seemed to be quite "worked up" because we were not willing the farm should be sold-was afraid it was because we were kind of set against him, which was very unjust. He wanted us to look upon him as a father, &c., and repeated his advice about the Indian doctor. But if we would not listen to their proposition, the Squire thought that one thousand dollars would be about what it would be right and fair for her to take. If we would give them our note for that amount at six per cent. they would sign a quit-claim, &c., &c. 
               I took the letter to Mr. Halsey that afternoon. 
               "It is too much," he said. "The Squire is too grasping. He knows he is claiming more than your mother's due, and we won't gratify him, will we, Miss Sibyl? We will offer him eight hundred, and he will be glad enough to take it." 
               Which proved true. 
               "Now," said Mr. Halsey, when I carried him the letter accepting our offer, "now, we can see our way clearly. The next step is to raise the money, for there must be no giving of notes-at least none on your part." 
               I looked at him with a rueful smile which he interpreted aright, and laughed when I emphasized it by exhibiting my purse hanging limply over my little finger. 
               "Empty, I dare say; young ladies' purses are apt to be in that condition. Miss Sibyl, you are unwilling to sell the farm-the homestead-but you would not object to disposing of a part of it; say the wood-lot at the north end?" 
               I clapped my hands. "Mr. Halsey, you are a very Solomon! My father himself used often to talk of selling that lot, saying that it brought in little or nothing, and that there was fuel enough upon the farm to last a lifetime without it." 
               "Then we must sell it at once-this very afternoon." 
               "Oh! but we cannot find a purchaser as soon as that. We must advertise." 
               "By no means. Miss Sibyl, I want that wood-lot. I need it. My foreman told me only yesterday that I must buy a thousand acres of woodland on the mountain, for those great stoves were eating us out of house and home. I want one lot nearer by-easier of access. Will you sell it for eight hundred dollars?" 
               Reader, I was a very silly girl, I know, but indeed I could not help it. Just then, when I ought to have smiled sweetly and said, "thank you, sir," with my prettiest air, I dropped my head upon the table and cried like a very baby. It was such a relief, such a sudden deliverance from the trouble that had so harassed me for weeks past. Mr. Halsey let me alone, saying only a kind, soothing word or two, and laying his hand upon my head for one moment with a gentle touch. But at length, thinking probably that I had cried long enough, he said- 
               "Miss Sibyl, I am in a dreadful state of suspense. Am I to have that wood-lot or no?" 
               I lifted my head, keeping my tear-stained face out of sight as much as possible. One doubt, nay, two doubts, had obtruded themselves while I was indulging in the somewhat rare luxury of tears, and they must be solved to my entire satisfaction before I could answer Mr. Halsey's question. 
               "That depends," I answered, with a futile attempt at being saucy. "I am not at all sure that you want it, or, I should rather say, that you need it." 
               "But I do need it. If you are so hard-hearted as to refuse me this one, Brown Betty and I will start in search of another to-morrow morning at five o'clock precisely." 
               "What! before daylight?" 
               "Yes, before daylight; and if I am sick for a fortnight thereafter, you will be responsible." 
                
               I looked down, and played with the tasselled table-cover for two minutes. 
               "Well?" he said. 
               I lifted my face towards him now, regardless of the tearstains, and feeling that my eyes were filling again. 
               "Mr. Halsey, I do not know that the wood-lot is worth eight hundred dollars. I fear that it is not, and that you are making this offer simply to relieve me of my difficulties-making it out of sheer kindness of heart." 
               He took both my hands in his. 
               "You foolish little child," he said. "Look me full in the face, and hear me make my affidavit. I do need the wood-lot. If I do not buy this, I shall buy some other, which will probably be less convenient. Yours is just where I want it, and as I want it. It is worth eight hundred dollars. Perhaps it would bring more if divided into smaller lots and sold separately. Now, are you satisfied?" 
               I was; and I told him so. 
               The necessary papers were speedily drawn up, the legal documents prepared; and in less than a fortnight Ruth and I felt that the cloud had passed by, and that we were safe in the unmolested possession of our own vine and fig-tree. 
               I think mother must have informed Mr. Lysander Moore that I was "of the same opinion still" as regarded his suit; for from the time when he asked me if I wished to "change my situation" until now, he had never alluded to the subject; or rather his allusions had been so vague and distant that I could not reply to them. But he tormented me inexpressibly, haunting me until I dreaded his approach as I dreaded the nightmare. As I have said, our farms joined, and it seemed to me that he did nothing but lie in wait for me. If I went out into the garden to see if there was a single pansy lifting its resolute little head beneath the snows of March, he was sure to appear, leaning over the fence and making comments about the weather. If I started on a brisk walk to the village, he was certain to overtake me, or to meet me in a delightfully-unexpected manner as I turned some corner. And at any hour, from seven in the morning until nine at night, I was liable to be called out into the kitchen to see Mr. Lysander Moore. It was impossible to avoid him. He was "working the farm;" and business furnished him with never-failing excuses for forcing himself into my presence. Silence could not check him, nor coldness daunt. If he was snubbed one day, he appeared the next, utterly unconscious that he had been snubbed, or not caring if he knew it. 
               "Dear me," I said to Ruth one day when I had been especially annoyed, "I am actually afraid I shall marry Lysander Moore to get rid of him, yet." 
               "Have patience a little longer, and take courage," she answered. "It will be the first of April soon, and after that he will not have so many opportunities to trouble you. It is strange that some men can never take a hint. But after all, if he cares for you, Sibyl, he deserves, and should receive, gentle treatment at your hands." 
               "Cares for me! he holds me perhaps 'something better than his dog, a little dearer than his horse.' Though I doubt if he prizes me even so much as that. Rough and uncouth as he is, if there was the faintest spark of the divine fire burning upon the altar of his heart, Ruth, I could do homage to that, and thank him for the love, even while I shrank away from the lover. But it is the land he is after. The wife is a secondary consideration. If he would only give me a chance to speak! I shall have it out with him some day, if I have to broach the subject myself." 
               The very next day, as I was returning from Mr. Halsey's, Mr. Moore, who was in ambush as usual, jumped over a fence and joined me. 
               "Fine day," he said. 
               "Very," I responded. 
               "Be time to get out the teams for spring-ploughin' pooty soon, if it keeps on like this; snow's all off the uplands a'ready." 
                
               I did not consider it necessary to reply to this observation, and after a little he went on. Silence was not his forte. 
               "Say, Sibyl, I s'pose you're a-calculating to let me have the farm again this year?" 
               "No, I think not," I replied. "I am going to turn farmer myself. I told you so a month ago, Mr. Moore." 
               "Yes, but I didn't s'pose you really meant it. You'd look well a-farmin' now, with these little mites of hands of yours," and he drew nearer to me, as if he meant to get possession of them. 
               I shrank away from him. 
               "I did mean it, Lysander Moore. I never said one word to you that I did not mean." 
               He sidled up to me, with a most provoking leer. 
               "You didn't mean what you said last fall, now, Sibyl? You was only shy, and kind of skittish, as young women is apt to be. Your mother told me to be patient, and let you alone for a spell and you'd come round after awhile. But I ain't a-going to be put off no longer," he added, his face growing dark and sullen, as I repulsed his advances. "I want to know when you are going to stop this fooling, and let me come to see you regular." 
               "Never," I exclaimed, my eyes blazing, "never! You have no right to speak to me in this way. I told you last fall that I should never marry you and I never shall, not while grass grows and water runs. Do you understand that?" 
               If his face was dark before, it was white enough now, white with rage and disappointment. I began to feel, as I saw it change and whiten, that perhaps there had been somewhat of passion, I will not say love, mingling with his cupidity. 
               I walked on rapidly, leaving him standing stock-still in the middle of the road. But in less than a minute I heard his steps behind me. 
               "I'll make you sorry for this, Sibyl Huntington," he said, speaking slowly and with clinched teeth. "You'll rue the day when you put on airs with me, holding up that head of yours as if the earth wa'n't good enough for you to tread on. You mark my words now. I ain't the man to be put upon and insulted for nothin', I tell you." 
               "I have not intended to insult you, Mr. Moore," I answered. "You forced me to be explicit. You refused to take me at my word, and compelled me to express myself as I did. I am sorry if I have wounded you." 
               "Yes, I guess you be," he said scornfully. "Come, if you're sorry, let's kiss and make up," and with a look upon his face that was far worse than anger, he attempted to put his arm about my waist. 
               I bounded from him, and in a minute was within our own gate, panting and breathless. 
               "Why, what's the matter!" exclaimed Ruth as I rushed into the house and fastened the door behind me. "What is the trouble now?" 
               "Nothing. Don't ask me, Ruth," I answered between laughter and tears. "I've had it out with Mr. Moore, as I said I would, that's all." 
               "You had rather a stormy time, I should judge," she replied. "But never mind. This will be the end of it, I hope. There's a letter from John." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               THAT spring was a very busy, but, on the whole, a very happy one. We were perfectly free, free to pursue whatever course we thought best. That of itself was something to be thankful for. Our means were limited, but we knew just what we had to depend upon, and could make our calculations accordingly. We had had enough of renting the farm "on shares," or otherwise. I hired a good, faithful, sufficiently intelligent man, who would "board to hum," and our old friend Peter Wells came back to us, a couple of inches taller than when he went away. 
               "Now, Miss Sibyl, you don't say that we're going to have that Peter boy back again?" said Matty, with an equivocal smile, when I told her of the anticipated arrival. "If we are, I'm a-going straight down cellar to see how much pork there is in the barrel. That's the fust thing to do, and the next is to make some apple-sass!" 
               John came home in May, and took lodgings at the hotel. We were too exquisite in Valleythorpe to call our house of public entertainment a tavern, and the good old Saxon word, inn, was never thoroughly adopted into the vocabulary of New England. How glad we were to see him; how his presence brightened every day of the month that he stayed with us! For he went back to his Western business at the expiration of that time, to remain for another six months, or possibly for a year. Then he was coming home, he said, to spend his days and do his work beneath the shadow of his native hills. 
               I have been thinking, lately, that writing the story of one's life grows to be very like the passing of the life itself. When I first commenced telling you what Ruth and I thought and felt and did and suffered, I lingered, often unnecessarily, perhaps, over little incidents; just as in the commencement of our lives, trifles make up the life itself, and a week seems longer and more fraught with adventure to the child, than a year or a decade to the man. Then slowly and surely, though often imperceptibly, our lives broaden and deepen, moving on year by year with a swifter and swifter current, till the days grow-oh! so short, and we can scarcely count the years, or keep track of our birthdays as they fly past us. We do not linger now by "banks or braes" be they ever so bonny. We have no time to dally with butter-cups or daisies. A power stronger than ourselves seizes us with inexorable might, and bears us right onward ward to the end. So, too, is it with the telling of my story. The days and the years grow shorter and fly faster. Memories crowd upon me. I can no longer dwell upon incidents that in the beginning would have called for a page or a chapter. My story has caught me in its grasp and bears me onward whithersoever it will. Ah, Tyrant! that would let me give but ten short lines to that happy month of John's visit, when Ruth's dear face smiled constantly-content only to know that he breathed the same air, and drank in the same sunlight with herself. Perhaps it is because we were so happy that I have written so little. Happiness leaves but a slight record, but sorrow writes with a pen of iron. 
               Yet we were often sad, with a sort of gentle sadness that was a very different thing from grief or pain, as we talked of the changeful past, of thwarted plans, of dreams that were only dreams, of hopes that might never ripen into fruition. But Ruth and John had learned the lesson, that sooner or later every human soul must learn-that of unquestioning submission. Wise with the wisdom that cometh from above, they had ceased to struggle or to rebel, if they had ever done so. They quietly accepted the lot that Heaven had meted out to them, and with that acceptance came a peace-a content that was the next best thing to the joy of satisfied love. And, reader, I, too, was learning the same lesson. The discipline of all these years of trial and of suffering had not been utterly in vain. I was beginning to see that it made slight difference, after all, what my life-work was, or where my field of labor lay, provided only that the work was done, and the labor hallowed by faithfulness and self-abnegation. I was beginning to see that I could choose neither the work I would do, nor the discipline I would undergo, and to be willing that God should choose for me. Only beginning-but that was something. 
               Mother came to Valleythorpe just after John left, but unaccompanied by "the Squire." She remained about a week, and was singularly quiet and subdued all the time. She looked harassed and worn, and said very little about her life at Maysville. To us she was tenderer than she had ever been, and there was a yearning look in her eyes sometimes as they wandered about the old house and rested upon the old furniture. She admitted that she was glad on the whole that the farm was not sold, but begged us never to let the Squire know it. 
               There were guests staying at Mr. Halsey's; among them two or three young girls about Marion's age, and she had begged for a vacation. Consequently my regular afternoon visits were intermitted. One evening, a little while before sunset, I heard merry voices, low peals of laughter, like the tinkling of sweet bells, and the tramping of horses' feet. A cavalcade of riders swept by, among whom I distinguished only Mr. Halsey's tall form and Marion's petite figure-the latter mounted upon a little white pony, which was the joy of her life. For the rest, I caught only a passing glimpse of long, flowing robes, floating veils, and plumes that tossed and fluttered in the breeze. 
               "There!" I said, "they've all gone riding. They've going up to the Rock to see the sun go down, and I will just run over and exchange this volume of De Quincey. I shall have plenty of time before they get back." 
               Catching up my white sun-bonnet, I hurried off, waiting only when I reached the gate to make sure that the riders had turned in the direction of the Rock. I had no mind to be caught in Mr. Halsey's library by a party of strangers. Having satisfied myself on that point, I went on, and never slackened my pace until I found myself in the long, low room where I had learned to feel so much at home. Hastily replacing my book upon the shelf, I was about to take down the second volume when I perceived, to my chagrin, that it was not there. Standing irresolute for an instant, I turned to look for it upon the tables. I had thrown back my bonnet, and the light from the western window illumined the part of the room where I was standing, leaving the rest in deepest shadow. 
               "The second volume of De Quincey, Miss Sibyl? Here it is," said a well-known voice, and Guy Tremaine arose from the depths of one of the great chairs and handed it to me, as quietly and as gravely as if time had rolled backward for the space of four years, and replaced us in the library at Grey-hurst. 
               I did not take it, but looked at him without a word. Astonishment, pleasure, and I know not what other emotions had stricken me dumb. 
               "Won't you take it? I assure you I have no further use for it," and now the old smile rippled over his face, breaking the spell that bound me. 
               "Mr. Tremaine!" I exclaimed. "Is it indeed you? Where did you come from?" 
               "It is indeed me, and I came from Albany to-day. At least I reached here to-day. But aren't you going to shake hands with me?" 
               "Yes, I am," I said, "as soon as I can collect my senses. I dared not venture at first. I did not know whether you were mortal man or a spirit." 
               "You did not know me at first. You looked at me as if I were a ghost or an ogre. Your memory is more treacherous than mine. I knew you in a minute." 
               "I did know you, but I was startled. I suppose you to be at the antipodes, and you rise out of that chair and offer me a book. What could I do but wait a moment to ascertain if you were you, or I were I? I felt for an instant uncertain as to my own identity. But, Mr. Tremaine, when did you come home?-how are they all at Greyhurst?-how did you happen to stray up here?" 
               He laughed- 
               "Which question shall I answer first? I will take them in order. I came home a month ago-on the Victoria. They were all well at Greyhurst at the last advices. But I have not been there yet, and shall wait until fall, to escape the hot weather. I came here to see Halsey, who is an old friend of mine, and to see other friends. Miss Sibyl, how is that sister of yours? Hasn't she got well yet?" 
               I shook my head- 
               "There has been no change for the last year. I think she is as well as she ever will be." 
               He was silent for a moment- 
               "What a fate! I should think death preferable." 
               "You would not think so if you knew her, Mr. Tremaine. She is as happy as you or I." 
               He did not reply, but looked at me earnestly- 
               "What have you been doing all this time, Miss Sibyl? You have changed." 
               "Have I? I am three or four years older." 
               "I do not mean that. But there is something in your face that was not there when you were at Greyhurst. What is it?" 
               "How can I tell? Wrinkles, perhaps." 
               "You know better. Are you well?" 
               "Perfectly." 
               "You are as reticent as ever, I see. You seem quite at home here. Do you know the Halseys well?" 
               "Tolerably well. Marion is a pupil of mine." 
               "Ah! Miss Sibyl, Edith is going to be married. Can you believe it?" 
               "Why should I not? Is it past belief that she should be sought and won?" I had heard this bit of news before, from Mrs. Gordon. 
               "But she is so young. A mere baby." 
               "She must be over eighteen now." 
               "Is it possible? I must be an old man, then. Miss Sibyl, do you perceive any signs of incipient baldness?" and he bent his brown locks toward me, shaking them slightly. 
               "No. But I see one gray hair-yes, two. Mr. Tremaine, I will take that book, if you please. I must go." 
               But I had waited too long. As I spoke, the riding-party swept up the broad, circular drive that had supplanted the old gravelled walk, and halted before the door. My first impulse was to run. Upon second thoughts that seemed rather an undignified proceeding, and, besides, there was no other avenue of escape than the hall. So I stayed. 
               The ladies went up-stairs to exchange their riding-habits for lighter dresses. The gentlemen strayed round to the stables, careful for the well-being of their steeds. All but Mr. Halsey, who came into the library hat in hand. 
               "Well, Tremaine, my dear fellow, I am sorry you did not go with us. We had a charming ride. But your fatigue-" 
               He stopped short and bowed as he saw me leaning against the book-case-my sun-bonnet in one hand and the book in the other. He comprehended, or thought he did, the situation at a glance, and hastened to set me at my ease. 
               "Good-morning, Miss Sibyl. You have come for the second volume of De Quincey? Miss Huntington, allow me to present to you an old friend of mine, Mr. Tremaine." 
               The gentleman favored the lady with a very low bow, and the lady curtsied gravely. 
               "Now, Mr. Halsey," said Mr. Tremaine, "allow me to present you to a very old friend of mine, Miss Huntington." 
               Mr. Halsey looked first at one and then at the other. 
               "Are you in earnest, Tremaine? Miss Sibyl, do you really know this cosmopolitan, who, after wandering the world over, when everybody supposes him to be in Egypt, suddenly turns up in Vermont? Of course you do; but how did it come about?" 
               "Do but hear him!" cried Mr. Tremaine. "As if no one had a right to have acquaintances but himself!" 
               "No, no, Tremaine. Not so. But I really am surprised to find that you two people know each other." 
               "I do not wonder that you are, Mr. Halsey," I answered. "But you certainly cannot be any more surprised than I was to find Mr. Tremaine here this evening, sitting in your armchair, reading De Quincey. You have heard me speak of Mrs. Gordon with whom I lived in Virginia. This gentleman is her brother." 
               "Surely, surely. I see," replied Mr. Halsey. "You have made the case as plain as possible. But Tremaine never introduced me to any friend of his before, I believe, so it is no wonder I was astonished." 
               "What a preposterous remark!" retorted his guest. "Did I not make you acquainted with my 'dear five hundred friends' in Paris, Berlin, and Heidelberg? I have never introduced you to any of my relatives because I have had no opportunity. But you have surely heard me speak of my sister Mary-Mrs. Gordon?" 
               "Without doubt. But I never supposed that she and Miss Sibyl's Mrs. Gordon were identical." 
               "Now that this matter is satisfactorily explained," I said, laughing, "I must hurry home," and off I went, declining the escort of either of the gentlemen. 
               And as I went, a low, sweet voice floated out upon the evening air-a voice that half-sung, half-chanted, the plaintive words of the Hebrew poet- 
               "If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               I WALKED home as one in a dream. I pinched my arms to see if I were awake. Had I really been talking with Guy Tremaine, or was it all an illusion? Long ago had I discarded the idea that our paths would ever cross again. I had never expected to see his face, or touch his hand, or hear his voice. And yet, all in a moment, as it were, fate had thrown us together-wafting him, as with the breath of magic, from beneath the shadow of the pyramids to my side. 
               Was I glad or sorry? I hardly knew. I refused to believe. But I held in my hand the book he had placed there, and as I opened it a faint, subtle odor of rose geranium stole from between the leaves. It was his favorite perfume, but I knew no reason why his simple touch should impart to the book the fragrance that he loved. I smiled as I walked along in the darkening twilight, still turning the leaves. Ah! here was the secret of the perfume-a bit of scented paper, upon which he had doubtless been scribbling, ere I surprised him in the great-chair. 
               A scrap of paper, covered all over with quaint and queer devices. A thicket of ivy leaves, and a grotesque human head peering through. A pair of branching antlers with a mouse impaled upon either tip. The Diana, opposite which he had been sitting; but instead of a bended bow, she held a broom, and balanced a pail of water upon her stately head. Faces with long noses, and short noses, and no noses at all. Eyes of every imaginable form and expression, and at the bottom a caricature of himself. 
               I laughed outright. It was an old trick of his that I remembered so well! The only wonder was that he had been thoughtful enough to search his pockets for some paper, instead of illuminating the book itself. I turned it over. More scribblings and more pictures. A dove with an olive leaf. Edith's name and that of her lover. Valleythorpe-a date, July 25th, 18-, the month that I left Greyhurst, and finally Sibyl-Sibyl-Sibyl Huntington. 
               The color flashed to my face. He had thought of me, then, before I stole in upon him like a thief in the night. I had intended to give the paper back to him, bidding him take better care of his works of art. But I could not do that now. So I folded it and slipped it into my pocket. 
                
               "Ruth," I said the next morning as I prepared her cup of coffee, "I think it is very probable that Mr. Tremaine will call here to-day, and you must see him." 
               "I see him! Sibyl, you can be a very absurd child, when you try to be. How can I see him?" 
               "You have seen Mr. Halsey." 
               "Once or twice. But he is a neighbor, and I have felt that I must thank him for his repeated kindnesses. This is a different case." 
               "I cannot help it, Ruthie. You have been lazy long enough. From this time forward, you must help me entertain company. I cannot do the honors alone any longer." 
               "It must be a burden to you," she answered, laughing. "We entertain so much. But, Sibyl, are you in earnest? I would not like to receive Mr. Tremaine here, and thus-" and she glanced at her white-draped bed. 
               "Don't be prudish, Ruthie, and do listen to reason," I replied. "Do you intend to make a hermit of yourself for the remainder of your days? You are well enough, much of the time, to see company, and it is better that you should. This room has nothing of the 'bedroom' in its air or appointments. It is our sitting-room-and your dainty couch and its dainty occupant are its chief ornaments. Besides I need a chaperone. You are older than I, and should fill that place. If we are to live here together, we must divide our duties and responsibilities." 
               "Well, well," she said with a half sigh, "have it your own way. Perhaps it is best, and if it will be any more pleasant for you, I consent." 
               "Thank you, darling," I said, kissing her. "It will be more pleasant for me, and for you too, after a little. Besides you have an illustrious exemplar. Don't you remember that French Duchess de something or somebody, who held receptions in her bedroom? I can't recall the whole story myself." 
               "If my memory serves me, her rivals accused her of adopting ing that eccentric course, in order to display a magnificent point-lace counterpane she was so fortunate as to possess. Sibyl, is Mr. Tremaine going to stay long?" 
               "In Valleythorpe? I did not ask him, neither did he say. He said he was not going South until the hot weather was over." 
               Towards night, as I had anticipated, Mr. Tremaine called. Mr. Halsey was with him. I suppose there is no girl living who would not have tried, as I did, to look at things with her guests' eyes when ushering them into a room so unlike anything to which they were accustomed in their own homes. But I was not ashamed of mine, humble and unpretending as it was. There was nothing vulgar, nothing tawdry, nothing unrefined about it, although everything was of the plainest. And as for Ruth, I was proud of her. I knew that Guy Tremaine in all his wanderings had seen nothing lovelier. She reminded me of a white rose-bud, that day-a lily of the valley, and of whatever else is incomparably fair and sweet. 
               "The half had not been told me," he whispered, as I went with him to the south door to show him a famous gap in the mountains. "Miss Sibyl, she is exquisite!" 
               "Miss Sibyl, do you ride?" asked Mr. Halsey, when we reentered the sitting-room. 
               "Not at all," I answered. "I do not remember that I was ever on horseback." 
               "That is unfortunate. But she can learn, Tremaine?" 
               That gentleman smiled. 
               "Sufficiently well in a week," he said. 
               I looked up wonderingly. 
               "We propose making the ascent of one of our Chimborazos next week," continued Mr. Halsey, "and can go in carriages only a part of the way. By the by, here is a note for you," and he tossed it into my lap. 
               It was from Miss Agnes, Mr. Halsey's sister, begging me to join their party at tea that evening. 
               "My nieces are anxious to know you," she said, "for Marion has done nothing but sing your praises ever since they came. As for her, she declares that if you do not come she will resume her lessons to-morrow. We are quite a family party-only my nieces, a nephew, and two or three intimate friends. Now do not disappoint us-A. H." 
               "You perceive that Halsey Castle misses you," said its owner, smiling, as I finished the note. "May I say that you will join us this evening?" 
               I assented, after a little hesitation, and the conversation flowed back to its previous channel. 
               "If you had returned to Greyhurst you would doubtless have been an accomplished rider long ago," said Mr. Tremaine. "I believe Fanny informed you that I bought a couple of ponies for the express purpose of giving lessons in horsemanship to Edith and yourself. What an ado those children made when they found they were not to have you back again!" 
               So we chatted on until they rose to take their leave. 
               "I must give you your first lesson to-morrow morning," remarked Mr. Halsey, as he took his hat. "If we go to-Chimborazo, or whatever they call it-next week, you must have a little practice. Although Brown Betty would carry you safely without it, I presume." 
               "You had better give the lesson by proxy, Mr. Halsey," said his friend. "You business men have no time to waste in the morning. I protest against any such folly. Besides, I was to have done this very thing four years ago, and ought to have some compensation for my disappointment." 
               I caught a keen glance from Mr. Halsey's eyes ere he replied, courteously- 
               "I resign in your favor, Tremaine, as you have the oldest claim. But pray don't flatter yourself that you have done me a favor by pressing it." 
               "I am glad, so glad-" said Ruth, drawing me to her side after they had gone. 
               "Of what?" 
                
               "That you are going to Mr. Halsey's this evening-that you are going to the mountains next week-that you are to have some society, some recreation. You have had such a hard life all these years, my precious little sister!" 
               "Mr. Halsey calls me 'little child,' and you call me 'little sister,'" I said, laughing. "Miss Ruth Huntington, I would have you know that I measure five feet four in my stockings. Why do you say little? Am I so diminutive?" 
               "Don't stop to philosophize now," she replied, shaking me. "Run up-stairs and see what you have to wear this evening." 
               "There is no need of that-my new muslin is nearly done. I can finish it easily enough. But I have no riding-dress, and I do not know what I can do. I have no time to make a new one even if I could, as the Squire says, 'stand the expense.'" 
               Ruth considered a moment. 
               "You will not need it to-morrow, and before you do-well, we will manage it somehow. I am determined you shall have a play-spell, dear. You have earned it, surely." 
               It was pleasant that afternoon, I could but acknowledge, to look over the things I had packed away when I came from Greyhurst, and which I had scarcely glanced at since-to select such articles as would be suitable for the evening, to try on the light, rosetted slippers, and find that they still fitted, and that the gloves were yet fresh and unsullied. It was pleasant to brush my hair until its rippling waves shone like satin, and then braid it back from my face in broad braids, that were almost as elaborate as poor Violet's handiwork on the night of the Christmas party; pleasant to put on the new muslin, and to feel that everything about me was fresh and pure and dainty. 
               "Let me take a good look at you now that you are dressed," said Ruth. "Dear child! you look like a snow-drop, all white and green. But don't keep the carriage waiting." Mr. Halsey had sent it. "Here, take your gloves and handkerchief, and run along." 
               It was pleasant, too, when I reached the Castle-as in play ful parlance we often called Mr. Halsey's residence, which was anything but castle-like in its exterior-to be at once made so cordially welcome that even the strange faces failed to disturb me. I think Ruth's fancy must have had some truth to stand upon, for, as Mr. Halsey handed me from the carriage, he looked at me smilingly for a moment, and then, bending his head, whispered low- 
               "A very snow-drop to-night, Miss Sibyl!" 
               When it was time for me to go home, Miss Agnes followed me into the dressing-room. 
               "I have given James a formidable-looking parcel, with orders to put it in the carriage. It is a riding-dress. Don't say a word, my dear child, but as you have never learned to ride, of course you have none. And there is not time to make one now. We are nearly of a size, and mine will answer for you very nicely, I think." 
               I thanked her warmly. 
               "No thanks, no thanks," she said. "My riding days were over long ago, and the habit is of no use to me. It will be a real pleasure to see it worn once more." 
               While we were breakfasting the next morning, my coadjutor, Mr. Jonas Pratt, came in to say that "if 'twouldn't be no burden to me, he wished I'd just step over to the three-cornered lot and look at that 'ere piece o' rye," and expressed his own belief that it was "near-about time it was down." Now I had not the slightest doubt that Mr. Pratt was a much better judge of the matter than I was. Nevertheless, thinking that it would be more business-like, and farmer-like, to go and see for myself, I put on some thick shoes, pinned up my dress-for there had been a heavy dew during the night,-and sallied forth, intending to be back long before it would be time for my riding lesson. But after examining the rye lot, there were important reasons why I should visit the cornfield. Then Mr. Pratt thought "them cows wa'n't gettin' as good feed as they'd oughter have," and that "somehow the young cattle in the hill pastur' didn't look fust-rate neither." So I must needs attend to that matter. And going back through the woods I found our great white turkey, that had been missing for some weeks, straying about with a brood of young turkeys at her heels. Query, Do turkeys have heels? They must be convoyed home then or never, for it was very certain that the place that knew her to-day would not know her to-morrow. So I called Peter Wells from his work in an adjoining field, and together we succeeded in driving madame and her flock into the back yard, just as the clock struck ten. 
               Matty rushed out to meet me, and held up her hands aghast. 
               "Oh, Miss Sibyl! I thought you never would come, and now you're a sight to behold! You 've torn your dress in two places-and it's as wet! and so are your shoes, and your hair's comin' down! And that strange gentleman's been a-waitin' for you as much as an hour, I guess!" 
               "It's a woeful case, to be sure," I said, but checked myself suddenly as the "strange gentleman" came round the corner of the house, leading Brown Betty. Very dainty he looked in his bright summer suit, trimly fitting boots, and immaculate gloves, and I suppose that in all his life he had never seen a lady look as I looked just then. It was with a sense of amusement rather than of chagrin that I perceived he was slightly shocked. Not that his words or his manner indicated it. But I saw it in his face, as he came forward to shake hands. The flies were troubling Brown Betty, he said, making her restive, and he was about to tie her in the shed. I went into the house, hastily smoothed my hair and changed my dress, and was ready for my lesson. I had been accustomed to horses from my childhood-driving, petting, and even harnessing them when it was necessary. So I had no troublesome fears to retard my progress. Before I had been mounted half an hour, Mr. Tremaine declared that I must join the riding party that evening-saying I was entirely competent to ride to "Chimborazo" or anywhere else. 
               I began to fear before the close of the week that I should grow too fond of dissipation. The party at Castle Halsey gave themselves up to fun and frolic, and seemed determined to make me as gay as themselves. Marion and her cousins ran back and forth at will, having made unto themselves a shorter road across the meadows, and I saw a great deal of their elders. We rode and walked, picnicked and went fishing. We read, we sang, we danced, we chattered, we played charades, and got up the most imposing tableaux. And by and by we went to "Chimborazo." That was the climax. 
               I verily believe that Ruth enjoyed it all, even more than I did. 
               "I wish you would take a good, sharp look at me, Ruth," I said one day as I was braiding my hair. "I am in an unpleasant state of mind. I am not sure whether this be Sibyl Huntington or not-this young lady who dresses herself every afternoon, expecting either to go out or to 'receive' at home. Am I myself?" 
               "I rather think you are," she answered, laughing. "Put your hair back, and let me see." 
               I did her bidding. 
               "You look younger and fresher and brighter than you did a fortnight ago," she said. "This is doing you good, Sibyl. It was time that you did something besides work. Oh, my darling! I am so glad to have you rest!" 
               "To have me play, you should say," I rejoined. "I am doing that very faithfully. To-night I am going to ride with Mr. Tremaine." 
               "Where are the rest of the people?" 
               "Mr. Halsey had to go to the lake, and Harry Lansing went with him. Miss Lansing has a headache and keeps her room. Mrs. Grey and her daughter are helping Miss Agnes do some wonderful thing or other, and Marion and her cousins are going down to take tea with Dr. Hyde. Mr. Tremaine had nothing to do-so he said-and begged me to take pity on him." 
               Ruth said nothing for a full minute. 
               "Come here, child," she said, at length. 
               I went to her, and, as was my custom, kneeled down by the side of the bed, bringing my face close to hers. She looked at me steadily until my eyes fell, and I dropped my head upon her pillow. 
               "Childie," she whispered, "are you safe? Do not lose this fluttering little heart unless you are sure of gaining in return one quite worthy of it." 
               "Guy Tremaine's, for instance?" 
               I waited impatiently for her answer. I longed to know what she would say. But she did not reply. 
               "Guy Tremaine's?" I repeated. 
               She turned her head uneasily. 
               "When you first came from Greyhurst," she said, at length, "I thought-perhaps it was the merest fancy of mine, dear!-that you cared for him just a little. And now-" 
               "You think I am in danger of caring more. But you did not answer my question, Ruth." 
               "He is very charming, very fascinating," she said slowly, as if considering every word. "I think he might win the heart of almost any woman, if he should set himself about it seriously." 
               "He is the most fascinating person I ever saw, Ruth." 
               "Yes," she answered with a sigh, "I cannot doubt it. He is most winning, most charming. It is strange that you should have met again." 
               "Unfortunate, too, you think?" 
               "No, no, Sibyl, I did not say that. Do not jump at conclusions too hastily. Yet-" 
               "Go on," I said gently, as she hesitated. 
               "It is only this. With all his fine qualities, I feel, rather than see, a lack somewhere. I do not know him well enough to point it out. And perhaps there is none. Perhaps the lack is in my own perceptions. Forgive me, darling!" 
               I kept my face out of her sight. 
               "I am very glad he came to Valleythorpe, Ruth!" 
               "If you are, I will be. Does he love you, Sibyl?" 
               "He has never told me so. Ruth, I gave my heart to you years ago. I would not leave you for any man in Christendom!" 
               But in a moment I was repenting that speech, in sackcloth and ashes; for she buried her face in the pillow, and sobbed, oh! so bitterly. 
               "It is not that, Sibyl! Oh, Sibyl, you must not think it is that! I want you to be a happy wife some day. I could not bear to feel that I had darkened your noon-day, as well as your morning." 
               I crushed back my own tears, for I expected every moment to hear the tramping of horses' feet, and felt that I must not give way. 
               "I did not think it, Ruthie. My own precious Ruthie, I do not think it. Don't make me cry," I added, kissing her with trembling lips, "for my gallant cavalier is no admirer of red eyes. And there he comes! But I cannot go, Ruth, until you forgive me for that thoughtless speech of mine. It was very thoughtless." 
               She caught her breath, as she clasped me in a short embrace. 
               "There! go quick!" she said. "Don't keep him waiting. God bless you, my darling!" 
               I fear Mr. Tremaine found me a dull companion for the first twenty minutes of our ride. But yielding myself at length to the sweet influences of that golden summer evening, and to the charm of his presence-for there was no denying that it had its own peculiar charm-I rode on by his side chatting merrily. 
               We passed the great mill, humming like a hive, and paused in the shadow of the pines, to look at the large windows illumined by the setting sun. 
               "It is the apotheosis of labor," said Mr. Tremaine. "Phbus Apollo is transforming that big workshop into a temple fit for the gods." 
               Just then the huge bell swung back and forth in the belfry, and its quick, sharp peal rang out over the valley, and was sent back in echoes by the overshadowing hills. Soon from every arch and door-way streamed a motley throng-men, women, and children-eager, one and all, for home and rest. We watched them as, by ones, and twos, and threes, they were lost in the white cottages, or rambled farther off to the scattered farmhouses. Some passed us and went on to the upper village, and some with baskets on their arms wandered off I knew not whither. 
               "Halsey is a strange man," said my companion, when the last straggler had disappeared, and stillness settled down upon the busy scene. The hum of the spindles was hushed; the whirr of the machinery had ceased; and even the great water-wheel rested in its dripping cavern. "A very strange man." 
               "That is not just the adjective I should have applied to him," I said, laughing. "What eccentricities has he?" 
               "What but an eccentricity is it for a man like him to settle himself here, out of the world, as one may say, and go to making cloths? He does not need money. He has enough. I cannot understand it." 
               "I believe he was induced to make Valleythorpe his residence chiefly because it was 'out of the world,'" I replied; "on his mother's account, I believe. She is happier and more quiet in the country. But that does not explain the mill." 
               "Oh! he has some high-flown ideas about a man's accountability, and all that. We are always quarrelling on these points. He maintains that a man of fortune has no right to lock up the main portion of his property in bank-stock, but that he should invest it in some way that shall make it of use to others as well as to himself. We were in Europe together years ago, and he told me then that he should go into some business of this sort when the right time came. My private opinion is that he likes it." 
               "It is mine also," I said. "He likes to feel that this great business, which in its various ramifications gives employment to hundreds, nay, thousands-this mill, that feeds and clothes and sustains at least fifty families-these new homes-homes that are peaceful, orderly, full of comfort and good cheer-are the results of his own energy, his own knowledge, tact, and skill. He ought to like it, Mr. Tremaine. He ought to be proud of it, and I dare say he is." 
               "You are eloquent," he answered, with a half smile, as he glanced at me. "To tell the truth, I don't think Halsey so far out of the way myself. But as for following his example, as he would fain have induced me to do-ugh! The thought of such a plunge into business is as bad as that of an iced shower-bath in winter." 
               "Mr. Halsey surely does not think it is every man's duty to go into business, Mr. Tremaine? That would be too absurd." 
               "No; but he thinks it is every man's duty to do something. And so do I. The trouble with me is that I do not convert my theory into practice. If my memory serves me right, Miss Sibyl, you and I have had some conversation on this and kindred topics before." 
               My thoughts flew back to poor Violet. 
               "Is that grave under the persimmon tree yet?" I asked, as we rode slowly along in the gathering twilight. 
               "Violet's? I told you it should remain there, Miss Sibyl, and I always keep my promises. It would have been removed long ago if it had not been for that." 
               "Did you ever hear a word about Joe?" 
               "Never. The 'souf' which was such a horror to little Violet swallowed him up in its black depths. He never rose again." 
               At that moment we emerged from the shadow of the pines into the open road, and Mr. Tremaine dismounted to tighten my saddle-girth. Having accomplished his purpose, he took off his hat and stood with his hand upon the pommel of my saddle, looking at the pale crescent moon that was hanging just above our heads. Just then a tall figure strode swiftly past us, and a dark, malignant face scowled into mine for an instant. 
               It was Lysander Moore's. 
                
               Mr. Tremaine remounted and we rode on. 
               "To return to Halsey again," said he; "I more than half expected to find a fair English wife ruling his heart and home. Miss Agnes presides over the latter most admirably; but I have not dared ask him why the former lacks its crowned queen." 
               "Not dared?" 
               He shook his head, smiling half sadly- 
               "I am afraid of edged tools. Why do things never turn out as one expects them to? Why-but it's no use asking questions." 
               Presently he asked another, however- 
               "Do you remember the beautiful head that hangs behind the door in the drawing-room at the castle?" 
               I remembered it well. A lovely face, full of character and expression. Large, thoughtful blue eyes, a sweet, womanly mouth, delicate and refined, and a profusion of hair that was neither brown nor gold, but the happiest and rarest combination of both. I had asked Mr. Halsey something about the picture one day, and he had answered, carelessly, that it was a fancy sketch, he believed. Something that he picked up in Berlin. Did I think it pretty? I replied-no; that it was far more than that. And I remembered now that upon going into the room again, half an hour afterward, I had found him still standing before it, with folded arms and a clouded brow. 
               I told Mr. Tremaine that I had noticed the picture. 
               "I know well enough why Halsey bought that painting," my companion continued. "By a curious coincidence it was, although a fancy head, the very image of a young English girl who was of our travelling party. It could hardly have been a better likeness had she sat to the artist. I thought then that he loved her, and I think so still, albeit nothing has come of it." 
               "When was that?" 
               "Six years ago. I left them, that is, the English party-there were three or four of them-and Halsey, at Paris, and went on by myself to Switzerland. We did not meet again. I suddenly denly concluded to return home, and sailed from an Italian port. Halsey stayed a year longer, I believe." 
               "And you never heard anything farther?" 
               "Not a word. Did you ever notice it? One cannot ask Halsey a question if he does not choose, or broach a subject that he wishes to avoid. Perhaps," he continued, laughing, "it would be more modest if I were to speak in the first person and say that I cannot. But I really believed that when he came home he would bring that fair English lily with him. Amy Hope-that was her name." 
               "'Beautiful Evelyn Hope is dead,'" I repeated. 
               "Perhaps that may be true of 'Amy' also," he said; "still, I think not. Halsey would have told me. But I am quite sure that she is dead to him." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               THE fortnight's vacation was over. The guests had all left Mr. Halsey's and gone back to their city homes, all save Mr. Tremaine. He was off on a flying trip to the White Mountains, and previous to his departure had announced that on his return he should establish himself for the remainder of the season at Milford Springs, a small watering-place within easy riding or driving distance of Valleythorpe. 
               It was a little hard to take up the burden of life again, and go quietly on in the same old routine as before. I had discarded, for the nonce, all thoughts of dollars and cents. For two weeks potatoes and corn, oats and cabbages, young cattle and old, hens, chickens and turkeys, had been to me as if they were not. Now they loomed up before me larger and loftier than ever through the mist of semi-forgetfulness. Mr. Jonas Pratt's demands upon me were incessant, and Peter needed oversight and direction every hour in the day. Then, too, I delighted in dainty apparel, and it was not quite pleasant to come back to faded calico and half-worn ginghams. The blue silk, of Greyhurst remembrance, had been brought out, and, slightly remodelled and modernized, had done good service, alternating with my muslin for an evening dress. But that was past now. I heaved a little bit of a sigh as I folded it away in its linen wrappings. 
               Ruth echoed the sigh, and then I laughed to see how quickly her spirit responded to mine, her thought to my thought, even though it remained unspoken. This earnest, true-hearted, sisterly sympathy was something far better, far rarer than gold, and I knew it. 
               "Foolish, isn't it," said I, putting in the last pin. "But it must be pleasant, nevertheless, to be able to wear one's best things whenever one chooses, without any misgivings, or any tormenting visions of frayed spots, darns and patches. Heigho! When our ship comes in, Ruthie!" 
               "What will you do, then?" she asked, with all her heart in her eyes. 
               "Swing all day on a gate, and eat molasses candy," I said gravely. "And I'll buy you a box of peppermints. One thing I'll have, without waiting for the ship, and that is a tight board-fence that will keep that turkey where she belongs. There she goes now with turkey-lurkey, goosey-poosey, and ducky-daddles following after!" 
               In a day or two afterward, Marion recommenced her studies, and things were soon going on again precisely as before our holiday. Not precisely, perhaps. I had become much more intimate with all the family, and I was not allowed to slip back into the place I had occupied before, merely that of Marion's teacher to whom they were always kind, courteous and friendly. Now I felt that the freedom of the house was mine, that I might come and go as I chose, with no fear of ever being an intruder. Yet, strange to say, while I felt more at home at "the castle," I felt less at my ease with its master. There was a little cloud between us. Impalpable, scarcely discernible. Yet it chilled me. His manner was ever gentle and courteous, but I fancied it was graver. He did not call me "child" now; it was "Miss Sibyl" always. 
               It troubled me. Yet I did not fancy that I had displeased him by word or deed. I imagined that his recent intercourse with Guy Tremaine had re-awakened painful memories. I pitied him from the very bottom of my heart. That beautiful, pictured face haunted me continually. Those blue eyes drew me by a spell potent and irresistible. I stole into the drawing-room, day after day, to feast upon the loveliness that seemed to me superhuman, almost angelic. I worried myself with questionings. Had lips like those ever smiled upon mortal man? Had they ever glowed with deeper crimson beneath love's passionate caress, or ever paled when the intensity of bliss became almost akin to pain? Had those deep, thoughtful, soul-lit eyes "looked love to eyes that spake again." Had those rich waves of sunny hair-but I need not go on. It was a feast that did not refresh or strengthen me. It was the feast of the Barmecide. 
               Returning to that same unsatisfying banquet day by day, I grew pale and wan. In my dreams by night that face was ever before me, now smiling with a smile of more than mortal sweetness, now frowning till I wept in terror and dismay. I could not account for my strange interest in this picture, although I acknowledged to myself that I was very sorry for Mr. Halsey. I wished vainly that Mr. Tremaine had not told me its history. Before it was a mere picture; now it was a haunting presence. 
               But one day after Marion had finished her lesson and supposed me on my way home, I slipped into the drawing-room to offer incense before the shrine of my divinity. The picture was gone. In its place hung what seemed to me a very common-place affair. I have since learned that it was a gem in its way, far superior to the painting it supplanted. I looked all over the room, thinking perhaps it had been hung elsewhere. But it was not to be seen, and some incomprehensible feeling of shyness kept me from making inquiries. As I came into the hall again I met Mrs. Halsey; or, rather, she swept swiftly past me toward the broad staircase, repeating as usual words from the Book of Books. This time she was saying, or chanting- 
               "And when thou art spoiled, what wilt thou do? Though thou clothest thyself with crimson, though thou deckest thee with ornaments of gold, in vain thou shalt make thyself fair; thy lovers-'" 
               She saw me and broke off abruptly; then turned back to speak to me. 
               "'You don't look well to-day, Sibyl," she said, tapping my cheek with her slight fingers. "But 'as one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you; and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem.'" 
               She repeated the last word with infinite pathos and tenderness. "'In Jerusalem; and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem.' That is so sweet. Oh yes! we shall all be comforted in Jerusalem, the beautiful city, the city that the Lord loveth. And we are going there next week. It is strange, Sibyl," she went on, suddenly exchanging her dreamy air for one wide awake and practical. "It is strange that while it is so easy to go elsewhere, it is so very difficult for us to get started for Jerusalem. Something always happens. Now, to-morrow Mark must go to New York to see about his new-fashioned looms, and our pilgrimage must be deferred again. I really thought we should start in a day or two. Everything is ready." 
               Mr. Halsey went to New York, and from thence to Washington, intent upon some improvement in his mill, present or prospective. Mr. Tremaine, fluttering from mountain to sea-shore and back again, had not yet taken up his abode at Milford. Ruth had had what mother used to denominate one of her "poor spells," and for a week I had been obliged to ask Marion to come to me to recite, as it was impossible for me to go to her. But at last she was better; and feeling that I needed the walk, I tied on my bonnet earlier than usual, hoping to reach Mr. Halsey's before Marion should get started herself. 
               As I was going home, walking leisurely along, drinking in the sweet fragrance of the blossoming clover-fields, and trying to determine upon which side of me the low, sad cry of a far-off whippoorwill arose, my old friend or enemy Lysander leaped the fence and joined me. It was the first time that he had sought my presence since our stormy interview in March, and I had not even seen him since the evening he passed me when I was riding with Mr. Tremaine. Remembering the look he had given me that night, I was anything but pleased at the encounter. But I greeted him civilly, and quickened my pace a little, hoping to outwalk him. He kept close beside me. 
               "How do you get along a-farmin'?" he asked. 
               "Very well," I answered. 
               "Like it, I s'pose?" 
               "Yes, as well as I expected." 
               He picked up a stick by the side of the road, and taking out his knife, began to peel off the bark. But presently he threw it away, closed the knife with a sharp click, and put it into his pocket with a determined air. I knew something was coming. 
               "Sibyl," he said, without as much as glancing towards me, "I've made up my mind to have just one more talk with you. You know what it's about as well as I do." 
               I hesitated a moment, half fearing to exasperate my companion, yet feeling clearly that there was but one way to deal with him. 
               "If you wish to speak to me again upon the subject of our last conversation, Mr. Moore, I may as well tell you at once that it will be utterly useless." 
               He turned white. 
               "You'd better not tell me that," he said, "until you've heard what I have to say. I hain't come to make a fool of myself, whinin' and pleadin' like a whipped schoolboy. I'll leave all such stuff for that dandy beau of yourn, with his curls and his perfumery. I know now, Sibyl Huntington," he added, bending down and almost hissing the words into my ear-"I know now why you wouldn't have me, and I'll make you sorry for it yet. I told you so before, and I say it again." 
               I had no reply to make to this tirade, and so I held my peace. My silence exasperated him the more. 
               "Ain't I worth speakin' to?" he asked sharply. "Your tongue ran fast enough when you was ridin' with that piece of pink and white you've fell in love with. You could talk then." 
               "I could talk now, Mr. Moore," I answered, "if you would listen to reason. As you will not, it is better for me to keep silent." 
               "It is you that won't listen to reason," he returned, "not me. Here we be neighbors, and have been kind o' friendly always, hain't we now, Sibyl? Come, let's talk it over," and he drew rather closer to my side than I cared to have him. But as I was anxious to "keep the peace" if possible, I did not beat a retreat. "You're dreadful uppish sometimes, but still I can't help liking of you better'n any girl in these 'ere parts. And besides the farms lie so awful handy, that it seems as if Providence kind o' meant they should be j'ined together." 
               "But not in the banns of matrimony," I answered. "Mr. Moore, can't you understand me in this matter? It will do no good to talk it over. While I am grateful for any kind feeling you have ever entertained toward me, I can never marry you." 
               His face darkened again. 
               "Tell me," he said, leaning toward me till I felt his hot breath upon my cheek, "are you going to have that fancy chap?" 
               "I do not understand you," I replied. "If I did I should not answer such a question, so asked. Let me pass, Mr. Moore. I am in haste to get home." 
               "So I see. But not quite so fast, my lady," he said, placing his heavy hand upon my shoulder and detaining me as with a grasp of iron. "Hold on a minute. I've a dockyment here that I should be obleeged to have you peruse, if you'll be so condescending'," and drawing a paper from his pocket, he handed it to me with a mocking smile and a bow of feigned humility. 
               I took it, fearing I knew not what, for there was a gleam in his eye that betokened ill. But my cheek did not blanch, or my hand tremble. I had too much self-control for that. 
               Deliberately unfolding the paper, I read it twice over, before I really perceived what it was. It was my father's handwriting, and at first I took cognizance of nothing beyond that simple fact. But all too soon the meaning of Lysander Moore's triumphant bearing forced itself upon me. 
               It was my father's note for twenty-three hundred dollars, drawn in favor of Israel Moore, Lysander's father, whose death had occurred a few months before that of mine. Upon it were sundry endorsements, amounting to over nine hundred dollars. The last endorsement, with interest, was dated almost six years back. 
               I turned it over and over, more bewildered and distressed than I cared to acknowledge. I knew that that note had been paid. I remembered distinctly my father's sigh of relief when he came in one night and told us that he had paid every cent that he owed Israel Moore. Yet there was the note in my hand with no evidence to prove this. Mr. Moore kept silent for some minutes, but I felt that he was eyeing me keenly. 
               "Well," he said, at last, "are you ready to pay that 'ere note? It's pooty nigh outlawed as it is, and I ain't a-goin' to let it run no longer." 
               "Lysander Moore, this note has been paid, and you know it." 
               He laughed sarcastically. 
               "I never thought your father was anything great of a business man," he said, "but he wa'n't such a natural born fool as to let a man keep a paper like that, when he hadn't no right to it. If it's been paid, I should like to have you prove it, that's all." 
               "You must give me time then," I answered. "I cannot prove it here and at this moment. It is very strange that that note is in your possession, and equally strange that you have not presented it before." 
               He folded it carefully, putting it in his pocket-book for safe keeping. 
               "I don't know as I was bound to speak about it until I got ready," he said. "Your folks didn't take out no letters of administration, nor nothin', and there hain't been no call for folks to present their claims against the estate. So I laid out to take my own time for't." 
               "We did not know that there were any claims," I replied. "I supposed that my father did not owe a single debt at the time of his death, except one or two of trifling amount, that I paid myself immediately after the funeral. If you had this note, it was cruel in you not to present it." 
               "Now don't get into a fret," he said. "Say, Sibyl, if you'll just say the word, I'll tear this note up, right here on the spot, and nobody shall ever be the wiser." 
               He took it out of his pocket-book, and held it up before me, between his thumb and finger. 
               "Shall I tear it?" he asked, looking straight into my eyes. "Say the word and here it goes, scattered to the four winds of heaven." 
               "No," I answered, coldly. "Fold it up and put it into your pocket-book, and take good care of it, Lysander Moore. How you came by that piece of paper I will not pretend to say. But I know, and you know, that the note has been paid. I certainly shall not pay it over again, or cancel it in the way you mean." 
               He evidently thought that he had me in his power, and that he could afford to keep his temper. 
               "Better think on't a spell," he said, using almost the very words he had used a year previous. "I tell you, you're in a tight place, Sibyl Huntington. I don't see how you're a-goin' to get out on't, unless that fine gentleman of yourn helps you. And I do believe't you're too plaguey proud to go to him with this 'ere business. I'll give you just two weeks to make up your mind what you'll do. If you don't make it up by that time I shall hand this I O U to the sheriff, and see what he can do towards collectin' of it." 
               We had reached the gate, and he strode past it, leaving me to find my way in as best I might. 
               I could not tell Ruth of this new trouble. She was still suffering somewhat, and was weak and exhausted with the physical anguish of the last few days. I could not add mental anxiety thereto. I could only apologize for my pale face by giving a woman's never-failing excuse-a headache. It did ache; but the pain at my heart was so much more severe that I scarcely felt the throbbing of my temples. 
               "Poor child," said Ruth, passing her hand caressingly over my cheek, "you are worn out with the care of me. But I am better now, and you must go to bed early and sleep straight through till morning." 
               I obeyed her so far as to go to bed. I was glad to get out of her sight, where I could look as I felt without exciting inquiry. But going to sleep was quite another thing. I left that out of my programme entirely until morning dawned, when I fell into a troubled slumber, and dreamed that Lysander Moore was dragging me down the crater of Vesuvius, assisted by a sheriff and two constables. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               THE old "secretary," where my father kept all his papers, stood in the little sitting-room where Ruth lay. I gave it a thorough examination the next day, under the pretence of cleaning and arranging it, but all to no purpose. Then I sat down and wrote to mother, begging her to search every nook and corner of her memory. I felt sure that the note had been paid before I went to Virginia; yet there it was in Lysander Moore's hands; and, as he had said, it was not probable that my father would have allowed his to retain such a paper after the debt had ceased to exist. What to do next I knew not. I could only wait patiently, or impatiently, for a letter from mother. One week of my probation had passed before it reached me. 
               She wrote that she had always supposed the note was paid about a year before Israel Moore died. She knew that my father had said that the debt was like a millstone about his neck, and must be paid at any sacrifice; and that she knew he sold a water privilege that he owned in an adjoining town, to raise money for that very purpose. Still she did not see the money paid over to Mr. Moore, and "the Squire" said that her recollections, which were not very distinct and circumstantial, would not offset in a court of justice the positive evidence of the note being still in existence. She said she was very sorry for us, but the Squire did not see his way clear to help us yet. Maybe he would when he had considered the matter longer. But he was a very far-seeing man, who believed that everything ought to be done according to law; and that having given us a quit-claim deed, for and in consideration of the sum of eight hundred dollars paid by us to them, of course they could not be expected to pay or help pay any debts of the estate discovered after the giving of said deed. Then followed this postscript, written with a pencil: 
               "P. S. I am afraid you will have trouble with Lysander Moore. He always was kind of stubborn, and was bound to have his own way when he wasn't knee high to a grasshopper. If Sibyl could only make up her mind to have him, it would settle the matter, and the Squire thinks it would be the best thing she could do. But I don't know. Sometimes things don't turn out just as we think they're going to, and folks don't prove to be just what we think they are." Here something was written which had been very carefully erased. I could only guess at the words "Squire" and "Huldy." Then she went on: "I should be glad to help you, but I don't get hold of any ready money. The Squire has put my thirds where it draws seven per cent., but it's all tied up so that I can't get hold of it. His health ain't no better, and sometimes I think his appetite is daintier than it was when I first came here." 
               Of course I read this letter to Ruth. I could not keep the secret from her any longer. Is it proof of our innate selfishness that companionship even in sorrow is so desirable? I felt this trouble vastly more for her sake than for my own; yet the burden was lighter after she shared it. 
               I fear Marion found me a dull teacher that week. The present as it was in Valleythorpe was more engrossing to me than the past of Greece or Rome; and the barbarous Yankee dialect of Lysander Moore was more potent and thought-compelling than the eloquence of Cicero and Telemaque. Even the spiritual eyes of the picture ceased to haunt me, supplanted for the time being by this real, tangible trouble, that stared me full in the face and confronted me whithersoever I turned. 
               We had but one lawyer in Valleythorpe, and at length, weary with pondering over these things, and of being tossed about by opposing winds of doctrine, I went to him. He was a bland, suave man, who dusted a chair for me, and did the honors of his office with great affability. But after hearing my story, and learning all that I could tell him-which, by the by, was very little-he informed me, with a profusion of "hums" and "has," interlarded with "regrets" and "my dear young ladys," that Mr. Moore had already consulted him, and that he supposed he was in honor bound to consider himself retained by that gentleman. I went home but slightly comforted. 
               It was the night before the expiration of the fortnight. Ruth and I, in the darkening twilight, were talking the matter over for the hundredth time, when a loud knock at the door startled us. Matty answered the summons. Presently she came in shielding the candle she carried from the wind that blew in at the open window. 
               "It is Lysander Moore," she said. "He wants you, Miss Sibyl. Told me to tell you he wanted a private something or 'nuther, I couldn't make out what. It sounded as much like 'interlude' as anything." 
               "Where is he?" 
               "In the parlor. I showed him in there, 'cause I s'posed he meant to say't he wanted to see you alone. There ain't no candles there, but I'm agoing to fetch one right in." 
               "You need not get any," I said. "Show him in here. If he has anything farther to say," I added, as she left the room, "he must say it to us both. I will not see him out of your presence, Ruth." 
               I need not dwell upon the interview, which was by no means satisfactory to either party. Mr. Moore had nothing new to suggest. In a dogged, sullen sort of way he repeated that the note was in his pocket, but that it would be destroyed immediately if I said the word. If I did not choose to say it, we must abide the consequences. 
               "And what are they, Mr. Moore?" asked Ruth. "It is best that we should understand each other fully." 
               "Them's my sentiments exactly," responded Mr. Moore. "That's jest what I've been a-tryin' to get at for more'n a year back. The consequences will be jest these here. If Sibyl don't tell me to tear up this note-she knows what that means well enough-the sheriff will be here to-morrow and attach this 'ere farm. And I shall take possession on't, or of a great share on't, jest as soon as the law allows me. That's plain, ain't it?" 
               "You do not mean that you would be so cruel, Mr. Moore. You are only trying to frighten us a little," said Ruth, with a smile that might have softened a heart of stone. "We are two defenceless women, and you surely would not turn us out of house and home." 
               "Jest as lieves as not, as far as that goes," answered Lysander. "You see I hain't got nothin' to do with it. I've put it out of my hands entirely. Sibyl's only jest got to say the word, and I'll tear this note so fine that a Philadelphy lawyer couldn't put it together again. If she won't say it, why then I ain't to blame for what'll follow. Don't you see? It's all in your hands." 
               Neither of us replied, and after a while he went on- 
               "This ain't a very comfortable way of goin' a-courtin'," and he laughed a laugh that in spite of his effrontery had a little shame-facedness in it. "But when a fellow can't do as he would, he must do as he can. I'm free to confess, Sibyl, that when I first talked to you about this 'ere business, I didn't care such a dreadful sight about you. I kept a-thinkin' all the time I was workin' the land how handy it would be if these two farms was joined together. But I 'spose thinkin' about a girl and courtin' of her kind o' warms a fellow up; and I declare to man, Sibyl, that now for a good spell back I've cared more about you than I have about the farm. And if you'll only have me I'll do by you as well as I know how to." 
               He had edged his chair up close to mine, and was making furtive attempts to get possession of my hand. I left my seat and took another opposite him. 
               "It is impossible, Mr. Moore. Why will you force me to say this over and over again?" 
               "Because I want you," he said, his eyes gleaming like coals of fire. "Because I will have you yet, in spite of all the dandies and fine gentlemen in Christendom. Where's that curly-headed chap gone to? He hain't been hangin' round here lately, seems to me. Sibyl, maybe I ain't so handsome to look at as he is, but I care twice as much about you." 
               "We will not discuss that question," I said wearily, for I was-oh! so tired. Then rising, I opened the door. "Mr. Moore, nothing that you have said to-night has altered the position of things in the least. I have nothing further to say, and must bid you good-night." 
               He looked at me as if beyond measure astonished. But my eye did not change nor falter, although I had some doubts as to my being able to carry out what I had undertaken, i.e., to rid the house of his presence. 
               "Good-night," I repeated, still holding the door open. 
               He picked up his hat and walked out, like a whipped school-boy. Then I sank down by Ruth's side, laid my head on her pillow, drew her face close to mine, and we lay there together for hours in the silence that is not golden but leaden. 
               "'I have been young, and now I am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken nor his seed begging bread,'" said Ruth. "Our father's children will not starve, Sibyl, nor suffer beyond endurance. For his sake, if not for ours, God will protect us. We shall be taken care of." 
               "It does not look like it," I answered bitterly. "I am afraid I am losing my faith in an over-ruling Providence, Ruthie. Life does not seem to me like one grand harmonious whole, planned and guided by Infinite love and Infinite wisdom. It is rather a huddled mass of confusion-a collection of odds and ends-a thing of 'shreds and patches.'" 
               She was silent for a moment. 
               "Do you believe the earth is round, Sibyl?" 
               "I believed it when a child, on the authority of Peter Parley," I answered. "But Marion's geography has advanced in wisdom, and pronounces it pear-shaped." 
               "Round, or pear-shaped, it is all the same. But do your own senses teach you this?" 
               "Certainly not." 
               "No; earth seems to you a great, irregular stationary surface, full of pitfalls and quagmires, lonely marshes and inaccessible mountains. Yet if you were lifted far above it in a balloon, you would see it below you a perfect sphere, floating through infinite space, as if buoyed up and supported by invisible hands." 
                
               She said no more; but my own mind wrought out the analogy she had suggested. I prayed that night, as I had never prayed before, that I might yet soar as Ruth soared, borne up on wings of Faith and Love, until I could behold Life lying far below me, rounded and beautiful, fulfilling to the uttermost the will of its Creator. 
               Early the next day Mr. Tremaine rode over from the springs, partly for exercise, partly to tell us that, his wanderings over for awhile, he had pitched his tent at Milford; and mostly, so he said, for the pleasure of seeing us. He had already called at Castle Halsey-was sorry to find its owner absent; but presumed it was all in the way of business, and couldn't be helped. Would I ride with him that night? He had found a horse that bore a respectable character, which he would like me to put to the test, &c., &c. 
               How bright, and fair, and sunny he looked as he stood in the low door-way that morning, hat in hand, with the brown curls blown back from his forehead by the soft breeze that swept downward from the mountains! I wondered if he had tasted the fountain of immortal youth. He looked not a day older than when I first met him. I remembered how he had said to me years ago, "What it is not pleasant to see, I shut my eyes to; what I do not wish to hear, I hear not. It is the only way to live comfortably." It really seemed as if he had been able throughout his whole life to carry out that plan. One who looked into his shadowless eyes could well believe that they had seen little of sorrow, little of whatever it was not "pleasant to see." 
               Somehow this careless light-heartedness jarred upon some fibre of my being that morning. I was not in tune with it; and it was a relief when, after half an hour's chat, during which he had learned that I could not ride with him that evening, he rode off. I went back into the sitting-room a little more depressed than before seeing him. 
               Ruth lifted her head, eagerly. 
                
               "Has he gone? Did you tell him?" 
               "Tell him what? Yes. He has gone." 
               "About our trouble with Lysander. I thought perhaps you might. You have known him a long time, and you have always been such good friends," she went on half apologetically, as I looked at her without replying. 
               A neighboring woman was just going by drawing her child in a little wagon. 
               "Shall I go out and tell that baby?" I asked, a little impatiently. "For my part I should just as soon think of telling the one as the other." 
               "Why, Sibyl!" 
               "It is the truth. What is the matter, Ruthie? Your eyes are twice as large as they ought to be." 
               "I can't quite read you, Sibyl. I thought you liked Mr. Tremaine ever so much." 
               "So I do. One can't help liking him. But I should never think of going to him with any trouble. It would only annoy him, and would not help me. He loves sunshine, Ruth, and seeks it. It is constitutional. He cannot help it. He turns away from shadows and towards the light as naturally as a plant does." 
               Ruth sighed-a long, questioning sigh, that had a world of meaning in it. 
               "Well, what is it?" I asked, after waiting a while for her to speak. 
               "Oh, nothing!" she said. "Only I was thinking. Life has so many shadows. I was thinking what one would do with a friend who was repelled by pain and suffering, upon whom one could not lean when the storms beat and the winds blow." And by the tender light that filled her eyes, I knew to whom her thoughts had flown as she lay looking far off into the west, where a few white, fleecy clouds reposed upon the illimitable blue. 
               I made no reply, but left her to her meditations. Presently, as I looked out of the kitchen window, I saw Mrs. Halsey and Marion coming along the little foot-path we had made for ourselves across the meadows, and went out to meet them. 
               "Good-morning," said the dear old lady, with a cheery smile. "I told Marion we must have a walk this lovely day, and so we came over to see you. Is Ruth comfortable? I shall prepare a mustard paste for her with my own hands, for we must all be ready to start for Jerusalem next week. And that reminds me," she continued, drawing a queer-looking parcel from a small satchel that hung upon her arm, "I brought over this pair of sandals to show you. They are my own invention, and I think them much nicer than anything I have seen yet. You see this piece laps over-so, and protects the foot. I am quite proud of them, I assure you. Shall I make you a pair? I have abundance of leisure." 
               I thanked her, as I took the shapeless combinations of morocco, straps, strings and buttons in my hands, praised them duly, and carefully wrapped them up again. She replaced them in the satchel, and we walked on towards the house. 
               Ruth was glad to see her, and she sat by the bedside for an hour, chatting sometimes merrily, sometimes wisely, and making one feel how noble and trustworthy a woman she must have been before this shadow fell upon her. Ruth loved to talk to her, and knew how to humor her fancies without allowing them to carry her too far. That morning they discussed every step of the journey to Jerusalem, its difficulties, its dangers, and its glorious termination, when, all conflicts past, they should no longer sit by the rivers of Babylon and weep when they remembered Zion. I thought they were alike comforted and strengthened, although to the one the words bore a literal, and to the other a figurative significance. 
               Just as Mrs. Halsey was beginning to pay some heed to Marion's repeated intimations that it was time for them to go home to dinner, Matty burst into the room. 
               "Lysander Moore and another man's been here more'n half an hour, and they're trampin' all over, and lookin' at everything," she said. "Mr. Pratt sent Peter Wells in to tell me that they was over to the three-cornered lot now, and he thought mebbe you'd ought to know it." 
               Ruth glanced at me quickly. "Be quiet, darling," she whispered. Then she said aloud- 
               "They are coming to the house now. I see them from the window. Show them in here, Matty." 
               Mrs. Halsey rose and tied on her bonnet. 
               "Some gentlemen on business, I conclude," she said, courteously. "I will not intrude. Come, Marion." 
               But before she reached the door it was flung open, and Mr. Lysander Moore and the sheriff appeared. They planted themselves directly in the passage-way, and after looking about for some other mode of egress, she sat quietly down again. 
               Standing in the door, the sheriff proceeded to read the writ of attachment. He was not a hard-hearted man, and had known our father well. His voice faltered a little towards the close, and as he refolded the paper and handed it to Ruth, as the eldest, he said- 
               "This has been a hard task, girls. I haven't done a thing since I've been sheriff of this county that's been harder." 
               "We believe it," said Ruth, smiling on him through her tears, and extending her hand. "We do not blame you, Mr. Prentiss." 
               "You must not," he answered, still holding her hand in one broad palm, and caressing it with the other. "I was obliged to do my duty. But it is a hard case. Can I help you, girls? Is there anything I can do for you? Why don't you say something, Moore?" he continued, turning half indignantly towards that gentleman, who still stood leaning against the door-post with great nonchalance; "can't you speak a word of comfort to these girls? A man has a right to claim his just dues, I suppose, but that's no reason why he need be a heathen about it." 
               "I've said my say long ago," he answered. "I've nothin more to offer. The girls know how they can get out of this scrape if they have a mind to." 
               Mrs. Halsey had risen slowly to her feet, and was looking eagerly from one party to the other. 
               "What does this mean?" she asked, holding up her finger, warningly. "Do you know who it is that will judge 'the fatherless and the oppressed?'" 
               "I hain't oppressed 'em yet," said Lysander, half sheepishly, half angrily. "I don't know what right other folks has to interfere and to be down on a feller because he does what the law allows him. If a man owes me money I expect he'll pay it-or a woman either." 
               You ought to have heard the torrent of scripture quotations that rolled from Mrs. Halsey's lips and literally overwhelmed Lysander as he ceased speaking. I was amused, and smiled even then and there as I listened, and watched his face, so full of amazement and awe. It seemed to me that there was not a passage in the whole Bible relating to the oppressor of the poor or the destroyer of the innocent, not an anathema or an imprecation that she did not hurl at his devoted head. In vain Marion strove to check her, or to divert her attention. She would go on, and she did, until breath failed her. 
               Her victim stood like one confounded. Doubtless he had heard of Mrs. Halsey, and had probably caught passing glimpses of her now and then. But she seemed to have a vague consciousness that all was not right, hanging about her like a light cloud, and was shy of strangers. She entered no houses in Valleythorpe excepting ours and Dr. Hyde's; and we who loved her rarely spoke of her harmless idiosyncrasies. Lysander was therefore utterly unprepared for the avalanche that well-nigh crushed him. She stood with arm outstretched and uplifted finger, like some prophetess or priestess of old, declaring the counsels of the Most High. 
               Mr. Moore did not move or speak until she ceased her oracular utterances. Then he shook himself as if to make sure of his identity, said, "Come on, Prentiss," and vanished from our sight. 
               The old lady kissed us both. 
               "There!" she said, "I've driven him away. 'The wicked flee when no man pursueth.' And now, Marion, we'll go too." 
               "Now, what next? What can we do next?" said Ruth, as the door closed behind them. As for me, the utter rout and discomfiture of my enemy had enlivened my spirits not a little. They were like india-rubber, easily depressed, and rebounding from the pressure just as easily. 
               "Have some dinner," I replied. "I smell a savory odor as of roast lamb and 'succotash.' It makes me hungry. Then the next thing I do will be to mend my dress. I tore it terribly yesterday." 
               Ruth looked at me. "Sibyl, you are a queer child: why aren't you crying?" 
               "Because I feel more like laughing. Was there ever anything more farcical than the expression of Lysander Moore's face when Mrs. Halsey was quoting scripture to him? But Ruthie," I continued, more seriously, "I always thought it was a great deal worse to dread a whipping than to take one. I am not quite sure that we are ruined yet." 
               It was not two hours before Miss Maxey came in, flushed and panting with her rapid walk. She eyed us narrowly. 
               "I expected to find you both all broken down," she said, "and came to look after you a little. But you don't seem to be in need of my services, either of you. Girls, is it true? They say down in the village that Lysander Moore has attached the farm." 
               "It is true, every word of it," I answered. 
               "But what is it? how is it?" she questioned rapidly. "What unheard of extravagance have you two girls been guilty of? I can't understand it." 
               "He has brought forward a note given by my father to his-a note for twenty-three hundred dollars. There had been several ral payments endorsed upon it, amounting to nearly a thousand dollars. That is all I can tell you." 
               "But, girls, it is very queer," said Miss Maxey, fidgeting in her chair. "I am more puzzled than ever. You see," and here she lowered her voice as if the very walls had ears, "your father told me not two hours before he died that he owed no man a dollar. Then he corrected himself, and said-yes; he owed two little bills-one at the blacksmith's for some bolts and screws, and one at Guernsey's; but that there was more than enough in his pocket-book to settle them. Now what does it all mean? Your father never lied in his life." 
               "I do not know," I answered. "Moore has the note; and the endorsements, as I said, show payments of less than a thousand only. It is all a mystery." 
               "And a pretty piece of iniquity, I'll bet," said Miss Maxey, without much regard for elegance of expression. "Lysander Moore would have died when he had the typhus fever if I hadn't gone and pulled him through. By the hardest, too. My patience! how I did work over that fellow! And I declare to goodness, girls, I don't know but I shall wish I'd let him die, if he is going to carry on at this rate." 
               Visitors were neither few nor far between that day. Just then Mr. Halsey's tall form appeared at the gate. 
               "My goodness!" exclaimed Miss Maxey, looking out of the window. "If there ain't Mr. Halsey, and me with this old calico gown on! Don't let him come in here, Sibyl. I don't want to see him. Take him into the parlor, do, that's a good girl," and she fairly pushed me into the hall. 
               He met me with an earnest clasp of the hand. 
               "This is a surprise, Mr. Halsey," I said. "I did not know that you had got home. When did you come? have you had a pleasant journey?" 
               "About an hour ago. Yes, I have had a very pleasant trip. But, Miss Sibyl, I cannot talk commonplaces this afternoon. What is this about your neighbor Moore? I had hardly got into the house before mother and Marion began telling me a long story in which both he and the sheriff figured. Has he really attached the farm? I could arrive at no other conclusion." 
               I was so glad to tell him all about it-of the note, of my own impressions regarding its payment long ago, of mother's letter, and finally of what Miss Maxey had just said of my father's last hours. So glad. It seemed as if the burden was lifted from my shoulders by a strong, firm hand, as I answered his questions, and listened to his clear comments. I did not stop to ask what had become of the cloud that had fallen between us before he went away. I only felt that it had vanished "like a dream when one awaketh." 
               "Have you seen the note yourself?" he asked. "Are you sure there is no mistake?" 
               "Perfectly sure. I held it in my own hands, and scanned it closely. It was my father's handwriting, unmistakably." 
               "Marion says that Moore told the sheriff that 'you knew how you could get out of this scrape if you had a mind to.' Is it allowable for me to inquire what he meant? or was it, to use a slang phrase, 'all gammon?'" 
               I hesitated. How could I tell him? And yet how could I help telling him if he asked me? 
               "The more fully I understand this matter," he said, gently, "the greater will be the probability of my advising you aright. Has he proposed any mode of settlement?" 
               "He says he will destroy the note if I will only say the word," I replied, with downcast eyes. 
               "Say the word?" he repeatedly inquiringly. 
               "Yes. He wants me to-to marry him, Mr. Halsey." 
               My companion sprang from his chair, and in a momentary glance that I ventured at his face, I saw that it was flushed to the very roots of his hair. 
               "The scoundrel! the villain!" he muttered, as he paced the floor. "The lion and the lamb-the vulture and the dove-nightshade exhaling poison, and a rose-bud wet with dew." 
                
               After a little he came back, and resumed his seat by my side. 
               "Really, Miss Sibyl," he said, "this is too preposterous. And he actually proposes to destroy the note if you will pledge yourself to marry him?" 
               "Yes, I refused him a long time ago. He was terribly angry and threatened me then-said he would make me repent it. A fortnight ago, he brought forward this note, and said he would give me just two weeks to decide what I would do. If I would marry him he would destroy it-if not, I must abide the consequences." 
               Mr. Halsey's hand lay upon the arm of his chair. As I spoke it tightened round it, until the nails were a dark purple rimmed with white. 
               "There is something beyond fair-play here, Miss Sibyl," he said presently. "I must see your father's papers. Of course he paid this debt, and of course there is proof of the payment somewhere. It must be found." 
               I went to the secretary and soon returned with the old account-book and several bundles of papers. 
               He glanced over the book. 
               "We shall find nothing here," he said. "But these papers,-I have not time to look them over now. Will you trust them in my hands, Miss Sibyl? I could take them home and examine them at my leisure." 
               Of course I assented, gladly. I would have been willing, in the plenitude of my gratitude, to trust my life in his hands. Was I likely to hesitate about a few papers? 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               THIS was Monday. On Wednesday, as I was leaving the library after hearing Marion's lessons, Mr. Halsey came out of a small room called the office, where he was in the habit of keeping sundry books appertaining to his business, and whatever papers or documents he did not choose to have in his counting-room at the mill. It was plainly but comfortably furnished. A substantial carpet, a round table, a desk, a book-case and two or three arm-chairs. 
               The papers I had given him lay upon the table, and two chairs, in one of which he proceeded to install me, were drawn up near it. His face was very grave, and it was a moment or two before he spoke. 
               "I have examined these papers very carefully, Miss Sibyl," he said, shifting them from one place to another, "and I am sorry to say that there is nothing here that relates in the remotest degree to the note held by Moore." 
               "I can hardly say that I am surprised," I answered, "even while I acknowledge a good deal of disappointment. I had given them a tolerably thorough examination myself, and had many fears that your quest would be as fruitless as mine. But I thank you none the less for the trouble you have taken, Mr. Halsey." 
               He made a deprecating gesture. 
               "I am only sorry that it has been in vain. But do not go yet," he said, as I rose and began to gather up the papers. "We must talk the matter over. While I feel perfectly confident that Lysander Moore is a villain, and that there is great knavery somewhere, still I cannot see that anything would be gained by a lawsuit. There seems to be no evidence that can be brought forward on your part that will offset in the minds of the court the silent testimony of the uncancelled note. I am afraid he has the matter in his own hands." 
               I did not speak. My heart was like lead. I was thankful that my companion did not once look towards me, for if he had, my forced calmness would have vanished in an instant. 
               "I thought of this matter all night," he went on. "It is useless, of course, for me to ask you if you have any way of raising this money?" 
                
               My voice trembled a little in spite of me, as I answered- 
               "None whatever, Mr. Halsey. He must take possession of the land. There is no other way. Unless-" 
               "Unless?" he repeated gently, after a pause. 
               "Mr. Halsey, if I should marry that man, Ruth would still have a home, or at least a roof to shelter her." 
               He turned and looked at me with a quick, startled glance that brought the red blood surging up to my very forehead. Then he got up and paced the room, as was his wont in moments of excitement. But his next words, when he had ceased his walk and resumed his seat, were very irrelevant. 
               "Where's Tremaine?" he asked. "Has he got back from the mountains?" 
               "He is at Milford," I answered. 
               "He is a very old friend of yours," he said, playing with the fringe of my parasol. 
               "Yes. He was very kind to me when I was in Greyhurst. So were they all. I can never forget it." 
               He hesitated for a moment. "Pardon me," he said, leaning towards me. "But does he know of this-trouble?" 
               "No," I replied. "And don't you tell him, Mr. Halsey. What's the use? If worst comes to worst, and we are turned out of house and home, he will find it out. There's no need of his knowing it before." 
               Mr. Halsey looked at me earnestly. 
               "What do you mean to do, child? Of course I know that you have not the slightest idea of marrying that man. You might better die." 
               I did not reply at once. Then I said- 
               "I suppose there will be something left-a trifle. I shall take 'the Squire's' advice, and hire a room somewhere. If I can manage to make Ruth comfortable, we will get along." 
               "You take it coolly," remarked my companion. "I thought Sibyl Huntington was an impulsive, excitable creature, somewhat given to tears and tremors. But she sits by my side to-day day, and talks of this visible, tangible trouble, as impassive as a statue." 
               "Sibyl Huntington has been through so many hardening processes, first and last," I rejoined, "that she is growing as hard as the nether millstone," and rising from my chair, I tied the papers into a bundle. "I suppose I can take these home now, Mr. Halsey?" sedulously striving to keep my eyes from meeting his. 
               "No. Leave them," he said. "I will see that they are returned safely, Sibyl." 
               I turned quickly to meet a look of such pitying tenderness, that the ice in which I had encased myself, melted entirely. I sank into my chair again, and wept like a child. 
               "Sibyl," he repeated, "I wish you would let me help you in this matter. For Ruth's sake!" 
               For Ruth's sake I would do, oh, how much! For her sake I was almost ready to immolate myself upon the altar that Lysander Moore had set up. For her sake I was ready to meet toil and privation. But I could not do this thing that Mr. Halsey asked of me. I could not consent to receive such a gift (for it was nothing less than that, I could never hope to repay it) from the hands of one upon whom I had no possible claims save those which were founded upon his own generous nature. 
               "You do help me, Mr. Halsey," I answered, when I had gained a little control of myself. "You have given me counsel and sympathy when I was in bitter need of both. My whole heart thanks you." 
               "But I would give you more than that," he said eagerly. "You must let me pay this note, Sibyl. You must not give up the little home that is so dear to you, and that is absolutely essential to Ruth's comfort-to her life, perhaps. Tell me that I may settle this unpleasant matter at once and forever." 
               His hand had closed over mine as it lay upon the table, and held it in a strong, firm clasp. 
               "Tell me I may do it, Sibyl." 
                
               I shook my head. 
               "I will come to you for advice, for counsel always, if I may, Mr. Halsey. But I cannot incur an obligation like this. Do not urge it. It distresses me." 
               "Sibyl, I ask for bread and you give me a stone. You little, proud, sensitive thing! not too proud to work, but too proud to let a friend help you. I wish," he went on, bending over me until his warm breath stirred the hair upon my forehead, "I wish you were my child, my niece, my sister, my-anything that would give me the right to lift this burden from your shoulders." 
               "And place it on your own," I said. "Could I allow that?" 
               He straightened himself up, looking for the moment as if his broad shoulders could bear the weight of a world without bending. 
               "What would it be to me?" he said, "a feather's weight, a mere nothing. But to you, child, it is a weary, weary load. Let me bear it for you!" 
               I leaned suddenly forward and pressed my lips to the hand that still held mine, while my tears fell fast upon it. 
               "You are good and noble, Mr. Halsey. As I told you before, my whole heart thanks you. But I have borne my own burdens thus far. I will bear them to the end." 
               He said no more, and presently I rose again, wrapped my shawl around me and went out. As I reached the front door I heard his step behind me. He looked disappointed, even sad. I held out my hand. 
               "You do not blame me, Mr. Halsey?" and I think my voice faltered a little. 
               "No," he said, with a slight smile. "I suppose you would not be a bad girl if you could help it. One can't change one's nature. Sibyl, will you tell your sister that I wish to see her a few moments alone, to-morrow morning, if convenient? I will call about ten o'clock." 
               I bowed and went my way. The walk home seemed very short. There was so much to think about. Mr. Halsey's generous erous offer, his earnest kindness, and, more than all, his approaching interview with Ruth. What could he want of her? 
               She could guess as little as I. My own private opinion was that he intended to press upon her the aid that I had refused. But I did not mention it. 
               "Where are you going?" said Ruth, as I put on my sun-bonnet after tea. 
               "Only out in the garden," I said, "to cut back that sweet-brier, and to tie up the asters and chrysanthemums. I mean to keep the old place in order as long as I have the right and the opportunity." 
               I was working away at the sweet-brier, which proved very refractory and not quite amenable to reason or persuasion, when I heard a voice behind me. 
               "What are you doing?" said Mr. Tremaine. "Tearing your fingers to pieces over that sweet-brier? Why don't you let your major-domo, or your youthful coadjutor, Peter Wells, do that?" 
               "Because they have something else to do," I answered, tugging away at an obstinate branch. "Besides I always did like to overcome obstacles." 
               "I should think so! That knife is not good for anything. Let me see it. It is as dull as a hoe. Here: let me try mine?" 
               "You'll spoil your gloves, Mr. Tremaine. Let the thing alone." 
               He laughed. 
               "Is that worse than that you should spoil your hands? There! Anything more that you'll have done in the way of gardening, Miss Huntington?" 
               "Not to-night. Will you walk in?" 
               "I believe not. There is to be a hop or something of the kind at the Milford House this evening, and I promised to 'assist.' What have you been doing to yourself? You look-I don't know how." 
                
               "Ennuied for want of something to do, and something to think about," I answered. "Hadn't you better come in and see Ruth a minute?" 
               "Thank you. Not to-night," he said, looking at his watch. "Are you going to ride with me to-morrow evening? I want you to try my new Bucephalus." 
               "I don't know," I responded. "I never can tell what a day will bring forth." 
               "I shall ride over at all events," he answered, as he sprang to his saddle, "and if you cannot go, I'll take Marion Halsey." 
               The next morning, Mr. Halsey made his appearance promptly-just as the clock struck ten. I ushered him into the sitting-room, placed Ruth's little table where the bell by which she was accustomed to summon me was in reach of her hand, and then went away, closing the door softly behind me. 
               The interview was a long one. One hour passed-two-and yet Mr. Halsey stayed on. I sat at my work by the kitchen window, and the low tones of their voices reached my ear in one continuous murmur. Sometimes it was Mr. Halsey's heavy bass, sometimes it was Ruth's soft treble, sometimes it was the two blended together. I waited for the tinkling of the bell, expecting a summons momentarily. But it did not come, and at last I heard a movement as of some one rising. Presently the door opened, and Mr. Halsey went out. Then Ruth rang the bell. 
               Her whole countenance betokened strong emotion, and her eyes were red with weeping. Greatly astonished, I hastily approached the bed and took my usual place. 
               "What is it, Ruthie?" I whispered. "What is it, my darling? Tell me." 
               She kissed me with quivering lips. 
               "Do not ask me, Sibyl," she said. "Some time you shall know all. But not just now. Besides, I am very tired." 
               She looked so, indeed. I hastened to remove her pillows and place her in a reclining position. Then I drew down the curtains and told her to go to sleep. But ere I left her I could not help saying- 
               "Ruth, you are not going to let Mr. Halsey pay that note?" 
               She looked at me with large eyes- 
               "Why, no! He has not even mentioned the thing. Darling, some time or other you shall know all he has said. You will trust me till then?" 
               Of course I trusted her entirely, implicitly. Yet I cannot deny that it troubled me a little when I thought that the two-well-that the sister I loved better than any one else in the wide world, and the friend whose kindness had been so unfailing, had a secret that I might not share. 
               Days passed on. Ruth did not refer again to Mr. Halsey's call. Neither did I. Lysander Moore made no further demonstrations, and everything seemed to be falling quietly into its old accustomed track. Mr. Halsey had advised us to keep still and wait for further movements on the part of our enemy before saying or doing anything whatever. We felt every moment of our lives that the storm-cloud hung black and threatening directly over our heads. But "sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." Until it burst in all its fury above us we would not yield to unavailing terrors, or sink in hopeless sorrow. And doubtless we were both supported, half unconsciously, by the feeling that something might yet occur to save us from the doom that threatened us. 
               We saw a great deal of Mr. Tremaine. I saw far more of him, indeed, than I did of Mr. Halsey, who had withdrawn into his shell again, and seldom came out. I was sure that his friend's almost daily presence was only too powerful a reminder of the past, that was, as I doubted not, so full of sad yet precious memories. Again, in my unexpressed sorrow for him, the pictured face began to haunt me, as I felt it haunted him. Again its beautiful, spiritual eyes looked down into my soul and disturbed it even as they disturbed his. He was very busy, spending most of his time at the mill and the counting-room, and in superintending the erection of new buildings for the comfort and convenience of his workmen. But at two different times, when coming home from my attendance upon Marion, I caught a glimpse of him in the distance leaving our house, and stealing away, as it were, in the opposite direction. Why did he not come frankly down the road to meet me? And why did Ruth never allude to these visits? You may be sure that I never mentioned them either. But these things, seeming trifles though they were, troubled me. 
               But, as I said, we saw a great deal of Mr. Tremaine. Society at Milford Springs did not seem to satisfy him, for nearly every day found him at Valleythorpe. Half the time, when I went to Mr. Halsey's in the afternoon, I would find his horse champing the bit and pawing up the gravelled path in front of the door; or see a light buggy that I knew to be his, standing quietly around the corner. And I knew, before I went in, that I should be sure to find him exchanging a playful fire of repartee with Miss Agnes, who loved him as a son; tangling the silks and worsteds in her basket, or, if he happened to be in a quiet mood, reading to her as she worked. Or perhaps he would be in the library with Marion, teasing her precisely as he had teased Edith and Fanny years ago-setting impossible sums for her to do, criticizing her penmanship, failing to comprehend the French that he insisted she should speak, or propounding riddles that no mortal skill could solve. To me he was always the same-genial, cordial, friendly. Whether this would have been to the same extent if he had not found me almost domesticated at "the castle," I did not stop to ask. But I think it would. He was a true gentleman, courteous and kindly. He would not have trodden upon a worm, if he could have helped it. Whether he would have stooped to remove it from his path is another thing. 
               I tried the "new Bucephalus," and the new buggy also. My life was more varied than formerly. Some way my time was constantly broken in upon. I found it impossible to devote myself self so closely to my work, whether of head or hands. Mr. Tremaine was constantly interfering with my plans, and supplanting them with his own, which I could but acknowledge were by far the most pleasant. Before the plums were ripe, I felt, rather than knew-for never by look or word did they intimate such a thing-that my friends at "Castle Halsey" thought they had discovered the attraction that drew Mr. Tremaine to Valleythorpe. The hot weather was over, but still he lingered. 
               One morning, early in September, I went to the old secretary, which was our bank of deposit, to get some money. 
               "I wonder where all the dust comes from, and how it contrives to get in here," I said, as I turned down the broad leaf or shelf that formed the writing-desk. "It isn't a month since I cleaned and arranged this place, and now look there! Matty, bring me the dust brush." 
               "The little whisk broom will be better," remarked Ruth. "There it hangs, Matty. You can't do anything with that brush." 
               "This must be re-lined," I said, as I whisked away at the black velvet lining. "There are two or three slits in it. How the dust flies!" 
               Something else flew as I spoke. My broom had caught in one of the slits, and the velvet, tender with age, split half the length of the leaf. A paper folded thinly, long and narrow, fluttered to the floor. 
               "What's that?" said Ruth. "Pick it up, Sibyl. It may be something of consequence." 
               "Presently," I answered. "I'll attend to it, when I've finished this." 
               Matty put her head in at the door- 
               "If you please, Miss Sibyl, Peter is a-waitin' for that money. He says you told him not to get no more o' them shingle nails 'thout payin' for 'em." 
               "Sure enough," I said. "I had forgotten what I came after." 
                
               I found the purse, gave her the money, and finished my dusting. Then I picked up the paper to see if it was anything worth preserving. 
               It contained a few lines in an unfamiliar handwriting. I glanced over them hurriedly. The floor swam beneath me, the walls wavered, the room grew dark, and I did what I had never done but once before in all my life, fainted clear away. Ere my senses quite left me, I heard the hurried jingling of Ruth's bell. She must have been terribly alarm When I came to, I was lying upon the floor by the side of her bed. Matty was sprinkling water in my face, and she was bending over me with frightened eyes, and cheeks that, I don't doubt, were paler than mine. The paper was clasped tightly in my cold fingers. 
               I spoke as soon as I could- 
               "Don't be frightened, Ruth. It is nothing. I shall be all right presently." 
               She did not ask me what was the matter, but waited quietly until I had quite recovered myself, and Matty had gone back to the kitchen. Then I placed the paper in her hand, saying- 
               "Read that, Ruth, and thank God! It is not bad news, and I know you are in no danger of following my foolish example." 
               You shall read it too, O friend! who hast followed me thus far, and I know that you will rejoice with us. Here it is: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Ralph Huntington of Valleythorpe gave me, April 10th, 18-, his note for twenty-three hundred dollars, on which has been paid at sundry times the sum of nine hundred and thirty-seven dollars, and the interest, which is duly endorsed. This day said Ralph Huntington has paid me in full the balance due on said note, with interest. Said note having been mislaid or lost, this receipt is given in full payment and satisfaction of the same. Witness my hand this 14th day of August, 18-. 
                           
                              "ISRAEL MOORE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               I DO not know what Ruth and I did or said for the next hour, only that we did thank God from the very bottom of our hearts. Again our little home was saved to us from the hands of the spoiler; and as we looked around upon every dear, familiar object, we thought the very beams and rafters rejoiced with us. I remembered with a feeling that was half remorse, half wonder, how, in the days of my early girlhood, my heart had been filled with a vague and pining discontent; how it had fluttered its untried wings, regarding that humble home as a cage from which it fain would flee. Now it seemed to me the very haven of rest. 
               "Shall we send for Lysander Moore and show him this precious bit of paper?" asked Ruth. "Oh, Sibyl! I never will complain of the dust again, if it gathers inch deep!" 
               "And we'll have a whisk broom engraved upon all our plate-when we have any-and painted upon the panels of our state carriage. But, Ruth, I would rather consult Mr. Halsey before showing this to our friendly neighbor." 
               Accordingly, when I went to Marion that afternoon I put the paper in my pocket. Mr. Halsey was not at the house, however, and after lessons were over I went round by the mill in search of him. It was a long walk, but little cared I that evening. I felt, in the buoyancy of my heart, as if I could have walked to Europe and back again had there been no intervening sea. 
               Mr. Halsey was in the counting-room,-so the boy in waiting said, and he offered to summon him; but I went along and tapped at the door myself. It stood partially open, for it was a warm evening, and he said "Come in" without even lifting his head. 
               "Come in," he repeated, as I hesitated to advance, but still without looking up from the letter he was writing. "Come in, John. Is it the mail?" 
                
               I went forward then, and perceiving probably that the step upon the matted floor was hardly that of "John," he turned quickly round. 
               "Sibyl!" he exclaimed, springing from the high stool; we were "Ruth" and "Sibyl" with all the family at the castle now. "Sibyl, I beg pardon; I supposed it was one of the boys with the Southern mail. You have come to take a peep at the new looms, as you promised?" 
               "Not to-night, thank you. I came to show you something, Mr. Halsey," and I put the paper into his hand. 
               His eyes deepened and darkened as he read, and at the close an exclamation of surprise and pleasure escaped him. 
               "My dear child!" he said, clasping my hand; "I shall not even try to tell you how delighted I am. But you understand, of course, that this paper is all you need to annihilate Mr. Moore's claims. Where did you find it?" 
               I told him, and asked him what we had better do. He did not reply at once. 
               "It is best to manage the matter in such a way," he said, at length, "as to settle your friend Lysander at once and forever. He must never trouble you again in any way. Would you like to have me see him?" 
               "Indeed I would," I answered. "I wanted to suggest it, but did not like to trouble you." 
               "You cannot do that, child," he said, gently; "you cannot do that. I will be at your house this evening, and if you will send for Mr. Moore, we will try to make his path plain before him. He has proved himself to be an unmitigated villain, Sybil. Yet it is possible that the man was ignorant of the fact that the note had been paid. We will try to do him no injustice." 
               I waited until Mr. Halsey had finished his letter, and then he took me home in his buggy. 
               I sent Peter at once with a message to Lysander, and at half-past seven that gentleman made his appearance dressed in his Sunday best. I knew, the moment I looked at him, that he thought I had repented. Mr. Halsey had already arrived. The later comer must have recognized his hat upon the hall table. 
               "Is he in there?" he said, in a loud whisper, nodding towards the door of the sitting-room. "'Cause if he is, I guess I won't go in. I don't care nothin' about seein' him, and I can come to-morrow night just as well." 
               "By no means, Mr. Moore," I said, speaking out loud. "Walk right in. Mr. Halsey will be glad to see you." 
               "'Sh! 'sh!" he had said when I first spoke; but finding himself fairly cornered, he placed his hat, also, on the table, and walked into the other room. Mr. Halsey saluted him with cool civility, and Ruth bowed, while I placed a chair for him, and begged him to be seated. 
               It was easy to see that he did not quite like the appearance of things. He twirled his thumbs, cast furtive glances at one and another, stirred in his seat uneasily, and, in short, seemed the very embodiment of discomfiture. But we did not care to keep him in suspense, and very soon, following the programme we had made out before he entered, I handed him the paper I had found, saying- 
               "Here is something that you may like to see, Mr. Moore-a document that your father gave to mine." 
               His color changed, and he cast an uneasy glance at Mr. Halsey. Then drawing his hand across his forehead, and muttering something about his eyesight's not being very good, he drew his chair nearer to the table, opened the paper, and read it. 
               Over and over again. None of us spoke; and he, under pretence of examining the document, was evidently trying to comprehend the situation. Was Mr. Halsey there for a purpose, or was his visit an accident? At length he rose. 
               "I guess I'll be a-goin'," he said, with a sickly smile. "You've got company to-night, girls, and 'twouldn't be jist the perlite thing for us to go to talkin' business. This 'ere dockyment seems to be kind o' important, and I guess I'll take it along and study it a leetle to hum, if you hain't got no objections." 
               Mr. Halsey rose. 
               "I take it upon myself to say that these ladies have serious objections to any such proceeding," he said. "I will take charge of that paper, Mr. Moore." 
               He extended his hand, and Lysander gave it to him without a word. 
               "You understand it perfectly, without doubt?" asked Mr. Halsey. 
               "Wall," responded Mr. Moore, "I can't say but what the old man seems to have made it tolerable plain, though he wa'n't never nothin' great of a penman," and he made a weak attempt at a laugh. 
               "Then you know that the only course left for you to pursue is to withdraw the suit you have commenced against this estate, at the earliest possible moment." 
               "Ain't so sure about that," said Lysander, attempting to bluster a little. "Mebbe now this 'ere dockyment might be a forgery. Mebbe't might be for a feller's interest to look into't for a spell, afore he makes up his mind what he'll do." 
               "You will make up your mind immediately, here and now," replied Mr. Halsey, advancing a step nearer to him, and eyeing him sternly. "If you do not, just as sure as my name is Mark Halsey, I will have you taken up before to-morrow morning for an attempt to obtain money from these ladies under false pretences." 
               I almost forgot my interest in the question at issue, in watching the two men. The one cool, calm, steady and stern as Fate itself; the other changing his position and his tactics each moment, now trying jocularity, now bluster and bravado. Mr. Halsey never took his eyes from his opponent's face even for an instant. The latter stood with his head bent forward, scraping the carpet with the toe of his boot. Twice he attempted to lift his eyes and look Mr. Halsey full in the face, and twice they fell again, unable to meet the searching gaze that was reading his very soul. 
               "Where is the note?" asked Mr. Halsey. 
               "Wall, now, Mr. Halsey, I don't know where 'tis-not-not-not exactly, that is to say.'" 
               "It is in your pocket. Take it out." 
               Out it came, from the pocket-book where it had lain so long. Mr. Halsey took it, and examined it carefully. Then he gave it back to Lysander. 
               "Now tear it up or burn it, just which you please, Mr. Moore!" 
               The note fell upon the glowing embers, and we all watched it as it shrank, shrivelled, and turned to ashes. 
               "I s'pose I can go now," said the last-mentioned gentleman, meekly, turning his eyes as far from Mr. Halsey as possible. 
               "Not quite yet, sir," was the answer. "It would be a gratification to these ladies to understand this matter fully. Where did you get that note?" 
               "I found it in an old chist o' my father's-in the till. It had got mislaid somehow-for 'twa'n't there that he was used to keep his papers and sich like." 
               "When?" 
               "Wall-I guess't must ha' been near about a year ago." 
               "And, knowing that it had been paid, you kept it to further your own purposes?" 
               Lysander shifted his weight from one foot to the other; his bronzed cheeks, through all their bronze, were white one instant and purple the next, and his eyes rolled from point to point like those of one demented. 
               Mr. Halsey repeated his question. 
               "Wall now, you see, Mr. Halsey," said Moore, "I really hadn't no idee of ever a-goin' any further in this 'ere business than I've gone a'ready. I didn't lay out to take no land from these 'ere women, nor no money nuther." 
               "What?" queried Mr. Halsey, sharply. 
               "I wa'n't a-calculatin' to carry on this 'ere suit. That's the gospel truth. So there ain't no call to say nuthin' about false pretences." 
               "Thank you, Mr. Moore! You acknowledge then that you knew the note had been paid?" 
               Mr. Moore was keen-sighted enough to see that he was caught in his own trap. He hesitated and stammered- 
               "Wall-the truth is-I-I-kind o' mistrusted it had." 
               "That is not enough. You knew that it had been paid. I want a direct answer, Mr. Moore." 
               "Wall-yes-I did know it." 
               "And knowing it, you held this suit as a scourge over the head of a defenceless woman, thinking to frighten her into your arms." 
               I pitied Lysander Moore, even I. He was utterly humiliated and cast down; and catching Mr. Halsey's eye for an instant, I mutely besought him to have mercy. 
               "I have one thing more to say," he continued, "and then you may go. Lysander Moore, these ladies are neither helpless nor friendless. If you leave them in peace hereafter, I will answer for them that nothing shall be said of this matter save that, fortunately, this receipt has been found, and that the suit is withdrawn. But if you molest them by word or deed, the whole story shall be told. The whole, mind you, from the beginning to the end. Now, go." 
               Without so much as looking at Ruth or at me, Mr. Lysander Moore sneaked out of the room, and left the house. And here I wash my hands of him. His ungainly shadow darkened my life no more, and it shall no longer sully these pages. 
               As the September days shortened, a great change came over Ruth. I did not know what to make of her. Sometimes she would be sadder than I had ever known her to be, lying for hours with her dark serious eyes turned toward the window, seeing not the green earth nor the forest-clad mountains, but gazing ever into the blue, unfathomable sky, as if its far depths held some secret that she fain would grasp. Then again it would seem as if the maddest spirit of mirth had taken possession of her. Toward me, for the first time in her life, her manner was fitful and capricious-now strangely tender, with a tenderness that made my heart ache, and anon quiet and reserved, but building a wall between us that I could not scale. This change dated back in a greater or less degree to the time of her long interview with Mr. Halsey. His visits were still continued, as I knew by unerring signs, but they always took place when I was absent, and neither party ever referred to them. Once I found his glove in the hall. At another time, when going to Marion, I met him just at the turn of the road leading towards the mill. As he drove rapidly past, greeting me with a smile and a bow, I noticed that he wore a moss rose-bud in the button-hole of his coat. When I went home that night, a rose-bud, crushed and faded, lay on the carpet in Ruth's room. There were no moss-roses in Valleythorpe, save those in Mr. Halsey's garden. Ruth's cheeks were crimson that evening, and she scarcely spoke; and once, when she thought I was busy elsewhere, I saw her quietly weeping. 
               She wrote long letters to John, and never sent them, and wrote short ones that she did send. Once or twice I was on the point of writing to him myself and begging him to come home and help me read this mystery. But my better sense prevailed, and bade me possess my soul in patience. 
               Yet it was hard, hard. Such unbroken confidence had existed between Ruth and myself. What was this that was coming between us? Was it Mr. Halsey? And the next instant I felt like humbling myself in the dust at her feet for having dared to harbor such a thought. Not harbor it, though. I never did that. It camean unbidden, as a most unwelcome guest, wearing no marriage garment, and was hurled headlong out of doors as soon as possible. It was persistent, however, and came back to hang about the porch and peep in at the windows whenever the master's back was turned. 
               Miss Maxey haunted the house. She fluttered in and out at all hours, and after a while I began to notice that she too preferred my absence to my presence during her interviews with Ruth. I was never slow to take a hint, and at length the time came when I was sure to find some errand to kitchen or garden as soon as Miss Maxey appeared at the gate. 
               Affairs were in this position when the first day of October came and with it Mr. Tremaine. Miss Maxey was closeted with Ruth, and I took him into the parlor. The little vase stood on the table holding a scarlet verbena and two or three white chrysanthemums. He lifted it, smiling. 
               "You have kept this well," he said, "and taken good care of it." 
               "Yes," I answered, "it would be easier to mar than to break it. I have been fortunate enough to do neither." 
               "I wonder if that is true of hearts," he said, in a meditative sort of way. "Easier to mar than to break." 
               "I am not quite au fait on the subject," I replied. "But I imagine it is. I never knew but one broken heart." 
               "And that was-" 
               "Violet's." 
               He shuddered slightly. 
               "Why will you speak of that child?" he said. "You are doing me an injury." 
               "I beg pardon. But how?" 
               "I want to forget her. I was forgetting her. That grave under the persimmon-tree was growing to be mere earth, and nothing more. Now you have re-awakened the old association. I shall be haunted when I go back." 
               "It will not hurt you," I answered. "Your life is not overcrowded with haunting memories. You can afford to have one." 
               He was silent for awhile, pulling off petal after petal from the scarlet flower. 
               "This has been a pleasant summer," he said, at length. "But it has gone-gone like the summers before the flood- gone like the summers in Eden-gone southward, probably, and I must go after it. Read that," and he dropped a letter into my lap. 
               From Mrs. Gordon, urging him to come home. Edith was to be married next month. She wanted Uncle Guy. "I wish you would persuade Sibyl to come with you," was said, in conclusion. 
               "Dear Edith!" I said. "If her womanhood keeps the promise of her girlhood she is a jewel worth wearing." 
               "Did you notice that last sentence?" he asked. 
               "Yes. Mrs. Gordon is kind," I replied. "Very kind." 
               Mr. Tremaine leaned forward, and the last fragment of the bright geranium fell at my feet. 
               "I wish-I wish I might take you back with me to Virginia, Sibyl," he said in a low tone. "We need you there." 
               I did not look up, neither did I reply immediately. The words I had just heard were very simple. They might mean very little. They might mean a great deal. But did they? 
               I could not tell then. I do not know to this day. I do not think Guy Tremaine knew himself. 
               "Thank you," I said, after a moment or two, "thank you. But I shall probably never see Greyhurst again. I am needed here more than there." 
               "Is that a question open for discussion? Because a good deal might be said upon both sides. Your sister has the most apparent need of you, I admit, but-" 
               "But the need of others is not so apparent, Mr. Tremaine? I agree with you entirely. When are you going?" 
               "To-morrow, if I must go alone. Sibyl!" 
               "Well, Mr. Tremaine?" 
               "We have been very happy together, have we not?" 
               "Very happy, sometimes. When our horses stumbled coming down the mountain, for instance; and when we were fighting the mosquitoes in the blackberry meadows." 
               He turned away with an impatient gesture. 
                
               "You are malicious," he said. "You misunderstand me wilfully." 
               I saw that I had pained him, and I was sorry. I liked him too well to find any pleasure in wounding him. 
               "I will do so no more," I said. "We have been happy together, Mr. Tremaine." 
               We had arisen from the sofa and were standing by the window, looking off upon the encircling hills, draped even to their summits in gorgeous robes of crimson, orange, green, and gold. He took my hand in his, and I let him retain it. The chapter of life I had been reading with Guy Tremaine was just closing. Why should I quarrel with him, or grieve him, as we turned the last leaf? 
               "You will remember me sometimes, when I am away off wandering to the ends of the earth again?" 
               Yes; I would remember him as I remember the rainbow coloring of last night's sunset, or the fragrance of last June's roses. I would think of him as of a beautiful, intangible dream, that brightened my life for an hour's space and then vanished, leaving only a memory behind it. But I said to him- 
               "I shall not forget you, Mr. Tremaine. But why need you go wandering to the ends of the earth? Tremaine Lodge needs its master." 
               "It needs its mistress." 
               I withdrew my hand from his. 
               "Then find her," I said, and I felt that my cheek crimsoned in the intensity of my desire to make him see his life as I saw it. "Find her, and make of the Lodge a home, where your soul can take root and grow. Find your work and do it as a man should, Mr. Tremaine, and then-" 
               "Then what?" he said, with a sort of suppressed eagerness in his voice. 
               "Then I will say God bless you-and yours." 
               "Sibyl," he whispered. 
               I turned and looked at him, and as before I answered- 
                
               "Well, Mr. Tremaine?" 
               "I thought I had found her once." 
               It would not do to be sentimental. "You have thought so not only once but a dozen times, I have not the slightest doubt," I retorted. 
               "But she slipped away from me," he went on, not heeding the interruption. 
               "And you went to the ends of the earth to find her? That was not the place, Mr. Tremaine." 
               "So I discovered. And then I came back." 
               I had seen Miss Maxey go out of the gate a moment before. This interview had been protracted long enough. We were playing with edged tools, and it behoved one of us, at least, to beware. 
               "You will come in and see Ruth, Mr. Tremaine? She is at liberty now." 
               He went with me into the sitting-room, and after half an hour's chat, he rose and bade Ruth good-bye. 
               "I do not like farewells," he said; "but I suppose they are among the things that must be. I expect you will climb 'Chimborazo' with me the next time we meet." 
               She smiled faintly- 
               "Which means that you think this is our last meeting. Goodbye, Mr. Tremaine." 
               I went with him to the door. 
               "Do not wait till I have found my work, Sibyl. Say 'God bless you' now, before I go." 
               I said it, and he went. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               I FELT that Ruth was watching me narrowly. I knew that not a shadow swept over my face that she did not see. I knew that if a cloud dimmed my eye for a moment, or if my cheek wore to-day a color one whit less bright than that of yesterday, she perceived it, and speculated as to its cause. To tell the truth, I did feel ill at ease and lonely after Mr. Tremaine went away. I missed something. I felt that somewhat of brightness had faded out of a life that had never been any too bright. 
               Inconsistent, do you say? Well, perhaps so. But woman, according to all the old saws and dogmas that have come down to us from time immemorial, has an inherent right to be inconsistent. I knew perfectly well that what I felt for Guy Tremaine was not love. I knew that I was capable of a feeling far deeper and far more profound than any he had ever awakened, or ever could awaken. And I was equally certain that his liking for me was not the love that "beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things." He loved me a little, perhaps; but he loved Guy Tremaine, and Guy Tremaine's ease and comfort a great deal more. 
               Yet I missed him. 
               Perhaps I should have missed him less had it not been for this continued mystery of Mr. Halsey's visits to Ruth. They were of quite frequent recurrence, to my certain knowledge. How often they occurred without my knowledge, I was at a loss to conjecture. They gave me an uneasiness that was almost morbid. I dreaded I knew not what. At the same time I felt so desolate, so shut out from Ruth's confidence and from his. It was a new experience and a very bitter one. I withdrew more and more into myself, and knew that, in spite of every effort to the contrary, I looked pale, sad and careworn. 
               One afternoon, about the middle of October, as I was tying on my bonnet to go to Marion, Ruth called me. 
               "Sibyl," she said, patting my hand with a slight, caressing motion, "will you come round through the village, on your way home, and stop at Mr. Winslow's? He has not been here in some time, and I would like to see him. Tell him I wish to have a little conversation with him, and hope it will be convenient for him to call to-morrow." 
                
               Mr. Winslow had been for many years pastor of the little church in Valleythorpe. He was a good, although by no means a great man, and we loved him. He had buried our father; he had received Ruth into the church of Christ when she first, in her early youth, cast her lot with the people of God; he was to have married her to the husband of her choice; and, although it has not been necessary to mention him more than once or twice during the progress of this story, he was one of our friends, and had prayed often by Ruth's bedside. 
               I called to see him, as requested; but I walked rapidly, and reached home a little earlier than usual. Mr. Halsey's horse stood at the gate. I went in quietly, and passed through the hall into the kitchen without showing myself. Matty was out in the orchard helping Peter gather the fall-apples. I laid off my shawl and bonnet, and mechanically taking up my work, seated myself by the low window, through which the setting sun poured its full red radiance. 
               There was the same low hum of voices that I had heard at that first interview, more than a month ago. At length there was a movement as of some one rising, and the door, which it seemed had not been tightly latched, swung open for an inch or so. I could not close it without betraying my propinquity, which I was unwilling to do, and therefore I kept quiet. 
               Presently Ruth's voice reached me. 
               "I must tell her to-night, Mr. Halsey," it said half pleadingly; "I cannot keep it from her any longer. Poor child! I almost fear she has some suspicions already." 
               "We have kept our secret for her own good," was the reply. "Surely such reticence is not blameworthy. However, you have done wonders for a woman," he added, laughingly; "and I will release you from your pledge of secrecy, if you think best. Have you heard from Mr. Gardiner since I saw you last?" 
               "No. I am so afraid he will be home this month. I would not have him come for the world." 
                
               "Neither would I. I am sure that it is the truest kindness to him to keep him entirely in the dark until-" 
               I lost the remainder of the sentence, although I confess to having strained my listening powers to the utmost. I was too greatly excited to think whether it was dishonorable or no. My brain was in a whirl. They had kept their secret from me for my own good! Ruth was pledged to secrecy! She would not have John come home this month for the world! He must be kept in the dark until- 
               Until what? I dared not attempt to answer the question. There was silence in the other room for the space of a minute. Then Ruth's voice broke the stillness- 
               "You must go, Mr. Halsey. It is nearly time for Sibyl to come-don't you see? You will be caught." 
               "As I was the other day, when I had to run out by the back door, like a thief. By the by, I dropped my glove here last week, and was afraid Sibyl would find it." 
               "It is a wonder that she did not. That was rather careless of you, Mr. Halsey, when one considers how anxious you have been lest I, in some unguarded moment, should betray our secret. But you must not stay another minute. Good-bye." 
               He went away, and after he was out of sight, I put on my bonnet and shawl again, stole round the house, and came in at the front door. Ruth should not know that her friend had been nearly "caught" a second time. 
               Surely human nature-or perhaps it would be more modest to say woman nature, in the shape of Sibyl Huntington-is a medley of inconsistencies. I had so longed to fathom this mystery-to know what this secret was that loomed up like a dark wall between Ruth and me, between Mr. Halsey and me. Yet now when I knew that it was about to be revealed to me, I shrank back and would have sealed my ears. I was glad when, immediately after tea, Peter summoned me to a long consultation over the apples, giving it as his opinion that "them greenin's wa'n't a-goin' to keep none too well" and that they had better be sent to market immediately. I agreed with him, and would have prolonged the discussion indefinitely had not Mr. Pratt come in, very opportunely, and suggested that we should look over our accounts a little. It was half-past nine when he departed, and I hoped that I should find Ruth asleep. But she was wide-awake, waiting for me. 
               "You are late to-night," she said, holding out her hand, "and you look tired. Peter and Mr. Pratt and the account-book have been a little too much for you." 
               She pulled me down for a kiss, which I gave her without speaking. 
               "Are you very tired, dear?" she asked after a moment, during which my heart beat vehemently. "Because if you are not, I want to have a talk with you-to tell you something;" and her dear brown eyes sought mine with such a look of innocence in their clear, untroubled depths that my own fell before them. Yet even then I shrank from the revelation she was about to make, and was sorely tempted to plead unconquerable drowsiness, and slink away to bed. But I resisted the impulse, and drew my little rocking-chair to such a position that she could clasp my hand while unable to see my face. 
               "Oh! but this won't do at all," she said as I seated myself. "Turn your chair round. I always want to look at you when I have anything to say." 
               How was it that she who was approaching the confessional was more at ease than I? I moved my seat to a position that pleased her, and she went on: 
               "I have something to tell you, Sibyl. But first I want you to forgive me for having had a secret from you, darling!" and she drew my head down upon her breast, and caressed it tenderly. "It has been such a trial to me! but Mr. Halsey insisted, and I thought perhaps he knew best. You will forgive me, Sibyl?" 
               My heart hardened. What right had Mr. Halsey to step in between Ruth and me? between John Gardiner and his betrothed wife? I answered bitterly- 
                
               "I will forgive you as far as I am concerned, if this secret of yours and Mr. Halsey's is no injury to John Gardiner-nothing that it would pain him to know." 
               She recoiled as if a blow had struck her, and looked at me with wild, startled eyes. 
               "No injury to John Gardiner!" she exclaimed. "What do you mean, Sibyl? Are you insane that you dare make such a suggestion? How could it be an injury to John unless-unless-" 
               She paused suddenly. All the dignity of her outraged womanhood-outraged by my mad jealousy-flashed from her dark eyes for a moment, to be speedily quenched in a flood of tears. I knew by the convulsive heaving of her breast, and the low moans that escaped from her pallid lips, that they were tears welling from a bitterer fountain than had ever been unsealed before. 
               And it was my hand that had unsealed its acrid, poisonous flow-the hand of the "little sister" she had so loved and cherished. What could I do? I dared not speak to her; I dared not touch her. Once, terrified by her inarticulate sobbings, I would have placed my arm about her, but she gently removed it. I could only wait in the deepest abasement until the storm should subside a little, and I could force her to hear me. At last she dropped the hands that had covered her face, and looked at me with an "et tu, Brute" look that almost broke my heart. 
               "This from you, Sibyl! I could have borne it better from any one else." 
               Then my mouth was opened- 
               "Oh, forgive me, forgive me, Ruthie!" I cried. "I was mad; I was beside myself. Have mercy on me, Ruth, and say that you will forgive me." 
               She looked at me earnestly, imploringly. 
               "You do not believe that-what you said, Sibyl? You do not think that I have been, that I am, untrue-" 
               I broke in impetuously- 
                
               "No, no, Ruthie. I believe nothing but that I am a fool; and that you are, as you always have been, pure, and good, and true. But oh, Ruthie! I have been so miserable for these last few weeks." 
               I crept to her bosom, and would have laid my head there as I had been wont to do from my childhood; but she drew back. 
               "Not yet, Sibyl," she said. "Not until I tell you all. Wait until we understand each other fully." 
               Poor wounded dove! too terribly wounded to be made whole at once. I had removed the arrow, perhaps, but the poison rankled still. 
               I dropped upon my knees by the side of her bed, clasped her still trembling hand in mine, and bowed my head upon it. Thus I waited to hear her story. 
               "You remember that morning, several weeks ago, when Mr. Halsey came to see me?" 
               Yes, I remembered it. 
               "He spoke very kindly, very tenderly to me that day, Sibyl. If I had been his own sister he could hardly have been more kind. He said-" 
               "You need not tell me what he said, Ruth," I exclaimed. "I do not deserve to know. There is no reason why you should tell me." 
               "But I must tell you," she answered, laying her hand gently upon my head. "I must speak and you must hear. When in New York, Mr. Halsey met an old friend of his-a surgeon whose fame is world-wide. You have heard of Dr. --?" 
               I had heard of him often, and of his wonderful skill in making the lame to walk and the blind to see. 
               "Mr. Halsey told him all he could tell about my case, and Dr. -- expressed a very confident belief that I might be cured. But he wanted Mr. Halsey to ascertain certain facts from me, and to write him concerning them. It was for that purpose that he came that morning." 
               I longed to ask why it was necessary to conceal all this from me; but I said nothing, and contented myself with pressing my lips to the hand I held. 
               "Mr. Halsey wrote to the doctor immediately, and they have been corresponding ever since. I have seen the letters, and they have inspired me with a good degree of confidence in Dr. --. He thinks I may be cured, Sybil-cured entirely, if-" 
               She stopped, and her lip paled again. 
               "If what? Oh, Ruth, why haven't you told me this?" I cried. 
               "Patience, patience," she said, with a sad smile. "There must be an operation, Sybil-a severe one. If I am able to endure it, I may be cured." 
               It was my turn to weep, now-to weep passionate tears, that were born of joy and of grief-of shame and dread. Ruth let me weep a long time before she made any effort to check their flow. 
               "You are answering your question yourself, Sybil," she said, at length. "This is why I did not tell you. Because I knew, and Mr. Halsey knew, that you would worry yourself sick. If you had had a whole month or more to think of this matter-to brood over it, and to dread it-you would have been in need of a physician, if not of a surgeon, yourself. Then, nothing has been decided until within a week, and Mr. Halsey thought it would be cruel to buoy you up with false hopes; so we kept our secret. We have no other, Sybil." 
               "Forgive me, oh, forgive me, Ruth!" I cried, creeping to her bosom again. And this time she let me lie there, clasping her arms about me, and soothing me as if I had been a tired child. 
               Lying there, I told her all-all my doubts, all my anxieties, all my suffering. 
               "My poor little sister!" she said, smoothing my hair with her tender touch, "I did not dream of this. I noticed that you looked pale and sad at times, but I attributed it to another cause. Well, this is only another proof that 'honesty is the best policy.' I never did believe in secrecy or subterfuge. You have suffered infinitely more than you would if you had known the truth." 
               I thought so too; but I did not say so, as with my heart at rest I nestled by her side in the fulness of a deep content. I had forgotten all about the operation, for the time being. 
               But presently the thought flashed over me, and I shuddered. 
               "When is it to be?" I whispered. 
               "The day after to-morrow," she answered. "Nay, darling, you must not tremble so; you must be firm and strong, and help me to be so likewise." 
               "I will be firm, Ruth. Dear Ruthie, I will try to support you, if God gives me strength," I said, lifting myself up, and gazing into her sweet face. "Do you know about the operation-its character?" 
               "Very little, and I can't talk about it. Don't ask me any questions. Dear Miss Maxey has promised to be with me. Is Mr. Winslow coming to-morrow? I forgot to inquire." 
               "Yes; he said he would be here early." 
               There was silence between us for a long time, broken at length by Ruth- 
               "I want to receive the sacrament to-morrow, Sibyl. Then I believe I am ready. There is a letter in my work-box that you must send to John, in case-" 
               She did not finish the sentence. I could have screamed in the intensity of my emotions. As it was, I shut my hands together until the nails pierced the flesh. This was so like preparing for death. 
               At four o'clock the next afternoon a small party were assembled in our little sitting-room. Ruth in her pure, white robes, lay upon her daintily draped couch, pale, abstracted, and with a faraway look in her eyes that told us her thoughts had gone upward. Mr. Halsey and Miss Agnes, who at their own request had come to participate in the holy rite, sat at the foot of the bed. Miss Maxey was on the other side of the room, trying to look grim and composed, but furtively wiping away a tear now and then. I leaned upon the head-board, gazing down upon Ruth, and good Mr. Winslow sat by a small table covered with a white cloth, on which were the sacramental bread and wine. 
               It was late in October, but the air was soft and warm. In at the open window stole the scented breath of stocks, wall-flowers and violets that were still blooming in our little garden; and the low, slanting sunshine streamed in from the west, gilding the silver chalices, and lighting up the pages of the blessed book whose leaves Mr. Winslow was slowly turning. Not a sound, not even the fluttering of a leaf, broke the sweet stillness while he read, not a single detached chapter, but verse after verse that seemed to him best adapted to the occasion. He began with- 
               "Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. 
               "In my father's house are many mansions: if it were not so I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you"-and ended with the sublime words of St. Paul- 
               "For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. Therefore we are always confident knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore we labor, that, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him." 
               Then he said, slowly rising, "Let us pray." 
               We all knelt, and to such a prayer as Mr. Winslow offered that day I never listened before or since. His language was often plain, and even commonplace, and never rose to lofty heights of eloquence. But it was so full of trusting faith, it pleaded so boldly the promises of God and the mediatory sacrifice of Christ, it was so like the entreaties of a child to a father, in whose love and whose willingness to help he has undoubting confidence, that it bore our hearts upward to the very gates of heaven. That little common room became a glorious temple, the very presence-chamber of Deity. 
               The rite proceeded. The bread was broken, and Mr. Winslow approached Ruth's bedside with the plate. I still stood at her head, but I was not looking at her. My hands were clasped upon the low bed-posts and my forehead rested upon them. There was a dead silence in the room, and at length, wondering at the stillness, I looked up. 
               Mr. Winslow still held the plate, but Ruth, with one hand outstretched to receive the sacred emblems, lay back upon the pillow gazing at me. As she caught my eye she dropped the bread just placed within her hand and reached out her arms imploringly. 
               "Oh, Sibyl, Sibyl!" she cried. "Come with me to our Lord's table to-day. It is perhaps the last time I may partake of this Holy Sacrament, and my whole soul cries out for you. How can I taste this bread or drink of this cup unless you share them with me?" 
               I was lying upon her breast, clasped closely by her loving arms. She bowed her head to mine, and continued her entreaties in low murmuring tones that reached no ear but mine. But from the other side of the room long wavering sighs and the sound of stifled sobbing rose. 
               "I am not worthy, Ruth," I whispered at last. 
               "Worthiness has nothing to do with it," she answered, eagerly reaching for the prayer-book that lay upon the little stand. "Listen to me, Sibyl, 'Ye who do truly and earnestly repent of your sins, and are in love and charity with your neighbors, and intend to lead a new life, following the commandments of God, and walking henceforth in his holy ways, draw near with faith and take this Holy Sacrament to your comfort! Is there aught in that invitation that would exclude you, Sibyl?" 
               She had spoken aloud, but I drew her face down to mine and whispered again- 
                
               "But I don't belong to the Church, Ruthie." 
               She looked at me, earnestly and thoughtfully- 
               "Sibyl, do you love our Lord Jesus Christ?" 
               Did I? My heart owned him as its rightful Lord and King. He was to me what Holy Writ declares him to be, the Life, the Truth, and the Way; but did I love him? Did I regard him as the "chiefest among ten thousand, the one altogether lovely?" For a moment I hesitated, and then with a thrill of joyful rapture that my tongue can never describe, I buried my head upon her breast again and answered- 
               "Yes." 
               She clasped me closer- 
               "Then," she said, "I do not know that your neglect of one duty is any excuse for neglecting another. 'Do this in remembrance of me,' were the words of him whose dying love we commemorate to-day. The command, as I understand it, was given to all who love him and who would learn of him. And, although it is no doubt right and expedient that all such should unite themselves to his visible Church, still that you have not yet done so seems to me no reason why you should not keep the feast that he established. Mr. Winslow, may I bring this child with me to the Lord's table this day?" 
               Tears were rolling down the old man's cheeks. He did not reply immediately. At length he said- 
               "Neither my memory nor my own experience furnish any precedents to guide me. I never was asked before to administer the communion to one who was not a member of any church." 
               He paused, as if for thought. Once or twice Mr. Halsey's lips opened, and he seemed about to speak. But he held his peace, and after a while Mr. Winslow went on: "If you ask it, Ruth, and it is Sibyl's own desire, I doubt if I have any right to prevent her approach to the supper that our Lord has spread. I dare not do it. No one, it seems to me, can eat or drink unworthily who does it in faithful, tender remembrance that Christ died for us. My daughters," he said, placing a hand upon the head of each, "I will give to both of you the bread and wine this day, and may it strengthen you to endure pain and suffering and loss, if such be His holy will concerning you." 
               "Amen!" said Mr. Halsey fervently. "Or to rejoice with 'exceeding great joy' if the desire of their hearts is granted them." 
               He had approached us and clasped a hand of each. Miss Halsey and good Miss Maxey drew near, and, as with one consent, we all fell upon our knees, forming a circle about Ruth. 
               And thus I received my first sacrament. 
               "My hand unwillingly led you to the altar of sacrifice long, long ago, dearest Sibyl," Ruth said, after they had all gone. "I thank God that he has allowed me to lead you to his table now-to his table where we find our truest strength, where our wounds are healed, our sorrows comforted. Whether I live or die you will keep this feast henceforth. Give me your promise, Sibyl." 
               "I will, Ruthie, I will," I answered. "I will keep it for Christ's sake, and for yours." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
               IT was all over. I had begged and implored, even with tears, permission to remain with Ruth during her trial hour; but Dr. --, Dr. Hyde, Mr. Halsey, and Miss Maxey, all combined in resistance to my entreaties. Even Ruth herself urged me to leave the room. 
               "It will be all I can do to endure my own suffering," she said, in a low, constrained voice that told of her effort at self-control. "I could not bear the sight of yours also. It is better that you should leave me, Sibyl. Kiss me once before you go." 
                
               We kissed each other with pallid lips. Then, as I was turning away, she drew me down and kissed me again. 
               "This is for John," she whispered. 
               I went out into the kitchen, where I found Matty crying as if her heart would break. 
               "It seems as if it would kill me to stay here, Miss Sibyl," she said, with her apron over her face. "But I'm afraid to go away. Maybe they might want something or 'nuther in there. Oh, my poor Miss Ruth, and poor Mister John!" 
               "Come with me, my child," I said, laying my hand upon her shoulder. "They will not want us. Miss Maxey has prepared everything that can possibly be needed." 
               We left the house, and went through the orchard into the woods, sweet with the spicy fragrance of pine and cedar. 
               There we waited. 
               It probably was not more than half or three-quarters of an hour, although it seemed a week, when I saw Mr. Halsey walking hastily along under the apple-boughs, evidently looking for us. I stepped out from beneath the shadow of the trees, and went down the winding foot-path to meet him. He smiled faintly, and took both my hands in his. 
               "Thank God, it is over," he said, "and Ruth is quite comfortable. Nay, nay, Sibyl, my child, do not give way now, when you have been so brave and womanly throughout," and he made me sit down in the very seat where Ruth and I had sat on that autumn evening, long ago, when we talked of her future and of John's. It was time, for I was trembling like a leaf. But in a moment I jumped up. 
               "I must go and tell Matty," I said. "The poor girl is half wild with grief. Let me go, Mr. Halsey," for he had placed his hands upon my shoulders, and put me back in my seat again. 
               "Sit still," he answered, "I will go myself. You are not fit to stand, with those white cheeks of yours. Will you promise that there shall be a shade of color in them when I come back?" 
                
               "I will do my best," I replied. "But come back quickly, Mr. Halsey, for I want to know more about it." 
               It was scarcely a minute before he returned, having set Matty's heart comparatively at rest. I rose as he approached me. 
               "I must go to Ruth," I said. "I am quite well now, Mr. Halsey." 
               He looked at me narrowly. 
               "Here is something that I took the precaution to put in my pocket," he answered, placing a little bottle of salts in my hand. "A few whiffs will do you no harm, I imagine, even if you are well." 
               The pungent odor was refreshing, I confessed; and my companion smiled as the color came slowly back to my cheek. He seated himself beside me. 
               "You must not see Ruth yet," he said. "She is very low, although we hope and believe in no immediate danger. But Dr. -- enjoins perfect quiet. No one is to see her to-day but Miss Maxey and himself." 
               There was nothing for me but submission; and if I could not see Ruth, I might as well remain where I was. 
               "Were you in the room, Mr. Halsey?" 
               "Through it all," he answered. "She requested it a week ago, saying she felt that I would be calm and strong, and that my presence would be a support. She is an angel, Sibyl. I have been looking for her wings this many a day." 
               "Did they bind her?" I asked. 
               "No; she would not consent. I held her hands." 
               "What did she do?" 
               "She-prayed. Inaudibly, of course; but I knew by her face. Once she sighed, 'Oh, John, John!'" 
               "Yet she did not wish him to be with her." 
               "No; she felt that it would not be best. But she would never have consented, or rather have submitted, to the operation, if it had not been for his sake." 
                
               "Poor John!" I sighed. "He has been so true and faithful. Will he reap his reward at last?" 
               "I hope so-I believe so. Dr. -- is very sanguine. But we must have patience. We must watch and wait." 
               We did "watch and wait" for many long, long weeks. Dr. -- went back to New York, leaving the most minute directions with our good Dr. Hyde, and promising to return himself, in any emergency. He was to visit us again in six weeks, at any rate; and meanwhile Ruth was to be kept perfectly quiet, and make no effort to use the wounded limb. 
               Miss Maxey was in her element. Her patient was in just sufficient danger to keep her every moment on the alert, and it was under such circumstances that the good woman flourished like a "green bay tree." She had full leave and license to rub, and fuss over, and coddle to her heart's content. Never was nurse more indefatigable and untiring. Never was sufferer more tenderly cared for. 
               Meanwhile, John knew nothing of what had happened. He had no correspondents in Valleythorpe save ourselves. I wrote him that Ruth was not as well as usual, and wished me to be her amanuensis. But as this had occurred at not infrequent intervals during his absence, it did not excite any suspicion or create any especial disturbance in his mind. It was only what he might expect. If it had been in these days of travel, some one of his "dear five hundred friends" would most assuredly have crossed his path, and told him all about it. But at the time of which I am writing Ohio was a great way off. One night, about the first of December, Peter Wells came in with a letter from him. 
               Ruth was well enough to read it for herself, and I carried it to her at once. Her cheek flushed, and her eye lighted up as she glanced over the page, yet her first words were an exclamation of disappointment. 
               "Oh dear!" she said. "He is coming home next month." 
               "'Oh dear!" I repeated, leaning over to pick up the letter she had dropped. "Is that the way to receive such news from one's true love? I, in my ignorance, should have supposed a very different kind of expression would have been in order. Don't you want to see him?" 
               "Yes. But I wanted him to stay away a little longer, nevertheless. I wanted to surprise him, Sibyl." 
               "Perhaps you may have that pleasure yet. When is Dr. -- to come, Miss Maxey?" 
               "Next week. And if Ruth keeps on doing as well as she is doing now, maybe we'll have her on her feet by the first of January. Who knows?" 
               "Will he remove the bandages when he comes?" 
               "Dr. Hyde thinks so. And then comes the trial." 
               "Then we shall know," said Ruth, with a patient sigh, "whether the operation is a success or a failure. Oh, Sibyl! disappointment would be terrible now. This is one reason why I was at first unwilling to place myself in Dr. --'s hands. It seemed to me that to undergo all the torture, all the anxiety for nothing, would kill me." 
               But disappointment was not in store for my sweet Ruthie. Dr. --, punctual to a day, came at the expiration of the six weeks, the bandages were removed, and we were told that with proper care and precaution, she would be able, in six months' time, to walk as well as ever. How our hearts sang hosannas that night, how we blessed God, and Mr. Halsey, I can never hope to tell you. 
               If Miss Maxey had worked before, she labored with untiring zeal now. From morning till night, and I had almost said from night till morning, did she rub away at that poor side and leg, with the occasional aid of all sorts of oils, ointments, and liniments. 
               I heard Ruth expostulating with her once, telling her she would wear herself out. 
               "Never you fear, my dovey," she answered. "I served my apprenticeship at this business before those brown eyes of yours ever saw daylight, and I'm good for a dozen years yet. Dr. -- said I must rub this leg four times in the twenty-four hours." 
               "Why!" I exclaimed, "you are rubbing it oftener than that. You are exceeding your directions." 
               "Not a bit of it," she retorted. "I rub it four times in the twenty-four hours, and-rub it six hours each time." 
               We all laughed, and made no further attempts to interfere with Miss Maxey's rightful prerogative. 
               So the days flew on silver wings until it was the first of January. 
               John was coming that afternoon. Matty and I had been flying about all the morning, brightening up the old house from garret to cellar. There was not a room in which we had not left a token of our presence, in some added charm or comfort. Bright fires burned everywhere, and the whole place was full of holiday cheer. 
               Ruth could sit up now, and I had made her a wrapper of some warm crimson stuff that was exquisitely becoming to her fair complexion. She looked oddly enough in it to us who for years had seen her in white robes only. 
               "Less like an angel, but more like a woman to be loved, caressed, and longed for- 
                      
                        'A creature not too bright and good 
                        For human nature's daily food!' 
                     
                   I do not feel so strong an impulse to look for her wings as I did two months ago, Sibyl," Mr. Halsey had said when he first saw her so attired, and I thought he was right. 
               And she, how happy she was! There was a soft rose-flush upon her cheek that day, and a tender, brooding light in her dark eyes that gave to her sweet face additional loveliness. 
               "I wonder which way John will come," she said, as I brushed and arranged the shining waves of her luxuriant hair. "If he comes through Milford, he will have to stop at the village first, and somebody will be sure to tell him what we do not want him to know!" 
                
               "I will manage all that," I answered. "Matty shall run down to the village, and, if he comes that way, tell him that you want him to come here immediately. I will keep watch here for the other stage. But, Ruthie, hadn't I better tell him before he sees you?" 
               "Joy don't generally kill folks," said Miss Maxey, who was standing near. "At least it won't hurt a strong man like John Gardiner. I'll risk him." 
               Ruth became restless and impatient as the hour for the stage drew near. It was pretty to see how the calm, quiet, tender affection, to which she had been schooling her heart through all these years, grew eager and passionate as the hope, so long asleep, awoke once more. I thought, as I marked the quick flushing of her cheek, and caught her swift, shy glances, that I loved and honored the loving woman even more than the vestal saint. She sent Matty off to the village a full hour before it was time, and I took my station at the window, where I could catch a momentary glimpse of the stage as it came up over the top of a distant hill. 
               But it came and passed by, and no John. He must surely be coming the other way. And sure enough, in half an hour, we saw them hastening along on the road from the village-John striding on ahead, and Matty following after as fast as her shorter steps could carry her. 
               I rushed out bare-headed to meet him, and to receive the right brotherly greeting that I knew awaited me. Then I hurried him into the house. It was snowing, and I made him come into the kitchen and divest himself of overcoat, cap and muffler. 
               "You all look wonderfully bright," he said, "Matty's face-Ah! Miss Maxey, I'm glad to see you," going forward to grasp her hand as she entered the room. "At your old tricks yet, taking care of other people's sons and daughters." 
               "Go in there," she said sententiously, pointing to the sitting-room door. "Somebody wants you." 
                
               "John!" cried a soft, tremulous voice on the other side. 
               He obeyed the summons eagerly, and, as the door opened, I caught a glimpse of Ruth standing up, supported by the tall back of the chair on which she leaned. John gave one cry, in which surprise, joy, and the remembrance of past sorrow were all mingled, and sprang forward. I closed the door softly behind him. 
               Loyal, faithful, true-hearted John Gardiner! Love like his, that had been tried and tested by years of patient, hopeless waiting, was it not worth having? Ah! I felt that Ruth, although she had suffered so much, endured so much, was one to be envied rather than pitied. 
               I left the lovers to themselves for an hour, and then I joined them. John's face was transfigured. Within the space of those sixty minutes his life had burst into bloom and beauty. It was as if an evergreen, hardy, enduring, compact, and well-fitted to sustain the fierce blasts of our northern winters, should suddenly crimson with rose-flushes, or be white with the stars of the jessamine. 
               Ruth had not yet taken her seat at the table with us. I had been waiting for John's coming before proposing it. Now on this New Year's day I was resolved that she should dine with us. Never was a meal made ready to the preparation of which was brought a heartier good-will. More than crackers, butter, and sage went into the stuffing of that turkey, and I am sure there was something in the aroma of the coffee never found before in the choicest of "Mocha" or "Java." Then when all was ready, and John upon one side and Miss Maxey on the other, drew Ruth into the other room, while Matty and I brought up the rear, one bringing the footstool and the other a cushion, it would have been hard to have pointed out the happiest of the group. Yet I knew by the changing lights and shadows in my sister's face, when she was placed at the table, that she remembered one who was asleep under the snow, and that she thought of our mother in the home of her own choosing, but one which we felt instinctively was not a home. 
                
               From this time forward Ruth's cure was marvellously rapid. Mr. Halsey took it for granted that his foreman would be expected to vacate John's house in the spring, and a neat cottage for his use was in process of erection. As for me I foresaw that I should not be able to keep Ruth after the June roses blossomed. While I rejoiced from my very heart that this was so, still the thought brought a pang. My life seemed empty now that she no longer needed my constant care. It was so difficult to lay a plan disconnected with her. 
               Marion's lessons had been discontinued while we were "watching and waiting," but were resumed after Dr. B--'s second visit. It was pleasant to go to "the castle" again after my two months' absence, to receive Miss Agnes' cordial welcome, and to hear Mrs. Halsey singing 
                     "When the Lord shall build up Zion."
                  
                
               After the recitation was over, I made an errand into the drawing-room, ostensibly to look at the pattern of a sofa pillow, but really to see if "Amy Hope's" picture was restored to its place. I did not find it. As the days passed on I grew heartsick in my yearning to see it once more. Was it indeed as wondrously beautiful as it had seemed to me to be? Were those eyes so full of tender meaning? those lips so formed for love's caress? 
               If I wanted to see the picture, why did I not ask Miss Agnes or Marion where it was? I could not answer this question myself. Some unaccountable feeling prevented me from mentioning the picture to any one. But one day in March, as I was leaving the library, Miss Agnes called to me from one of the chambers. 
               "Come up here, Sibyl," she said. "I want to see you, and I am too busy to go down." 
               I ran up-stairs and found her in her own room looking over shirts and the various paraphernalia of a gentleman's wardrobe. 
               "Dear me!" she exclaimed. "Don't talk to me of the whims and caprices of women. One never knows what to expect pect of a man. Just think of it! This good brother of mine came in an hour ago and told me he wanted to leave for Liverpool in next Saturday's steamer. He'll have to buy some shirts in New York, for there is no time to make any here, and these seem to be in a failing condition," she added, exhibiting a frayed wrist-band, and a bosom with a formidable split between the plaits. 
               Going abroad! For how long? for what purpose? These questions sprang to my lips, and found utterance at last, as with burning cheeks I examined a dilapidated button-hole. 
               "I don't know," she answered. "'Business,' I suppose. Did it ever occur to you, Sibyl, that a man can always find 'business' in whatever quarter of the globe his fancy leads him? But Mark has some dear friends in England-people that he is very fond of. I presume he wants to see them, and I know that he considers Mr. Penfield entirely competent to manage matters here for a while." 
               Of course. It had been absurd in me to ask such questions. Business and inclination alike called him away from Valleythorpe. Had I been so foolish as to suppose that he would be content to spend his days among our mountains, merely because he had built a mill beneath their shadow? 
               While I mused, Miss Halsey looked up from her work. 
               "Sibyl, would you mind stepping into my brother's room-it is at the other end of the hall, you know-and bringing me a pile of handkerchiefs that lie on the dressing-table? I must mark them." 
               I threw my hood and shawl upon the bed, and went to do her bidding. The door of the room to which I had been sent stood open, and I went in, caught up the pile of neatly folded handkerchiefs, and was about making my exit, when my attention was arrested by a funny little bronze figure of Cupid forging his arrows, and I paused a moment to examine it. Then, as the thought occurred to me that I was in a room that I had never entered before, I turned to look about me. 
                
               It was a large apartment, tastefully but not extravagantly furnished. I had just had time to notice the warm soft coloring of the crimson carpet, the crimson curtains, and the book-case where were stored, in choice bindings, its owner's favorite books, when my eye fell upon a picture over the mantel. 
               It was the picture, beautiful as before I lost it, gazing down upon me with those soul-lit eyes. For a moment I stood as one entranced. Then I rushed through the hall, back to Miss Halsey. 
               It was all plain enough now. 
               "This is a riddle that may be read of all men," I said to myself as I walked homeward. "Time and change and distance, it may be, had come between Mr. Halsey and his beautiful Amy. Perhaps he had learned to live and to be happy without her. But his intercourse with their fellow-traveller and companion has reawakened the old love that was 'not dead but sleeping.' It is easy to see what calls him to England so suddenly." 
               "But what if she is married?" quoth dame Reason. "Have you a right to presume that the young lady has remained single six-almost seven years-for the sake of one, who, if he is not a jilted lover, has proved himself a cold one? Don't be so absurd." 
               "Mr. Halsey is not the man to start on a fool's errand," replied my heart. "He has settled that point; besides, any woman who had loved him once would love him always." 
               The next evening Mr. Halsey came in to bid us good-bye. He was silent and depressed; disinclined to talk of his journey, its cause, or the probable duration of his absence. 
               "It is uncertain," he said. "It may be two months or it may be a year. It depends upon circumstances." 
               Ruth frankly expressed her regrets, and told him he must certainly be back in time for her wedding, the middle or the last of June. I said nothing, but devoutly wished that Ruth would hold her peace. Why should she urge him to stay, or even to return speedily? What was her wedding to him when his heart was full of his own hopes, his own fears, his own joys, or mayhap his own sorrows? Why should we thrust our affairs upon him, or why should we thrust ourselves? 
               "I do not know that I can be at the wedding in my own proper person," he said, taking her hand in his. "But I shall be with you in thought, and every breeze that sweeps across the Atlantic shall be laden with good wishes and prayers for your happiness. Yet you will not need them, Ruth." 
               Her eyes filled, and she turned them upon him beaming with gratitude and affectionate confidence. 
               "What do we not owe you!" she said, in a low, murmuring tone. "You have given me more than life, Mr. Halsey." 
               He raised her hand to his lips. 
               "You owe me nothing," he answered. "Do not speak of it. Good-bye, and may God bless you." 
               He turned towards the door, as I thought. I had scarcely spoken during the hour of his stay, but had been seated quietly, half hidden by the curtain. Had he forgotten my presence? Was he going without one parting word? With a great choking at my throat, I sprang forward, quite forgetful of my great anxiety lest Ruth should "thrust" our affairs or ourselves upon his notice. I felt that I must have one more word, one more look, one more clasp of the hand before the winds and the waves had borne him to other friends and to stronger ties. 
               So I sprang out from beneath the curtain and stood before him with downcast eyes and crimsoning cheeks. 
               "Mr. Halsey!"- 
               He turned and looked at me. 
               "What is it, child?" 
               "I-I-I thought you had forgotten to bid me good-bye, Mr. Halsey-that's all." 
               I could not look up. My eyes were brimming over. His hand touched my hair for an instant. 
                
               "Little tender heart," he said, "little tender, grateful heart. But I was looking for you, Sibyl. I could not leave you without a parting word. I cannot hope to find you here when I return; but-if you are happy, that is of slight consequence. Good-bye, dear child," and with one quick clasp of the hand he was gone. Presently the gate swung to behind him, with a heavy clang. 
               "Not find me here on his return?" What did he mean? Why did he say that? 
               "It must be," said Ruth, at last, "that he thinks you will not be contented to remain here teaching Marion, but will seek a wider field of labor, after you have gotten me off your hands." 
               And, for want of a better conclusion, I adopted hers myself. 
               But I thought Mr. Halsey was mistaken. There had been a time when I had sighed for broader fields, and for work better suited to my tastes than that which God in His wisdom had seen fit to give me. I had thought that I could order my own paths better than He could order them for me, and that by my own methods of self-culture I could mould myself into a nobler, better being than I was likely to become under His discipline. Not that I ever said this; not that the thought was so worded, even to my own consciousness. Yet it was there, nevertheless. 
               But now I seemed to have "lost the dream of doing." I was content to be and to grow. I had learned that what we do is of less consequence than what we are. I was beginning at last to see that God's allotments are just and good. 
               No; I would not go out of Valleythorpe to seek my life-work or my fortune. I would stay quietly on where I found humble duties ready to my hand, and where God's Providence seemed to have placed me. By and by, if He should see fit to give me other work I would do it, trusting in His strength. But I would not go out of my way to seek it. 
               Mr. Penfield, the foreman, left John's house in April, and then it underwent a process of repairing, rejuvenating, and rebeautifying that can be better fancied than described. One evening in May, they-John and Ruth-came in from a visit to their dove-cot. 
               "Your room is going to be beautiful, Sibyl," said the latter. "John has selected such a pretty wall-paper, a soft shade of gray with a delicate arabesque of green, and you must have a green carpet, and a green-" 
               "But, my dear Ruthie, what are you thinking of?" I asked. "I am not going to live with you and John; I am going to stay here." 
               "You are not going to do any such thing, you absurd child," she answered. "It is too ridiculous. You would look well, living here all alone." 
               "I am not going to live alone," I replied. "Matty is going with you, of course. I would not consent to keep her, even if she would consent to stay, which is not to be dreamed of. But I have never thought of living alone." 
               "What have you thought of doing, pray? Sybil, if I did not know you were talking just for the pleasure of hearing your own voice, I should be quite out of patience." 
               "Oh! I have engaged a companion, with whom you will be perfectly satisfied." 
               "May I ask who the person may be?" 
               "Miss Maxey." 
               "Miss Maxey!" they both exclaimed, for John had come in in time to hear the last few sentences of this dialogue. Ruth paused there, in breathless astonishment, but John went on- 
               "Miss Maxey! and the very first time there is a baby sick within ten miles, you will lose your 'companion.'" 
               "No," I answered. "She admits, at last, that she is tired, and must have rest and a home. It was this that first made me think of this plan. She will give up nursing, and stay quietly with me. We shall get on nicely together. She is good and faithful, and she loves me. You will see that it is a good plan yourself, Ruth, after you have looked at it a little." 
                
               "The best plan possible, I admit, if you will not come to us. But, Sibyl, why will you not?" 
               "In the first place, I do not want to leave this dear old house. In the second, if I expect to 'farm it,' to use Mr. Pratt's elegant phraseology, I would rather be where my business is. In the third, I'm afraid I should be jealous of John if we all lived together." 
               "Nonsense! Of your three reasons, only the first is good for anything." 
               "Fourthly," I went on, unheeding the interruption, "I want a good place to go a-visiting. Don't you see? I was always fond of going out to tea, and if I carry out my plan I can have that pleasure as often as I please. Every time you have strawberry short-cake, or biscuits and honey, you will say, 'Matty, now just put on your sun-bonnet and run up and ask Miss Sibyl to come down to tea.' Or you will hang a white cloth out of the garret window, and I shall be with you in a trice." 
               "And you mean to say that strawberry short-cake and biscuits and honey, occasionally, will make amends for the loss of my constant companionship? Moreover, I should like to know what is to hinder you having your share of the aforementioned dainties even if you do live with us?" 
               "Oh! but in that case they would lose half their savor. It will be the 'going a-visiting' that will make them tempting. Don't seek to deprive me of that pleasure, Ruth." 
               She did not reply, and I saw that she was grieved. So I put aside my work, and drawing a low seat to her aside, laid my head upon her knee. 
               "Dear Ruthie," I said, "do not think me unkind or unreasonable. I am sure it is better that, for awhile at least, you and John should be by yourselves. If my plan does not work well, I can come to you any day. We do not want to sell this place, we do not want to rent it, neither do we want to have the house unoccupied. Let me live here, and keep the old hearth bright and warm." 
                
               And at last, after a great many discussions, and arguments for and against, it was settled that I should remain in our old home, when Ruth should go to be the pride and joy of another. Miss Maxey was happy in the thought of living with me as motherly friend, companion and assistant, and I felt more and more sure that this arrangement was the best that could be made. I should miss Ruth, but that was unavoidable. Even if we should dwell beneath the same roof, she would not be to me precisely what she was before her marriage. Perhaps I should feel it less if we lived apart. 
               Yet I cannot deny that, as I busied myself with Ruth's modest trousseau, and entered with heartfelt interest into every detail of her pretty household arrangements, my own life stretched out before me long and empty and desolate. For years I had lived for Ruth, and now my days seemed objectless, purposeless. I should continue my lessons with Marion for awhile, but when Mr. Halsey should come home with his English wife, doubtless there would be a change. A new order of things would be inaugurated. Marion would go to a boarding-school, or her friends would seek a more stylish and fashionable governess than Sibyl Huntington. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIX. 
               JUNE came on apace. Each breeze that swept through the valley was laden with the breath of the roses and sweet-briers that were blooming in every garden and growing wild upon the hillsides; and the maples that overshadowed John's pretty cottage tossed their emerald crowns and waved their trailing wreaths of verdure, as if exulting in their own strength and beauty. The house itself was ready for its mistress; in perfect order from garret to cellar. There were fresh loaves in the pantry, fresh flowers in the parlor, and the sweet breath of summer floated in and out at the open windows. John and Ruth had planned no wedding-tour longer than the grass-bordered road that led from her home to his. They were to be married quietly in our little parlor, and were going at once to their own house. 
               A letter had been despatched to Maysville, urging mother, and inviting "the Squire," to be present at Ruth's wedding. But the former wrote that times were hard and the Squire didn't quite feel as if he could stand the expense. It would cost considerable for them both to come, and his appetite was so poor that he wouldn't be able to eat anything if she came herself and left him. Somehow he couldn't eat anybody's cooking but hers. She was real glad that Ruth was going to be married at last, and should send her a feather-bed and a pair of pillows if she could get the Squire to agree to it. 
               We were up-stairs, Ruth and I, in the same room where we had slept together as children. On the bed lay the clear white muslin that Ruth was to wear in the evening, for this was her wedding-day. We had no orange-blossoms, but I was making a wreath of lilies of the valley and the delicate little achillea, and a bouquet of mignonette and white rose-buds; while Ruth was setting some one of the countless last stitches that are the concomitants of such an occasion. Marion had come over that morning laden with baskets of exquisite flowers, and was downstairs arranging them at that very moment; but I had selected those that I designed for Ruth's adorning from our own little garden. 
               "Why, grandma! Did you come alone?" we heard Marion exclaim. 
               "It is Mrs. Halsey" said Ruth. "Let us go down and see her." And down we went. 
               She had come alone, "across lots;" doubtless, slipping out without Miss Agnes' knowledge; for some member of the family always accompanied her in her walks. 
               "I wanted to see your marriage garments, my dear," she said, kissing Ruth's cheek, "because I cannot come to the wedding." 
               "But why not, dear Mrs. Halsey?" asked Ruth. "You know how glad we would be to have you come." 
               "Yes, I know," she answered. "But it would not be best, my dear. It would not be best. I shall be better at home." 
               We went up-stairs together, and the old lady looked with moistened eyes at the pretty, simple dress Ruth was to wear at her bridal. 
               "It is very pretty," she said, carefully lifting the delicate lace that finished it at the throat and around the sleeves. "It is very pretty, and you will look sweetly in it. But we shall all wear white robes when we get to Jerusalem." Then she added, with a long sigh, "'The ways of Zion do mourn, because none come to her solemn feasts; all her gates are desolate.'" 
               "'For these things I weep,'" she went on after a moment's pause. "'Mine eye, mine eye, runneth down with water, because the comforter that should relieve my soul is far from me. Zion spreadeth forth her hands, and there is none to comfort her.'" 
               "Have you noticed this pretty wreath that Sibyl is making for my hair?" said Ruth, thinking to turn her thoughts into another channel. 
               But she would not heed the flowers. 
               "I thought, perhaps, we might go to Jerusalem together," she said. "But now I shall go first. I shall go next week, perhaps, and you will not be ready. You will say, 'I have married a husband, and therefore I cannot go.'" 
               I smiled at this apropos quotation, but Ruth's face was very grave. 
               "I hope my husband will be a help rather than a hindrance in my journey towards Jerusalem, dear Mrs. Halsey," she said. "We hope to go there together some day." 
                
               "That is well; that is as it should be," was the reply. "And the blessing of Him who 'setteth the solitary in families' shall be upon you. "But, Ruth," she went on suddenly changing her voice and manner, "I have brought you some little presents. Will you accept them?" 
               "Most gratefully," said Ruth. "Your gifts have always given me pleasure, Mrs. Halsey." 
               The person addressed laughed a little low, pleased laugh, as she drew a tiny box from her pocket. 
               "This," she said, "contains merely a small pearl brooch. It is one I always intended to give Agnes for her wedding, but she says she quite despairs of ever needing it, and advises me to give it to you. Here, however, are a pair of sandals and a pilgrim's staff, both of my own manufacture. I am confident that you will find them very useful. Might I venture to offer some like them to Mr. Gardiner, do you think?" she added, anxiously. 
               Poor, guileless, simple heart! The costly brooch was a gift of little value, in her eyes, but the staff and sandals for the journey to Jerusalem were of inestimable worth. Ruth thanked her warmly, and assured her that John would be most grateful for her remembrance. So after having fastened the brooch to the lace upon Ruth's dress, she hurriedly bade us good-bye, and hastened home to make another pair of sandals. Marion had finished arranging her flowers, and went with her, promising to return before dark. 
               We were not very busy that day; both of us having resolved, weeks before, that our last days together in our old home should not be filled with hurry and confusion. Miss Maxey had considerately taken herself off, leaving us to ourselves, and John had not shown us his face since the previous evening. After dinner, with our arms about each other, we strolled off through the orchard into the woods. They were fresh and green, sweet with ferns, and all a-flush with pink azaleas. Yet my thoughts went straight back to that October day when I sat on that very stone, with the dropping crimson leaves about me, waiting for tidings of Ruth. I thought of Mr. Halsey, of all he did and said at that time, of all his kindnesses to me and mine, both before and afterwards; and my eyes involuntarily went down the winding path till they reached the spot where I had seen him that morning, standing beneath the apple-boughs, searching for me. 
               And lo! as I looked, there he stood again, pushing aside an intruding branch with one hand, while he shaded his eyes from the sunshine with the other. 
               At first I could not speak. Then I whispered, laying my hand upon her arm, "Ruth, look there!" 
               "Why, it is Mr. Halsey!" she exclaimed, starting up. "I am so glad. But how you tremble, child! Didn't you know who it was? Were you frightened? Come, let us go and meet him." 
               "Run along," I said. I'll come presently." 
               But she would not go without me, and we went down the winding path together. He met us half way. 
               "You see I could not stay away," he said, clasping a hand of each. "I was obliged to come back to the wedding." 
               "I always thought you were a wise man, Mr. Halsey," Ruth replied, laughing. "Now I am sure of it." 
               We walked slowly back to the house, chatting as we went. That is to say, Ruth and Mr. Halsey chatted, and I listened. I wanted to ask him a thousand questions, but not one did I utter. That his journey had been a pleasant one, that no budding hope that he might have carried with him across the Atlantic had been blasted, it was easy to see. He looked like a man whose heart was at rest, who was sure of his future, who held his destiny in his own hands. He knew what he wanted, and had gone straight on to secure the possession of it. I felt this as I saw his erect, self-poised figure, his clear steady eyes, and his step at once so elastic and so firm. Never since the first week of Guy Tremaine's visit had I seen his brow as shadowless as now. The nameless, formless cloud had vanished. No haunting memories troubled his dreams, or drove sleep from his pillow. The pictured semblance of his lost love would disturb his soul no more. I imagined him standing before it now, not as I had seen him once, with folded arms and clouded brow, but smiling into its love lit eyes, acknowledging its charms in every throb of his strong heart, and murmuring, "God bless her, she is mine!" 
               But I had little time to indulge in fancies like these. They flashed across my brain as we strolled along beneath the apple-boughs, and I heard with scarce heeding ears the flow of talk between him and Ruth-talk that was half badinage and half sober sense. When we reached the house, however, Ruth sportively drove him away, telling him we had too much to do that day to be longer disturbed by idle folk like him 
               Then we went up-stairs, and I dressed Ruth. Ah! it was bitter-sweet the cup I tasted that night! 
               When the last flower was in its place, I heard John's step down-stairs, and called him up. The sun had just gone down behind the hills, but the room was still overflowing with softened rosy light. Ruth stood in the centre of the chamber when the sunset glow fell full upon her, tingeing lip and cheek, and lighting up her hair of golden brown. John paused in the door and I whispered in his ear- 
               "Was she worth waiting for, John?" 
               Such a look as I got in return for my saucy question! 
               He led her to the window at last, and hand-in-hand they stood looking down the beautiful valley and up at its encircling mountains; and gazing back into their own past, and forth into their own future, as well. They were satisfied alike with the prospect and with the retrospect. Each bitter draught that the past had mingled for them but added to the sweetness of the present. 
               "'At eventide there shall be light,'" said John, as once before. "Ruth, it has come to us at noonday." 
               "Nay," said I, "it has come to you even before 'morn has risen into noon.' But you may go down-stairs now, you two. I'll follow you in five minutes." 
               I hurriedly gave the finishing touches to my own toilette, and joined them in the parlor before the allotted time was over. One by one our friends dropped in; the few whom we cared to have with us at such an hour. You would have thought it simply a little evening gathering of kindly neighbors. Ruth moved about among the guests as quietly and unconsciously, to all appearance, as if she were not treading upon the verge of a new life. When the right moment came they stood up side by side and were married. 
               It was a lovely, moonlit evening, clear and dewless. By and by I threw a light shawl over Ruth's bridal white, and we all went with them to the new home. Fair, and sweet, and peaceful it looked beneath its overhanging trees, mantled even to the eaves with clustering vines. There we left them with a blessing and a prayer. 
               Mr. Halsey drew my arm within his as we left the cottage. Keep cool and quiet I could not. I must either laugh or cry. Choosing the former, I laughed and jested incessantly all the way from John's gate to our own. Miss Maxey had hastened on before us, and through the open windows I could see her flying about, putting things to rights again. Dr. Hyde, Mr. Winslow, and a few other friends stood at the gate talking for awhile. Then they passed on and I turned to go into the house. Mr. Halsey went with me. 
               I wished he would go. I longed to be alone. I was in no mood for talking, and my forced spirits were fast leaving me. I wanted to look my future in the face now, and see how it bore itself. If its features were somewhat hard and grim, unillumined by the roseate hues of love and hope, the sooner I became familiar with them the better. Besides I knew that, sooner or later, I must have one good cry over Ruth, and that then I should feel better. 
               But he stayed. Miss Maxey fluttered in and out of the room, and at last I heard her steps in the chamber overhead. 
                
               My companion did not seem in a talking mood either, and after awhile we fell into silence that, had we not known each other so well, would have been slightly embarrassing. Embarrassing to me, I mean. One would hardly have thought of applying that word to the mental condition of the quiet, self-poised man beside me. 
               "I had a letter from Tremaine while I was away," he said, at length. 
               "Did you?" I responded. "Where was he?" 
               "At the Lodge. But he says he gets terribly ennuied sometimes, and thinks he shall resume his roving life again." 
               "If the Lodge had a mistress he would be more contented there, I fancy," said I, pulling a geranium leaf out of my bouquet. 
               "Why hasn't it one?" my companion asked, looking at me keenly. 
               "Partly, I imagine, because it hasn't a master," I replied. 
               "You are enigmatical. Is not Tremaine its master? Read me this riddle." 
               I shook my head. 
               "I cannot be required to propound riddles and to solve them likewise. That is your part of the game, Mr. Halsey." 
               He changed the subject. 
               "So you are to live here with Miss Maxey?" 
               "Yes; for the present, at least. When are you going abroad again, Mrs. Halsey?" 
               "I? Going abroad? Never, that I know of. At least, I have no such intention at present." 
               He hesitated a moment; then, while a quick change passed over his face, he leaned forward and laid his hand on mine. 
               "You sent me abroad last spring, Sibyl. I shall not go again unless you send me, or promise to go with me." 
               I? I sent him? I gave one quick, startled glance at his face, and then my eyes dropped. Yet I did not comprehend his meaning in the least. 
               "I sent you?" I said, inquiringly. 
                
               "Yes, you," he repeated. "I went away because I loved you, because I wanted you for my very own, for my wife." 
               "That was a stranger reason for going," I said, in a sort of vague bewilderment. Surely the world was upside down. Or had I been dreaming for the last year? 
               "But I thought, I supposed," he went on, speaking in a low, constrained voice, "that another had won you, that my love was utterly hopeless. I went away to conquer it-if I could." 
               With my brain full of Amy Hope, and all the phantasms that had haunted it for months past, I did not even yet perceive that Mr. Halsey was laying his heart at my feet. 
               "Why do you tell me this now?" I asked. 
               "Because I love you, not with a mere boyish passion, but as a man loves the one woman he has chosen out of all the world," he said. "I told you long ago that I wished you were my child, my sister-anything that would give me the right to protect and care for you. It was an untruth, Sibyl. Then, as now, if I had dared, I should have said, 'Come to me; be my love, my wife.'" 
               Was this indeed true? I could doubt no longer. He had risen to his feet and stood before me; I looked up, and our eyes met. He held out both hands. 
               "Sibyl," he whispered, "come!" 
               He explained it all to me afterwards, how he had been deceived by Mr. Tremaine's nonchalant way of taking things for granted-claiming possession of me as he did whenever we were thrown together, by right of old friendship. But the letter he had received from him, while in England, had convinced him that no stronger tie existed between us, and he came home by the next steamer. 
               At length I summoned courage enough to speak to him of the picture, and of what Tremaine had said. 
               He laughed. 
               "Hasn't he forgotten that yet?" he asked. "The painting does slightly resemble a dear friend of mine, and we had had a good deal of sport over 'her portrait' when I bought it in Berlin. But I never loved her, nor did she love me. I visited her while I was gone. She has been married these five years." 
               My heart was not yet quite satisfied. 
               "Mr. Tremaine was sure-" I said, hiding my eyes upon his shoulder. "He thought-" 
               "Yes, I know. He thought we were more than friends, in spite of all my asseverations to the contrary." 
               "And then, when you had the picture removed from the drawing-room and placed in your own room, I-" 
               He lifted my head from his shoulder, and looked into my blushing face. There was a glad, triumphant light in his eyes, before which my own drooped. 
               "And you were jealous of that poor picture?" he said, kissing my lips, and cheek, and forehead. "O my darling, my darling!" 
               Then he released me, and took my two hands in his. 
               "Sibyl, look at me," he said, gravely. "I am ten years older than you. You would not believe me if I were to tell you that I had lived to my present age and had had no love-dreams. I have had my boyish loves, my young romances, as all men have had them, and will have them while the world stands. But since I have been a man, Sibyl, doing a man's work and bearing a man's responsibilities, I have loved no woman but yourself. Do you believe me?" 
               I did, and I told him so. 
               Early the next forenoon, I went down to tell Ruth of my newly found joy. Mr. Halsey had forestalled me, having had an interview with her that morning. 
               "I am not surprised," she said. "I suspected that Mr. Halsey loved you, long ago. But I was not so positive about your own feelings. Sibyl, do you remember that day last summer when I asked you if you were sure you were safe?" 
               "Perfectly," I answered, playing with the tassel of my apron. 
                
               "I was puzzled that day. What did you mean when you said you were glad that Guy Tremaine had come to Valleythorpe?" 
               "Precisely what I said, Ruthie. I suppose I did have a girlish fancy for Guy Tremaine. If we had never met again I should have had the feeling all my life, perhaps, that no one could ever be to me quite what he might have been had our acquaintance continued. Fate threw us together again, and while I still acknowledged the charm of his winning presence, I felt that he could satisfy neither my heart nor my intellect. Ruth, what are you in such a brown study about?" 
               She kissed me. 
               "Dear Sibyl, you know that there was something that did not quite satisfy me about Mr. Tremaine; and you must feel that I am more than satisfied now. But-" 
               As she did not seem inclined to complete the sentence, I asked- 
               "But what?" 
               "Sibyl, do you think Mr. Tremaine cared for you? You accepted his attentions very frankly; and I should not like to feel that you had done him any wrong." 
               I smiled. 
               "Set your heart at rest, Ruth. Guy Tremaine did not know his own mind. He did and he didn't. He would and he wouldn't. What right had he to expect to know mine? He will never be unhappy for my sake." 
               She put her arm about my waist, and we strolled out into the garden of her new home. From the lower end we could see Mr. Halsey's house in one direction, and in another, over beyond the village, was the great mill. As we looked, a figure appeared at one of the upper windows. My heart recognized it, and made quick salutation in joyful throbs. Ruth clasped me closer, and drew my head down upon her breast. 
               "I have nothing more to ask for, darling," she murmured. 
               I have little more to add. 
               In the fulness of time, dear Mrs. Halsey put on her white robes, and with "rod and staff" to "comfort" her, passed through the dark valley, and reached the jasper walls of the New Jerusalem. We missed her-but how could we mourn, when after years of waiting the desire of her heart was accomplished? 
               Marion ripened into lovely womanhood, and after a while left us for a home of her own. Miss Agnes went with her. Marion had been to her in the place of a daughter all her life, and we felt it was right that they should not be separated. 
               Miss Maxey lived on in our old home for many years, taking care of "other people's children," even to the last. For some otherwise homeless and friendless child was ever at her fireside, being trained up in the ways of duty and of happiness. And at last our mother came back to live there herself. "The Squire" died; but, selfish in death as in life, he had so arranged his worldly affairs that his wife was left nearly penniless. She came back a worn-out, subdued, and broken-hearted woman, thankful for shelter and peaceful rest beneath the roof that had protected her in the days of her first marriage. 
               From the window of the room where I am writing, I can see the chimneys of Ruth's pretty cottage. But, ah! she is not there. For two years, now, when I have wanted her, I have been able to find her no more than I can find the rose that bloomed last summer, or the tinted leaves of last October. 
               Somewhere in this broad universe of God she still lives, she still loves. But she does not answer when I call her, and to all my yearning love, her love makes no reply. O, Ruth! my sister-keep a place for me by your side among the shining hosts, until in God's good time I come! 
               Mark and I are growing old. Our two boys, brave, manly fellows that they are, take care of the mills now, and their father rests. We have had many joys,-ay-and many sorrows too. Else our lives would hardly have been worth living. But through them all, in the sunshine and in the shade, we have loved each other with an ever-strengthening love. 
               John has been a great blessing to Mark, a great help in carry ing on the business that became too heavy a weight for one pair of shoulders. They have been close friends always, and that has been such a comfort to Ruth and to me. Ah! even yet I speak of her as if she were here. We wanted him to come to us after she left him, but he chose to live on in the home that her presence had hallowed. Matty keeps house for him, and she knows all his ways. 
               Just now, as I raised my eyes, they fell upon the little silver vase that I brought from Greyhurst so many years ago. It reminds me of our old friend Guy Tremaine, whose last visit to us was made one year since. He has not changed much, I think-not so much, perhaps, as some of the rest of us who have had more of the world's work to do. He has led an easy, careless, roving life, and is a real cosmopolitan. My boys admire him greatly, and delight in his visits; but I would hardly wish to have them follow in his footsteps. Yet we all like Guy Tremaine; and are as good friends as ever, even though I laugh in his face when he tells me that he hopes to find his work some time! 
               And now I am loth to say farewell to those who have lingered with me over the joys and sorrows of so large a portion of my life; and loth to leave the shadows that for months have been like living presences beside me. In the great Hereafter, where every shadow shall become substance, and every dream a reality, God grant that we may meet again. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
