
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. I was Lean, and I Became Stout .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6854
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            I was lean, and I became stout
             
                'I i Was Lean, and I Became Stout Humbly Presenin ,  Some Ides that are really true  Be not contented with thy condition. If thou art Poor, strive to be Rich; if thou art Ignorant, make thyself Wise; if thou art Lean, Fatten thyself. BOSTON: PUBLISHED BY    A. WI'IA I MS&   C O. AT THEIR BOOKSTORE, 100 WASHNGTON STREET. MDCCCLXVIII.       Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, BY A. WILLIAMS & CO., in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts  TO THE READER.  FOR a good many years the Author of this little book has devoted considerable atten-, tion to the subject of NUTRITION, in its application to the various aricles of food in common use, the amount of their nutri- tive properties colnpared to their bulk and ease of digestion, and their influence on our health and growth. He believes that at least one-half of the diseases that terminate in' death are produced by imprudence in Eating, and the prevailing ignorance in ,regard to the proper selection of our food. No people on u the face of the earth are so abundantly favored in the quantity and general cheapness of every kind of food. Need he say that, no, people ale so wasteful and indifferent  in ,regard to its proper preparation for the tabl? As 'a consequence, we are universel sufferers therefrom. He has often thpught that a famine of a few' weeks' duration  would be of incalculable benefit to the country. It certainly would be the o0y thing to teach us the necessity of some wisdom in reg'rd to our sustenance. -     . From many ears' experience, he is convinced that TWO MEALS' A DAY. are better than three, unless the first meal is taken very early in the morning. In fact, even but ONE MEAL A DAY, when animal food forms the principal article consumed, is sufficient for a sedentary person,- always providing   iV       TO THE   READER. providing good judgment is used in the selection and the eating of that single meal a day.  Complete digestion occupies from two to six hours, when the body is in good health. Should not the stomach have a few hours' rest, to recover itself from the fatigue of its labor? Fortunate is it for mankind that sleep intervenes to compel cessation of the digestiv'e work once in twenty four hours. In the following pages .the Author has embodied certain facts and exmperimertts, in the, person of Mr. GLUTEN, as showing what was accomplished by a strict attention to diet, accompanied by judicious bodily exercise. In a large number of persons of actiye temperament, who incline to those pursuits that require extra mental power, GROWTH IS ARRESTED SOON AFTER PUBERTY. The brain absorbs the entire nutriment taken into the system. W-re all know of individual cases where .a change in a person's habits or occupation have resulted xin an e:xtraordiiiary increae of flesh. A moderate mental activity is necessary for health and conduces to long life; and if the body is supplied with that kind of nourishing food the appetite craves, growth will continue till the' system arrives at its maturity, which may not be till forty-five years of age. In the Appendix the author has embodied his ideas in a practical form. Although thiey are often at variance with long-established views; yet the reader will form his own opinion whether they are entitled to any consideration. THE AUTHOR. -. :    I WAS LEAN AND I BECAME STOUT. THERE are some afflictions so insidious in their character, that, ere we are fully reconciled to their presence, they have silently interwoven themselves into our nature, and forced us to accept themas speak from my own experience when I assert, that of all minor afflictions, EXTREME LEANNESS is entitled to the most cormmiseration. Yet there are stages of leanness, as well as obesity, wherein the balance of com- fort may not be disturbed; but any variation toward the extreme, awakes no sympathy from others, yet tries our good nature to the utmost.' The suffering I have undergone -both physical and mental - which can be attributed to my unfortunate lean- ness .should entitle me to universal compassion. Badt as past sorrows are soon forgotten, s  will not seek to perpet- erte their aremembrance, only so far as they may bear on the facts I am going sto relate. Providence, in making me so lean, thought to absolve herself for her shortcoming by giving se ian extremely sensitive mental organization. We havet read of persons who, from, some undefined mental clockwork, could always tell the exact hour of the day ; and also of those who could Prvi e n       ,       scent     r ;          (6)  scent an easterly stor'm several hours in advance of its arrival. But to me was given the power of divining a person's thoughlts by merely glancing at their eyes; and to tell their disposition from the sound of their voice; and to guage their mental calibre from seeing them eat; and knew from their walk whether they were rich or poor, or in "easy" circumstances. .Perhaps the reader may think these gifts a sufficient compensation for my leafiness of body. I could never so consider them, for my moral nature was continually pained by detecting the falsity of many who were regarded as pure and virtuous, when in their heart and daily life they were wicked;annd depraved. Thus  has it ever been'-- that Sin seeks to make itself attractive, to accomplish its iniquity, while Virtue often wears .the 'sombre garb of indigence, to carry out those sublime decrees that form the basis of our redemption.' In dress, and all those vaccomplishments that are essen- tial to the proper :equirements of a gentleman, I acknowl- edged no superior. Thoroughly acquainted with the true combination of colors, I. knew how to harmonize them ih my own person ; and though possessed of those graces that command the admiration.,of the well-bred person of society, it was only my unfortunate Jeanness that prevented me, from making a good appearance. Of this I was daily ard hourly conscious; and finally, ljow to acquire a genteel modicum of adipose matter, became the sole absorbing  study of my life. - I consulted: many eminent physicians, both of the regular and' empirical practice, bet with one exception .they all invariably recommended gluttony, as the only remedy they knew for the accomplishment of the desired result. The: exception was that of a famous Indian doctor, who said, "Go a niackereling; that 'll do it." f But I preferred some- thing nearer home, that would not necessitate so abrupt a change               *  :   (7)  change in my social habits, though in a hygienic point pf view, I think the advice remarkably sensible .for an Indian. While pursuing my .investigations to that end, I became enamoured with the daughter of a well-to-do' itizen, who Ifad long carried on a lucrative business on one of the wharves.' That my love was reciprocated I had no reason to doubt, yet I dared not make a proposal, for fear that my unfortunate leanness would prove the sole barrier to the realization of 'my happiness. But circumstances of a jeal-  ous nature forced me to bring the affair to a crisis; and one evening I called on Agnes Maria, determiied that I. would know my fate at once. * ? *   * O that I could forget whFat transpired at that. momentous interview! "Really, Mr. Gluten!- pardon my candor; but Y ou  ARE SO VERY LEAN!, .... If"-  "You are right-I am lean! Forgive my presumption." But she accompanied the refusal with a smile and a ten- derness so charming that even the pain she had inflicted was not without its pleasure. Although excited nearly to frenzy, I could not judge her harshy, for I was, lean!- and in imagining myself the husband of such a beautiful girl, I was forfed to acknowledge that my person would be a never-failing subject for coarse jokes and inuendoes with all our acquaintance. 'With feelings thus so charitably disposed in her favor, I bowed myself from her presence with all- the grace I was master of, and left the house a disappointed man.                '  The way to my lodgings lay across the Common; and as the breeze from the Public Garden partially cooled my excited brain, the thought suddenly occurred to me if there were no royal road to' flesh; -whether Nature could not r be coerced into performing er duty toward every member of her numerous family. The more I polidered the subject in my mind the firmer did I become convinced that Nature itx],^  '  could     ( ). ' 8 .  could be coerced . . If an individual,* dwelling ,hirty-five hundred miles in an easterly direction, could, by the aid of science and regimen reduce himself from corpulence to a moderate degree of flesh, then why could not another indi- vidual, dwelling the same distance in a westerly direction, change his leanness for a comfortable state of adipose? . But bow to accomplish it? .... . Some of those wonderful discoveries of which the world is now enjoying the ripened fruit, were suggested to Man in thelhour of his despair. When the mind has seemed in the. lowest state of mental abasement, and the Demon of Self-Destruction is flitting before the. victim like an evil phantom, there comes a ray of inward light, which increases in intensity until the soul seems lifted to a sphere. more grand( and heavenly than niortal thought ever dared to dwell.' Thus prepared for its great Gift, the nind uncon- scious- conceives, in one short moment, that which the labor of centuries would not have accomplished. I 1ad crossed the Common and arrived at Boylston: Stree when the ligihts in the Public Library arrested my attention., I stopped. I hesitated. One minute and my resolve was taken. That minute's decision proved my sal- vatidn. From being a lean and unhappy man, whose life could b'e summed up as shadowless, I became contented and happy, and threw a shadow that ultimately expanded to generous proportions. I crossed the street and centered the Library, and passing to the reading-room I seated myself at the table. Never before did I seemso utterly passive toward all exterior things. Why I was there I could not tell, but some power within seemed to direct me. I took up a catalogue before me, and mechanically opening the leaves, my eyes fell on the top line of the -th page. The line seemed to change from * See BAITING, on Corpulence.    (9) from black to red, then the letters to enlarge themselves to colossal size, and slowly move to. the centre of the page, and glow with. a dazzling, luminous light. Gradually they became fainter, then' finally disappeared, and the page resumied its former appearance. ,For a few minuted 'my brain seemed paralyzed; then a peculiar rushing 'sound, like that of an approaching hurricane, coursed through my ears, accompanied by the return of' consciousness. I arose and went to the library-room, and' procured the book so remarkably indicated. It was an ancient volume, bound in velluni, and darkened by the dust of ages. While. turning over the leaves at random, I noticed that some former owner had marked passages, here and there, with red ink. I turned to the, title-page. It was printed in huge letters, with red and black ink. --  How my hands trembled, and my heart quickened its action, as Ii read in unmis- takable words, the following: - "t  ve tre wante to be t atte; Iom to cDantt e )lnselffe from ne Fteanne se e   toie atte of  bobZe." 'Wlen I left for my lodgings, the priceless volume bore me company; and before I sought repose in sleep, I had mastered its contents, from titleppage' to finis. Thus so providentially placed in my hands were the means of attain- ing my long-cherished hopes.  i  '       -     '   .  'c      *^ ]        o     ,  ,  * MY NEW LIFE. .  . .             * B...I:,  ... N order to faithfully carry out the instruc- tions laid down in tle. ancieint. volume,it C 1 t was necessary I should have the assistance !  I fr  olof my landlady, Mrs. Nodar. And when I entered that lady s sitting-room; on the '- ": morning' after the events I have just rela- ted, it is pIossile I may hatve exhibited unusual exhilarity, for a man of my temperament, which she uncharitably attributed to the presence of an alcoholic stimulant; but a certain severity of manner, which long contact with the acerbities of a boarding-house had forced, her to assume, brought me suddenly to my senses. Two minutes' conversation reinstated me in her good opinion, and put her in possession of the purpose of my visit: and I will do her justice to say that- she entered into the new undertaking with a. degree of. warmth entirely unexpected in a person of her precarious position. It miht havebeen owing to the pecuniary recompense that invariably rewards success in any longa-wished-for result, or it may have been that her curiosity was excited by the novelty pf the ideas to be acted on. It was mutually agreed that all my meals, should be served in my own roonm; and though this pro- ceeding caused universal remark at the time, among my fellow-boarders, in a few cdays it quieted down to'the' belief that I had become 1to .proud for their company. , t'    ,   That  o,.            ., That day I called on Professor Collodion, at his rooms in Washington 'Street; and sat for. mny photograph, which, when finishe d with India ink, was far more satisfiactory for its truthfulness than flattering in its general. outline and filling, up. To, my request that .he would destroy the negative, he assured me he certainly would, if not already done. I also went to a neighboring. grocery and ascertained my exact weight, which was NINETY-Two POUNrDS-with- out favor on either side. 'With these essential preliminaries, and strong in the determination that nothing should be' wanting to ensure the perfect success of my project, I spent. the remainder of the. day at my place of business; and when I retired to bed that night, my anticipations of futuie happiness were as lively as any man under thirty years of age ever allowed himself to indulge in. WEDNESDAY, MAY 17. 'I am thus particular in stating the exact day I com- menced my new life, for" the results that ensued proved the correctness of the marvellous statements in regard -to the nutritive properties" of.'certain kinds of food, as laid down by the author of the ancient volume. Passed a disagreeable night, haunted by frightful visions of giants, ogres, dwarfs, and deformed pigmies, who held high carnival round my bed, accompanied: by discordant sounds, as if twetityjdifferent operas were Being performed at the same time. My excited imaginationh suggested that this was got up by evil spirits to frighten me from my purpose; but I was proof against it.' If anything, it served to strengthen me the more, for I considered it a natural result *          '      (12) result of the morbid state of my entire physical organization. I learned the next day. that a fellow boarder named Boggs, who occupied the adjoining room, had some musical friends to spend the evening, and their "imitations" of popular singers was the cause of my distorted dreams. Just before' dawn I passed into a deliciously-tranquil sleep of fifteen minutes' duratioln, in which I imagined myself the Adonis of manly beauty, and that I was on the way to church with Agnes Maria, decked in bridal array, who continually repeated, "O how wonderful the change from what you were!"-And had she not pinched me severely and broke the spell, I truly believe I 'should have gone through the entire marriage ceremony, including the giving of a twenty dollar gold piece-to the Presiding clergyman. While rum  inating on the strange effect that dreams often produce, I heard a heavy tread approaching ]y chamber door, and presently a sharp voice whispered through the key-hole -  "Mr. Gluten.! it is time "for your morning exercise." My faithful landlady said that.  I jumped out of bed and opened wide the windows, and during the next five minutes I went through a course of physical exercise that brought' every muscular organ into active play. This not only sent the blood galloping through every part of my body-fr6m the back of my neck to the ends of my toes--but also sent a boot-jack, or other handy missile, against the partition which separated my room from that of neighbor Boggs. As* I had Just then concluded my exercise, there was no further occasion of wrath on the' part of Boggs; but I made up my mind it would be judi- cious for Mrs. Nodar to inform the excitable- Boggs that hurling boot-jacks agaiast the partition very early in the morning, was not conducive to perfect harmony among her boarders.  . $    Such   i( 13 )'   .   )( .) Such violent' exercise immediately after so many hours of rest, produced a most exhilarating effect.' Qufkly clos- ing the windows, I hurried on my clothes as fast as possible, and by the time I had finished my toilet, the fatigue had passed away, and left a very comfortable feeling of warmth throughout my entire body. - While the clock was striking seven, my landlady entered the chamber, followed bj) servant with a large waiter con- taining my breakfast, which she proceeded to arrange in proper order on the centre-table. "'Pon my Word, Mr. Gluten, your face has considerable color. How 's your appetite? There!"- suiting lthe action to the last word, she raised the cover of a dish and exposed to view a most tempting display. My look of sfatisfaction was her reward. The respect for 'that lady's attainments rose instantly to adoration. Before leaving the room she entertained me with her opinions on the probabilities' of my success. She was sanguine I had taken the right course for flesh, and flanked her assurance by recalling to mind an 'uncle of hers, somewhere out West oridown South, who' used to be a very spare man when young, but all at once took a start and "fleshed" right up; and she believed he was soon afterwards elected an alderman or undertaker- "Another time, madam,"  I pointed to the breakfast cooling. She uttered an exclamation not complimentary to her foresight, and disappeared. Who that' has arrived to man's estate cannot recall some- particular occasion of his youth, when a certain dinner or, supper he had partaken of, or a: particular article of food he then enjoyed, more exquisite to the taste than anything ever since indulged in I Happy days of childhood, when the appetite is keen and prodigious, and 'the digestion of marvellous power! The exquisite relish of that breakfast will live long in 2'       "        my     , . (14) my memory! Everything was cooked to perfection; and whether it was owing to the physical exercise I had gone through, or the exhilaration consequent to my new plans for the future, never before did I experience that perfect satisfaction nutritious food has the power to confer, when it pleases the appetite and agrees with the digestion. When going down stairs on:my way out, I met Mrs. 'Nodar, who inquired if my breakfast had pleased me. I answered by requesting her to accept the first instalment of my promised gratuity; and in placing the valuable greenback in her-prlm, I may have pressed the hand more: than was necessary, as a decided color suffused Ithat good lady'scheeks, as she returned her acknowledgments. Thus doth the stomach sympathize with and expand the heart! During every hour of thatlay I was conscious of an agreeable change in my health. I felt an elasticity of spirits, and an inclination for activity pleasurable in the extreme. At five o'clock I left my place of business and returned home for dinner; and half an hour afterward I sat down before the most tender and nicely-cooked joint of meat it was possible to, produce. And all the accom- paniments were prepared with equal skill' and excellence. In fact, my landlady had' "done herself credit',"- to qute , a hackneyed expression of newspaper reporters. So! so! 'madame; why have you never exerted your skill before?" '      .  There are some forms of expression the human face has the power to convey, with which mere words are-nute in comparison. It was in this manner Mrs. Nodar chose to reply. Of course I would not infer that any pecuniary consideration influenced her in( my favor. Thus proceeded, day after day, the same routine of per- formance, and my progress was greater than I had dared to hope. My two meals a day-breakfast at eight and ' .* , 'dinner   dinner at half-past five- sufficed to fully satisfy tie neces- sary requirements demanded by the increased power of the various organs in their efforts toward: my new growth. I will here state that the food selected combined in a propor- tionate degree,' aniia; vegetable, and farinaceous. Wheither any liquid of a stimulating character had a place in my bill of fare, I will only say that what my appetite craved, that did I indulge in. Rely upon it, I did not disobey the rules laid down in the ancient volume. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1lst.-Just two weeks ago to-day since I commenced my new diet.  I have gained seven pounds of flesh'! I feel very sanguine that the means I have adopted will produce the beneficial result I have, so long desired. I am. conscious of an increased NERVOUS FOncE, which tendsparticuiarly to the spine, and conveys he idea that my back-bone is enlarging. Heretofore I have always experienced a peculiar chilly feeling down my back, which no amount of clothing was ever able to. relieve. But within a few days that feeling has entirely disappeared. Walking gives me a most pleasurable sensation, and the exercise produces a gentle glow over my whole b1ody. I have 'also experienced more regularity in those essential daily duties, without which health is impossible. This alone is a benefit that cannot be over-estimated. My mental organization, which was always extremely susceptible,' has remained about the same. Perhaps I am less easily dis- turbed by those little anhoyances that make us conscious life is. but a series of joys and sorrows sunshine to-day and darkness to-morrow.  One of thA laws insisted on in the ancient volume wsas perfect tranquility of mind, which must nt' be departid from. 'Although my good nature has met with many severe trials, yet I have ever been ' equal to the occasion ;" and I doubt     doubt much if I should have resented any indignity, except that of nose-pulling. Perhaps that might prove more than even flesh and blood could submit to. Fortunately for the, reader of these experiences, my moral strength was not subjected to such severe test. WEDNoESDY, JUNE 15th.- On entering the grocer's this - moining, I overheard his man remark,' "I say, 'Bije- see! that fellow is really getting some flesh onllhis hones!" Although the expression was coarse and insulting, I did not feel any animosity towaird him; on the contrary, I treated him with ma/rked consideration, and asked how sugar "stood'"- not that, I cared three straws for the commercial value of that saccharine compound, but it Was the first thought, which suggested itself as being within the scope of his mental capacity. The scales indicated a slight leaning beyond one hundred and eight pounds. -Thus d'uripg the past two weeks i had gained nine pounds. I was apprehensive at the outset that the rapid increase of flesh would be what is termed " bloat," -but as it seemed hard and compact, with .no apparent yielding t the pressure'of the' hand, I was satisfied it was the kind usually supplied by the slow process of Nature. FRIDA-Y, JULY 10th.---Mrs. Nodar, whilelaying the cloth for my dinner to-day, said that my continued absence from the public table occasioned considerable remark. Mr.' Boggs had coarsely suggested that she (Mrs. N.) was fattening me expressly for the matrimonial market. The idea tickled me exceedingly, and I owe that blunt man for a hearty laugh ; but my landlady regarded the expression as a direct insult to herself,- as it was known she had a husband somewhere about the house, though he seldom-ventured higher than the. kitchen, so humble were his aspirations. #, .,      *  Instead  .    *-    .    (17)           '  Instead of visiting the grocer, I have availed myself of an ingeniously-contrived chair, owned by a foreigner, which is suspended for hire, every pleasant day, on the Tremont 'Street Mall. I patronize him two or three times a week, and he has taken considerable interest in my progress. I told him I was using a certain nutritious diet with remark- able success.  "There's nothing like plenty of good roast beef, and hale, to make a man fat. Itt's wittles and drink I like; but yer can't get such' hale as they 'ave in the old, country." J While the above remark was on its passage, I had seated myself ih his chair. "Why, Mister! -you 're chuck eight-stone-six *  See for yourself." It was true. I had increased ten pounds during the past twenty-five days.  For two or three weeks I had been conscious that my clothes were getting uncomfortablysnug, so that afternoon I called on my tailor and ordered a new suit. He was pleased to complimentme on my improved appearance. Several of my acquaintances were knowing to the fact of'my efforts for physical improvement, and every day I received congratulations on my success. I am willing .to ' acknowledge that my vanity was gratified by the interest I created.  While in Washington Street to-day, I saw Agnes Ma:ria  approaching. She was alone; and when' she recognized me, 'I could see by her pleased expression that I still' occu- pied a place in her favor. My first thought was to salute her politely and- pass on; but when we met, she seemed to hesitate in her step. I immediately-took advantage of ithis and held out my hand. She accepted it with frankness, and allowed me to retain her own longer than usual for those /',        not * In Great Britain they reckon weight by the stone, which is 14 pounds. 2 * '     not intmate me m      h p (18 ) not intimate, which gave me much pleasure. She inquired how I had been since she saw me last. [Particular em- phasis on the " last "-accompanied by such a roguish. expression!] And in answer to her inquiry if I had - not been to Europe, I assured her that at no time during the. past six months had I been beyond the sound of the Old South bell. She was surprised, and thought my improved appearance was. due to a sea voyage. I turned and ac- companied her, and was so enraptured by her conversation that time, distance, and all material things were forgotten in the pleasure of our renewed affection. We arrived at  her home, and she invited, mtin,- "If only for a moment; Mamma will be so delighted to see you "   '  '  Gould I hesitate? Could any man have refused?- especially when the acceptance would give mutual pleas- ure? and when, too, the request was accompanied by a winning fascination that no man cqild have"'withstood, whose senses were in healthful vigor. The mother was both surprlsed and pleased; and when I inform the reader that, the time passed so pleasantly the clock struck ten ere I could brace up sufficient resolution to bid them good night, some idea may be had of the state of my feelings. Ha! ha'! ha! ... Mrs. Nodar had kept my dinner hot since half-past five! On my way home I had made up my mind to take that lady into my confidence, and impart tohler the information that Agnes Maria and I had renewed brfitnimacy. But when I encountered her in the entry,-she had' been on the Watch for me,- her manner was so irate, that I was glad to hasten up stairs to my room and lock the door. In less than three minutes afterwards she presented herself, and after some hesitation whether to overlook this first violation of the rules I had myself, prescribed: she enquired ironically'   -i    ' (19)  ironically if I were ready fori my dinner. But she was morally certain I would decliine it .I had thought this -over in my mind; and decided on the plan of action. "Certainly, my dear riadam. Ah -you see-- the fact is --   By this time she'must have reached the kitchen, for I. heard .the dishes rattle. She soon re-appeared, with all the preparations of the delayed dinner, and made every thing ready without uttering a word. My study of human nature had'taught me that silence was most effectual!n all cases of slumbering wrath. I observed' that' plan in the present instance with perfect success. That the- reader may not think me imprudent in thus deciding to eat a dinner so soon after having partaken of a supper with Agnes Maria, I will confess that I was so pleased- with my reinstatement in that dear girl's affec tions, that such comrmon things a bread and butter had had no cliatce in my thoughts. Consequently, when' I got home and found my dinner awaiting me, I concluded to eat it, arid did, with. a satisfaction unusually gratifying.. The next morning my landlady had recovered her good nature, and was exceedingly talkative. She brought me an invitation' fronm .the boarders to dine with them that day, a s-Boggs was going to California, they wished to give him a parting ' time." I sent them my regrets, but promised to remember them; so that morning I called at a wine-store and ordered a dozen of Sparkling Catawlba, as my share towards the parting festivities.  When I entered the house that afternoon for my dinner, Mrs. Nodar seemed very much excited. Just then my ears were saluted by hoarse bacchanalian voices from the dining room, singing ( Old John Brown," with an energy that, if the soul of that martyr Republican .was "still marching on," it was having a gl6rious accompaniment. The Spark- ling Catawha was evidently working in the stomachs of its victims.      (20)  SATURDAY, AUGUST 15th.-My weight is now one hun- dred and thirty-four pounds; the increase since July 10th has been sixteen pounds. I think the happy turn in my affairs with Agnes!Maria has donre much in my favor. I have not diminished my efforts, and I am very certain that I have learned the secret to attain' any amount of adipose up to a certain point. And while Lhave been so rapidly acquiring flesh, my mind has maintained the increased physical development -thus keeping the equilibrium be- tween the mental and material forces. Within the past ten days I have experienced greater intellectual enjoyment than I ever thought possible. Language cannot convey to the reader any adequate idea of the pleasurable feeling mental vigor bestows. On' page 6th I enumerated some charac-, teristic peculiarities I possessed, as a compensation for my leanness of body. I find that my perceptive power has of late greatly increased, and acts independently of the will. In this I feel compelled to recognize a lighler than human agency, that has singled me out for the honor of this great gift. All afflictions have their recompense, though the power to discern it is often wanting. My physical exercises have been directed exclusively to the strengthening of the Spine; and through the increased vitality consequent therefrom, all the various organs have received their apportioned increase of power,- working together with that harmony only possible when all are in healthy condition. He&ce the remarkable results so rapidly brought about. The grand essential to health and happiness is comprised in the true knowledge of the' STOMACH. Education has confined itself exclusively to the development of the Brain; EDUCATE THE STOMACH, and the mental forces will take care of themselves. Previous to commencing my present system, the food 'which   (21) . which I had been taking so constntly, was not of that kind my system requited; consequently, for want of a proper nourishment,' THE ,GROWTS OF MY BODY .D      :,;EN  ARRESTED, and the BRAIN HAD ABSORBED TIlE EST'IRE NUTRIIMENT TAKEN INTQ THlE SYSTEM.' rhat appears to me the true cause of my unfortunate leanness. 4 .S THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1st.-During' the month of Sep- tember I made greater progress than at any previous time. On taking my seat in the weighingr-chair this nmorn- ing, I was pleased to find I had reached that polnt in weight which I had decidedaas the maximum of my purpose--'ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY POrUNDS. i  'en1 a eral course of Although I still continue the same gena  course o regimen and' exercise, for the reason that it has become  agreeable to my daily life and feelings, I omit ceta articles of extra stinmulating power, as no longer necessary. In the. meantime, I have resumed my attentions tq ,ges IMaria, and again proposed. This time Iwas accepted. We are to be married on the appioaching Thanksgiving Day; and I do not hesitate to confess that I regard myself as an extremely fortunate individual, in more ways than I can express. But --'  Every worldly pleasure has its drawhack! My remarkable success in the attainment of Flesh has become so extensively known, that good-natured people al over the country favor. me with letters of inquiry in relation thereto. I believe there is no man more willing to become a public benefactor to his fellow mortals; but I would like it better if my gratuitous labor of eorre ond- ence could be diffused over a larger, space "of time. In speaking of this in the presence of a philanthropic friend, he suggested that I embody the principal features of my experience in a pamphlet, for general circulation. ' But,     (C 22) "But, sir," I replied, "that which produced such bene- ficial effects in my case, may not prove equally effectual in those persons of a different constitutional temperament." The reply was characteristic of the man, and his humane,  ideas:  "We are sent into this world for the common good. He who omits a single opportunity of benefiting his fellow creatures, forfeits his right to a single hour of happiness."  THURSDAY, OCTORBER 15th.-This morning I notified my landlady that I should vacate my room on the first of next month. -She received the information with apparent indifference. This did 'ot surprise me, for I have recently been conscious that she had transferred her sympathies to some other quarter. I think that the pecuniary favors I have so amply bestowed should have entitled me to grateful remembrance; but the necessity of keeping boarders for a "Iiving," tends to lessen those nicer sensibilities, of which gratitude is the chief. I 'have recently noticed that Mrs. Nodar has received two new boarders; and what struck me as singular, they are both lean men - though not quite as, lean as I had been. The thought occurred to me that perhaps she was using my secret for her own pecuniary benefit. To-day I received a polite note from Professor Collodion, congratulating me on my remarkable success, and inviting me to call at his rooms and sit for my photograph. This from Collodion gratified me exceedingly; for on my pre- vious visit, the day before I commenced my " new life," he met with considerable difficulty in obtaining a good likeness, for the reason of "peculiar atmosphere," he told me; but I was conscious of his saying to his assistant, "The fellow is too thin to throw a shadow." The rascal was now pro- fuse with his acknowledgments'of the honor I was doing him,   (23) him, by accepting his invitation. After events confirmed my belief of what actatted his apparent generosity. Those gratifications that minister to pur self-love, though, perhaps, trifling in their importance, and evanescent in their character, will often give a momentary pleasure that we prize far superior to the successful attainment of a life-long struggle. When the Professor brought me the "proof," imperfect and unfinished as it was, it gave me more pleasure than I dared confess. I saw before me the realization of what six months' persistent efforts had accomplished. -At that precise moment I was recognized as in the full pos- session of that material substance which, in its grace and perfect development, forms the artistical "line of beauty." "That will make a handsome picture," observed the Pro- fessor.' "Good outline and magnijcent filling up." I smiled at the rascal's narrow escape of a pun. Thus encouraged, he .continued: "It is n't always safe to despise a man because he's poor, for there's no telling how soon he may make a figure that  any of us would envy.". I ordered two copies to be finished in his best -style. and sent with the bill. Viewed entirely in the light of a work of art, they presented a remarkably good appearance. *   **    *  ,*  *  *  *   * WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 25th.- Tomorrow will be my wedding-day! I cannot fully realize that such positive happiness is so nears,at hand. When I look back to the many years' trials I have passed through, with scarcely a ray of hope that I should ever emerge from my unfortunate leanness to that comfortable state of flesh vouchsafed to all mankind, THE PRESENT SEEMS LIKE THE BEGINNING OF MY LIFE, with new hopes and aspirations to look forward to, and new trials and afflictions to meet,-- and throughout all, to Iv'      (24) to remember that not only my own individual happiness, but that of all with whom I am associated, is in my keeping,  Yet- will the reader believe me? I am thankful that I was so long afflicted.' It has made me a philosopher!- And are not philosophers invariably happy? When I commenced my present mercantile business, I resolved that every person in my employ should in some way participate in my prosperity. I have several -times donated sums of money, to be equally divided among all,- Patrick the porter receiving the same as Maffit the book- keeper. Need I say that I have. been faithfully served? There have been but few changes, and I feel tolerably safe that my interests arewell cared for. Customers have often spoken of their uniform good treatment by all my assistants. I am willing to acknowledge that I have been exceeding prosperous.  This afternoon I was waited on by all my clerks, w presented their congratulations on my approaching n ar- riage, and asked me to accept a trifling mark of their good- will towards me. It was a handsome service of silver, and its cost must have placed them all under great self-denial. The occasion affected me to tears. NOVEMBER 26th.--MY WEDDING DAY. Quarter past Twelve. -Agnes Maria is mine!- and I am the happiest fellow in the whrld! Trinity Church was crowded by our friends and acquaint- ances, to witness our nuptials. Agnes Maria looked lovelier than ever! And I wore my honors meekly, though the whispers of fame were loud in their utterance. Nature and art had been placed under contribution, that nothing might be omitted that would please the eye and gratify the taste. The result was a sensation long to, be remembered. *  *   * '   *, ,         While  i *   - While / -,    (25) While walking in Washington Street with my wife, a few days after o marriage, we observed a crowd of people collected about the entrance to Professor Collodion's photo- graph rooms. Nothing would satisfy Agnes Maria but I must ascertain the cause; so I left her looking at the display of silks in a show-window of a popular dry goods store,;. while I crossed the street to find out. Never before did I receive such a shock! Three months since, the conse- quences would have been disastrous in the extreme. T'hat' fellow Collodion had enlarged to a colossal size'the two pictures he had taken of me, and placed them side by ,iide in a frame; and underneath he had written, in the boldlest, of script,-   Is he was, and as he now 'Zis.. . Taken fronrt Life. Copies of the above to be had at 25 cents each. When I returned to my wife, and told her that it was some indecent pictures Collodion was exhibiting," she expressed severe condemnation of such base perversion of a Noble art. That day I got my lawyer to send Collodion an energetic note, ordering him to immediately withdraw the objection- ables pictures, and cause their destruction, or a suit for defamation of 'character would at once be commenced. It had the desired effect.     (26) There is much variation of opinion in comparing the -duration of a honeymoon and the pleasures of a matrimo- nial life. Without ventYung to decide those two important questions until the novelty of my new position has passed its ordeal, I beg leave to subscribe myself, With gratitude for present happiness, 'ALFRED    GLUTEN. Agnes Maria Cotttjaye, Dec., 18-.         APPENDIX. THE reader of the foregoing pages, if. he has never given;much attention to the subject of which I have here treated, may think the increase of SIXTY pounds of Flesh, within the short space of six months, beyond the possibility of truth. But there have been numerous instan- ces-of which nearly every physician of good practie e will recall to mind--whereby a greater ratio of increase has taken place in even less time. Galignani's Messenger, (Paris,) several years ago pub- lished the case of a young man residing in Lyons, who, from some unknown cause, at his seventeenth year began to ena- ciate, and so continued, till in less thin a twelvemonth he was reduced to almost a skeleton. The local physicians at first attributed it to a common cause; then to the presence of a tapeworm, and finally, satisfied that they had not found the true-reason, set it down as "providential," and gave him up as doomed- to death. Fortunately for the young man, by the decease of a distant relative, he became sole heir to a large fortune. Now his case instantly assumed more importance. A consultation of physicians-which included a celebrated surgeon'from Paris- decided that a                there     (30)  there was no positive idisease, and that the only thing neces- sary was to givehiem that food which was easy of digestion, and which contained the largest amount of nutriment in the smallest compass. That was what is known as "beef-tea," which is made by cuttinng;into narrow strips the most juicy pieces of fresh beef, and putting them into a bottle, corking up tight, and heating the bottle in boiling water until the 'meat is reduced to shreds. The liquid -here obtained is presumed to contain the highest ratio of nourishment pos- sible to produce., He was fed with the "bouillon" six times a day--as much asA  stomach could bear-and in twenty-four hours after- w  .a favorable change commenced. For the first time duri  veral Months, the stomach received positive nour- ishme  His improvement was, astonishing; and when, in ten weeks afterward, he began to look like the young persons of his own age, his recovery was considered miracu- lous. 'He had gained Upwards of FIFTY POUNDS in less than three months. I]n his case, growth and even nourish- ment itself had been arrested, by. some unknown cause. In this connection I would strongly impress on the minds of parents with growing children, that, if they would have their offspring possess good, sound constitutions-M- with more of the pliysical stamina, and less of the mental, let them have MEAT ONCE A DAY, and a plenty of rough and rol- licking exercisl at all times; and the more noise they make with their lungs, the less chance of their ever having sore throat or diptheria. But I would not have it inferred that they may be allowed at that time as much animal food' as they may wish. Far from it. The appetite for meat "grows by what it feeds on." Only a small quantity should be allowed, and thaitportion not exceeded. Their children would thus have something solid for Nature to make bone .... and         .   (31)     - and muscle of. And let no parent ever confine their chil- dren to any "stereotype food" -that is, the same thing day after day, without i change. Even roast turkey palls on the appetite two days after Thanksgiving. A plenty of milk, with good yeast bread and butter, vegetables, particu- larly boiled onions, (which keep the bowels regular,)-and fruit of all kinds, will complete the requirements of their health and growth. Children should at all times be comfortably clothed'; and never be allowed to go out in the cold without their legs and body being thoroughly protected.. A, cruel fashion of half-dressing children has been the direct cause of more deats than all the infantile diseases combined. BATHNG. - The common belief that health requires the whole body to be immersed daily,' is one of those popular fallicies many good-natured people get possessed of. Two or three times a week - or even once a week, during the inclement Winter season-is su fcient for health. I knew of awItdy who the year round, used to take her children out of their bed in the morning and cruelly " souse " them into cold water. After losing two or three by death from her mistaken regard for their health, her husband humanely interfered, and saved the remainder. Probably the greatest benefit may be obtained by taking- a piece of coarse flannel wet with cold water, and conamen- ing at the hands, move slowly upwards to the neck and shoulders; then commence at the fiet and go upwards, rubbing slowly the whole body. This produces an electricalo e-ect, and if followed every morning, will increase and strengthen the Nervous power. Try it.   , PHYSICAL EXERCISE.--If there are any who doubt the beneficial effect of that exercise performed by Mr. Gluten, -- - --(see     ( 32)    i (see page 12,) it is easy satfythemselve by a practical trial. Let them, on rising in the morning, open their cham- ber window,-if the thermometer is not lower than 30 deg.,  -and taking their place in the centre of the room, throw out their arms in all directions, jump up, and move their body in every natural position, keeping up the action until  the approach of fatigue; then shut the window,--unless in mild weather,- and dress themselves as soon as possible.  Ttey will find that they are thoroughly warmed, and this agreeable feeling will continue through the day. They. will have anr appetite for their breakfast, and will soon ex- perience Rits good effects in a general increase of both physical and mental development.  There are thousands of the young and middle-aged, of both sexes, now puny' and undeveloped, who, if put through a course of daily physical exercises, that would bring into play those parts not usually exercised, and the stomach supplied with nutritious food, would 6on acquire a hand- some developmentsthroughout. .          . Thorough rubbing of the back,- from the head'down- wards--first with a piece of coarse flannel dipped in alcohol  diluted with water and then some sympathetic hand, until the back experiences a prickly sensation-is more positive in its good effects then anything I can rec6mend. Itgives increased power to the spine, and througI that to all the numerous nerves that branch out from th spine to other  parts of the body. This will prove remarkably beneficial in - removing the weakness or lameness so often experienced by. sedentary persons. It will also increase the vital power of those nerves that act in sympathy with the bowels; and they will respond to the labor of nature without those efforts sometimes resorted to, whih invariably bring on the Piles, and many other difficulties, not necessary to speak  'f here.  CONSTIPATION.     (33)'   * , I.     . , - CONSTIPATIO . - Probably  no one affliction is more universal than tlis, and yet the remedy for its radical cure' can be obtained of any apothecary. Perhaps the reader will instantly exclaim, "'Of course: pills." My candid belief, is, that if the community had risen in their might and anger, and crucified the rascal who first made a pill, the act would have canonized every person engaged in it; and after generations, would have maintained those long years of life spoken of in the Scriptures. ' From the earliest age down to the present 186E, pills have been. in universal request for the cure of Costiveness,--" and they have never cured a single case I There are occasions :where a physician may prescribe a pill for some specific purpose, which will 'prove beneficial. But never as a remedy for Constipation. The only true remedy is the INJECTION SYRINGE. Inventors have succeeded in making' these articles of flexible rubber with metallic connections, and which now render the necessity of their use a positive pleasure instead of a torment, as before. These may be readily obtained at all the drug stores and apothecaries. They retail for about; two dollars, and will last two or three years.. Tepid water, or even cold water, is the only liquid necessary, and' the desired effect is immediate. Let no one think that even a daily resort to the Injection Syringe will ever produce a necessity for its use. It is never so. After frequent using, in a little while the bowels will recover their natural nervous' power, which lolg con- tinued costiveness-has impaired. An injection given to a person struck with paralysis, will often, by moving the bowels, restore the person to animation. And in' many cases of "stoppage," if used immediately, relief will be obtained, and life may be saved. NUTRI:TIOUS     (34)     , NUTRITIOUS FOOD.- What is generally understood by nutritious food is everything that is usually eaten. There  can be no greater mistake. -Each human, being is in some way constituted differently, although with the same general organs and functions, and the like desires and tastes. What agrees with and nour- ishes one person, may not have the sam& good effect on another. Some may eat the most indigestible food without being disturbed, while to ,others it may cause dangerous illness. It should be the duty of all to learn the kird of food that best agrees with them-that is, what gives the most satisfactory enjoyment. Whatever it may be, then tkat is the food which harmonizes with and nourishes them, and will increase their growth: And with equal reason, that which invariably causes "distress," must be avoided. By observing This simple rule, the stomach will sustain its tone, the spirits their cheerfilness, and your "days will be long in the land."  STIMULANTS.--.The: re are some constitutions, which have  become debilitated through sickness or exposure to .cimatic charnges, whose functions work so feebly that something is necessary to compensate for their deficiency. To these, a little wine, or cider, or ale, is very essential. Their health requires it. But*it should always be taken with the foold. Never drink new ale, and in no case the so-called lager beer,  which alone has piroduced and is daily producing those' incurable diseases of the urinary orgns that have become ;o prevalent. If the brewers would confine themselves to 3ure malt and hops, and never use any drug, no perma- ent ill effects would ensue. But it is now generally known  hat aloes, nux vomica, cocculus indici, and other pernicious  Irugs, are substituted for hops.' It is needless to speak of heir poisononus effect on the stomach and bladder. And I  - .,  am    ; ( 35)        i  am sorry to say that nearly all the ale sold in our market is open to this objection. Pure ale or porter does not have a dry, and pudigent bitter taste. The imported ales are. invas riably the purest and best. OYSTERS in their season are excellent for those who are deficient in nervous power. Raw, if the person so likes them, are better than cooked. Of course, the best quality only must be eaten. All kinds of fresh FISH are particularly beneficial to those persons whose employment depends on 'the mental forces, as bookkeepers and others. It is easy to digest,and Bholl be eaten at least once a week. Phillippe & Canaud's SARDINES (the best imported), are at all times nutritious and easy of digestion, They axe an excellent substitute for meat, and possess equal nourishment. Children are usually very fond of. them.      . Crude 'vegetables, as raw cabbage, cucumbers, celery, radish, and lettuce, should be used sparingly. CONSUMPTION -ITS COMMON CAUSE. Consumption, as a disease, is not hereditary. There are many families where the uniformity of tastes, inclinatiprfos and appetites are so exact, that evefy member of it follow  one another through all these peculiarities, which lead to, and terminate in C6nsumption. Butif either one should sever the connection so intimately existing, by a change of habits and separation, he would overcome the predisposition' to this disease.            -  - Thousands of persons are every day preparing themselves' for victims of this insidious disease, by their neglect to keep up the nourishment of their bodies by nutritious. food. When I see .a man enter an eating-house or coffee room, and order Coffee and a piece of pie," for dinner (!) day after day, I make up my mind that that man will , inevitably     (36)  inevitably die of consumption. By substituting pastry for meat and veetables, or other nutritious food, the various organs gradually lose their power, for want of nourishment,' and death speedily enters and takes possession. COFFEE, though possessing great stimulating power and a good aid to digestion, when taken with other food, cannot be used by every one. To some persons, who are very fond of it, it is a SED'UCTIVE POISON! If too freely indulged in, it will' paralyze the digestive organs, the' action of the liver and kidneys, generate stone in the bladder, excite the brain with morbid ideas, and render the 'person fretful and irritable, and "hard to put up with."  TEA is at all times beneficial; black only should be. used. The Japanese is deservedly popular, andis superseding the use of the once popular Green. Beef, mutton and poultry, eggs and milk, contain the chief nourishing properties which the health and growth require. Thousands are now tending toward Consumption, / who might be saved by a daily beef steak.  A fresh egg beaten up with warm cream or milk, and a spoonful of Jamaica Rum added, possesses extraordinary nourishment for the Consumptive. A Massachusetts physician, celebrated for his wonderful cures of Consumption, used to recommend BEEF-STEAK,  ORANGES, and PURE AIR, as his miraculous remedies, Are not these within the means of all? HEALTH, GROWTH, AND A LONG LIFE are comprised in a daily observance of the following essentials: NUTRITIOUS FOOD,  PHYSICAL EXERCISE, EIGHT HOURS' SLEEP, CHEERFULNESS.       
         
      
   
