
    ----CITATION----
        Douglas, Amanda Minnie, (1831-1916). Claudia .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6312
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               CLAUDIA. 
             
            BY AMANDA M. DOUGLAS, AUTHOR OF "IN TRUST," "STEPHEN DANE," ETC. 
            
               BOSTON: 
               LEE AND SHEPARD.
             
            1868. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by AMANDA M. DOUGLAS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 
            
               Stereotyped at the Boston Stereotype Foundry, No. 19 Spring Lane.
             
          
          
             
            DEDICATED TO GEORGE R. DUNN. 
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               PART I. THE STORY OF A YEAR. 
               I. CLAUDIA AND ROSE. 9
                
               II. JOHN BREVOORT. 22
                
               III. PAST AND PRESENT. 33
                
               IV. FRIENDSHIP WITH CLAUDIA. 45
                
               V. FRIENDSHIP WITH ROSE. 58
                
               VI. AFTER THE WEDDING. 78
                
               VII. A CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY. 90
                
               VIII. ROSE IN REBELLION. 104
                
               IX. A WOMAN'S VENTURE. 123
                
               X. A DAY TO BE REMEMBERED. 137
                
               XI. ON THE MOUNTAIN TOPS. 151
                
               XII. THE DREGS IN THE CUP. 167
                
               XIII. AT THE LAST. 181
                
             
             
             
               PART II. THE STORY OF A SUMMER. 
               I. A WOMAN'S VICTORY. 191
                
               II. THE INTERVIEW. 203
                
               III. A FRIEND UNSOUGHT. 216
                
               IV. AN STHETIC FEAST. 228
                
               V. SOUL TO SOUL. 239
                
               VI. ARIEL. 253
                
               VII. SUMMER DAYS. 267
                
               VIII. A CONFIDENCE. 283
                
               IX. A MAN'S LOSS. 299
                
               X. THE VALLEY OF SHADOWS. 320
                
               XI. A MAN AND A WOMAN. 338
                
               XII. CLAUDIA'S BIRTHRIGHT. 356
                
               XIII. THE DAWN OF A NEW DAY. 371
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Claudia 
             
                
               PART I. 
               THE STORY OF A YEAR. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "'Tis an awkward thing to play with souls, 
                           And matter enough to save one's own." 
                        
                      
                     ROBERT BROWNING. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "The present alone, the present without passion, the calm, regular present, does not suffice for the human soul; it feels narrow and poor in it; it desires more extension, more variety."
                      
                     GUIZOT. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "But after all, peace is not the last word of life, not the highest symbol of happiness."
                      
                     OCTAVE FEUILLET. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "When you know, and when you love, you shall still suffer. The day dawns in tears."
                      
                     VICTOR HUGO. 
                   
                
                
                   
                   
                  I. CLAUDIA AND ROSE. 
                  CLAUDIA VARIAN had been in Nature's studio, on Crofton Rock, examining a wonderful picture. This was an October sunset, Long slant rays of orange red, deepening on the one hand to gorgeous Sienna tints, on the other, fading to dusky, tawny gold, rose, crimson, and a gradual commingling of all hues. They flashed down the hill-sides as if some old-time god had been shooting his arrows from behind the ruby and sapphire embattlements. What enemy were they in search of, as they penetrated the clumps of evergreens, or skirted the wide stubble-fields? A drowsy humming of bees, a shrill chirp of insects, and occasionally the tremulous warble of some homeward bird. Did the Titans, when their arrows were spent, listen to these? Claudia did, when her brain grew confused with azure, opaline, and frost white; when the beauty of those far reaches of wood and meadow land stole in too powerfully for her mind. The low brown hills sank down, one after another, in purple evening indistinctness. The trees lost their crisp outline, and became weird, moving figures. The stubble-field, so lately golden, melted into gray. A soft, murmurous undertone seemed to follow the wind rather than become an integral part of it; a voice of the dying summer, still tenderly erased in the arms of autumn. 
                  The girl drew a long, restful breath at last, and turned to descend the hill. The leaves were beginning to ripen and fall. She watched them as they drifted slowly down, to rest on the bosom of their primal mother. Some brilliant flowers starred the edges of the wood. Wide sprays of golden-rod wedded to snowy tufts of balsam. Purple asters stood upright like sentinels tinels. Here a vine stretched out its long arms, and gave a ghostly lurch towards the passer-by. A peculiar scent filled the air; a kind of ripe, mature fragrance, compounded of dried leaves, the spicy aroma of spruce, pine, and hemlock, and the countless herbs that thronged the underbrush. At one step she stirred the pungent pennyroyal; farther on, at the brook, she trade ankle deep in waterimint. Here she paused, and watched the limpid stream purling over its pebbly bottom, saw the tire-less, darting dragon-fly, and myriads, of iridescent ephemera shooting hither and thither. 
                  Her eye had been trained in this grand, ever-varying school. Wonderful coloring, shifting light and gloom, dense shades, faintest tints, copses that might serve for dryad-haunts, rocky ridges bold and sharp, gray granite sprinkled with glittering mica, and, trees outlined against a sky of such pure, opaque blue that you saw the smallest branch. Claudia never wearied of detail. Her patience, like her love for nature, was inexhaustible. 
                  Presently she came out to the road. A pleasant country road, bordered for a quarter of mile, perhaps, by Lom-bardy poplars that had been kings in their day. Several of them were half dead. Looking at them she shivered. She used to wonder if they had not an instinctive consciousness of decay, and suffered as their vitality was exhausted. 
                  Then turning backward, she gave a glance at what she had so lately left. Everything appeared different seen from this point. There was the rock, still gray and beautiful. There was the gentle undulation of the trees, with their tops falling lower and lower. There was the sky above, a rosy evening sky. From the top of the rock, glancing over the wide expanse, the whole world had seemed before her. Now, only a little hill stood between her and heaven. 
                  Her homeward walk was a rather lonely one externally. In her heart, Claudia Varian had yet to learn the true meaning of the term. The part of Crofton, touched by the march of improvement provement, lay more than a mile beyond. All this land, from the rock down to an abrupt corner, marked by the meeting of three roads, and crossed by a bridge, underneath which ran a small creek, was the possession of Esquire Brown, one of the old settlers, and a great man in Crofton. He had decided the railroad should just skirt the town, and it did. His vote always confirmed school-teacher and clergyman. He made himself useful in various ways, influential in many more. There had once been some talk of sending him to the legislature of his native State, but to his honor, be it said, he nipped the project in the bud. 
                  Claudia passed the bridge, turned into a short lane, and first of all came to a large sycamore tree. It had such a, sturdy, protecting look, standing there in front of that old gray-stone house! Yet I think she valued it most because it was one of the first things she had learned to know and love. She remembered her father sitting under this tree in his silken dressing-gown, smoking his Turkish pipe. 
                  The house itself was low, the upper only a half-story, and finished by a peaked roof. It was old, as I have said, moss-grown, crumbling, going down in a fragmentary manner. The walls were thick, the windows small, deeply set, but low, like those of more modern days. The door was wide, with a half circle or fan-light above, and this surmounted by a block of marble whereon had been carved a Latin inscription, for the first Standish was a scholar. 
                  At the entrance was a large, flat stone, with one step below it. A few late flowers were in blossom on either side, and at the edge of the fence a row of tall sunflowers, mostly in seed, their faded yellow leaves drooping disconsolately. Claudia paused with her hand on the door, and fell into musing. The autumn sights and sounds were dreary in spite of their richness. Or do we only think so because we know them to be the precursors of winter? 
                  I do not know how long she might have lingered, but a woman with a milking pail turned the corner of the house, and ascended the step. Claudia pushed the door open for her, asking,- 
                  "Has Rose come in yet, Barbara?" 
                  "No;" and Barbara went through the hall, entering a room at its extreme, end by a short flight of steps-the milk-room, or in common parlance, "buttery." 
                  "Leave the door wide open," she called to Claudia. 
                  The girl obeyed her behest. The hall was of considerable width, and had two doors on the right, opening into different apartments. She turned to the first, slightly ajar it was, and crossed the threshold, The large room already lay in dun, twilight gloom. There was no carpet on the floor, though by day you might still discover traces of paint. The angle made by the front corner toward the hall was filled with a high cupboard, mahogany, turned almost black with age. There was an odd, old-fashioned secretary, whose drawers now held the kitchen linen and Barbara's aprons, while on the shelves, at the top, were ranged the "best dishes,"-wonderful china, clear as crystal, and hardly thicker than a wafer. A table and some high-backed chairs completed the furniture. The walls were wainscoted, but smoked to a dark color, whatever they might have been originally. The fireplace was very wide, and rejoiced in shining brass andirons; the mantelpiece was very high, and crowned with tall brass candlesticks, while snuffers and tray, of the same material, occupied the centre. 
                  Claudia laid aside her hat and shawl, and drawing a low rocking-chair up to the hearth, she gave the fire a vigorous stirring, that sent showers of sparks up the chimney. Then she laid on a pine log, and in a few moments the room was illuminated with a glow almost as brilliant as that she had watched from her perch on the rock. Here is where I wish you to have the first view of my heroine. 
                  She was somewhat above the average height but her figure had developed accordingly: not stout, but round, compact, with no angularities, the shoulders and bust rather full, the waist sufficiently slender. The foot that stretched out to sun itself in the fire-light was finely shaped, with a high arch at the instep. The hands crossed idly in her lap were akin to them, not small or dainty, but with tapering fingers, and clear, rosy nails. They gave you an idea of great nervous strength, and were eminently characteristic of her. She seldom shook hands with any one. It was a curious idiosyncrasy of hers: indeed, she was as wonderfully sensitive to touch as a blind person. 
                  The face was strong, rather than beautiful. Truth to tell, it, was not beautiful at all, so far as type and coloring go. With health the most perfect, and endurance that shrank from nothing, she was habitually pale, or rather she had one of those complexions in which a kind of clear white predominates. But her lips were a brilliant scarlet, moderately full, with dimples at the corners. The mouth itself looked tender, yielding; the manner in which she shut it, and the lines about it bespoke almost invincible determination. This was heightened by the broad chin, and a straight, haughty nose. Her forehead was much too high for classical perfection; but there was something so proudly pure and lofty in its marble whiteness that you forgave its approach to masculinity. For the eyebrows were delicately arched, the eyes deep and wistful, at least they were in this softened fire glow. But when the pupil contracted, a sudden strength flashed into them. One would not care to be questioned or judged by those eyes, unless the truth could be told. Insincerity or evasion must cower and shrink beneath such a glance. 
                  What would impress a physiognomist first, was the vigor and self-reliance expressed by the countenance. There was not a weak or clinging line in it. Love, the great want of life, had not softened it to that pathetic entreaty making some faces so tender. You felt instinctively that she would be sufficient for herself in any emergency. No event would ever surprise her barren of resources. She seemed unconsciously to challenge every soul, to weigh it, to make evident its trivialities and weaknesses, while her own remained intact. 
                  Yet do not fancy she was hypercritical. Her nature, fortunately, was not morbid. Had it been, she would have stung herself in the evil hours of life. Her soul was genial, hearty, rich in truth. All wavering and insincere shadows fell off from her, not able to endure the atmosphere of light in which she continually dwelt. 
                  I do not think she spontaneously loved anything weaker than herself. She was rather impatient with mental and moral inferiority while forming her own ideals, yet generous to all brought under her notice, whether suffering from sin or sorrow. There was nothing narrow or grudging about her. As the face was harmonized by expression rather than construction, so the vigorous soul, that in another sphere would have flashed conventionality out of its orbit with one sweep, brought varied and discordant elements of character into unison, although still far from making a symmetrical whole. The old gods sprang at once into perfect existence; we of a later day are but toilers, too often worn and weary. 
                  She thawed out a little in this luminous firelight. A faint sunset glow warmed her cheek; her mouth relaxed. She never wore gray, nondescript dresses. The one she had on now was a sort of glowing wine color, and she had a cluster of white "life everlasting" fastened in the luxuriant braids of her purple black hair. The hues of the brilliant blaze, the long, forked tongues that constantly devoured each other, and as constantly leaped into new, exultant life, held her attention, until a shuffling step in the hall, and a knock at the floor with the butt of a riding whip, started her. 
                  "Come in," she said, while her face lost its bright glow and fell into the old reticent calmness. 
                  Evenin', Miss Claudy!" 
                  O, Squire Brown!" She sprang up in a little amaze, but placing a chair, asked him to be seated. 
                   
                  "'Hain't got but a minnit, though I s'pose it's as cheap settin' as standin'." 
                  Squire Brown economized in both words and letters, to the great detriment of the queen's English. 
                  "You farmers are doubtless making the most of this lovely weather," Claudia said, for want of a better remark. 
                  "Yes, b-e-w-tiful weather! Late corn is amazin' fine. And such crops of Russhy turnips! Cattle ought'er fat up this winter, I tell you!" 
                  A silence ensued. Claudia was wondering what had sent Squire Brown in, and where she should make her next venture. 
                  'S'pose you never thought of sellin' this old house, Miss Claudy?" was his sudden inquiry. 
                  "Selling this house!" The words were repeated in an uncertain, amazed tone. 
                  The Squire gave a chuckle, and thumped the handle of his whip upon the floor. 
                  "Knew 'twould take you by surprise, Miss Claudy." 
                  "It has, certainly. Who wishes to buy it?" 
                  "Well," said the Squire, with drawling emphasis, "Billy and me have been talkin' it over." 
                  "But what can you want with this old house?" 
                  "'Zactly. We don't want the house. But the matter's jest here. You know I own all down to the crick, and afore Billy was married he bought the Dawson place." 
                  Claudia assented with a gesture. 
                  "And that takes in all between the two roads 'cept this little square. Now d'ye see?" 
                  "Yes," was the slow reply. "This old house and plot of ground has become a Naboth's vineyard." 
                  "A what?" 
                  As a deacon of the church, and defender of the faith according to Calvin, his range of biblical lore might have been wider. Yet a moment after, Claudia's generous nature asserted itself. 
                   
                  "Nothing," and she smiled. "Only you consider me a little in your way." 
                  "Billy and me was talkin' about the place. You see this makes an ugly break in the property. And Billy was calker-latin' to build a han'some house jest up on the hill, but he'd like a lane down to this pint, and one on the west road. So ses he, 'I wonder if 'twould be possible to buy the old Standish place?' and, Miss Claudy, he won't stan' about the price. 'Well,' ses I, 'I'll drop in an' talk it over.' This house is gettin' old, and it 'll be a bill of cost bime-by. And there's widow Higbee, she's offered her place for sale,-a nice, snug little cottage,-kin be bought for seven hundred. If you wanted a home, you'd make a little sumthin'." 
                  "I had never dreamed of parting with the place," Claudia answered slowly. "I have always lived here. I am not sure that I could go away." 
                  A grand, sweet smile overspread her face with triumphant tenderness. Squire Brown would have read Egyptian hiero-glyphies as correctly. Resuming his subject, therefore, he pointed out the repairs that would shortly be needed, the lonely situation, and the advantage it would be for her to sell when she was offered a good price. He did not pretend to keep himself and Billy in the background, but on the whole was very fair, and offered her plenty of time for consideration. In his own mind he had no doubt but that she would "come round," for he prided himself not a little on his powers of persuasion and faculty of bargain making. 
                  Barbara entered the room, and taking a wisp of paper, lighted a candle. Squire Brown concluded he had made a fair opening, and after a series of shuffling bows, withdrew. The teakettle was pushed up amid the live coals, the table drawn out, and Barbara began preparations for supper. 
                  Claudia fell into a reverie. The bright blaze of the fire died down. Deepening glooms settled about the windows, rendering the light of the candle more vivid. Nothing broke the silence save the housekeeper's footsteps and the singing of the kettle. 
                  Suddenly there was a rush through the door, which did not latch as it was thrown back. A flutter about the room, a presence felt in every pulse of one's being. 
                  "O Rose! how could you stay so late?" 
                  There might have been the faintest suggestion of anxiety in the tone, but it was not impatient. 
                  Rose clasped her arms around the stately neck with childish fervor. The kiss she gave was warm, intense, smothering. Claudia struggled to free herself. 
                  Rose dropped into her sister's lap. "Dear old Mentor," she began, untying her bonnet, "think of the enchanted islands, and the sirens that continually beset me!" 
                  "It grows dark so much sooner, Rose." 
                  "And supper is ready," announced Barbara. 
                  Rose threw off her shawl and shook herself. I do not know what other name to give the motion. It was dainty, graceful, piquant. It sent a flood of golden ripples down her shoulders, and seemed to shower a luminous light about the room. One of those curious magnetic presences, one of those vivid flashes of brightness that charm and electrify. At least, it would have done so in any other place. Then Rose slipped into her seat. 
                  I can truly say that she was beautiful. But the word gives one such an indefinite idea. Slender, yet not precisely what you would pronounce small; moulded in the fashion of a Greek nymph, from her golden-crowned head to her restless, dancing foot, tiny and perfect as Cinderella's, albeit she never sat in the ashes. Her complexion was wonderful in its transparency and lovely tints. Pink, pearl and frost-white: blushing, susceptible, changing with every thought. The features were delicate, chiselled minutely, aid in closest correspondence. The large-lidded eyes were full of subtle, dreamy light, something that stole upon you unaware, and steeped your senses into forgetfulness. The forehead was low and broad, its crowning glory that fine, soft, silken hair of dun gold, whose reflexes floated forever in sunshine. Across the top of the head it was a mass of waves, breaking into ringlets. A painter would never have wearied of it. For, indeed, it seemed to be endowed with an individual life of its own,-a free, glorious life,-a liberty to dazzle you almost blind, to cluster in tormenting tenderness. You longed to bury your fingers in it, to lay your cheek against it, and I am not sure but there could have been found in the world men wild enough to luxuriate in kissing it. 
                  The face was as unlike Claudia's as you could well imagine. Claudia's was grand, strong, and sufficient. That of Rose incomplete, either from youth or nature. You could not have told precisely what it lacked, only while it foretold a daring will and vehement feeling, it seemed to indicate a want of the capacity either to suffer or endure. And so she was bright, royal, a child of summer and fragrant bloom. A butterfly, such as might cross your path in a South American forest once during a tour of years. The grim housekeeper and grave elder sister rarely studied it. The beaux of Crofton did not at all understand it, so widely different was it from the round red cheeks and sturdy faces of the village lasses. 
                  "Rose," Claudia began abruptly, "I have had a call from Squire Brown." 
                  "To advise you that life is brief, and-" 
                  "O Rose! It was my temporal, and not my spiritual estate that attracted him hither." 
                  "Surely not to bespeak you for his only remaining son? You are too poor." 
                  "Not poorer than your guesses. He and Billy, or rather Billy alone, I suspect, wishes to buy us out. Our possessor-ship of this little corner of the earth conflicts with Mr. William Brown's plan for his new house." 
                  "And what was your answer?" 
                  "What could it be, Rose? I should as soon think of selling my heart, or Barbara, there." 
                   
                  "Did he make you an offer?" 
                  "A very good one. Two thousand dollars, and the privilege of keeping it a year longer. The house would be no object to him you know." 
                  There was a silence. Rose floated a little crumb of bread on her cup of tea, and for a few moments forgot to eat. Presently she said,- 
                  "Would it be utterly impossible to go away from here, Claudia? To leave Crofton?" 
                  "To go away?" Claudia repeated in an abstracted manner, as if some one had mentioned an improbable event that never could have any bearing on her course. 
                  "Yes, where everything is new and strange. Where there is something. I think, after the mature deliberation of seventeen years, that I do not like Crofton. There is no life here, no variety, no salient points upon which one could rear a future, even of dreams. It seems so narrow and restricted. At times the very air gives me a sensation of strangling. O Claudia, let us go!" 
                  There was a curious earnestness in the face, a strange depth of entreaty in the voice. You could see that it surprised Claudia. 
                  "Why, Rose! I fancied you, of all others, were content." 
                  "You see I am not. If I had no higher aim than Martha Dean, or Laura Morley, that of having plenty of household linen and patchwork quilts-yet I don't clearly see how the linen would be provided,-and becoming a good farmer's wife, I might be content. But I have not even that ambition. I see no greater opening for my talents than for yours." 
                  "What talents, Miss Rose?" Barbara looked up with a half smile that was kindly, not the derisive thing one might expect from her hard-featured face. 
                  "The talent of rendering myself agreeable. Like the maid in the song-'My face is my fortune.' I should like to go where I might make a fair investment. The days have passed by when lovely maidens sat forlorn in dreary castles until some bold knight came to rescue them. My knight can never find his way to Crofton. I must go out and seek him." 
                  "Miss Rose!" interposed Barbara, with a shocked expression, "in my young days maidens staid at home until some one came to woo." 
                  "An admirable plan, most worthy Dame Barbara, when the wooer is not Dan'el Stebbins, who comes to ask if he may 'sit up with you.' As if one was a corpse! But putting myself out of the question, isn't Claudia wasted here? Hasn't she talent, my Barbara? Could not she make a path through the world, write her name where 
                         
                           'Some forlorn and shipwrecked brother 
                           Seeing, may take heart again?' 
                        
                      O, Claudia, let us go!" 
                  Claudia laughed. "What nonsense you are talking, Rose!" 
                  A light flashed up in the face of the younger, compounded of anger, impatience, and pride. She said petulantly,- 
                  "Is it nonsense, Claudia? Do you never wish to live out the full, free life we read of,-a life of hope and love, of perfect, absolute content, because the needs of the heart are answered? Does there never cross your mind the dream or possibility of a more comprehensive existence than we can have here? For it seems to me Crofton is only an intermediate state-better than purgatory, but O, so far from heaven!" 
                  Claudia ate on steadily, and did not glance up. Strong as she was, at this moment a singular feeling threatened to master her. She had experienced all this and more. A certain rigid philosophy had hitherto prevented her giving it shape or words. For when she had once reared a wall of desire, she would feel herself in bonds. Her books, her long days of leisure, her quiet hours of musing, had been sufficient for her. She had never really longed for change. 
                  "Claudia," Rose began again, "are you stock or stone? Have you any human wishes or desires?" 
                   
                  Claudia was used to outbursts of this kind, though Rose had never started on this subject before. Presently she answered,- 
                  "I don't know that we could go, Rose. Thirty-two hundred dollars is not a very large fortune. The income would not be much in a strange place." 
                  "But we could do something for ourselves," was the confident rejoinder. 
                  "What?" 
                  "Work." 
                  "Too indefinite." 
                  "Marry then." Rose's laugh rippled through the room. Her anger had spent itself. 
                  Claudia glanced at her. It did seem a sin to keep such rare, wondrous beauty, buried in a little dull corner of the world. 
                  "Barbara," she asked, "do you suppose it would be possible for us to manage in a city?" 
                  Barbara shook her head gravely; but after a thoughtful pause, answered,- 
                  "It might be done. Yet to sell the place-" 
                  "A ruinous old tumble-down," interpolated Rose, flippantly. 
                  "It is home," was Barbara's austere rejoinder. "Miss Claudia understands the meaning of that if you do not." 
                  "''Tis home where'er the heart is,'" sang Rose, pushing back her chair. "And a little love would always make home for me." 
                  Claudia rose as Barbara began to gather up the tea things. She did not care to continue the discussion, and resumed her old seat by the fireside. After a short silence, Rose flitted to other topics. When the room was restored to its former order Barbara brought out her knitting. But Claudia sat and mused. 
                
                
                   
                  II. JOHN BREVOORT. 
                  CLAUDIA sat and mused. She did not stir the fire impatiently, for gold and flame color had no place in this troubled warp. No, I am wrong. It was not troubled. Only a vague, uneasy sense of motion, not the motion or thought itself. 
                  So when another knock sounded at the door it seemed as if Squire Brown must have come for his answer. She lifted her head in expectancy. 
                  Barbara took the candle and went to wait on the visitant, a little astonished, it must be confessed, as evening calls at the old gray house were rare. Shielding the candle by holding it a trifle behind the door, she opened cautiously. 
                  "Is Miss Varian at home?" 
                  A young, rich, full voice. Some chord in it stirred Claudia, albeit it was unfamiliar. 
                  "What?" demanded Barbara, whose ears had been sufficiently acute, but caution exacted ample guarantee. 
                  "Miss Varian." The tone was resolute, decisive. 
                  "O, I know," and Rose sprang up, pushing against Barbara in the hall, and holding out her small white hand cordially. 
                  "Good evening, Mr. Brevoort." 
                  "Ah, good evening," and the gentleman advanced through the doorway. Rose ushered him into the room. 
                  "My sister," she said; "Mr. Brevoort, Claudia." 
                  A man young in years, but mature in figure, in self-possession, in dignity. Not handsome, but strong, with a great breadth of forehead, and a square, determined face. A kind of vigorous manliness asserted itself in every feature, a will that could hew down forests, bridge rivers, and fight the great battles of life without one faltering blow. The face would have been cold, almost passionless, but for the mouth. If you could have lowered his forehead, taken some of the resolution out of his eyes, and the defiance from the straight nose, the mouth would have made him weak, easily assailed. It was not small, but curved, girlishly red, and with full, fond lips,-lips that might kiss one's soul down to perdition in some transport of ungovernable love. A beautiful, dangerous mouth, if you saw but that alone. 
                  "I ought to apologize for my intrusion," he began, as he gave his hand to Claudia. "But the simple truth is, I had a favor to ask, a selfish reason for coming." 
                  Rose placed a chair for him. Claudia was considering whether she quite approved of this cordial audacity. Yet it sat well on Mr. Brevoort. He was the new school-teacher, and had been a month at his post. But it was evident Rose had made acquaintance by sight as well as by faith. 
                  "Yes. I had gone to my room, and settled myself for the evening, when a remark that I heard you make came into my mind." 
                  "Wonderful!" interrupted Rose. "Claudia would hardly believe that I could utter a sentence worthy of such a fate." 
                  "As being remembered? It also gave me the courage for my present proceeding. And if you will answer as frankly as I ask-?" 
                  "To the half of my kingdom," laughed Rose, archly. 
                  "You were speaking of the library your father left. I undertook to borrow a work from Dr. Shortt, but found that he did not possess it. Would you loan any of yours?" 
                  The question was addressed to Claudia. Her first impulse was to decline, but on second thoughts this appeared churlish. She simply said,- 
                  "Was it a medical work?" 
                  "Yes; pardon me if I have been overbold." There was the least inflection of the voice, a slight hint of humility as he added, "A poor student is sometimes compelled to resort to such an expedient." 
                  Claudia bowed loftily, it must be confessed. "If it is any work of recent date I am afraid you will be disappointed. Father's books are old." 
                  "It was a musty old tome that I desired." 
                  "Will you light another candle, Barbara?" 
                  Taking it, Claudia led the way to the adjoining apartment, a parlor, in country parlance, much larger than the ordinary living-room. The floor was carpeted, and the furniture was neither scant nor mean, although extremely ancient. A large bookcase, whose doors were curtained with faded green moreen, stood grimly against the wall on one side. She tried to turn the key, but the lock was a little rusted and correspondingly stubborn. 
                  "Allow me," and Mr. Brevoort's strong hand was placed, not over hers,-he was too gentlemanly for that,-but so near that hers yielded and withdrew-a tacit confession of weakness. 
                  "What a fine collection!" and he ran his eyes over it with the discrimination of a scholar. "I don't know whether to feel most thankful for my good fortune, or most regretful for the trouble I shall entail upon you. I should consider it an inestimable privilege to have occasional access to this library." 
                  Claudia could not deny the appealing eyes, and said, with a kind of distant graciousness-"It is granted." 
                  Her calm superiority piqued him a little; but she did not guess it from the tone in which he said-"Thank you." 
                  After he had found the book he was in search of, his eyes still lingered over the shelves. At last, with a perceptible effort, he turned away. Claudia could not help remarking it. 
                  "You are interested in medicine," she said. 
                  "Yes." There was a look in his face as if he intended to say more, but thought the better of it. "I suppose you rarely trouble them," and he glanced at the volumes. 
                  "O, indeed," exclaimed Rose, wearying of her silence, "she does, or at least she used to." 
                   
                  "It interested me very much sometime ago," was her grave response. 
                  "But why did you not keep on? You know we are making rapid strides in female education. There are colleges for the sex, and practicing physicians," he said, in a tone that was not disrespectful, yet somewhat tinged with irony. 
                  "Well, why should there not be?" She turned her calm, clear eyes full upon him. 
                  "I don't object," he answered, with an uneasy sensation. "Only I should not care to have a sister-or a wife-"the tone was a trifle hesitating-"engage in such pursuits." 
                  "I suppose wives rarely do. It is necessary at times that mothers and sisters should be strong and energetic." 
                  "Yet it seems to me there is always something refined about a true woman's strength. It hurts one's idea of her to think of her being jostled and pushed hither and thither in a crowd of rude men." 
                  "Must men be rude? Is it a law of their nature?" 
                  "Not to honor and purity and delicacy. But when a woman enters the arena, she too often lays aside this invincible armor. Perhaps it cannot be helped. I think men not infrequently discover their finer feelings are worn rough, if not threadbare, by this contact. And we look to woman for our regeneration. That is severe enough task for her." 
                  "How can she guide without strength, without knowledge? Fancy an oak leaning on an ivy." 
                  "The oak you know is not compelled to lean. It has sufficient strength for any blast. Yet doubtless it is grateful for the ivy's clinging love." 
                         
                           "I see an oak before me; it hath been 
                           The crowned one of the woods, and might have flung 
                           Its hundred arms to heaven, still freshly green; 
                           But a wild vine around the stem hath clung, 
                           From branch to branch close wreaths of bondage throwing, 
                           Till the proud tree, before no tempest bowing, 
                           Hath shrunk and died these serpent folds among." 
                        
                     
                   
                  Claudia repeated this in a kind of chanting monotone, that held him in thrall until after her voice died away. It was so peculiar-it might be prophetic. He shivered with a curious, indefinable sensation. 
                  There was a strange pause, broken at length by Rose saying, half-petulantly,- 
                  "O, you need not be afraid of Claudia becoming a doctress, or whatever you call it. She cannot even endure the sight of a decapitated chicken." 
                  Mr. Brevoort laughed. Claudia flushed a little as she rejoined, "It is true. I do not love to witness suffering of any kind. Yet I could nerve myself to it if it were necessary. I can imagine such a thing as a tender-hearted physician. I do not consider hardness synonymous with strength." 
                  "Surely not. But men are compelled to bring a rugged determination to these matters. Pity is a sort of substratum with them, to fall back upon when the hard work is done. With a woman it naturally comes first." 
                  "O," Rose exclaimed, with a gay laugh, "we know he 
                         
                           'Commits his body 
                           To painful labor, both by land and sea, 
                           To watch the night in storm, the day in cold, 
                           While we lie warm at home, secure and safe.'" 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Shakspeare!" Brevoort said, looking pleased and puzzled. "You should have begun at the beginning." 
                  "No, I couldn't play Kate to such a Petruchio. I hate him! He was a brute." 
                  Brevoort glanced at Claudia. She understood it, and coolly rejoined, "It needs no indorsement from me." She experienced a little girlish gratification in thus repaying him. 
                  "Two against one. I shall have to capitulate under protest. Miss Rose, it is cruel in you to desert me." 
                  "Do you really like him?" There was an odd earnestness in her tone. 
                  "I rather object to his being taken as a fair sample of men, just as you would to every woman being considered as shrewish as Kate. But he proved himself master of the situation. And I think Kate's sweet wine was kept until the last. Confess, now, the change was an improvement." 
                  "I could never have forgiven him the sleepless nights and weary days. I should have run away to escape the sound of his voice. It might have answered for Kate, but it would have killed me, or I should have killed myself." 
                  "No," he said, musingly, "I cannot imagine you playing Kate." 
                  "Nor Claudia. She is too lofty, too dignified. If she had stared at Petruchio, he would have been vanquished." 
                  "We will remember Juliet, Portia, and many others, and forgive the poet," Claudia said, gently. "It is the old, old battle-field-man's supremacy and woman's subjection." 
                  "And invariably settles itself. The stronger will is the victor." 
                  "But we have so little chance to improve our strength, to learn our capabilities!" 
                  "Yes, that is the cry," said Brevoort, "but is it really honest? Out of one hundred men, one may prove himself a hero, fight his way upwards through every difficulty. Would it be just for the ninety-nine to say the only reason they did not succeed was because they did not have a fair opportunity?" 
                  "Surely not." 
                  "Some women have succeeded nobly. There are on record painters, poets, historians, and astronomers. There have been a few master minds that made themselves felt and honored, but I do not think every woman could do this, any more than I believe every man has the power to attain eminence. Yet we do not look for or need these things in a woman's life. Our romance has invested her with tenderer attributes. Remember the pathos of Aurora Leigh's cry,-a woman's warning to a woman,- 
                         
                           'My Father, thou hast knowledge, only thou, 
                           How dreary 'tis for women to sit still 
                            
                           On winter nights by solitary fires, 
                           And hear the nations praising them far off,- 
                           Too far! ay, praising their quick sense of love, 
                           The very heart of passionate womanhood, 
                           Which could not beat so in the verse without 
                           Being present also in the unkissed lips; 
                           And eyes undried, because there's none to ask 
                           The reason they grew moist.'" 
                        
                     
                   
                  Claudia Varian was silent. Not from any sense of being vanquished, not from any lack of argument, but from a sad, subtle sensation of something wanting that marred her soul's perfectness. The feeling was new and powerfully strong. It seized her with a giant's grasp, and sent a thrill of fiery pain through every pulse. Was it prescience on his part? Would she ever sit by a lonely fire, and cry out with the agony of wasted womanhood? 
                  "Come," Rose began, with an impatient shiver, "if you have selected your book, let us adjourn to a more comfortable place. I am turning into a blue icicle." 
                  It was chilly, for the room had not been opened that day, and the autumn evenings were growing cold in country places. 
                  Mr. Brevoort's first impulse was to make large demands on the treasure he had thus exhumed, but he wisely reconsidered He could come the sooner if he had but one volume. There was an attraction besides the books to a man of his mould. 
                  Closing the case, he took a survey of the room. By the shadowy candle-light he saw that the wall was hung with pictures-a rather unusual sight in Crofton. Some of them appeared quite fresh and bright, and he promised himself an inspection at a future day. Now he followed Claudia. 
                  Rose placed a chair for him fronting the fire, and seated herself on a low stool in the corner, where she soon thawed into brilliant brightness. They took up some trifling topic, yet Brevoort was surprised to find how soon it merged into deeper significance. Instead of adapting his conversation to mere girls, and skimming surfaces, he found some effort necessary. They both were cultivated and thorough readers, and betrayed a discipline of mind that surprised him. Rose was gay, bewildering, flashing hither and thither, yet no child in some matters. She did not attempt to follow Claudia's theories, but now and then let fall a trenchant positive truth on either side, as if she had nothing at stake. 
                  Claudia interested him in a peculiar manner. Where had this girl gained her force of character, her clearness of vision, her ready application of abstract principles? A trifle Utopian, perhaps, at least he thought so then, looking through his man's eyes; and lacking that experience of life that enables one to judge from the truths asserted those omitted or concealed. Her perceptions were not easily confused or demolished by light irony. She disputed every inch of the ground with a tenacity that would have been dogged but for her fine intelligence, which, like a wary guide, rarely betrayed her into false paths. And yet he could not seem to learn what the woman really was, by any of the sudden plunges intended for the depths of her nature. For there penetration met the clear, glittering sand at the shore edge, while her soul glided over a wave to some other point. The far-seeing eyes fathomed more than they chose to reveal. The reticent curves of the mouth rarely broke into communicativeness. Without courting argument or discussion she possessed the rare faculty of drawing forth the beliefs of others, while hers, to a certain extent, remained in the background. 
                  Presently there came a silence. The click of Barbara's needles and the ticking of the old high clock sounded strangely quiet to John Brevoort. He surveyed the fire, then Rose, then Claudia. What a picture they made! He seemed fallen upon the castle of some weird magician. 
                  "How odd that you two should be sisters!" he exclaimed at length. "You seem to belong to opposite races, if one might judge from physical development. Miss Rose I should place in a soft, fair clime, ripe with the odor of orange blossoms, and where winters were unknown, while you-" 
                   
                  Claudia filled his pause almost before he had decided what to say. 
                  "We are sisters on our father's side only. My mother was a descendant of the old May-Flower pilgrims; Rose's, the daughter of a Greek merchant." 
                  Brevoort glanced up in surprise. 
                  "Yes, I was born at Zante," Rose announced, composedly. 
                  "What do you do in a snow storm?" 
                  Rose shrugged her shoulders with a comical, yet dainty shiver. 
                  The clock struck nine. The call had lasted nearly two hours. He started up. 
                  "I do not wish to trespass on your hospitality," he said, in a rich, genial tone, "but I have been so pleasantly entertained, and am likely to find so few friends in Crofton, that I shall ask the privilege of continuing this acquaintance." 
                  "We shall be delighted-for some of the same reasons;" and Rose gave him a most winsome, yet mischievous smile. 
                  He wanted something more, and turned to Claudia. 
                  "Yes," she said. The word, simple as it was, implied a great deal. 
                  They both followed him to the hall door. There was no moon, but a countless procession of glittering stars. 
                  "Don't watch him out of sight-it's bad luck," exclaimed Rose. 
                  But Claudia leaned over the wide door-step, and listened to the manful tread breaking the stillness of the night air, and looked until the shadowy figure was lost in darkness. Less than a year afterwards she recalled the omen. 
                  "Don't you like him?" Rose's face was one vivid flush of pleasure. 
                  "Yes." Even if she had approved him less, Claudia would not have damped her sister's ardor. 
                  They came back, and slipped into their accustomed seats. Barbara put away her knitting, and took the Bible from the old secretary. Since the night of Dr. Varian's death, it had been her custom to read a chapter. 
                  I am afraid both girls were indifferent listeners. Such a pleasant evening was an event in their lives that sent the warm blood through their veins in rapid currents, quite beyond the control of girlish, undisciplined Rose. 
                  "That's the new teacher, Barbara. Isn't he entertaining?" she exclaimed, after the reading was finished. 
                  "I heard him sing in church on Sunday," was Barbara's comment, "He has something better than teaching in his brains." 
                  "I dare say, at least, the teaching of a country school. Dr. Brevoort-how will that sound?" 
                  Barbara fastened the windows and lighted another candle. 
                  Claudia rose as if she was tearing herself away from some fascination. In the gray ashes, fallen around the smouldering logs, she saw a vision. A sad-faced woman, sitting over the ruins of her dead youth. Ah, what if the nations afar off did praise her! 
                  The three women ascended the solid oaken stairway, well worn and carpetless, but white with the labor of Barbara's strong hands. They entered the room over the kitchen-hers. They had a habit of coming this way to say good night. The chamber was in neatest order. A high-post bedstead, with a snowy canopy and short curtains, edged with knotted fringe, seemed its chief glory. The bed was covered with a patchwork quilt of intricate design; the cover of the little toilet table vied with the snowiness of the canopy; the floor with the whiteness of the stairs. 
                  The apartment beyond was larger, and contained two beds. One, a dainty little maple bedstead, very modern, and, in Barbara's opinion, very heathenish. It had been purchased a year or two before, to her great discomfort. The other was quaintly old-fashioned, with a high carved head-board. Claudia had shocked Barbara by having the legs ruthlessly shortened at the advent of its companion. She believed most devoutly in a good Christian bed, that went up several degrees towards heaven. Perhaps she thought there was less danger of being troubled with evil dreams. But Claudia had no fancy for sleeping in the moon. 
                  Indeed, she seemed to have but little fancy for sleeping at all this night. The whole current of her life appeared changing. Sorely against her will, she was drifting from the old content into a new and boundless realm. Instead of quiet skies, here was perplexity, fear. And she, like too many other poor souls, had to grope her way in the darkness alone. 
                
                
                   
                  III. PAST AND PRESENT. 
                  JOHN BREVOORT walked rapidly a mile or more. Before he had reached the end of his journey he began to think in this fashion:- 
                  "What an odd, delightful evening. But for the quaint surroundings I might have fancied myself back in the city. Who would have dreamed of finding two such girls in that lonely old tumble-down! Although they seem to understand the world so well, I question if they ever had a glimpse of it. So different from anything in Crofton! And that Claudia-with what a regal air she said 'My mother was a descendant of the old May-Flower pilgrims.' She has their pure pride, their stamina, their lofty, rigid port. How hard and cold, how pitiless she could be! No, I don't like those old pilgrims over well. They savor too strongly of witch-burning, and the like. May be her clear eyes could not have been so easily blinded. What eyes for a woman fair and young! Not handsome, as that bright, piquant Rose. O, Rose of the world, what a stir you would make in a gay city. Your loveliness is wasted upon the desert air of Crofton. 
                  "No wonder people in this stupid little place pronounce them peculiar. Very far indeed in advance of the Croftonites. I wonder if strangers ever talked in such a fashion before-uttered so many truths, paid so little heed to conventionalities. You cannot put Claudia off with a jest or sham argument. She will know the truth. I promise myself a deal of pleasure in their companionship during the long winter evenings. It exhilarates like rare wine. John Brevoort, you have fallen into Paradise, figuratively speaking. But beware of a more dangerous fall. There's too stern a battle still before you, too much hard work yet to be done, for you to indulge in dreams of love and luxury. Love-pshaw!" 
                  And being forewarned, he thought himself forearmed. It is not always so, however. 
                  "There's no danger," he mused on. "Claudia would carry herself loftily-she's too full of schemes and plans at present, and she isn't the sort of woman ever to need love. Rose, I suspect, is an arrant flirt, or would be, were the fates propitious. But she is lovely and clinging, and full of slumberous fire. The Greek blood warms her up like one of her own sunsets. I am not sure but she will be my favorite. 
                  "What was it Claudia said about the ivy? Ugh! it chills me to the bone. I shall never love ivy again. And her prophetic voice! I think she would despise weakness of any kind. Well, I am not afraid. Yet strong women seem anomalies. We want them to be dependent, tender darlings. What do we ask of them but love? We can fight our own battles. Ministering angels, when one has the headache, which I never have, or the heartache;" and he began to whistle Aileen Aroon, but in a subdued manner. 
                  There was no fire at Mrs. Green's to sit and muse over. I doubt if the brightest fire could have tempted him into such folly. In five minutes from the time his head touched the pillow he was asleep. Very unromantic for a hero, I grant; but it was the result of youth, a well disciplined mind, and perfect health. 
                  In the silence and darkness brooding tenderly over the world, my eyes are wakeful with visions of these two young girls and their future. It did not seem as if anything unusual could befall them in this quiet country village. And yet they wrought out a strange romance. Love and tragedy are everywhere. 
                         
                           "Some must watch while others sleep: 
                           Thus runs the world away." 
                        
                      When we feel most secure, some net is being woven, some chain forged that spans the swelling ocean of our inner life. We meet for a brief while, and part, never to be the same again. A word is spoken that changes our whole course. Some virtue is gone out of us, or it may be added from another overflowing heart. O, does God heed it all? It is so hard always to believe, always to be strong. 
                  I am glad I gave you that glimpse of Claudia before she turned any definite page of her strange, eventful future. Walking down from Crofton Rock, pure, peaceful, sufficient for herself,-I should like to linger over her with a little tender pity. I can hardly bear to plunge into the depths that were given her to walk through. 
                  But first, something about their past. You will understand them both better. 
                  The Standish race had always been brave and sturdy. What the old heroes did is nothing to my story-you will find some of their deeds in history. More than once they had swarmed from this old house to lay the corner-stone of a new edifice. Over the wide world-with health and energy, it mattered little where. At last there was left here Grosvenor Standish and his wife, both old people, and their sweet daughter, Honoria, the last of their many children,-for this branch of the family seemed falling into decay, like the old house. 
                  Honoria went to the city, Albany, for a visit at her uncle's. It was the great event of her life. Here she met Dr. Varian, a young physician, and they fell straightway in love with one another. He was impulsive, and not much given to careful consideration, or reflection of any sort. His wooing was fervent, and resulted in an engagement. 
                  But sorrow met the lovers on the very threshold of their glad life. Mr. and Mrs. Standish would not give up their child, neither could they consent to leave the spot so dear to them at their time of life. If Dr. Varian would come to Crofton- 
                  They might as well have asked him to cut off his right hand, or pluck out his right eye. When he saw how Honoria drooped and pined under the burden of a divided love, and grew hopeless over the future, he would have done either willingly. After two years of waiting, he relinquished his ambition, his plans, that had never been so dear nor looked so bright, and came to live in the old stone house, a happy husband, if happy in no other respect. 
                  Dr. Markham did not fraternize readily with the young physician, and pronounced him a city upstart. Dr. Varian made love, and kept reading up for an emergency. He was sadly out of his sphere, and saw before him the dreary prospect of a wasted life. But he was no man to moan over a sacrifice once made. 
                  A year passed delightfully in spite of small annoyances. In the spring a little girl was born to them. I am afraid that summer, Honoria's ideas of heaven were not much higher than those of the old lady, who was to sit in her clean checked apron and sing psalms. The child was a perfect marvel to her,-a pleasure beyond anything she had ever known. 
                  There was a great discussion concerning its name. Dr. Varian settled immovably upon Claudia. In vain mother and grandmother protested against such a heathenish appellation. 
                  "As if there was never to be another child!" he laughed. "There will be a Grosvenor and a Margaret, a Walter and a Honoria;" but his wife held her hands before her rosy face. So the baby was christened Claudia. 
                  A white, staid, grave-looking baby. The old Standish force and stamina came out in its face. It was as unlike its mother as one could well imagine. But so long as it throve finely, and grew strong, what matter! 
                  The summer was spasmodically hot, and spasmodically cool. To it succeeded a warm, damp autumn, abounding in low fevers. Dr. Varian expressed some fears as to the final result. Dr. Markham sneered a little, and jogged around in his old-fashioned gig. Then a thrill of terror fell upon every one. The fever was pronounced typhus. 
                   
                  Mrs. Standish went daily to perform some neighborly offices for the sick. Houses were filled with dismay and grief. The good motherly woman, so large and tender of heart, was seized with it and died. Honoria, passing from a state of frantic fear to stupefied grief, yielded to the fell destroyer. Ten days after the mother was buried, the young wife lay in the house a corpse. Never again were its old rooms to be glorified with her sunny smile, or echo to the music of her glad voice. 
                  Old Mr. Standish had been feeble all summer. After this second stroke he took to his bed. Nothing could exceed Dr. Varian's tenderness, although it might be said of him as of another, that he "died daily," so keen a torture had the place become to him. But he did his duty manfully, up to the very last, closing the dim eyes in peace. Then life in Crofton was over for him. In less than two years he had gone through the whole octave of joy, the whole octave of suffering. The golden sunshine had faded into midnight gloom. 
                  Barbara Mayne, a childless widow, had taken charge of the house and baby. For him the world-endless wanderings-unutterable loneliness! After a while he found himself drifting about the Mediterranean, in the capacity of a ship's surgeon. But the picture of a grave was even there. 
                  His sorrow for his wife was deep and sincere. He scarcely thought of his child, and her incalculable bereavement. Yet it will surprise you to know that in less than three years he had formed another union; that another woman slept upon his heart, was caressed tenderly, and, as a truthful historian, I must add-loved. 
                  It was even so. I have no desire to enter upon a dissertation concerning second love. The aloe blossoms once in a century; the rose every year, and is none the less sweet. Yet Dr. Varian possessed the virtue of fidelity in an eminent degree. The presence of the new wife made him linger more fondly over the other in her grave. He was just to both, capable in his large heart of loving both. 
                   
                  The second marriage had come about in a most unpremeditated manner. They had encountered a terrific storm, during which a Greek merchantman was wrecked in their sight. Part of the crew were saved with great difficulty. Among these a beautiful girl, whose only relative, her father, had perished. 
                  Dr. Varian first fought the elements for her, then death itself. When he found her orphaned, friendless, and rendered well nigh penniless by the stroke, his heart was moved to sympathy. He took her to Zante; but her home was too dreary, and she clung to him in a touching, despairing fashion. He questioned himself a little, and then became her best friend, lover, husband. 
                  They enjoyed a pleasant, idle, fairy-land existence for five years. Dr. Varian's ambition to distinguish himself in his profession was all gone. He even began to disregard wealth, and rambled about with his sunny-haired wife, until, looking into his child's face one day, he bethought himself of another little daughter in a far land, whom he had not seen for more than eight years. 
                  He had obeyed impulse so long, that now he yielded to it at once. Besides, some retrenchment was absolutely necessary. His fortune, never very extensive, would soon reach its end if this mode of living should be prolonged. The young wife made no objections-her husband's presence was sufficient for her. After some more desultory wanderings they came to Crofton. 
                  Barbara had received due notice. Her thrifty New England habits had always made her prudent and industrious, but in these years she had grown older, sterner. The one absorbing passion of her life was her love for the little girl she had so tenderly nourished. It was the rarest, fondest love you could imagine, quite different from what you would expect of such a woman. But now her heart was hard and bitter towards these new comers. What right had they here, indeed? Consequently, their welcome was not very warm. But it was early summer, and what the grim housekeeper refused to say in-doors, bird, bee, sunshine, and flower said with their hundred tongues without. 
                  Baby Rose was four; a laughing, prattling, beautiful child, utterly unconscious of any such thing as coldness or distrust. She had something beyond mere childless eagerness to be loved,-a curious faculty or power that accompanied her all through life,-the perfect assurance that people must and would be tender with her. So she went to Barbara, climbed fearlessly in her lap, clasped her with soft, rosy fingers, kissed her with lovely mouth, whose sweetness had never been frowned upon. And then she ran after her stately sister, and caressed her with so many beguiling ways that the elder capitulated. After she had subdued the household, her mother made a not unavailing attempt at conciliation. In a month's time harmony and affection reigned supreme. 
                  As for Dr. Varian, when he returned to Crofton he had lived out what people call their best days. Neither work nor honor tempted him. Weeks glided by serenely. Dr. Markham was dead. Dr. Shortt, the new comer, both ambitious and energetic. Dr. Varian made no effort to share the practice. He cultivated his garden, loved his wife, educated his children, and slipped imperceptibly into a state of decay, for which his habits rather than his age were answerable; and at the last, death came with such a soft, hesitating footfall, that no one thought of disputing him. 
                  Claudia was seventeen. The vigor and stateliness of a lost generation of hardy pilgrims were born anew in her. She was unlike either father or mother. Indeed, there were times when Dr. Varian had paused in his office of tutor, and questioned her with wondering eyes. For she surprised him, puzzled him, brought back old dreams of what had haunted him years agone. He could discern no traces of the lost Honoria clinging about her. Why?-when Rose was so like her mother. Some theory of hereditary development had certainly gone astray. He used to think of moving to a city, in order to afford her better advantages. It was well for him that he died in the full belief of its practicability. 
                  Mrs. Varian soon followed her husband, glad to go from a world that had lost its charm. Barbara comforted Rose with the tenderest sympathy. Her grief was violent at first; but she possessed a buoyant, vivacious nature, and soon rallied. Claudia kept to the even tenor of her way. She suffered less, because she had never experienced a very strong feeling of ownership in either parent. It was as if she had always expected to see them set sail for a fairer clime. And whether it were the Orient or heaven made little difference. They were lost to her, but they had each other. The girl's heart in those days would have made a singularly interesting study. 
                  They had gone in very little society at Crofton. People so radically different as the Varians and their neighbors do not readily assimilate. Rose and Claudia lived on under Barbara's protection, Rose blossoming into wondrous beauty, yet never becoming a general favorite. Her delicacy and natural refinement recoiled at many of the things in her little world. Her keen wit led her to see, and frequently ridicule, the weak side of human nature. Obtuse souls were her detestation. With both it was the old fable of the eagle among barn-yard fowls. Yet they did not absolutely chafe, because they hardly realized anything better. Before that first night of my story, neither had ever given the feeling words, or dreamed of the possibility of a new sphere. 
                  This small estate had been left to Claudia by her grandfather. Six months ago it had become hers by right of age. The remnant of Dr. Varian's fortune, scanty indeed, was in Barbara's charge for Rose. Besides taking care of the family, she had managed to save a little. No parent could have been more considerate or scrupulous. 
                  As I said, Claudia was unable to sleep on this night; still she was not restless, in the common acceptation of the term. No vague or petty fears haunted her. The future, unfolding in dim distance before her, was so wide and grand that it hushed her with its solemn awe. Living on here was mere negation. Surely she might find some better way in which to walk. 
                  Then she felt how she was hampered by sex. If she went out to the contest, could she keep herself unstained, free even from the smell of fire, with fierce flames on every side? Why not? Was not truth always the same? Would not loftiness of soul, and high, pure purpose be recognized as well in a woman as in a man? O, the world could not be so bitterly unjust! 
                  After greatness was achieved, what then? 
                  Ah, what then? If the May drops out of life, if the time of blossoming never comes, of what account are dreams of fruit? There was a subtile want to her being that no gold and no fame could satisfy. Was this hunger the birthmark of a woman? One might be garlanded with the world's rarest crown, yet starved in heart. And love, the beneficent, might sit a guest at the meanest hearthstone. 
                  In all her twenty-one years she had known no lack. There had been a continual abundance in her heart, not because the supply was so large, but the demand hitherto had been so small. She lay there, shadowed by a nameless something that was hardly fear, yet lacked all the radiance of hope, till the morning dawned, till a new day began, a new day indeed for her. 
                  Does not every human soul accumulate by some gradual process through a series of years, the wants, thoughts, and capabilities for a new sphere? Imperceptibly; for even the volcano goes on hundreds of years under ground. And then we marvel at our fitness when the time comes, as if it were the experience of some prexistent world. It is a knowledge that cannot be defined or analyzed; a peculiar manifestation that springs to light at a chance word, or the sight of a face that stirs us like martial music, and dares us to the strife. We seem to understand then why we have been quietly arming-that the struggle is upon us, and we must fight unflinchingly, for if we are conquered we go down to the depths of sullen despair. God help those who have not the strength to buffet through! 
                  Outwardly, there was no difference in the new day. Claudia performed her few household duties with her usual serene gravity. Rose never troubled herself about anything. Some natures make a golden time of every season, take the cleft pomegranate of enjoyment, unmindful that the rind of care must fall to others. Selfish, of course. Yet the selfishness of Rose was neither obtrusive nor unpleasant. It demanded favors, but accepted them as the most ordinary events of life. She was grateful when Barbara mended her torn dresses, and in return half smothered her with kisses; but if neither Barbara nor Claudia had attended to them, they would have hung in the wardrobe. So with nearly everything else. She called on the neighbors, gossiped harmlessly, rambled through the woods, scarcely ever questioned or commented upon. Barbara had wisely given up trying to make her resemble Claudia. She could not understand the peculiar old-world temperament that revelled in a kind of sensuous indolence, and loved to bask in sunshine and ease; but she loved the child too well to annoy her. 
                  There was between the sisters just the sort of sympathy and relationship one might have expected. They were opposites in nearly every respect; as strangers, they would never have been drawn together in the slightest degree. It is a mistake to believe a little kindred blood can work wonders. There is always the poet's "necessity of loving," when we look forward to years or a lifetime spent with a certain set of people. The heart must have something to turn to, or it will burn itself to ashes. Human nature has little clinging tendrils that continually reach out hither and thither in search of support. But we do not give our deepest and most fervent loves in obedience to the call of duty. We cannot measure our affections, and apportion them in given quantities, just as some law or theory seems to demand. If the souls of those we live with are unable to wake in us a strong sentiment, we give a weaker one, and seek in by-paths for what we miss there. A certain kind of strength and weakness often assimilate, but the weakness must not be inferiority, the strength must not be glacial coldness. 
                  Claudia kindled a fire in the parlor, and drawing an easel from the corner, arranged her pallette, and sat down to work. Very slowly, though. The little landscape growing beneath her hand seemed trifling enough-a certain arrangement of trees, rock, and a little meandering stream, tinted with a sunset glow. She knew how it should be, but on this day her right hand appeared to have lost its cunning. She retouched a leaf here, a shade there, making no absolute progress, but affording herself a peculiar satisfaction in a nearer approach to nature. Yet she was glad when the two hours were ended, and took up her sewing with a long breath of relief. Now she could dream of the great world she meant to try some day. Instead, she lived over the evening with John Brevoort, hardly conscious that her thoughts wandered so far. 
                  After dinner, Rose drew the old settle up to the fire and fell asleep. She made such a lonely picture lying there, her hair floating about her like waves of liquid gold! The crimson light of the blaze played about her face, making the curve of the red lips redder, giving a tint of bronze to the eyelashes, and lingering tenderly over the soft, peachy cheek. 
                  Claudia took her sketch-book and started out. Another peculiarity of these two girls was that they rarely cared to go anywhere together. They talked more before Barbara than when alone by themselves. They appeared to have an intuitive understanding of each other's wishes. 
                  She went to her old haunt in the woods, perched herself on a corner of the rock, and leaning her head on her hand, fell into a reverie. Yesterday, this time, her life had been sufficient cient for her. To-day, it was meagre, restricted, a desert waste. It might be something, if-Yes, Rose was right; they must leave Crofton; seek some wider sphere. What could she do-how take the first step? Had she all the requisites necessary for such an attempt,-ambition, courage, perseverance, hardness? John Brevoort was right: womanly delicacy and sensitiveness would often be wounded in the fight. Ah, if she could have but one friend! 
                
                
                   
                  IV. FRIENDSHIP WITH CLAUDIA. 
                  How long she mused she knew not, but at length a step startled her. Never having been intruded upon before, she sprang up, regardless of the unused book and pencils in her lap. 
                  "Pardon me! O, what have I done-alarmed you?" 
                  The genial voice of John Brevoort reassured her in a moment. His pleading smile won all that he had asked. 
                  "I was very foolish," she said simply, stooping for her lost treasures. 
                  He assisted in gathering them up as he answered,- 
                  "And I intrusive, I suppose. Is this your sylvan retreat, sacred to the arts? What a glorious studio!" and he glanced around. 
                  "Yes, I like it." 
                  "I was rambling about to find something new and strange to solace me for a penance I am about to undergo. I am invited out to tea at Mrs. Sandford's. There will be three Miss Sandfords in their holiday attire, served up with the best china." 
                  "But you will not eat them!" 
                  "Heaven forbid!" and he laughed. "Nor digest them either, in any sense of the word. Crude women are as bad as unripe fruit. I have half a mind to turn complimentary, Miss Varian, and say you and your sister are the only sensible girls I have met in Crofton. Why, you did not even invite me to tea!" 
                  "Thereby saved our reputation and our tea." 
                  "Yes. You will set me down as a most ungrateful dog. Going out to tea is a bore. Why are parsons and pedagogues always fted?" 
                   
                  "I don't know, unless bordering strongly on the intellectual, kind friends deem it a Christian duty to preserve balance with the physical." 
                  He laughed gayly. There was something infectious about the man-a sort of mercurial power that influenced one's moods. He could brighten with a word-he could also chill with a word. 
                  "Were you sketching?" 
                  "No,-idling." 
                  "You do sketch, though? This was the rival to medicine-a more congenial employment, I fancy." 
                  His tone piqued her. It was as if he had said,-"being a woman, this is most proper for you." 
                  "Yes," she replied, "I sketch and paint;" in a tone that might have announced darning stockings and washing dishes. 
                  "May I look them over?" He reached out his hand for the book. 
                  They were mostly studies-here and there one finished with great fineness of detail; or a face that startled you by the boldness of its conception, the character indicated. 
                  "You had a right to talk as you did last night. Only genius could have brought you to this stage without assistance." 
                  "You give me too much credit. I have had assistance." 
                  The tone was haughty. 
                  "A teacher?" 
                  "Yes, all the past summer. I go once a week to E. for lessons." 
                  He was sitting a little lower down on the rock than she, and could watch, her face easily. This calmness led his penetration astray. When he tried to measure her, to gauge her, he found her different from anything he had ever met; conscious too of her strength, as if it were a wall of adamant built about her. Ah, how little we know of what is passing in the hearts of those before us! She was feeling quite weak and helpless: he thought her sufficient for anything. Yet it is by the exterior we are nearly always judged. Few people have the power to sound the depths of our being, and bring up its secret store. 
                  "You mean to be an artist?' 
                  "I don't know what I mean," she said slowly. "I began it because I liked it. I must do something, or die. Having a small house and farm, and being provided with an excellent housekeeper, I cannot find enough woman's work for my whole time." 
                  "You bear malice,"-and he looked curiously at her. "Forgive me for last night." 
                  "There is nothing to forgive." 
                  "What are we?-friends, enemies, or too indifferent for either?" 
                  Her whole soul caught at the word friend. This man with massive front, on which power and courage were indelibly stamped, the resolute eyes, the firm, restless hands, indicative of so much will and perseverance, what a friend he could make! Because she needed him so sorely, and was so proud, she would utter no word that savored of pleading, but simply said,- 
                  "Choose; I have had neither friend nor enemy yet. The people whom I have met thus far have been simply negatives." 
                  "Of all, the most exasperating. Can you imagine what I was tempted to say last night when I parted with you? Something like this: Miss Varian, let us be good, honest friends, helping and strengthening each other a little if we can, and it seems to me we have the natures to do it. Friendship between men and women is too often swamped in a maudlin sea of love, but I think ours would be safe. The past month has been quite a new era in my life. I am social by nature; and, having lived nearly always in a city, have found no lack of agreeable acquaintances. I had no idea there could be such a death in Crofton. Young men immersed in their farms, young women-well, I am going to tea with three of them, as I told you. If I were to mention friendship, I am not sure but they would proceed with wedding-cake forthwith. So I was the more astonished to enter a magician's palace last night. I was beginning to think my year here would be unendurable, but the prospect brightens. We are to be friends then?" 
                  "Friends," she said solemnly. There is something as touching about a first friendship as there is about a first love. When the heart is free from the graves that cluster thickly in its shrine, if life is long, O, how reverently one ought to tread! With them both it was a satisfying bond. They both thought at that moment it would be quite impossible for them to be anything warmer than friends. She was so very unlike his ideal,-for every young man cherishes one,-that there could be no danger to him. He was not more selfish than men in general in thus thinking of his own safety first. He affected to sneer a little at love,-youth is always so wise. Theory and the experience of others stood him instead of his own. 
                  As for Claudia, I think she had a truer estimate of him just then, than she was destined to have in a long while. Yet the opinion seemed unjust, uncharitable. How many times though, in life, we go back to these first impressions, and find ourselves right. One hates to begin by believing the worst. Neither did she fear for herself. She had a sad presentiment that the blessing beautifying other lives would pass hers by; that love, with its pangs and pleasures, would never be for her. 
                  "How did you come to think of art?" he asked. 
                  "I believe I always loved it; but excepting two or three old paintings my father brought home, I saw nothing until a year ago. An artist came to spend a few weeks here. He painted this spot from a point below. It was as if some one had roused me from a long sleep." 
                  "You met him?" 
                  "Yes, I went to see the picture. He was young, enthusiastic, yet I could not talk to him. He gave me a few lessons, and recommended me to a Mr. Gervoise, in E., an old Frenchman. This is all I have done." 
                  "Something else," he thought. "This young artist gave you a glimpse of more than one world. It is well you are so reticent." 
                  "Have you always lived in Crofton?" 
                  "Yes. I was born here. But yesterday I had an offer for my house. I think I shall sell it and go away." 
                  "O, don't; at least not until next summer;" and he glanced up beseechingly. "It would be cruel to find you, and lose you so soon. Think of the desert you would leave me!" 
                  "You are not likely to starve in it, by present appearances." 
                  "No, but 'what shall it profit a man?' Are you going to study?" 
                  "Why not? Life is wasted here. And work is as necessary for me as for any other human soul." 
                  "You are ambitious." 
                  "Yes, to-day." 
                  "And to-morrow?" 
                  "I shall be all the rest of my life." 
                  "I think you will succeed," he said slowly. "But it is no child's play. Will the result satisfy you?" 
                  He asked the question directly, more as man to man than man to woman. 
                  "Yes." She had resolved to be satisfied with the end, were it sweet or bitter. And yet it recalled her last night's vision. 
                  "Are you brave, or cold, to give up what most women care for so deeply?" 
                  "Love, you mean?" She said it clearly, with no lingering intonation. "Some women do not, cannot marry. It is well for them to be provided with rational employment." 
                  "Yet we confess marriage to be their true estate." 
                  "When it is true." She said this almost bitterly. 
                  "But do you not think when a woman thus undertakes to carve out her own fortune, she sets herself in opposition to that tenderer fate? If she can achieve all for herself, she does not need what a man can give her. She is not dependent on love." 
                   
                  "Why should she be, when there is no love to depend on? All are not born to be blessed in this respect. If her own heart is sufficient for her-" 
                  "Yes, if it is. But it appears to me she must be born with some masculine attributes in that case, and deficient in some feminine ones, to give her this strength. It is unnatural for a woman to prefer ambition and toil, even if it is at length crowned by success, to the softer and more delightsome graces of life." 
                  "Granted she have genius, then, what is she to do with it?" 
                  "It is so we know; and yet it seems an anomaly. She cannot render it subordinate to her woman's destiny, which must ever be love. So there is a perpetual strife." 
                  "But if no love ever came to her?" 
                  "Miss Varian, excuse me, but that is just what I meant. Must she not show, in some decided way, that she is not formed for love, if love forever holds aloof?" 
                  "In that event every one capable of happiness would be happy,-which we know is not the case." 
                  "People make their own misery often enough. We are such blind, stupid creatures. Still, I believe every person, capable of love, will love at some time. I think I would rather hear of a woman that she had loved unhappily, than not at all. (And a man loves a woman more when he learns he is just as necessary to her as she is to him. How can this be if something else comes first?" 
                  "We stray from the text,"-and Claudia gave a keen, perplexing smile, that he did not at all understand. "This imaginary woman has youth, health, intellect; a craving for other than trifling employments that fill only a part of her time, rarely her thoughts. Granted, too, that she may be formed for the highest and purest love. Shall she marry the first commonplace man she meets with, outrage and profane the holiest passion, say to her soul that it is fed, when it abounds in a loathsome satiety of husks; or shall she keep true to herself, dare to be courageous, and take the calmer field, even if there is but one worker there-herself?" 
                   
                  "Heaven forbid that she should wreck herself. I wonder if we do not idealize these things too much. Jean Paul says, in his Titan, 'Every young man has a fine season in his life when he will accept no office, and every young woman the same in hers when she will accept no husband. By and by they both change, and often take one another in the bargain.' We indulge in heroics, yet we are most of us commonplace, with unromantic wants and desires. Even our loves must be of the earth, earthy. But if this woman cannot be satisfied with what is in the range of possibility-" 
                  "If the man who could be her king never comes,-for that is it,-shall she spend her time in tears and weak laments, vain repinings?" 
                  A peculiar expression passed over John Brevoort's face. Not a smile, but an indescribable light and motion, as if he were thinking how impossible such a thing would ever be to Claudia. She long for any man's love! 
                  "No," he said; "I cannot imagine your heroine being so foolish." 
                  Her lip curled. "If we have no longing for love, we are cold-too strong; if one hapless soul dares betray its weakness, she is-foolish." 
                  "No," he responded quickly, "I did not say that. I do think a woman has some right to an election of heart as well as the prerogative of refusal. But this woman is on a more elevated plane than the rest of her sex. She has taken her future into her own hands. She does not seek love. She has an ambition that occupies the secret niches of her heart. She enters into the fight with the manful resolve to win something that does not usually come to women, devoting to it the sweetest and most susceptible years of her life. Admitting that she wins,-for we know energetic souls do succeed,-is it a real, satisfying joy? It was very well for the ark to rest on the mount, but the dove, you know, sought a fairer abode. Do you suppose she will never feel that the goal was hardly worth such a race when she sits on the arid highway listening to the shouts of the multitude below?" 
                  "But if there was nothing else for her?" 
                  "O, Miss Varian, there is something else for every woman. And it seems to me if I were a woman, nothing but love and tenderness could satisfy me. I suppose you do not believe it," and he laughed a little, "but even I occasionally look forward to that day. There is so much to be done in the time between, that I hardly dare dream, even." 
                  "Yes," she said; "this is merely a stepping-stone. You have plans beyond." 
                  "Do you read people's souls? Have you a clairvoyant gift?" 
                  He was looking steadily into her eyes. He felt them waver, and his whole brain seemed irresistibly swayed. The sensation vexed him a little. 
                  "No," she answered simply, "I have not any gift." 
                  Her frankness restored him, yet there came even then a dim suspicion of her strength. Presently he went on, musingly, as if half in a dream- 
                  "Yes, I have plans. Shall I tell them to you? I have shut out all Crofton. I hate to be gossiped about, even in ignorant good nature; to be asked all the whys and wherefores of my motives and designs. And then, too, I object to hero worship, flattering as it may be, unless indeed my subjects were of a higher order." 
                  "Suppose I in my turn gossip?" 
                  "You could not do it. I understand at least that of you, Miss Varian, and give you perfect liberty to discuss me with all your dear friends. Though there is not much to tell, after all. Columbia College gave me my A. M. Later I became distinguished by an M. D." 
                  "Dr. Brevoort. Rose said it last night." 
                  "Did she?" A curious light flashed up in John Brevoort's face. "I suppose you wonder, after all that, how I came here. Well, I have had a pretty hard time of it, but when a man gets out of the wilderness, there is small sense in his counting up every bramble that has pricked him. I wanted to go West immediately, but the fates, in the shape of poverty, forbade. I heard of this place,-the salary was good, and I had been rather severely worked, so the rest it promised appeared grateful; therefore I accepted. Have I done wisely in keeping my own counsel?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I have ambition too. I cannot be content with mediocrity. Where there are so many striving, one must throw every energy into the contest. I am resolved to make a mark somewhere. Not only that, but to be a rich man. I confess I want all the comforts and pleasures of life. Now, while I am young, I can tread the rugged path with no sigh; yet I do not always mean to walk in it. And when I reach this point, I can afford to indulge in love." He ended his sentence with a light laugh. 
                  "Then you do not want sympathy and assistance now, in the hardest of the struggle. I think that is unlike most fancies." 
                  "No. To tell the truth, all these things make me hard and impatient. I want some one, bright and young, in this ideal home of mine. I desire to study her, enjoy her, make the most of my life with her, which I could not do now, nor perhaps for a long while to come. I do not wish to be wrecked myself, neither will I drag any woman down to the dross of common life." 
                  Claudia was silent,-thoughtful. This man, who had almost doubted her capability of loving, displayed a strange lack himself. His luxuries of life would never be necessities. He disdained assistance. He stood as much alone, in his way, as she stood in hers. 
                  "See where the sun has gone to, Miss Varian! I must beg you to send me away before the tea grows cold." 
                  She was equal to the appeal, though she felt she might have detained him still longer. Waving her hand gracefully, she said,-"Go." 
                   
                  He rose slowly. "Remember," he said, "we are friends, and I think you will find me claiming all the privileges and emoluments. Adieu. Do not sit on this gray rock until you turn into a statue. I want to keep you flesh and blood a while longer." 
                  Her calm lip curled a little. Was this really friendship? She felt he would never understand her in many respects in which it is woman's dearest delight to be understood. So she walked down from Crofton Rock in a different mood from any she had hitherto known. 
                  Her real experience had been, of course, very narrow, so her judgments were formed from first principles rather than thorough knowledge. She had yet to learn there are no pure temperaments, no souls in such harmony with their creation, that one can say with certainty of this man, under given circumstances he will act on this wise. And yet she had a tolerably correct idea of John Brevoort. She liked his strength, his manly courage, his ambition; and perhaps the determination with which he put off love,-the delight of his life,-won her even against herself. So far as worldly wisdom went he was right. Love is the tormentor of youth when it must be spent in labor. To cloud it with fears, to dim it with failures, to drag it down with despairs, mars the grace of its loveliness in too many cases; but a love that can endure all this, and still dare to blossom in beauty and richness, is glorious beyond compare. Her practical nature commended him, her woman nature protested utterly. She would rather a hundred times have loved him through years of struggles, than quaffed his golden cup as she sat at his later banquet. 
                  I do not mean you to fancy she had any idea of loving John Brevoort. They were too much alike in some things, too unlike in others. Hers was a strongly intellectual nature, and it would have been difficult for her to comprehend now a purely physical love in all its endless bearings. Her ideal was too high, too artistic. His commonplaces, therefore, had given her some rude shocks. Still she accepted the friendship just as he meant it. Both were to make it useful, to gain whatever good they could extract from it. She needed a friend very much, and he was the more attractive because he could tell her of the great world where she meant to make her venture; for she had decided now that some time it must come to that. She was in no haste, however. 
                  John Brevoort's tea-drinking was not one whit more satisfactory than Claudia's thoughts. There was Miss Sandford, old at twenty-four, sharp, careful, suspicious, bearing the seal of spinsterhood in her face. Miss Arabella, two years her junior, who talked with her hand up to her mouth, and giggled between her words. Sarah, fat and hoydenish, the bloom of her cheeks extending to brow and chin in a most uncomfortable manner. They had nothing of any importance to say. They had been taught many things at school, but never read, never thought; had narrow, vapid minds. Their father was rich, to be sure, and having that, they fancied they needed nothing more. Miss Arabella had taken a decided fancy to the new school-teacher, and her elder sister was willing to forward her designs, as there were three or four girls yet to grow up and be provided with husbands or go without. 
                  Much cannot be said for the society of Crofton. It was hardly farther advanced than when Dr. Varian came into the place twenty-three years before. The towns around had improved, grown in social and intellectual culture; this, being mostly divided into large farms, allowed of but few new comers. The old ones went on in the same groove. To John Brevoort, fresh from New York, it was daily martyrdom, or would have been but for his books and aims. Being something quite new, the Croftonites took him up eagerly. Without being able to explain, they knew he affected them, swayed them if you will, as a strong, dominant mind always does sway inferiors. If he had chosen, he might have been a great favorite. But to do him justice, he had very little personal vanity in this respect. He thought well of himself: he had that quality often mistaken for egotism, a sort of self-complacence and self-confidence. He measured himself pretty accurately too, and knew he had some weaknesses. Any opinion that he must strive for was always enhanced in worth to him. This at Crofton was of very little account, because it was so freely given, and partly because it was the product of inferior minds. 
                  It was a relief to have Mr. Sandford talk of crops and the new railroad, although even that could not silence Arabella's giggle. He wondered why these obtuse and vulgar people, with narrow souls and only material wants, should so abound in wealth, while he and others, to whom refinement came as a birthright, should be forced to struggle for a mere pittance; to see their high ideals ground to the dust, their dreams and ambitions crushed and wasted. It made him almost angry. 
                  And then last night! He clung to that vision by the very force of contrast. How would Rose look surrounded by luxury, dressed elegantly. In his thoughts she made a gorgeous Eastern picture. It must be that people slipped into the wrong places sometimes, or else fate played strange, mad pranks. 
                  The next time Claudia went to E. for her lesson, she had a talk with her master. He was a little Frenchman, past middle age, who, in his young days, had studied art for art's sake alone; later in life he used it to eke out a scanty subsistence. Youth and enthusiasm had died out, or rather been starved out. Claudia indulged in no sentimental dreams, but in a straightforward manner mentioned her desires,-aims they could hardly be called yet. 
                  He was a little startled. He fancied Mademoiselle Varian studying art for pastime. 
                  "But if there should be a necessity for its use?" 
                  "Yes, she might find employment in a city. There were classes in schools, and sometimes private pupils to be obtained. Then there was coloring pictures for books and magazines; one would doubtless earn a living. But Mademoiselle must remember the prejudice there was against women when they attempted anything beyond their sphere. Rosa Bonheur had succeeded-" 
                  Claudia smiled a little. Opposition and discouragement only made her the more resolute. 
                  Still, she confessed nothing could be done at present. Winter was an ungenial time in which to seek a new home. And she wanted to accustom herself to a separation from this old house. 
                  Then John Brevoort's society promised a keen pleasure. He came soon again, this time without an excuse. Barbara watched them with sharp eyes. No sign, no change of color, no satisfied glance passed between them. Another person watched too, and speculated in a weird, curious fashion. This person was Rose. 
                
                
                   
                  V. FRIENDSHIP WITH ROSE. 
                  "BARBARA, can you make me handsome on a two weeks' notice?" 
                  Rose Varian looked up from her corner by the fire, waking out of a reverie very unusual for her. It was a chilly November afternoon, and since her return from a walk she had been silent and meditative. 
                  "Beautiful, miss?" echoed Barbara sharply. 
                  "Yes." Rose laughed low and musically, as if amused at the tone. "Not to give me shining hair, or sparkling eyes, or even lovely hands and feet,"-and she glanced down at them with a little girlish pride,-"but to make something elegant to put me in. For Barbara mia, I have not only been invited to a wedding, but asked to stand with the bride." 
                  Claudia started. "Who is to be married?" she questioned. 
                  "Mary Gregg, to be sure. Who else would want me for a bridesmaid?" There was a rather scornful intonation in this. 
                  "In a fortnight! What has happened?" was Barbara's query. 
                  "Mrs. Rogerson is too feeble to look after her household any longer, so Mary is to be married, and go home to the old folks. A sweet time she will have of it!" 
                  "Mary is a good girl, Miss Rose." 
                  When Barbara wanted to be especially pointed and severe, she invariably said-"Miss Rose." 
                  "Yes, Mary is a good girl. She has waited patiently five years because old Mr. and Mrs. Rogerson would not part with George, nor consent to have a son's wife brought home. Now, when Mrs. Rogerson is likely to be an invalid the rest of her life, she consents to have some one come and wait upon her. A servant they would have to pay-Mary will work for her daily bread, and be thankful. Moral: patience and constancy are sure to be rewarded in the end." 
                  "For shame, Miss Rose!" 
                  "No, I am not a bit ashamed, for it is true. George Rogerson is a good enough, commonplace fellow, but he wouldn't marry me after these years of waiting for another person's nod;" and the passionate eyes flashed out an angry light. "Yes, the whole thing looks mean and poor to me-as if a man was bargaining for a horse or a cow because he had a stable, and was gifted with a sharp eye for the profits. Then that a woman could be meek enough to munch her handful of hay, and find her chief pleasure in serving the master! Claudia, did you ever feel ashamed of being a woman?" 
                  "According to your view men are no better. What should we gain by the exchange?" Yet she looked into the fire thoughtfully. How many times during the last month she had felt hampered and restricted by sex! 
                  "But there are some men in the world; I haven't much faith in anything, but I believe that." 
                  "And some women. How happens it that you are to be bridesmaid?" 
                  "O, Mary's cousin and dear friend was married last summer, you know. I fancy she likes me tolerably well. She showed me all her bed and table linen-enough to last a lifetime." 
                  "She has been a good, industrious girl," interpolated Barbara. 
                  "And I shall never be good nor industrious-is that what your sage looks forebode? Truth to tell, I was a little surprised at being asked, but you haven't answered my question. Is there anything that can be furbished up? I suppose you'll consider buying new too extravagant. I wish I was rich! It's mean and abominable to be poor!" 
                   
                  Barbara considered. "There's a whole trunk full of clothes your mother brought with her-handsomer than anything you can buy." 
                  "But it must be white, and those are saffron-colored by this time." 
                  "They can be washed," said the prudent housekeeper, with a frown. 
                  Rose bit her lip. She had a great distaste for the small economies of life. And yet she had heard Mary Gregg proposing to do up her own white muslin, so that she would have only a new silk and a nice winter dress to buy. She made no objection, but secretly hoped none of them would answer. 
                  "Let's go and get them," she proposed, springing up, anxious to know her fate. 
                  Barbara knit to the middle of her needle before she stirred. Then she found Rose up stairs, with the big trunk dragged out of the closet, where it had been consigned after Mrs. Varian's death. She had a little tender awe and reverence. Rose was swayed only by curiosity. 
                  "O, what lovely, lovely things! Why didn't we have them out before? And look, Barbara, dresses never made up!" 
                  She pulled them out ruthlessly, and with them a piece of fine, soft muslin, curiously wrought, the product of some Eastern loom. 
                  "This is a darling! Barbara, will it ever come white?" 
                  "Don't take it, child; I'm saving it for something else." 
                  "For what?" Rose glanced up in astonishment. 
                  "For your own wedding." 
                  The girl gave a strained, elfin laugh. It dropped about the old room like beads sliding off a string. 
                  "My wedding! Barbara, do you believe Claudia or I will ever be married?" 
                  "Why not, miss?" 
                  "Why not? Because nothing ever 
                     does come to us. We shall go on living here until we drop into old-maidism. I shall wear cap and spectacles, and knit stockings, only about once a month you will have to rise out of your grave to take me through the heel and toeing off. Poor old soul! Your sleep will not be very tranquil." 
                  "One would think you were a heathen!" exclaimed Barbara, horrified. 
                  "I believe I am. A sort of land Undine, without a soul. But I have a fancy that I should like to get out of my grave once in a while, and have a rest. It would be so tiresome to lie there on one's back forever and ever!" 
                  "You don't know what you are talking about." 
                  "Death,-and we began on marriage. They both give me a sort of shiver, so I laugh over them." 
                  Barbara refolded the muslin. 
                  "No, I want to take it down stairs, and lots of these pretty things. Has Claudia seen them?" 
                  "Yes, she helped put them away." 
                  "Why didn't you tell me before?" 
                  "You did not need them. I knew you would when you were a young lady." 
                  "I shall make myself just as lovely as possible next summer. I shall feast my sight on all these beautiful fabrics. I wish I could go to a party every night." 
                  Rose came down radiant enough. Claudia checked a pang that stirred her heart with some old emotion, for it seemed almost like opening a grave to look over these bright garments so long laid aside. Rose pulled them hither and thither, tried on a few of the dresses, and surveyed herself in the glass. She was resolute about the muslin. It should be made up for immediate use. 
                  "To think that Barbara proposed saving it for my wedding dress," she laughed. "There! you see by Claudia's face that she hasn't a bit of faith in that event." 
                  Claudia looked grave, but it was a gravity shared with some other expression. How would love come to Rose. And how would she take it-as bane or blessing? This eager, wilful girl, with her passionate nature that laughed at bonds; this illusive soul, warmed into life on the shores of the blue Mediterranean, born amid fragrance and beauty. Would love be to her anything beyond a fantastic dream? Could she understand its full meaning, its deep significance? 
                  "I'll see how I like this wedding," said Rose presently, as if she had been considering. 
                  "Who is going to stand with you?" Claudia asked. 
                  "I'm not quite sure." There was a curious light in Rose's eyes. 
                  She had said to Mary that afternoon,- 
                  "I'll be bridesmaid on one condition only-that Mr. Brevoort stands with me." 
                  "Mr. Brevoort!" was the astonished ejaculation. 
                  "Yes, George can ask him. And when he knows what I have said, I think he will not refuse." 
                  "Do you like him?" 
                  "I have not seen much of him to like, but I think he will be nice at a wedding." 
                  "I am afraid. He is so-" 
                  "Nonsense! I tell you he isn't so at all, nor any other way, except quite like common people. He eats bread and butter, and goes to church on Sunday, as a Christian should. And between us both, we shall be quite an attraction at your wedding. It's hardly likely you will ever have another, so it is wisdom to make the most of this." 
                  "Rose Varian, you are the oddest girl I ever saw. If I didn't know you so well-" 
                  "You don't know me at all. I don't even know myself. I sometimes wonder if I am real-in the body or out of the body." 
                  Mary looked excessively puzzled. 
                  "So ask Mr. Brevoort, if you please," had been Rose's parting injunction. 
                   
                  George Rogerson mustered up sufficient courage to do it. He took Mr. Brevoort over to E. on the following Saturday, and just as they were coming in sight of the familiar chimneytops again, he proffered the request that appeared so formidable to him. 
                  "It's complimentary in you George," said Mr. Brevoort. All the Croftonites were called by their Christian names. "But-" 
                  "O, you must," hurried in George. "Rose Varian declared she wouldn't stand with any one but you, and Mary wants her." 
                  "Rose Varian!" Mr. Brevoort reconsidered. 
                  "You can. It isn't much to do." 
                  "Yes. I can, and will." 
                  "I'm obliged to you, I am sure. And Mary will be so glad." 
                  John Brevoort dropped into the old stone house that evening. He generally went once a week, so this was an extra indulgence. 
                  Claudia was calm and gracious-her usual mood. Rose bright, but impenetrable. Not the slightest allusion was made to the wedding, though he announced his day's occupation. 
                  "I wonder if she really did want me," he thought to himself, "and if she is not a little curious?" 
                  But she paid no special heed to him. In truth her indifference piqued him. Cold as he tried to make himself, he had all a young man's vanity 
                  Rose nodded to herself, and glanced into the coals with a satisfied smile. Some people have those wonderful intuitive presentiments concerning another's mood, and this night she was in a rare state of divination. She felt confident that the matter had been favorably settled. 
                  Mary assured her on Sunday, as they came out of church. The next week the girls fell into wedding preparations. Some new spell came over Rose. She took a warm interest in everything, and became Mary's confidant. 
                   
                  She carried her point about the lawn for her own dress. Barbara bleached it into snowy purity, but cut it with reluctant hands. It seemed to bring back so many old memories. 
                  "So there's to be a wedding in Crofton," Mr. Brevoort said, at his next call, drawn out of his resolve, as he sat by the wide chimney, speculating on both girls. 
                  "Yes," Rose said, simply. 
                  "I was surprised by an invitation to act as groomsman." 
                  "Shall you?" The tone was careless, and Rose studied the knotty end of a hickory stick that, having burned into the middle, made a mass of lava-like coals. 
                  Mr. Brevoort bit his lip, and was betrayed into something like impatience. 
                  "If it is agreeable to you," he said, loftily. "I understand you are to be bridesmaid." 
                  "Yes. It is agreeable to me. I want you to." 
                  She jerked off every word sharply at the end of the sentences, and then compressed her mouth into an odd expression. 
                  "I never attended a country wedding before, though I once helped a poor fellow to take the fatal step." 
                  "He had the repentance and you the pleasure." 
                  "How do you know he repented?" 
                  "Some irreverent person cites matrimony as a means of grace, because it breaks up pride and leads to repentance." 
                  "What becomes of the happy and satisfied ones then? Do they miss of heaven?" 
                  "I am not theologically wise, nor versed in all the nice shades of free grace and foreordination. I don't know whether sin follows desire or precedes it. I cannot tell the exact amount of this world's delusive joy that will shut one out of paradise, nor the yards of sackcloth necessary to take one into it. I'm a little dubious on the precise location of purgatory." 
                  "Clearly your religious education has been neglected. Suppose you try matrimony?" 
                   
                  "I am thinking of it seriously. If I can fascinate any of the young men of Crofton. He must be rich, and not given to parsimony. There's Squire Brown's youngest hopeful. Would red hair in the family be any objection, Claudia?" 
                  "Miss Rose!" Barbara had been listening in growing indignation, and now could not forbear reproof. 
                  Rose laughed in her own elfin fashion, startling every nook with a silvery peal. Mr. Brevoort could not resist the infection. 
                  "You haven't told me what I am to do," he began presently. 
                  "Wear white gloves, and have a handkerchief scented with dried rose leaves or sweet-marjoram. Oil your hair well, carry your elbows at an acute angle, and look excessively frightened. Don't answer for the bridegroom-you are likely to have sins and troubles enough of your own. After that, some kissing,"-and Rose's thin nostril went up a little disdainfully,-"much wishing of joy, dancing, eating, and a suspicious flavor of love-cordial for the strong-minded elders. Mary will rise the next morning, don her calico, sweep the house, and wash dishes. George will look after the stock, and fill up his leisure moments shelling corn. Crofton will recover from its dissipation, and the world go on as before. You will find the children as stupid the next day, and the green wood farmer Hawes sent you just as likely to smoke." 
                  "Upon my word you are extremely graphic." 
                  "More my misfortune than my fault," she replied, drolly. 
                  "What time does my attendance upon you commence?" 
                  "Two minutes before the ceremony." 
                  "I must come for you before that." 
                  "You do not come for me at all. I am to spend the day with Mary." 
                  How saucy and curt she was! Did she care a pin's worth about the whole matter? He was a trifle vexed. She noted the compression of the lips. 
                   
                  "Does it annoy you-having to stand?" 
                  This tone was so soft and tenderly persuasive. It stirred him unwontedly. 
                  "O, no; don't think that," was his quick rejoinder. "Indeed, I rather like the idea now, though at first it appeared odd. I have never been at just such a wedding." 
                  "Doubtless you will be surprised; may be, shocked. We haven't the nice sense of propriety, the tact, the ease and elegance to which you have been accustomed." 
                  "Please don't say we. Leave yourself out." 
                  Rose made a curious inclination of the head. So many of her motions were singularly expressive. 
                  "I am a Croftonite," she said, gravely. "Their short-comings are mine." 
                  "You are generous!" 
                  "When an Arab eats salt at a man's table-" 
                  "Yes, I understand you." 
                  "Rose, you have ten minds every day of your life," said Claudia. 
                  "Exactly, The tenth I take to bed with me, consequently it is the least evanescent. It is not exposed to every wind of doctrine, but cuddled up tenderly. I suppose you strong people think it very fine to have minds like adamant; but while one idea is slowly forcing itself through your almost impenetrable brains I can dash through a wide range of feeling, and have every variety the circumstances will admit. Intellectual giants are very well when you want Corinthian pillars to society, but for all that you need a cornice, and architrave, and sundry graceful ornamentations, or your pillar is unfinished." 
                  And women were the ornaments of life. Just now this one made all besides herself seem cold and flavorless to John Brevoert. How she sparkled there in the fire-light! He was almost afraid to look at her. What a puzzle to be dropped down here in Crofton. Was the world turned about some way, full of cross-purposes and disjointed lives! He stumbled over thoughts like these every little while. 
                   
                  "Wednesday night, then," he said, coming out of his reverie and rising. "I am to meet you at Miss Gregg's? You are going, Miss Varian?" 
                  "I hardly know. I am afraid I do not incline naturally to merry-makings." 
                  "Yes, do," he returned. "Persuade her, Miss Rose." 
                  "I should as soon think of persuading the Sphinx." 
                  He was glad to get out into the cold night air. He took the first few steps unsteadily, as if still under the influence of enchantment. Through all the dark he saw Rose Varian's eyes, glowing in the amber hue the fire had given them. 
                  Rose and Mary were very busy; Mary in a girlish flutter, Rose in a mood of elfish speculation. She gauged Mary continually: she had a hundred different estimates of love. When George was by, heavy and commonplace, she wondered how Mary could be satisfied to place all the rest of her life in his hands. What a sort of strange tyranny marriage was! 
                  Wednesday dawned auspiciously. The old rambling country house was in a state of commotion. Several generations of Greggs had lived here, stolid, narrow people, not much worse than their neighbors, but certainly with no ambition to be better. Taking life in a sluggish fashion, marrying, rearing children, and dropping into the grave. Yet, doubtless, they had their pleasures. 
                  The list carpet, Mrs. Gregg's masterpiece, was rolled up from the floor of the best room, and stowed away in a closet. There was to be no dancing on that. Planks were arranged against the wall, with stools to support each end, cushioned with some folded blankets, and covered with gay, chintz bed-hangings. A picture of George Washington in a narrow black frame, a portrait, in ruffled shirt front and queue, of great-grandfather Gregg who had held a command in the revolutionary war, profiles of grandfather and grandmother Gregg cut in black, two pitchers on the mantelpiece, odd, old-fashioned; a curious combination of bronze and flowers embossed in a dull blue, and filled with dried grasses, crimson coxcomb, straw flowers in the sharp glitter of their yellow gold, and tufts of white balsam. The place looked oddly barren now. 
                  Adjoining this room was another as large, and much more homelike in appearance. The rag carpet was quite worn, the rush-bottomed chairs despoiled of their paint and freshness. Since noon there had been continuous arrivals, a clatter of tongues, crying of babies, and not a little quarrelling of youngsters, who were always in everybody's way. For the Greggs were social and gregarious. Mary was the last daughter, and the older members, most of whom lived at a distance, took this opportunity to make a visit home. Here was Mary's younger sister, who had been wooed, married, and become a mother since the advent of tardy George. Sons-in-law, sturdy, stalwart fellows, with great shocks of hair, and loud voices, talked of crops, cattle, and good horse trades, or told broadly comical stories, the point of which could be seen by the dullest wit. 
                  The sun went over westward. Twilight dropped down, softening the cold, yellow sky. Candles were lit, the early supper cleared away, and some of the small fry safely deposited in bed. Mary, with Rose, and a few confidential cousins, kept her room in a whirl until the last moment. They heard the guests gathering below, they fortified each other with jests, fastened dresses, tied ribbons, pulled a braid or a curl of hair twenty different ways. 
                  "George and Mr. Brevoort are coming up," announced some one. 
                  "O dear! Am I all right?" Mary asked, nervously, her face alternately red and white. 
                  "Yes. Put on your gloves;" and Rose thrust them into her hand. 
                  "How lovely you are, Rose! Why, I never saw anything like it!" and Mary stared in wide-eyed wonder, as if the fact had just dawned upon her. 
                  "Never mind me. You look sweet and pretty;" and so she did, in the bloom of her twenty-three years, and the excitement of her wedding night. 
                  George Rogerson took her in his arms and kissed her. Rose forgave him a great deal for that show of tenderness. 
                  John Brevoort drew Rose nearer to him by the clasp of her hand. Bending a little, he whispered in a peculiar tone,- 
                  "Bridegrooms are to be envied." 
                  Rose gave him a haughty stare. The hot blood flashed to his face. Before the night was over he meant to make this girl own his power a little. 
                  He spoke pleasantly to Mary. Then as the clergyman had come, they went down stairs, pausing in the hall to adjust themselves. Something in Mr. Brevoort's gentlemanly ease gave George Rogerson a more complete self-possession. They crossed the room and took their places. Rose, free and unembarrassed, noticed with her quick glance the guests ranged around the wall, and the rows of chairs all placed as primly as at a funeral. There was a momentary glimpse of Claudia in her crimson dress, with a fall of soft lace around her throat. The pale, high-bred face was so different from its neighbors, who were in every stage of blossoming. She held Mary's handkerchief, and the glove she had drawn off; she speculated idly on the solemn questions and answers, untouched by their grave import. Then a hubbub of congratulations roused her. 
                  John Brevoort kissed the bride as a matter of duty, the bridesmaid in a mood that was half exultation, half pique. The scarlet lips might have been marble for any return they made. 
                  He watched her narrowly. She smiled and was gracious, but there was a fine atmosphere surrounding her that made even these dullards hesitate a litttle. A regal dignity that aggrieved the Croftonites. Why should she take it upon herself when she had nothing, and here were rich farmers' daughters! People in small country places measure each other as much by wealth as in large cities. This loftiest and rarest kind of pride, this self-appropriation and possession belonging to some women, they could not understand. John Brevoort, being a little vexed, rather enjoyed seeing it dragged down from its pedestal. 
                  In the midst of the confusion of tongues a squeaking sound was heard in a distant corner-blind Nat, the village musician, tuning his fiddle. There was a scraping and clattering of chairs as they were removed to the next room, and a large space cleared. The elders, by common consent, ranged themselves on the long seats, and gathered up their skirts. 
                  "Gen'lemen, take yer pardners for a cotillion," Nat sang out with a flourish. 
                  "Come, young folks," exclaimed farmer Gregg, "no hangin' back. Ther's small chance of another weddin' in this old house for some time to come, and we've had more'n one good one." 
                  "O, uncle Giles, you've promised me a wedding party," said a bright black-eyed girl. 
                  "Well, I ain't the man to go back from my word. Only it's dull gettin' married alone, Jenny. I'll have to keep watch to see if ther's any likely lookin' chap hangin' round." 
                  A general laugh ensued at Jenny's expense, and a young man on the opposite side of the room looked sheepish. 
                  "Come, Mary, lead off, and Mr. Brevoort. May be you aint used to such doin's, but we're hearty old-fashioned folks here. Dance with a will, as we do everything else. Where's mother? We must take a turn in this." 
                  Mrs. Gregg, in a black silk dress, and cap with white ribbons, answered the summons. 
                  "Ready-gen'lemen?" 
                  "For'ard four!" and down they went to the tune of "Life let us cherish." Two quadrilles in that room, one in the other. Ungainly farmers tramped about briskly, swung their partners with a rude grace, held out hands embrowned by toil, clasped stout waists with a freedom and heartiness that made up for lack of elegance. No languid walking, or fine mincing of steps, but downright, energetic dancing. 
                   
                  John Brevoort thought of brilliantly lighted halls and a full band. Two or three times in his student life he had gone out to Jamaica sleigh-riding, with a party who had carried a couple of violins; but if the accessories were wanting there, the company was not without elegance and refinement. This scene looked a little odd to him, it must be confessed, yet his breeding was too good to admit of more than an amused smile. 
                  When the sides took their turn, he began to view Rose critically. Indeed, he had hardly seen her before. Like some weird picture she looked, rising out of her misty dress. For it was so soft and fleecy,-she would not have a particle of starch put into it,-and the full skirt trailing behind, a very daring innovation then, clung about her like a drift of snow. The arms and neck were bare, and both were faultless. If he had been an artist, he would have luxuriated in the pearly transparency of the skin, the exquisite flexibility of contour the luxuriousness that had a certain beguiling sensuousness, and yet was far removed from mere materiality. Her eyes were dark and deep, like aqua-marine, and held in them a fathomless light. The lips were of a most vivid scarlet, the whole face in a glow that was bewildering, and yet it never seemed to warm her. She moved so calmly, she gave the tips of her rosy fingers to him with the utmost indifference. Every movement was perfect of its kind, and yet it was characterized by something, that while it did not exactly repel,-rather lured one on,-still put such a great distance between. As if she were a royal princess and he her slave. 
                  He did not like it at all. Being mastered or ruled, in never so slight a degree, fretted him. 
                  "You don't love to dance," he said, presently. "And I should fancy it one of your passions." 
                  "Is your penetration, or your intuition, that more subtle skill, at fault?" 
                  He caught the glance of her eyes, peculiar they were just then. 
                   
                  "You are at fault, I think. You are trying to make yourself impenetrable. I shall take you up some day, and study you as a curious psychological experiment." 
                  "Dissect me mentally. You will be disappointed. Ex nihilo nihil fiat. It will not pay, Mr. Brevoort." 
                  "By heavens, I'll make it pay!" he said, under his breath, roused to a white heat. But aloud, ironically,- 
                  "Now the Greek, Miss Varian!" 
                  "I don't know any. You must go to Claudia for that. There, what a stupid blunder! These people will think that you do not know the figures of a common quadrille. Wait until you have leisure to study me, and attend to your dancing." 
                  "You freeze one. There's no more life about you than there is in an icicle." 
                  As if to disprove him, she gave him a radiant smile. She looked up into his eyes with a childish eagerness and daring, and said in a tone that puzzled him,- 
                  "Do you know icicles melt?" 
                  The last promenade followed upon this. One of the Gregg relatives asked her hand before she was seated, and she assented so readily that Mr. Brevoort bit his lip, and solaced himself with dancing with the bride. They were in the same quadrille again, and now Rose was like one inspired. She startled him with her sinuous grace, the exquisite movements that were like a foil to her complete beauty of form. It was ease, luxury, abandonment; and yet she preserved such a nice individuality. Though she warmed, her partner was not betrayed into any rude freedom. But the life, the delight, the strange fervor were what she had not brought out for him. Why? he wondered. 
                  The company settled themselves into enjoyment as a regular business. It was to be for the next five hours. By degrees the parlor was given up to dancing, while little knots congregated in the other room, where there was a wider range of amusement. Some card playing, a circle who were amusing themselves with a noisy game of pawns, and knots of old ladies, or sharp-faced spinsters, who gradually fell into gossip. What this one had when she was married-how poorly Sally Jenkins had made out after all her grand expectations; how Amos Crane spent half his time in the tavern; and veering round at length to old Mrs. Rogerson, who was admitted to be queer. It was folly for George to think of taking Mary home-she never could get along. Then one cited dozens of quarrels between mothers and sons' wives; another triumphantly averred that she had lived home with the old folks five years, and never had a word. And so the small details went round. 
                  John Brevoort was something of a hero, and divided honors with George Rogerson. He had made every one in Crofton, with whom he had come in contact thus far, respect him. His gentlemanly manners impressed the people with something they could not quite understand. He said nothing to them of his poverty, his struggles, or his hopes, He was a man to keep his standing in the face of everything, and these people, it must be confessed, bowed a little to his power. For he seemed to know everything. He could talk to the farmers, their wives, or their daughters. This evening he made himself wonderfully agreeable. 
                  If he piqued Rose by his attentions to others, she never showed it. Indeed, she had a peculiar charm of her own; she drew the Crofton beaux to her side in a most alarming fashion. She danced every set, she grew more bewildering more lovely, though two or three neglected damsels declared it was shameful to see her going on so. Even Claudia would fain have checked her, but she knew not how. She could not understand Rose's moods nor impulses. 
                  "Has my turn come round?" Mr. Brevoort asked, after a while, swallowing down some pride. For it seemed as if the wilful beauty was giving him the cut direct-and he her especial cavalier! 
                  "I don't know when it is, I'm sure," she said, with a provoking smile. 
                   
                  "I am not perfectly posted in country etiquette, so I cannot be quite certain as to whether I may dance with you again before supper?" 
                  "You might if you cared for it, and I were not engaged." 
                  "Admitting that I do care." 
                  "Ask me, then." 
                  "Miss Varian, may I have the pleasure of your hand for-let me see, what is this-Virginia reel?" 
                  "Mr. Brevoort, I am engaged, to my regret." 
                  "The next, then." 
                  "Ten deep, at least;" and she gave him a bright, mocking laugh. 
                  "Rose Varian, you are a flirt." 
                  "Thank you." 
                  He had not even made her angry, while he winced with hot flashes of something akin to indignation. 
                  But at the supper summons he drew her hand through his arm without a word. They took their places at the head of the long table, which groaned, if ever a table did such a thing, under the abundant supply. Mr. Brevoort was a little astonished. Poultry in various styles, hams, cold meats, sauces, bread, biscuits, pies, cakes, and preserves, to say nothing of fruit. It was farmer Gregg's boast that he had never given a mean wedding-party. 
                  Mr. Brevoort's fears were soon at an end. Such a ruthless demolishing of viands he had rarely witnessed. These great, sturdy men ate as they danced, and the women were not far behind. The bridal party were compelled to wait for the third table. By this time there gathered at the lower end of the room not a few loungers, who, passing by the wine, went over to the love cordial-Bourbon and Old Jamaica. It had been a tire-some process to Mr. Brevoort, who had failed to solace himself with Rose. She proved as prickly as her thorniest namesake; but he was only the more resolute to make some impression. 
                  "Do you know," he said, as they went back to the parlor, "I am going to take possession of you for the next half hour. I want you to waltz with me. I am sick of these everlasting quadrilles." 
                  "I never waltzed in my life." 
                  "You'll get it in three whirls. I want to see how you like it. You did not tell me the truth a while ago." 
                  "I did not tell you anything," she said, sharply. "Do not blame me for your own conclusions." 
                  He kept his temper. After a talk with Nat, whose brain was rather confused with the stronger elements, he made him understand the sort of music he wanted. Round dances were not much in vogue in Crofton, and only a few couples ventured to take their places on the floor. 
                  Rose was in a mood to dare anything. The strong arm around her, the broad chest supporting her shoulder, the hand clasping hers, had in them a secret power of their own. He did not mean to be baffled this time. 
                  The first circles were awkward and manifestly untrue. She did not care to make them too perfect. But as they went on, every movement was rendered more fluent; he almost lifted her off her feet as they spun in swifter, dizzying whirls. The very room seemed strange, seen through that changeful, bewildering light. He kept his eyes drooping down upon her with their intensest expression: the pupils expanded, grew coal-black and luminous. She could feel every inspiration. She was lapsing into a state of semi-magnetism. The rosy lips parted, displaying her pearly teeth; her golden hair floated out in luxuriant softness. Her very figure yielded to the spell, and became pliant to the undulating inflections of the music. After a while she was conscious of the presence of but one person-John Brevoort. 
                  The others had resumed their seats. There was a stir of departing guests, kisses and good byes, but they heeded nothing. On and on in those bewildering circles, until the musician's bow quivered across the strings, and a note dropped out. 
                   
                  Rose felt herself seated. As if in some strange country, she heard a voice a long way off asking if she were tired? Fatigued by this Elysium of bliss! She raised her eyes slowly, wearily, as if she feared the light in them. 
                  Claudia came. All this had affected her singularly. She was going home now, and had better take Rose. 
                  "No," Mr. Brevoort said, before she could speak. "As her escort, I will be answerable for her. It will not do to break up the bridal party so early." 
                  Rose made no gesture of dissent. He had surrounded her too completely with his influence for her to free herself in an instant. Claudia moved away. "He loves her," she thought, as she slowly put on her wrappings. 
                  But Rose came out of her trance, and was tricksy as any sprite. There was no more waltzing; indeed, the merriment after that was rather boisterous and confused, very little to Mr. Brevoort's taste. The candles began to flare in their sockets, the bride to have a worn look. The crisp dresses grew limp and rumpled. It was time for the revelry to end. Rose and Mary took a whispering farewell. 
                  The late moon was sending a pale yellow ray over the brown fields and dusky woods as they drove homeward. Rose, enthusiastic over the evening's enjoyment, and glowing with a new radiance out here under the stars. Lifting her from the wagon, he ran up the path with her in his arms, and stood her on the large stone door-step. 
                  "Thank you," she said. 
                  "You would give as much to a servant." 
                  For a moment they eyed each other steadily. Then he took a step back, and said, "Good night, or rather good morning." 
                  She held out her hand. A shimmering softness stole over every feature. She drew nearer, as if under the influence of some spell. He felt her fragrant breath on his cheek-their lips met. 
                  He hated to leave her. If the night had only just begun! His pulses were full of rushing, impetuous life, his brain was dazzled, his strong frame swayed with emotion. Then with a sudden impulse, he tore himself away. 
                  Rose entered the old kitchen, and surveyed herself by the small mirror. What a dangerous, tempting face! 
                  "He called me a flirt," and she laughed. "He gave me some good practice. Why not get all the fun out of life that one can? What will it matter a hundred years hence?" 
                  Then Rose Varian ran up stairs to bed, and slept until the next noon. 
                
                
                   
                  VI. AFTER THE WEDDING. 
                  JOHN BREVOORT'S usually clear head was rather full of fantastic visions the next day. Some old-fashioned music from a solitary violin floated through it in weird drifts, and a shadowy form danced in the sparkling atmosphere his eyes saw when closed. The children seemed unusually stupid, the day intolerably long. He was so thankful when the last awkward urchin pulled his forelock and made a shuffling bow. 
                  It was faultlessly clear; the crisp west wind bracing and delightful. It blew in his face all the way down to Dame Green's, and cooled the feverish warmth lingering about his temples. Indeed, he went farther than that, and would fain have kept on to the old stone house. What was Rose doing? What subtile mood possessed her now? For she was a study. He had never met any one quite like her. What clowns and dullards these country cubs were not to rave about her! But they could not understand the charm. It was too high and fine; immeasurably above their comprehension. 
                  He turned about suddenly. In five minutes more he would have reached the place. He could see the great sycamore nodding its leafless branches to the dusky forest over yonder. It was growing dark, and Mrs. Green would have supper ready presently. 
                  Having walked off his surplus heat and restlessness, the air of the wide kitchen seemed grateful to him. They were not very stylish at Mrs. Green's. He could have chosen a more elegant home, but he liked the appearance of the house and its mistress, its master being rather a nonentity. There were no small children and no grown up daughters; the three sons being married and settled away. And he had come to Crofton for rest. The five years of study, hard work, and privation, that he rarely thought of now, but which had told on him in one or two trifles, convinced him that a little easy living for a year would be the most judicious in the long run. His health was perfect, to be sure, and he wanted to keep it so. The struggle before him required his whole manhood's power, for he had high aims. 
                  He had seen a good deal of the real stamina in other young men frittered away in familiar acquaintance with women, attendance at parties, idle evenings, with flirtations that too often engrossed one's time and thoughts unwarrantably. Hitherto he had kept himself clear, and he intended to do so in the future. He was very confident of his strength. He could govern himself with a rigor that made his impulses seem tame and cold; yet he was not cold by nature. He understood and honored his manhood too truly to wish himself deficient in any thought or feeling appertaining to the most complete individuality. I think he was rather proud of the forces he held under control. The shallowness and vulgarity of life never tempted him. His sensuousness, when he came to that, which he rarely did, would always be of the refined type. Drinking, carousing, midnight larks, and all that, of which he had seen considerable in his city experience, simply disgusted him. Or, aping what he could not have in the finest reality,-luxuries, with a frothy outside, stale and mouldy within. 
                  So he chose Dame Green's, because he could live there in a simple fashion, and turn his spare hours to a good account; besides, no inconsiderable item to him, it was a question of money as well. He meant to save enough this year to give him a fair start somewhere. He was not niggardly, but frugal and ambitious. Since he could not have all he desired, he would not waste his means on a paltry substitute. 
                  The savory supper would have tempted one, but Mr. Brevoort's voort's appetite was not of the delicate order that required forcing. He entertained Mrs. Green with a rehash of the wedding-it had been served up with dinner, but women never weary of recalling their own glad days. The glamour of youth and joy is so sweet! 
                  Mrs. Green lighted another candle afterwards, and placed it upon a little stand, apart. She was a staid, quiet woman, the very soul of neatness and order, but her motions were not abrupt or noisy. There was a soft, pleasant atmosphere about her; she carried her burden of daily toil lightly and easily. Now she cleared away the tea things without any clatter, while her husband lit his pipe and his lantern and went out to do the night chores. Mr. Brevoort stood before the fire, his compact shoulder resting against the mantel-piece, his hands drooping listlessly, his whole demeanor absent and preoccupied. He had two minds. The more sensible one was to read a while, and then go to bed; the stronger, to march over to the Varians; for, truth to tell, he was wild to see Rose. A man governed more by impulse would have started at once-he debated. Reason told him both girls would be fagged out and sleepy; fancy said Rose was like some bright bird that never drooped. He should find her as fresh as last night, only not in white, with those lovely bare shoulders and arms. How the thought of her stirred the blood in one's pulses, sent it through a thousand currents with a glittering rush! But there would be the cool, calm Claudia, looking on with her far-sighted eyes. How these phlegmatic women chilled one! And Barbara glancing about sharply,-this thought knitted his brow with a frown. Since he could not see Rose alone, why go at all? She was what he wanted just now. To rouse the fire, and warmth, and disdain; to half magnetize her; to feel her soft cheek against his. 
                  He went over and snuffed the candle. He sat down and took up some text book. He was in a mood of mingled disappointment and desire. His brain skimmed words that were meaningless, his eyes saw Rose-his senses were steeped in her bewildering softness. The shining hair, the breath like a waft of far-fragrant fields at midsummer, the touch of the hands, the beguiling eyes- 
                  The tall clock in the corner tolled off eight. Mrs. Green sat on one side of the chimney, knitting; Jared, dulled a little by the fumes of his pipe, nodded accompaniments to the flicker of the blaze. Mr. Brevoort took his candle, and with a brief good night, went up to his room. 
                  "John Brevoort, you are a fool!" he said, in his strong, energetic fashion. "You can't tell ten words of what you have read; you don't know whether you have even turned a page. You have lost your senses dreaming over that girl! If you mean to throw yourself away-" 
                  He did not. He was of far too much importance to himself. He went carefully over the ground, and confessed, with a little chagrin, that he was not quite so invulnerable as he had supposed, or else there was something peculiar in this girl that had developed new wants and weaknesses in him. He had seen lovely women before, danced with them, been a trifle tender and spooney, or even stirred to dreams and longings for the time when he could freely indulge in the luxury of love, but they had never taken such complete possession of him as this. 
                  Yet he could see, for all the seductive haze of rosy vapor. If he allowed himself to go on, in a month he would be madly in love with Rose. Then the long, wearisome engagement; the continual impatience of hope deferred. He could better deny himself wholly than be tempted by this bait within easy reach. For it would end by an imprudent marriage,-the thing he had steadfastly resolved to shun. He had seen men curse their folly, when, on coming to their senses, they had found the chain weighing heavily upon them. A woman nearly always dragged a man down with her petty wants and caprices, her narrow mind, that could see no farther than her own present gratification. She could not enter into a man's broader comprehension, nor understand the decisions of his more matured judgment. 
                   
                  Ten years from this time he would just come to ripe manhood, and have attained some social position. All the lovely women in the world would not die out in that decade. It was a man's advantage that at thirty-five he would be as attractive, as eligible, and as eagerly sought after; he would be able to choose, from a throng of charming women, to secure youth and beauty; while Rose, at twenty-seven, would be somewhat faded, and have taken on, perhaps, a few sharp turns of temper. If he should come upon her then, for the first time, probably he would hardly give her a second thought. 
                  Well, he would fight out this foolishness now. He was not afraid of losing the power of loving, if he did deny himself in this instance. If he could not meet Rose Varian in a friendly fashion, he would not go there at all. How fortunate that he had not been able to see her alone this night. He might have rushed into some extravagance. Henceforward he would be cool and clear-headed. There was a weak spot in his armor-it would not be prudent to forget that. 
                  In the midst of these reflections he fell asleep. 
                  Do not disdain my hero thus early. Very few men are perfect. He was selfish, I will admit; yet I could tell you of some generous deeds in his past life, where the sacrifice had really pinched him. I think he had a perfect right to take the best care of himself that he could. We have no reason to demand that each man shall think exclusively for his neighbor. There is justice as well as generosity. 
                  Mr. Brevoort came out of his little episode in a tranquil frame of mind. If he could have seen what his new resolve was to do for him! But we take life blindly-it is one of the fore-ordained conditions. 
                  Sunday was stormy, so there was no chance meeting at church. He allowed half of the next week to elapse before he ventured upon a call. In the mean time he had finished reading, and made all necessary extracts from the book he was to return; and, armed with this excuse, he presented himself, determined to test his strength, and make a dividing line at friendship. 
                  In the meanwhile Rose had been going through a peculiar experience. For the first day or two after the wedding she had been in a deliciously dreamy and abstracted state,-a complacency that rendered her quiet, and satisfied. Claudia watched her with strange interest; why, she could hardly have told. It must be confessed the thought of love between Rose and Mr. Brevoort was extremely dissatisfying to her. Her choice for Rose would have been some one, who, if not wealthy, was at least in comfortable circumstances; a man accustomed to the small vanities of women, who never wearied of petting and caressing, who would attend to her with solicitous deference, praise her dainty foot, and kiss her white hand, thread her wavy hair with fond fingers, and give her the hundred meaningless little attentions, that win so much with those who rate ease and indulgence above the more severe duties of life. Mr. Brevoort might do this in the honeymoon, but she could fancy it becoming irksome to him as daily food. And when the cares of business pressed upon him, when the vital interest of others was at stake, he might for a time seem careless. Rose would allow nothing to come between her and love. Her exclusiveness amounted to jealousy. 
                  It seemed as if what he most needed in a woman was strength, and a rare patience that could await his moods. He would not be a tender man if thwarted in his ambitions or plans. There was a possibility of a superior life opening before him; but if he took some fatal step in the beginning, the path would grow thorny and insurmountable. And in Claudia's opinion, he was wavering upon a dangerous brink. 
                  Rose expected him for a day or two; was first anxious, then vexed, and finally settled into a state of amused indifference. And this being the latest, was in full sway when he came. So she left him to Claudia, and with a book open upon her knee, made a pretence of reading when their conversation grew animated. Often, when it had gone beyond her depth, it was her habit to bring it back with a sharp turn, but now she let it flow unchecked. Little did he guess how closely she was watching him, or that the foot creeping out so daintily towards the firelight was any snare. It recalled to him those delicious, fairy steps in the waltz-just as she meant it should. And the lovely figure, drooping into picturesque attitudes, the soft, shining hair that wandered about with the slow turns of her head, caught his eye occasionally. She knew it by the peculiar inflections of his voice, as if he had to pause and think what he meant to say next. 
                  They talked a little of the wedding, it is true: such an event does not soon grow stale in a country place. Yet Rose seemed to have lost her keen interest. She would not even be piquant or satirical. 
                  When John Brevoort prided himself upon his penetration concerning women, he did not take into account the exceptional cases. So he began to fancy he had overrated the danger with Rose. She was merely a bright, beautiful girl, fond of being amused; possessing one of those warm, glowing natures that are never very deeply touched. Why, she did not in the least resent this coolness he put on, or evince any tenderness towards him! The kiss out there on the step meant nothing. He knew it was not exactly right to feel annoyed, but he did for all that; and more-he longed to try his power again, since it had proved so harmless. 
                  She gave him stealthy glances from under her long golden lashes, and said, in her secret heart, "You are half afraid of me, Mr. Brevoort, and you cling to Claudia for strength. I must have some power then." 
                  Claudia, with her fine intelligence divined this also. She rather liked that he should come to her for assistance in this wordless fashion. In a sort of chivalrous way she undertook his salvation-a dangerous thing for any woman. If she succeeds, in nine cases out of ten she loses what she holds most dear-the tenderest love of her soul. For when the man is secure again in his strength, the thought of a woman, enough his superior to come to his rescue, may fill him with gratitude, but not love. He can never forget that he tottered on his pedestal before her, and the man's self-complacency is wounded for all time. 
                  There was no undercurrent of selfishness in this for her. That he would ever care for her in any tender fashion, seemed utterly improbable. She was not at all like his ideal. In rescuing him from Rose's triviality, she was actuated by the highest and purest motive,-his advancement, and the fulfilment of her bond of friendship. To her inexperienced soul all promises had a sacredness. 
                  Mr. Brevoort went to another party, in the hope of meeting Rose. Disappointed in this, it had no charm for him; so he paid no farther heed to Crofton gayeties. 
                  Rose, in the meanwhile, held sundry debates with herself. There was a subtle power in beauty, and with it she meant to conquer him sooner or later. It was not so much love as a desire for triumph. 
                  One Saturday, the twenty-second of December, Mr. Brevoort went to E. That evening, immediately after supper, he hurried over to the Varians. For a miracle, Barbara was out; and though he had come to bear her presence with commendable equanimity, he was thoroughly delighted to find them alone. 
                  "You look as if you had enjoyed your ride," Rose exclaimed, studying him with an interest that was flattering. 
                  His face was brilliant with health and energy: something besides-anticipated pleasure. 
                  "I did. But I enjoyed E. better still, or something that I found there, and something I hope to find three days hence." 
                  "How profoundly enigmatical you are!" 
                  "I want to ask a favor;"-his voice dropped its confident ring, and sank into a lower key. "While haunting the highways and by-ways of E., I made two discoveries; first, that there are some really fine pictures on exhibition, and though I'm not art-learned, I enjoyed their beauty. Then the opera of Norma is to be performed on Christmas night, with some very good singers. Of course one cannot expect the prima donna, and the cream of the opera troupe, at such a place during the holidays." 
                  "Why do you not tell Claudia about Mont Blanc, or a Nile voyage, and describe to me the dresses and jewels of the French empress? You are refined in cruelty, Mr. Brevoort!" 
                  "And you fly to a conclusion, Miss Rose. Do you think I meant to aggravate you?" 
                  "You are too profound for me to fathom." 
                  There was a mocking light in her eye, and a mocking smile upon her red lip, but he felt assured that it was on the surface merely. When she assumed this mask, he always experienced an insane desire to unveil the real feelings beneath. 
                  "I said I was about to ask a favor. I armed myself by purchasing three tickets. Will you both go over to E. with me on Christmas day?" 
                  Rose and Claudia glanced at each other incredulously. 
                  "I think you will like it. I want to give myself a holiday worth enjoying. Do not refuse." 
                  "As if we could!" 
                  Claudia was as ready as Rose with her assent, but her calm face was a trifle perplexed. 
                  "There is no late train home," she said, presently. 
                  "I am in a most aristocratic humor, and do not mean to go by public conveyance. The sleighing is perfect. We will start about noon, and at night have a nearly full moon for our return." 
                  His entreating look was given to Claudia, but Rose could not repress her joy, nor her slight apprehension; and not only her eyes, but the clasp with which she caught Claudia's hand was most beseeching. 
                  "You could not have given me a greater pleasure," the elder answered, frankly. 
                   
                  "Now sit down, and tell us what an opera is like," said Rose, in her most persuasive manner. "We are shockingly ignorant. Must we wear white gloves, and flowers in our hair?" 
                  "I don't believe the E. people are so fastidious. I wish it could be the Academy of Music. The faces and the dressing would make a brilliant picture. And an opera is-a great deal of singing and gesticulating in a foreign tongue." 
                  "I shall pay strict attention to the gesticulating," laughed Rose. 
                  "Especially in the foreign tongue,"-and there was a mirthful twinkle in his eye. 
                  "You are so kind. I never dreamed of such a pleasure! But my ideas on the subject are extremely vague. The only thing I ever connect with true music is the chorus of those old Greek tragedies, 'where the vocal nightingale, chief abounding, trills her plaintive notes in the green dells, tenanting the dark-hued ivy, and the leafy grove of the god, untrodden, teeming with fruits impervious to the sun, and unshaken by the winds of every storm.'" 
                  Rose repeated this in a chanting monotone, that was melody itself. She always surprised him by the development of a mood he least expected. In her aimless way, she appeared to follow out passing thoughts, until they struck against some weird fragment of power, and emitted a rare sparkle. But the light died out soon, as if it were flint and not phosphorus. 
                  "I believe music doesn't affect me in any great degree. I always follow the story by reading the English words and watching the faces of the singers, when they are worth it. I like acting better. It used to be a passion with me at one time. I haunted theatres until I found it no longer safe or wise." 
                  "And then?" Claudia said, inquiringly. 
                  "There could be no compromise. I put by my Shakspeare, and plunged into common, daily life, finding, Heaven knows, enough of tragedy. In a quiet country place like this, you never hear of it. People go on, year after year, in the same round, and forget there is any existence beyond their narrow limits. But when you come to the rushing, tumultuous current, that hurries you along to frowning rocks or maddening whirlpools, and hurls you to destruction if you are not strong-" 
                  "That is living," interrupted Rose, a strange light glimmering in her face. "The other is merely vegetation. As well be a head of cabbage or a hill of corn." 
                  "Women don't need such lives, Miss Rose. It would wither their beauty and sweetness to be exposed to flames as fierce as men travel through daily." 
                  "They have hungry souls as well as men." 
                  He studied her curiously for a moment. What latent possibility surprised him? 
                  "Love and tenderness should be their aliment." 
                  "Why don't we all have it then? Who is to blame for the starvation that meets one on every side-yes, even here in Crofton? The old story. Of what avail is it to say, Be ye clothed or fed, when there is nothing at hand?" 
                  "You are not in need." 
                  He said it involuntarily, thinking of her youth, beauty, and vivid power. 
                  "What would it matter if I were?" and she laughed scornfully. "Tell me a little of your world, that I may know what it is like." 
                  "My world?" 
                  "Yes, the space that lies beyond Crofton. Nights made warm and bright with music and plays, and the souls who appreciate them. For we are not the dull clay you think us." 
                  "You wrong me there. Give me the credit of being able to distinguish between quicksilver and lead." 
                  "And I am the quicksilver!" Rose laughed gayly. "What do you suppose I shall be after Christmas?" 
                  "I am curious to see, I must confess;" and he wondered what her time of blossoming would bring. 
                   
                  "Wait patiently. And now I want you to talk." 
                  She uttered this in her pretty, imperious fashion, and it always swayed him strangely. Was it the glittering eyes, steeped in floods of amber, or the voice that penetrated one's pulses like a subtle elixir? 
                  He was in a delightful mood, and though not exactly brilliant in description, he swayed his hearers by the energy of his emotions. He affected a little of the cynicism that tinctures most men of twenty-five, before experience has ripened or mellowed their judgement. The nice distinctions that come in after-life, the tenderness and patience, are not infrequently the result of that deep inward suffering no voice ever translates into words, but which bears its own rare fruit. 
                  Rose listened intently. She longed for one daring plunge into the gay world. What if the cup of pleasure did hold bitter dregs in its depths, she would brave that for the sake of the sparkling draught. And if joys were empty and hollow, so was this vapid existence. In her way she was speculating how to break the bonds that chained her. For giant wants beset her on every side. 
                  Barbara's return broke up their confidence in some degree. They made arrangements for the expected enjoyment of Christmas day, and then fell into a more ordinary conversation. 
                  "If it should storm?" suggested Rose. 
                  "Pray that kind Heaven may avert such a misfortune," Mr. Brevoort said earnestly. 
                  "How much would you care?" She uttered the words too low for any ears save his. 
                  The eyes he turned upon her answered her sufficiently. 
                  Bidding them good night, he walked home very well satisfied with himself. The day of Rose Varian's enchantment was over. 
                
                
                   
                  VII. A CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY. 
                  WHEN Rose glanced out of the window on Christmas morning, she beheld a leaden sky, and feathery flakes of snow were softly falling. Her lamentations were both loud and deep, until Barbara, discovering a streak of yellow in the east, and a line of blue black far down at the south-west, comforted her with the assurance of a speedy clearing away. She ate her breakfast in an odd, fragmentary manner, watching the drifting clouds as they broke and floated off in fantastic shapes. The flakes came more at intervals in a wandering, uncertain manner, and finally ceased. 
                  At ten Mr. Brevoort walked over. The roads would be improved by this light dash, he said, and the temperature had declined considerably. The day promised to be delightful. 
                  Rose was wild with anticipation. Yet she curled her hair in its most luxuriant fashion, and stood some time in doubt about her handkerchief and gloves. For Rose had all the small vanities of a beautiful woman, although she acted, as you not infrequently hear people say, "as if unconscious of it." Yet she revelled in the fact of her beauty, and saw no reason why she should not sway others with it whenever opportunity offered. She meant to place herself in the most attractive light before Mr. Brevoort, and win back his whole allegiance, if possible. She possessed an almost marvellous taste, and an eye quick to detect any lack of harmony. It was a continual thorn in the way of the Croftonites, that Rose Varian seemed to exceed far richer girls in the matter of dress. 
                  She was brilliant and glowing like a tropical sun. The contrast trast gave Claudia a certain air of coldness. She could not bear to be the mere echo of Rose's enthusiasm. There was an ineffable glory about the day, that touched the deeper chords of her nature, as if she had never seen any glory like this before. 
                  There came vivid blue breaks in the sky overhead as the sun straggled through filmy drifts that were not quite despoiled of their snowy harvest. Above the distant hills, to the north, the dun clouds took on violet edges, and drooped over the earth with lingering fondness. Everywhere that white, wonderful, still life. Trees bending with sprays of snowy midwinter blossoms, sparkling in the sun as if strewn with diamonds, fence-posts hooded, and the rails wrapped in purest ermine. Long slopes of hill-sides, like a dreamy, undulating sea, and wide, unbroken plains. Here and there a forest edge stretched but ghostly arms, or crouched low, like a group of fairy folk. As if God were glorifying the whole earth with a glimpse of his bodily presence. 
                  How they skimmed along, passing houses that seemed buried in snow, the feathery fragments hanging from gable, lintel, and window ledge! Great domes it made of the hay-stacks, and a grotesque, uneven woodpile was transformed into some elfin haunt. Sleepy-eyed fowls huddled in groups, standing on one foot, while occasionally chanticleer, securing a foothold on some post of eminence, made his voice resound in the clear soft air, until a hundred echoes caught it up and shivered it into musical fragments. Here a cluster of sturdy evergreens presented a defiant front, there the slender birches shone in a garment of silvery bark, in strong contrast to the clumps of gnarled black oak, reaching out strong arms, to be outlined against the transparent sky. 
                  It was a two hours' ride to E., yet never had it appeared so brief to Claudia. Leaving behind the wonderful glory of a scene that had been little less than enchantment, they seemed to stumble upon a realm of gnomes, if these tall, smoke-blackened ened chimneys and dingy eaves could be so accounted. A manufacturing town is never remarkably prepossessing to a traveller, unless he happen to be of a commercial turn of mind. E. was no exception to the general rule. There was no smoke, and din, and bustle to-day. A Sunday stillness brooded in the atmosphere, and the few passengers in the streets were hurrying home to Christmas feasts, save those poor waifs and strays of humanity for whom no feasts are ever spread. 
                  Mr. Brevoort drove to the picture-gallery at once. A hall which answered the purpose admirably, being lighted from the ceiling at the centre. Leaving his companions while he went to secure the comfort of the horse, they walked up and down, not prepared for more than casual glances. They had the place to themselves, for just at this time the energies of E. were devoted to more material purposes. 
                  If Mr. Brevoort lacked an artist's enthusiasm and delicacy, he had a great deal of good sense, and an honest love for nature. There were the usual number of quiet landscapes lying in the mellow light of sunset, beautiful faces with the soul left out, fruit that startled one, and flowers that you would be unable to recognize or classify. A martyrdom of Huss, a scene of Dutch rural life, a rather terrifying Spanish bull-fight, the matador fierce and scarlet-cloaked, and some proud-eyed women watching through flowing veils. Claudia's interest centred upon three or four, whose merit attracted her strongly. A storm in the mountains, where the purple black clouds were fairly rent with thunder, the trees twisted and blown about by a fierce wind sweeping up the gorge. One far, rocky corner seemed the very spirit of desolation; yet some belated traveller had crept into it, and was curiously surveying the storm from his sheltered nook. On a ledge above blossomed a cluster of wild flowers, in strange contrast to the waste and devastation around. 
                  John Brevoort glanced up with a bright smile, and said, with his cheery intonation,- 
                   
                  "The man has found a secure place of refuge. He looks as if he understood the fact and enjoyed it." 
                  "I wonder how long the storm continued?" Claudia asked, musingly, with her habit of reality. 
                  "Why, one might take a cosy nap in that snug hollow. And it is near night, as one can tell easily." 
                  "I do not believe that he slept." 
                  "Why, Miss Varian?" 
                  "He doesn't look like that kind of man. See the lines in his face, and the sharp out-look of his eyes. And the manner in which he clinches that half dead fir-tree! If he is hiding away from any one he is safe enough now." 
                  "What made you think of that? Do you suspect him of any crime?" 
                  "No," she returned, with a rather absent look. "But there's a story in the man's face?" 
                  "Do you read a story in every one's face?" 
                  No. Some people have no story to tell-never would have. Quicksand natures, from which the new wave washes out the old impression." 
                  He turned his eyes upon her with a wary, uneasy gleam. There was a large, pure soul within her, that he felt a trifle afraid of, and chafed secretly that it was so, she being a woman. If she were only out in the world, where one could play a game of give and take,-for somehow he felt desirous of fathoming the rare nature. What was there under this cold, fair exterior? 
                  "Miss Varian, it puzzles me how you gained your experience of life. You can't have seen so very much of the world. Crofton is a poor place in which to study human nature, the examples are too much alike. Nothing strong or salient to help one in making distinctions," 
                  "I did not know that I had experience. I have lived so much alone that I have little faith in it." 
                  "I wonder whether you would be trusting or suspicious?" 
                  "Both, Mr. Brevoort." She looked away from him as she said this. "Yet if I had the courage to try the world-" 
                   
                  "I fancied you had courage for anything." 
                  He said it rather hesitatingly. Anxious as he was to probe this soul, some invisible power held him back. 
                  Just then she would have been glad to utter a little cry of weakness, yet it was like going against her nature. She could suffer and make no sign, when it came to that; but were not the people who made the sign the most tenderly cared for? 
                  Rose dragged them away, and broke up the mood they were both falling into. But some strange power warmed Claudia into finer life. She surprised Mr. Brevoort by the truth of her criticisms, and the thoroughness of her knowledge; besides, the slow, firm voice moved him singularly. For once he could have dispensed with the younger sister's beauty. 
                  They took a late dinner at the hotel, having a little table to themselves, quite at the end of the long room. It was such a new experience to the Varians, and so different from anything in their daily lives, that they enjoyed it immensely, and lingered until the room emerged from the twilight gloom into a glow a gaslight. Rose watched with curious, eager eyes. They seemed out on a sort of masquerade, and yet it was hardly carnival season. 
                  A brisk walk through the deserted streets brought them to the Music Hall. It was early yet, but the soft, warm atmosphere of the place was most grateful. The subdued light gave the frescoed ceiling shadowy hues, that brought out only the beauty, and gave it magic tints. It was a palace to Rose. They laughed and chattered in low tones until the audience began to gather, and then their attention was arrested by the novel sight, so different from the assembling together of the Croftonites at church,-the only sight of the kind they had ever witnessed. Claudia watched with a new and keen interest. It stirred her like a draught of iced wine, giving her crisp and vital sensations, in the place of the drowsy repose into which she had been settling. This was the world. Men and women intent upon their own enjoyments, to be sure, after the fashion of human nature, but with a vigor and energy that were electric. There was something broad and generous in their good-humored glances. These were the people with whom one would like to work. You would be jostled, and perhaps pushed to the wall, but one could show fight here, and hardly be observed. The unused power in her brain quickened with new life, every pulse throbbed with blood that was no longer sluggish. The breathing and eating, the dreaming over there in the old gray stone house, grew vapid and wearisome. To think of it for years! A few months ago she had fancied she could not leave the place; just now she was strong enough to dare anything. 
                  Rose Varian's eyes were keen, and eager too, but with a different purpose. They lingered on the fine looking men, and the handsomely dressed women. The rustle of silk and the soft stir of velvet reminded her of the cool plash of an oar in the shady creek on summer days. Elegant bonnets framing in charming faces-few of them more beautiful than hers; daintily gloved hands, embroidered handkerchiefs, delicate perfumes, that suggested hot-house plants; bright eyes, complacent with pleasure and luxury; scarlet lips whispering to bearded companion lips; and smiles so sunny, that the place seemed to be growing into a radiant June day. Why was she shut out of all this? She had beauty and grace; why could she not dazzle and stir the thoughts of others? Was any one in that crowd watching and wondering? 
                  The lights flashed up suddenly. To Rose it was a scene of brilliance and fascination. She hardly listened to the overture. The curtain rose slowly, and revealed the forest of the Druids, with fires gleaming between the far trees, and elsewhere the weird gloom of night. The procession of priests, marching, to the sound of a low, solemn strain of music, with Oroveso at their head, neared the sacred oak and the altar of stone. Claudia leaned forward, listening with a strangely stirred soul, though it was more the power of the music than any interest in the story at that early period. Her senses were in an electric state, and keenly susceptible to impressions. But Rose was searcely moved until the later scenes in the act were reached. After Adalgisa has been absolved from her vows, just as her lover's name was trembling upon her lips, and Pollio enters, the strife of passion between the two women roused her completely. Eye, and lip, and cheek were in a glow. The small, ungloved hand half clinched itself, and yet she was less shocked than Claudia at the man's perfidy. 
                  The intentness with which they listened and watched, interested more than one in their immediate neighborhood. The admiration Rose had longed for half an hour before, was showered upon her as freely as looks and attentions from strangers admitted. At the close of the first act she became conscious of it, but she was too proud for any petty displays of vanity. The warm, triumphant blood throbbed through her veins, and she felt the strange power in every fibre of her flesh. Something more. She had read of passion, but none of the commonplace loves brought under her observation had at all realized the grandeur or fervor of the sentiment. And though these men and women were but playing at it, the true steely ring sounded in every word. No marvel that she kindled as they went on, and in the scene where Pollio pleads for Adalgisa's life, and Norma seems justly stern and cruel, she bent forward with dilating eyes and parted lips, unconsciously dividing interest with Norma. 
                  Then the grand confession from the lips of the woman, who feels both sin and wrong so keenly that she resolves to expiate the former, and leave the love to her scarcely less unhappy rival, startled both unwontedly. Events followed in such quick succession that they sat stunned with the concluding sentence, and scarcely breathed, but from widely different emotions. To Rose, supreme disappointment, that love had worked misery instead of bliss. To Claudia, a vision almost prophetic, as if the passion must always hold for her more bane than blessing. Why, she could not tell. She shivered with an inexplicable sense of dread. 
                  The music, too, had swayed her powerfully, opening some dim recess of her being that had hitherto lain in silence and darkness. Every fibre quivered with vivid and intense emotion. Her very breath was like flashes of fire, her brain a new and strange world. Each day she seemed to find some startling capability in herself, and just now she moved with astonishment at the thoughts and sensations throbbing like a sea of surging waves. The play was over for the crowd, but for her just begun. How far off stood the altar of sacrifice? 
                  John Brevoort stood up and surveyed the audience an instant, then drawing the hand of Rose Varian through his arm, turned to Claudia. A satisfied smile played about his face. Truth to tell, he had been well pleased. The music and the play he knew half by heart; he had scarely thought of them, save in the most powerful scenes. He had watched the audience between whiles, and understood, fully as well as Rose, the glances that had been directed to their vicinity. These two girls compared very favorably with well-bred women-better, in fact, than with their sex at Crofton. Claudia, pale, pure, and stately, carrying in her face the impress of proud blood, that would never degenerate with the cool, clear brain to mount guard. Rose, sparkling, touched with a sort of slumberous fire, that suggested rather than revealed her nature. He was not usually fastidious. When he had asked them to accompany him hither, he had not one thought of their outward adornment. But as he compared them with the throng in holiday attire, he found they lost nothing. How had they acquired this almost perfect taste in that sleepy village, where every one, it seemed to him, tried to vie with the hollyhocks and sunflowers? They were quiet and elegant, their very lack of pretension giving them a claim to style. He was rather proud of his charge, and enjoyed the tacit admiration as much as Rose. He had filled the pauses between the acts with trifles of conversation, having a secret consciousness that more than one man half envied him. Some of the time had been spent in desultory speculation. If the wonderful success that came to many people should be his,-and those who fought stubbornly with Fate generally wrested something from her,-if in the vigor of youth and health he could indulge in some of the luxuries of life,-and the glitter of Rose Varian's golden hair steeped his brain in a bewildering haze. On the whole, the evening had been delightful. 
                  "We will stand here a few moments," he said. "It is useless getting entangled with that crowd, and we could not force a passage through." 
                  Rose gave her head a coquettish little toss, endowing the sinuous mass with subtle life. 
                  "Well?" and then he drew a long breath. 
                  "I can't talk about it here;" and Rose Varian's eyes shot out curious, impatient lights. 
                  "You were not disappointed?" 
                  "O, no. There is no word to express it! I think I shall be out of my senses for a week or two;" and she gave him a bright, enchanting smile. 
                  Claudia was pale and cold. The great tragedy had benumbed her. And John Brevoort, not understanding the deep, far-reaching sympathy, turned again to Rose. 
                  "I like it all," she continued. "The great hall, with its bright lights, the people, the dresses, and bonnets. It's real life, Mr. Brevoort. Suppose we never go back to Crofton again! I shall hate it, I know." 
                  "I'm afraid I should be arrested for making off with my neighbor's property. Mr. Allen will want his horse." 
                  Rose laughed. "I'm not sure but he could find his way back." 
                  "Could we find our way forward?" He leaned over, and uttered this in a whisper. 
                  She turned her full eyes upon him in all their beguiling splendor. The quick blood made an impetuous dash through his veins. And then she gave him a puzzling smile. 
                   
                  "I should be confident of coming out somewhere," she said. "And I shall never be satisfied until I begin to do something with life." 
                  They commenced threading their way through the few loiterers. The lights on the stage were put out. The glamour and brilliancy faded. A keen draught of night air rushed through the open door now that the crowd was thinning. Claudia gave a gasp, as if just recovering from a swoon. Rose shivered. 
                  "Are you cold?" He drew her tenderly towards him, and clasped the small hand more tightly. 
                  "My Greek blood!" and she laughed in an odd, piquant manner. "Mr. Brevoort, I wish I could set sail for that land of orange and myrtle." 
                  He dared not trust himself to reply. Something about her just now carried him back to the night of Mary Gregg's wedding, and he knew he was on dangerous ground. 
                  They reached the street. He had given orders that the sleigh should be sent thither, but he did not recognize it among those at hand, so they sauntered down to the corner. The man was slowly coming in their direction, walking the horse. Mr. Brevoort assisted them in, and took the reins. 
                  "Good by to E.," Rose said, in a rich, lingering tone. "And to all that is bright and lovely." 
                  "All?" 
                  "What is there left?" and her scornful laugh stung Brevoort. "Claudia, don't you wish there wasn't any to-morrow?" 
                  "Did you like it so much?" 
                  "Not the play. I suppose they did their parts well, but Pollio was a villain, and Norma is too lofty for my taste. Adalgisa should have been happy. I don't like so many miserable people. As if love were a curse to life. Do you believe it, Mr. Brevoort?" 
                  "It proves so to some people," he said, in a slow manner, looking from her glittering golden hair to the heavens studded with stars. 
                  "That isn't what you think. Couldn't any man or woman make it what he or she pleased? Don't you mean to?" 
                  "If I can." 
                  "A man always can," she returned sharply. "It is a woman who generally fails. She has to take what comes to her; he can go out and wrest something from the world. 
                  He turned and looked at her face. Haughty and defiant through all its brilliancy. He saw it so plainly in the white moonlight; and some dull, half-defined thoughts penetrated his brain. 
                  "Miss Rose, do you begin to sigh for a career?" 
                  "Yes. I think-"slowly, and with a strange light coming into her eyes-"that I should like to be an actress. If I only had a magnificent voice I might become a singer. But I hate the work, and love the triumphs. I should want it to be always evening, to see the lights, the crowd of eager faces, hear the plaudits, and revel in the fascinating glamour. And to live over passions, strifes, loves, that stir one to the very heart's core, and never to be afraid of the end, because one knows it so well. There is where the play is better than life. You act your part, and you can adapt yourself to anything. I dare say Norma and Adalgisa are taking a cosy cup of tea together." 
                  "I think you would make a good actress. Is there anything real about you?" 
                  "Solid flesh and blood, like my neighbors;" and a gay laugh dropped like the notes of a bell on the frosty air. 
                  "Not like your neighbors," John Brevoort said, involuntarily. 
                  "Not like Claudia here. She hasn't half recovered from the shock of Norma's broken vows. Remember, dear, she atones for it by her life, or is supposed to do so. I'm a heathen, and can forgive her, so don't be pitiless, even in seeming. There's a little of the same blood in our veins." 
                   
                  They were skimming the snow-white road like some belated bird, but he turned for a glance at Claudia. A statue of carven marble might have looked like this: the waxen skin, the cool, clear eyes, not passion-stirred as those of Rose, but steeped in stern calmness, the mouth sharply defined, but not tender or pitiful. 
                  "There never would be any mercy with her," John Brevoort thought. Not that he expected to bring himself to her for judgment. 
                  These thrusts from Rose rarely pained her, but to-night she felt weak and sensitive in spite of the outer calm. Every pulse of her nature, both mental and physical, had been powerfully stirred. This chatter rasped her nerves, for they had come to the surface. She essayed to speak, but her lips were chill and numb. Was it with the cold? 
                  Rose and Mr. Brevoort presently fell into a spirit of the gayest badinage. On they flew, the quiet night stretching about them like a gleam from some enchanted country,-a weird, slumberous power, majestic in its stirless beauty. They seemed to sweep through a fleecy sea sparkling with gems, with a sky above of a blue so deep that it appeared to sink back out of sight, leaving the stars in bold relief, and full of indescribable splendor. 
                  Suddenly a glow of red light shot up in the north. A rosy film diffused itself, giving the stars an opal tint, and transforming the snowy fields into gardens of magic bloom. The icicles, pendent from the trees, were transformed into strings of rubies; the roofs of the houses were great gems, borne on the back of powerful genii. The waning moon, resting upon the crest of the far hills, was a globe of illumination. Over the sky it spread, from pink to violet, from violet to purple, melting at last into edges of frost white, the long, lance-like rays of vivid crimson giving it depth and intensity. 
                  Rose sank into awed silence. "How glorious!" Claudia said; and John Brevoort, looking at her, thought her transfigured. 
                   
                  They turned into the familiar road. The giant sycamore stretched out its snow-draped arms; the old house, hooded in white, seemed expectant. A solitary candle by the window sent out a feeble, yellow ray. They felt unreal to themselves in this still, wonderful midnight. 
                  "We shall never forget this," John Brevoort said, deeply moved. "If you have enjoyed it as much as I-" 
                  "It is my first great pleasure." Claudia's voice was low, and her eyes trembled in dewy splendor. Was it because she was en rapport with nature rather than humanity? 
                  "I shall like to remember that I had a share in it. You have made many hours delightful for me. Some of the best memories of life I shall hold with you." 
                  She forgot the good night, lingering over those words. 
                  Barbara was up, and had a cheerful fire blazing upon the hearth, where she had just put some tea to draw. 
                  "You must be half frozen," she exclaimed, anxiously. "It's bitterly cold." 
                  "Barbara mia, we warmed ourselves by the aurora out there. The little folk have been kindling a rare fire. They burn diamonds, rubies, sapphires, and the like, and make a royal blaze. And it's all been splendid! If one's life was full of such days and nights one wouldn't need any heaven!" 
                  "Miss Rose!" 
                  "True as your church, Barbara! But that tea is deliciously fragrant, and your pine cones have spiced the air of the room. Now for nectar and ambrosia! I feel like that Epicurean little Moore, when he said,- 
                         
                           'Full as the world is brimmed with bliss, 
                           And capable as feels my soul 
                           Of draining to its depths the whole, 
                           I could turn earth to heaven, and be, 
                           If bliss made gods, a deity.'" 
                        
                     
                   
                  Barbara paused with one hand on the partly upraised leaf of the table. Was this child actually lapsing into heathenism? 
                   
                  "Dear dame goody, don't look so astonished! There's enough of me left to be called Rose, though I should have been pleased if the troupe out there, in the flame-colored clouds, had invited me to their feast. As it is, you must be the cup-bearer. Operas and Christmases don't come every week of one's life." 
                  "It's well they don't," with an austere frown, which might as well have been a smile, for any effect it had. 
                  Claudia had laid aside her wrappings, and was warming her hands by the ruddy blaze. Why did she not feel gay and brilliant? She had been roused, but instead of being strengthened, or vivified, she seemed cold and helpless. Cries of inarticulate music throbbed through her brain, the sad wail of martyred passion, of love going beforehand to its own grave. She pressed her fingers on her eyelids, and dull sparks rayed out-the ashes of life. Her brain experienced the sensation of weeping, but no tears came up the dry channels. 
                  Barbara spread them a little supper on the corner of the table. She could not have been very cross, for she took down the century-old china from the dresser, and the girls sipped their tea from it. Rose kept in a whirl of animated description, until the staid brain under the cap became strangely confused, and wondered if they had not far exceeded the bounds of propriety. "But I'll keep the opera until to-morrow," Rose said, at length, with a yawn, for the warm room and the delightful flavor of the tea began to take effect. 
                  "You had better, certainly. It's long past midnight." 
                  "Poor Cinderella!" and Rose sighed. 
                  Barbara turned from the brilliant face to the one still colorless, and apparently unwarmed. 
                  "Have you been happy, child?" she asked, in a low, anxious tone. 
                  "Is there any such thing, or do we all dream?" and Claudia crossed the room with an averted countenance. 
                
                
                   
                  VIII. ROSE IN REBELLION. 
                  THE holiday was over. Claudia felt dull, strange, and restless. The novel pleasure of the day before had left a gnawing, ill-defined want. She could feel how restricted the bands around her soul really were. There was an urgent necessity for a new and broader life. It seemed to her as if she ought to take her pilgrim's staff, and commence her wanderings at once,-strike out some new course. The work here appeared puerile and useless. She was different from other women. 
                  Her nature was not a clinging one, yet sympathy and tenderness were very dear to her. Still she needed it of a loftier order than any that Rose could give. When the child curled up into her lap like a kitten, when she almost strangled her with caresses, or smothered her with warm, eager kisses, it did not rouse any feeling of positive affection. For there were days when Rose never cared for any endearments; when she laughed at love with a faithless ring in her musical voice. There could never be a strong or vital friendship between them. 
                  There are times in the lives of most of us when we feel unable to stand alone, and reach out our hands for some support, with a kind of fearful intensity, like that of a drowning man. Claudia tottered; but she showed her dissimilarity, in that her hand fell white and nerveless by her side. She could not ask for sympathy; she would not wrest it from any living soul, even if she had the power. 
                  I think she had a sort of dim and terrible belief that John Brevoort would fail her-that he did not meet her ideal. Somewhere where she had passed him. Was it in the music's far-reaching, subtile strain, in any passion, or pathos, or tragedy? Had she found him wanting in the keener or more intricate depths of soul, to which she descended with such perfect ease? She liked fine, sensitive natures, that could respond at a glance, a word. There was much of the common clay about him. He had listened, unmoved, to the story that had rent her very being. Even to-day she shivered at a chance word, at Barbara's sharp tone, at Rose's laugh, brilliant but unmeaning. Every nerve quivered at the blast, sweeping up and down outside, blowing the fine snow about like the sheen of powdered diamonds. She longed for warmth and rest; not such heat as crackled out of the great logs, not such quiet as brooded over the old house. Something more rare, and a hundred fold more satisfying. 
                  Since autumn, when these unreasonable moods had taken possession of her, she had worked them off. To-day she did not want to work. She sat in her low rocking-chair with a trifle of embroidery-a matter she rarely undertook. As if she needed it to identify herself with her sex, since she had discovered womanly wants, and needs, and passions beneath the hitherto placid surface. I do not mean that there was any weak pining for love. She would have thrust that out mercilessly. Some fatal lack held her with a strong but invisible chain from what was noblest and sweetest in women's lives. To look at everything in the cold light of a penetrating eye, to resolve every thought and emotion through the unclouded crystal of her own brain, to stand without while others less true and less upright went in and feasted upon the purple grapes of Eschol. 
                  A weaker woman would have made a pitiful protest at having destiny thus mapped out for her. Claudia's day of martyrdom would pass unheeded; the still lips, closed, over the great pang of soul, would suffer no more to escape. 
                  The taste of a strange knowledge, denied its natural development, was beginning to awake a dread terror of soul, as when a desert traveller cowers in fear of the coursing simoom. When she found she could not put it aside, she took it up with a giant grasp. It should not master her. Whatever of sweetness or joy, making the lives of others so radiant, was blotted out of hers, she would not pause to consider. Success and happiness were not for all, but every one could battle with the hard, stern facts of life, and gather a few trophies. 
                  The winter in Crofton was severe, yet crisp, bracing, and dazzling. John Brevoort likened it in his mind, to Claudia. A fair, calm, resolute woman, who kept the blood in one's brain forever circulating. No languid, odorous heats, no moods of tropical indolence, such as Rose would have brought, in the atmosphere. He was better without them, of course. Yet every woman ought to sail through such seas once in her life. 
                  Rose came out in a new phase. The slumberous eyes, gazing drowsily into the scarlet blaze of the great chimney, saw the hard clay at the foundation of Mr. Brevoort's nature. She had an Indian's wary patience, and she resolved some day to bring him back to the glowing mood in which she had once seen him for a brief hour or two. She read old plays and poems; she speculated on women, from Cleopatra down. Those whose empire over men's hearts had been most complete, were not the proud and lofty ones holding themselves aloof from love. This man had resolved to yield to no woman's sway until he was ready to make an election. She should not see him in that day, so she must have her little triumph now. It would not hurt either of them, but spice both dull lives with a flavor. After they went their separate ways, who would care? Not she, surely. 
                  Crofton awoke to a sense of her beauty and power. In a stupid, lagging fashion, to be sure, but there never yet lacked moths to follow a light. She dazzled and scorched a little, just enough to pierce their dull brains with a sense of warmth. Parties, sleigh-rides, gayeties of the common-place order in vogue in country villages, demanded her attention in an intrusive sive but good-natured manner. She threw herself into the enjoyment with a sparkling zest that bewildered her admirers. She had a very curious fashion of soaring just above their height. They might dance with her, talk in their uncouth way while she puzzled them with her keen edge of wit, choose the most delicate viands at a supper table, wrap furry robes about her with tender touches if their hands were coarse and awkward, while her gay pulses beat to the music of the tinkling bells. In other matters she held them at a distance, evaded any show of tenderness or familiarity. She would have scorned any love they could offer her; but it was not necessary to tell them that in the beginning. 
                  John Brevoort watched with a dull, smouldering jealousy. "It was all right," he told himself daily. Anything warmer than the commonest friendship with this girl would lead to a maddening love. He did not mean to wreck himself for the sake of a little beauty. But now and then, when she came upon him suddenly, the rich blood flew to his face, and his breath struggled up quick and fiery. He half promised himself one tilt with her, but it must be at the close of the year, when he could retire without ignominy. 
                  She watched him narrowly. Her range of observation and penetration was not very wide. She troubled herself to understand only the few people who interested her, and those she divined by a rare and subtile intuition. How she became aware of the fact she could not have told, but she did know that John Brevoort was trying to evade her influence. 
                  "He must feel afraid of it, then," she said to herself, as a strange light fluttered up into her eyes. 
                  He and Claudia pored over books and discussed knotty problems, and Rose, observing it, smiled quietly. She saw under the mask of interest, noted that the caged lion chafed and fretted because his time of freedom had not yet come. She used to curl herself up on the old settle and pretend to be asleep. 
                  His continual thought for his own advancement fell chill and hard upon Claudia at times. They discussed his plans the more frequently, and his ambition was placed on the higher level. Not that he was wanting in a certain brotherly kindness, but that was not all the encouragement she needed. She went to her lessons regularly, threw off the pleasant idleness that had crept about her, but the visions of the future still remained indistinct. 
                  The winter wore away at length. The ridges of snow beside the fences or at the edges of the woods hardened into cakes of discolored ice. A peculiar softness began to brood in the air. The long stubble fields were astir with mounds that presently cracked open, and tiny yellowish blades of grass thrust forth delicate fingers. There was a musical stir through the forest, such as only the voice of the spring breezes can bring. 
                  One balmy April day John Brevoort had gone down the road a mile or two on some business, and coming back, took a ramble through the Little Woods, as they were called, to distinguish them from the woods, par excellence, at Crofton Rock. Blue crocuses were springing up, not quite in blossom, but with a purplish foil, looking like a spear point. Glossy leaves of wintergreen, soft, rank mosses, tawny brown with last year's growth, stood erect like an army of clan soldiers. A ground spider darted hither and thither; a beetle crawled out to sun himself, and shake off his winter's lethargy. Overhead, the chirp and twitter of the birds made cheery music. He drew long, exultant breaths, and felt the proud blood of manhood surging through every vein. 
                  Then he came upon something that sent a glow of pleasure over his face. A glimpse of a soft, gray dress, and a foot that he would have known among a thousand. 
                  The brilliant face and mocking laugh of Rose Varian sent a quiver through every nerve. 
                  "Upon my word, Sir Knight, meeting you here is a rarity that I had not expected. What is the quest now? I have all the flowers in the wood;" and she held up her hands. 
                   
                  "I was not after flowers." 
                  "Then I have not robbed you? There is one sin less to be repented of at some future day." 
                  "You do count on repentance, then?" 
                  He glanced her over with a curious flutter coming into brain and heart. She seemed to assail one at every vulnerable point. The sunshine, straggling through the bare branches overhead, had not more affluence of warmth and color. The proud head exquisitely poised, the dazzling golden hair, the rose on her cheek, and the bewildering light in her eye, rendered her wonderfully enchanting. The contrast with all around touched him forcibly; and though he took it all in at a glance, her voice roused him as from a reverie. 
                  "Yes, as one counts upon any other uncertainty." 
                  "I think you are laying up considerable employment for that future time. At what period do you propose undertaking it?" 
                  "When I am old, or when the world has lost its allurements. Not that the attraction here is so very strong;" and she stopped with a short laugh. "Some day I may have a wider sphere." 
                  "Shall I congratulate you upon your achievements? I hear that half of Crofton has yielded to your sway." 
                  "Another such victory would be worse than a defeat;" and she made a disdainful gesture with her flower-laden hands." 
                  "It is a misfortune that you should be so restricted." 
                  There was a dash of cool sarcasm in his voice, but if it touched her it was not made evident to him. 
                  "I believe I was born to queen it royally. I seem to have stepped into the wrong niche, or else the 'times are out of joint.'" 
                  "'And cast strange shadows.' I have been observing them, Miss Rose." 
                  An amused expression fluttered around her mouth, and a curious, wavering light came into her eyes. 
                  "What have you observed, Mr. Brevoort? Your penetration and keen sight are rare endowments, we all know." 
                   
                  He ground his foot into the bed of moist leaves, sodden by their winter covering of snow, and said, with mocking politeness,- 
                  "Thank you." 
                  "It is I who should be obliged, though I doubt if the subject is commensurate to the talents expended upon it." 
                  "I don't know that it is." His voice rang out sharply, for he was angered by both manner and words. 
                  "You will find, Mr. Brevoort, that a woman's follies are like that fleecy drift in the sky: it portends neither rain nor clear weather. The sky would be just as well without it, but it gives a little variety." 
                  "Your comparison is faulty. For when that floats away the sky will be just as blue, just as fair; but a woman's follies generally leave some mark upon herself or others." 
                  "Which appeals the more strongly to you, Mr. Brevoort, pity for 'herself' or 'the others'?" 
                  "It is but fair that my sympathies should be with the others, since the suffering is likely to be theirs also." 
                  She scattered the ripples of a light, faithless laugh to the winds. She came a step nearer, and glanced into his face with a dash of defiance that made every feature sparkle like a sharply cut diamond. 
                  "Mr. Brevoort,"-and her voice had a peculiar inflection,-"tell me how much a man can suffer. These stocks and stones at Crofton give me no idea." 
                  "And you are ambitious to probe the very depths?" 
                  "Rather too strongly stated. Interested would be better." 
                  "Has your experience given you no results? I hear you have turned the heads of half the young men in Crofton." 
                  "Weathercocks, be they on barns or church steeples, turn easily," was her sententious reply. 
                  "You have not met a foeman worthy of your steel?" 
                  "No," she said, frankly, and with a melodious little laugh. "I must go beyond Crofton for that." 
                   
                  The manner in which she passed him by was rather mortifying. It stung under his self-complacency. 
                  "That is all a woman thinks about;" and he snapped a branch from the nearest hemlock tree angrily, and then broke it into bits. 
                  "You forget my sister Claudia. You certainly know her well enough not to misjudge her, no matter how far astray you go in regard to me." 
                  The soft, silvery voice was most irritating, And contrasting this piquant beauty and salient force with that cold, intellectual grace, gave him an impatient sensation, as if he was eager to shake off some influence that had enveloped him too closely. 
                  "How do you know that I misjudge you?" He glanced into her beguiling eyes, that, out here in the sunlight, looked like luminous lakes. 
                  "Because it would be impossible for you to understand me, Mr. Brevoort. When natures run in parallel grooves there is no difficulty." 
                  She said this with the daintiest touch of sarcasm, and her ripe under lip seemed to fall into an unconscious smile. 
                  "You think me incapable of so much mental exertion?" he returned, with boyish warmth and scorn. 
                  "People of my calibre must be content to play the daisy or violet occasionally. They are not of sufficient importance to attract the attention of those in the high spheres above them." 
                  "Very well expressed, Miss Varian, and with charming humility, but you know that you don't believe a word of it. You should have said that my opinion was not of the slightest moment to you." 
                  "Because it would not be correct. And yet I confess myself rather amused at the estimation in which others hold me." 
                  "Nothing would ever affect you seriously." 
                  "No. I haven't the temperament to take deep impressions. All passions with me would be evanescent." 
                   
                  "Even love?" 
                  "Love the lightest of all." 
                  She defined a graceful pirouette with one little foot. Somehow it reminded him of the one bewildering waltz, that even now could stir his pulses, and send a strange current through his frame-a rush of blood up to fever heat. 
                  "Rose," he exclaimed, suddenly, even brusquely, "all this is mere nonsense. You have capabilities that but few possess. I think you know your power. Your love would be an impetuous, tropical passion. The man who once yielded to the current, would be carried along too swiftly for thought, even for breath. He could not rescue himself if he would." 
                  "Poor craven! If he thinks of rescue, he had better never leave his safe, calm shore. He doesn't deserve even your pity, Mr. Brevoort." 
                  His sentence had been uttered almost unconsciously, but her sharp, incisive tone brought him back to reality. 
                  He gazed upon her in a dazed, half-bewildered manner, which she was quick to remark. 
                  "If the man who loved me proved himself a coward, I should hate him, with a bitterness that you know nothing about. It would be just as strong as the love, and that you will never know either." 
                  Her voice literally clove the fragrant air. It reminded him of a keen knife going down into the the quivering flesh. 
                  "And if he dared to think of me, and not love me, he would be worse than a coward. Mr. Brevoort, are you satisfied with your mental dissection? I am going home. Good by." 
                  John Brevoort ground his teeth together in the heat of a strange passion. He did hate to yield this woman without ever again tasting the sweetness of the beguiling mouth, whose occasional bitterness added a keener flavor. He could not let her go in this manner. 
                  "I meant to walk out to the road. Will it be distasteful to you?" 
                   
                  She laughed. "Suit yourself, Mr. Brevoort." 
                  "Are you angry?" 
                  "What should I be angry about?" 
                  "I'll offer myself for your scalpel. That will make matters about even. Miss Varian, be good natured, and favor me with an opinion. I'm a great, strong, thick-skinned fellow, and I confess I'm rather curious to know what you think of me?" 
                  She turned her eyes full upon him an instant; and then, with an air that hid under its careless grace something he felt, but could not see, answered, indifferently,- 
                  "I have thought so little about you, that I really am not prepared with an opinion. I have had too many other subjects in hand." 
                  Her cool insouciance rasped every nerve in spite of his boast. They walked along in silence, for he was too angry to speak, and too wise to show his resentment. 
                  The creek took a sudden turn here, and ran through the woods. Some one had spanned it with the trunk of a fallen tree, rather slender for a bridge. 
                  "You had better come out to the road with me," he said, mastering his voice with an effort. 
                  "Thank you. I crossed here in my walk down. It is nearer for me." 
                  Any other time she would have gone out of her way for the pleasure of walking with him. Neither did she invite him, by word or gesture, to accompany her. 
                  He would not dissuade her by so much as a look. He watched the lithe figure, instinct with sinuous grace, the floating hair blown about by the free wind. She had wrapped her flowers in one corner of her shawl, and was holding them with one slender, white hand while with the other she balanced herself. It was but a few steps across. 
                  As she neared the opposite bank, the slight support wavered. She caught herself suddenly, and gave a spring, leaping to a stone that slipped the instant her foot touched it, and the next moment she was prostrate on the soft turf of fallen leaves. 
                  John Brevoort swung himself over with the agility of a boy; and though there was a half smile playing about his eyes, said, with real solicitude,- 
                  "Are you hurt?" 
                  Rose crowded back the tears of rage and mortification. She did not accept the proffered hand, but rose haughtily, though with an unsteady movement. A deathly paleness overspread her face, as if seized with a spasm of intense pain, and she would have fallen again if his strong arm had not caught her. 
                  "O!" with a little, sharp cry. "Let me sit down." 
                  There was a rough stone near by, covered with gray moss. He turned her in that direction, and not an instant too soon, for she was faint with the pain. 
                  "You are hurt." Brevoort came around, and knelt before her, taking the limp hands in his. "What have you done?" 
                  "Fallen down like any baby!" Her tone was almost savage. "I think you saw that." 
                  "Yes, I saw that. Is it your foot?" 
                  She put her hand to her ankle, slender and shapely as that of some Greek nymph, and though she compressed her nearly colorless lip, he could see the pain that even the lightest pressure gave her. 
                  "You have sprained your ankle." 
                  "I think I must have." 
                  "You see now that my way would have been safer." 
                  She could have struck him with the utmost satisfaction. As it was, she bit the scarlet blood back to her lip, and clinched her hand. He noted it, and determined to be amply avenged. She bore her suffering with a Spartan fortitude, because she hated to betray any weakness before him. It was some moments before she stirred. She glanced out to the road, and down the dull brown stretch, wondering how she was ever to get home. Then she rose, with stately dignity, putting her injured foot to the ground. 
                   
                  He was watching her narrowly. Now he held out his hand for her support, but she only answered by a haughty gesture of disdain. It would be impossible to walk with this assistance even. 
                  "Mr. Brevoort,"-and her tone was icily clear,-"I shall be obliged if you will go to the house and send Mrs. Mayne to me." 
                  "Miss Varian, you will have to be carried, and I think I am more capable of the exertion than Mrs. Mayne. It will be a short cut through this corner of the wood and the next field." 
                  "Will you obey my request?" 
                  He was not in a humor to obey any one at that moment, most of all this wilful child, whose beauty stirred his senses like some keen, exhilarating draught. 
                  "No," he said, with a provoking little laugh. "It would be simply foolish. I should be ashamed to summon a woman for such an errand. When you are ready to go home, I will carry you." 
                  Then he folded his arms over his broad chest, and leaned against a rough tree. Every limb, to his very fingers even, was instinct with a vigorous manliness. His resolve to rule, asserted in every feature of his well-accented face, stung her nearly to distraction, because for the present she was in his power. 
                  "You think I am a child," she began, with angry vehemence. "One of your pupils, for instance, subject to your caprices. You are mistaken." 
                  "I have understood that caprice was a womanly virtue. If you were my pupil you would find that I should exact instant obedience. As it is I will wait your time." 
                  The pain increased so rapidly that she was forced to resume her seat. Presently he went and gathered up her flowers. 
                  "Don't do that for me," she said, quickly. "I would not touch one of them again. I hate them." 
                  "Miss Rose, you need some lessons in Christian ethics. It is not necessary to be distressed. I am collecting them for my own pleasure." 
                  Each little spray was carefully arranged into the bouquet, with a deliberation that roused every fibre of impatience in Rose's nature. Then he returned to his post, and surveyed her gravely. She was very pale, and a blue line began to settle under her eyes. 
                  Indeed, the pain was becoming unendurable, for her ankle was beginning to swell rapidly, and shrunk from the pressure of the soft, dainty boot. The sun dropped down behind Crofton Rock and the distant hills, leaving them in a hazy shadow. 
                  The moments were interminable to Rose. "If he would only speak again," she thought, presently; but his silence was exasperating. What a will the man had! 
                  "Are you going to remain here all night, Mr. Brevoort?" For now her endurance was at an end. 
                  "If you make it a point of honor and gallantry, I certainly shall. Still my advice would be, that you should consent to my first proposal. Some attention is absolutely necessary for you, and the air is growing damp." 
                  There was but one course left her-to signify her acceptance. How to do it, and not yield too much, puzzled her sorely. 
                  "Mr. Brevoort," she said, at length, "you are a most unjust and ungentlemanly adversary. I am in your power-" 
                  "Prisoners of war seldom dictate terms," interrupting her with an annoying smile. 
                  "I am not a prisoner. And it's ambush instead of civilized warfare. A cruel, cowardly, Indian ambuscade." 
                  "You are angry because my advice would have saved you in the beginning. But you followed your own sweet will then, and now I am determined that you shall follow mine. Are you ready?" 
                  "Yes," in a sharp tone, and with a haughty light flashing out of her sparkling eyes. 
                   
                  He raised her tenderly. She was like a child in weight, and gathering her in his arms he threaded his way through the short piece of woods, and at the fence supported her with one arm, while with the other hand he let down the bars. Then with a brisk walk over the stubbly meadow, they were at the edge of her own domain. He paused, seating her on the broad stone wall while he sprang over. 
                  "Come," he said, "let us be friends. I have teased you a little, and you have been thorny as your wildest namesake. Will not that balance accounts?" 
                  She wanted more humility than that, and shut her lips firmly. 
                  "One word." But there was a gay light in his eye, showing that the episode had amused him, and the hot blood of indignation surged to her heart. 
                  "O, I can bestow more than one word. I will never, never forgive you! You have been arbitrary, domineering, and hateful!" 
                  "A list of virtues, truly! And you unreasonable and inconsequent, as women always are." 
                  Without another sound he carried her to the door-step. The expression of merry badinage had gone out of his face, and his clasp was less gentle, although not rough. 
                  Barbara came. Rose stretched out her hands imploringly, but Mr. Brevoort meant to perform his duty to the farthest verge, and before a question was asked, had deposited her on the settle. 
                  "She sprained her ankle crossing the creek in the wood," he said, in answer to Claudia's alarmed gesture. "I think I had better send, the doctor over." 
                  "No," Rose gasped, with something like a petulant cry. "Barbara, take off my boot and look at it. You are as good as a doctor." 
                  "You're sure it isn't broken?" 
                  "O, no! What a foolish fuss you all make! Mr. Brevoort, you may be dismissed." 
                   
                  "Good night," he said, softly, coming round and glancing into her eyes, which were filled with tears of pain and vexation. "I shall drop in to-morrow to see if you have come to your senses." 
                  Barbara disrobed the swollen foot, bathed and bandaged it, while Rose told only that part of her story which was necessary. And then she lay quietly on the settle, and refused to eat any supper, her thoughts in a whirl of passion. Claudia, moving about with her slow grace, the lofty poise of her head, the broad chest, the shoulders thrown back with the impress of free, vigorous life, and the calm, strong face made a picture that fretted her strangely. These white foreheads, full of clear brains, were what men liked, then! John Brevoort rarely talked nonsense with Claudia. He paid her a strange deference. It had grown, too, in the last three months. The room seemed filled with visions of the two poring over their books, glancing up into each other's eyes, and then talking on and on until the stream flowed far beyond her depth. Did he love her,-Claudia? 
                  Rose raised her head, and supported it, with her elbow balanced on the edge of the settle. She looked long and steadily into the fire. She meant to have a life full of triumphs when they were once fairly into the world, for that they were to leave Crofton had become a settled fact. But there would be a flavor wanting to every one, if this Mordecai at the gate refused to pay his homage. Could she wrest it from him? 
                  Barbara carried her to bed, and brought her down again the next morning. The first thing her eye fell upon were the flowers arranged in a quaint, old-fashioned china mug. 
                  "Claudia!" she exclaimed, "will you throw them out? I hate the very sight of them." 
                  "They are so lovely. It was not the fault of the flowers-" 
                  "No matter!" before Claudia could finish her sentence. "I will not have them in the room." 
                   
                  They always humored her whims, and just now would not have refused her anything. So the blossoms perished out in the April sunshine. 
                  Rose resigned herself to her half helpless state with a very tolerable grace. There was nothing alarming in the accident. All she could do was to keep quiet for a week or two; and as she was impatient to be about again, she took Barbara's caution and restrictions in an unusually placid spirit. In the meanwhile she went back to her old poems for diversion. "Beauty always has won," she thought, in a glow of hope. 
                  John Brevoort came over that evening. Rose was quiet, but keen-eyed. There was between the two a bond of friendship, similarity of tastes, strength of purpose, and ambition, that she saw plainly. And now Mr. Brevoort had ceased to chafe at Claudia's fancied supremacy. They met on a broader level than before. Some latent point of union was being slowly developed. As if, at the bottom of their souls, the man and woman spoke to each other without any flimsy veil between. Was it love? John Brevoort, bending over her until his bearded cheek almost touched hers of pale purity, looking into her calm, clear eyes, yet never making the blood quicken, never rousing her to any hasty speech or gesture-did the woman of fair, solid flesh have any nerves or sensations to rouse? Rose never remembered seeing her angry, or moved by any passion. Was she remoulding this man, who certainly liked her better than formerly? 
                  The salient antagonism of Rose's nature sprang to the surface. He was of her kind. Put whatever mask upon himself that he might, she knew of an undercurrent that could leap out fiery and forceful. She wanted to see the flame once again. 
                  Mr. Brevoort had been teaching Claudia chess. Rose had tried her hand at it a time or two, but it bored and annoyed her. She possessed none of the patient application requisite. He had this much of the master about him, that when he undertook took any task, he wanted his pupil to use his or her best endeavor. So Rose and he had quarelled over it, and given it up in disgust. 
                  He and Claudia played a while after the reading was finished. Then he stood up in front of the wide chimney, putting his hands behind him, and rubbing them in the warmth of the crackling blaze, taking a careless survey of the room. This was the parlor. Latterly they had used it altogether. He remembered the first night he had come in here, and the odd bits of poetry they had flung at one another. And as his eyes wandered around they fell upon Rose. 
                  She wore a loose silken robe,-some odd Eastern fabric that she had exhumed from her stock of treasures. A fleecy blue, like the sky full of tiny drifts, and flecked with bars of gold that caught the fire-light, and took from her restless movements a sinuous grace. He thought it looked like a sea at sunset, and the clustering lace about her swelling throat a bit of snowy foam. The pupils of her eyes enlarged their jetty hue, and seemed just framed in with a rim of amber. The loosened, riotous curls, clung, and twisted, and dazzled, until he experienced a curious sensation concerning them. 
                  He came close to her. "Have you forgiven me?" he asked. 
                  "No." The eyes were looking past him to some world of their own. 
                  Her resentment did not affect him seriously, it appeared. She felt a little angry quiver through her nerves, but she would not betray it. 
                  "Frank, if nothing else!" 
                  "Mr. Brevoort, you couldn't understand anything but the boldest truths." 
                  "You don't know what I could understand," in a strange heat, interlacing his fingers. 
                  "Not me, at least. Go back to Claudia. You cold, methodical, calculating people drive me to distraction." 
                   
                  She turned away her head, and made a gesture with her hand that dismissed him. He bit his lip, but there was no chance to argue. 
                  She smiled when he was gone. At last she had found a vulnerable spot in his armor. 
                
                
                   
                  IX. A WOMAN'S VENTURE. 
                  IF the spring had been slow in coming to Crofton, it made amends in a most rapid fashion. Each day was like a new revelation to Claudia. As if it were bringing her near to some dimly dreamed-of good; a sphere where she should live a fuller life. And yet she had no plans. She was waiting for what the future held in its clasp, satisfied as never before in her life. There was plenty of work to be done she knew; but just now, she drew long breaths of marvellous content. 
                  It was the first spring John Brevoort had spent in the country since his boyhood. He had little care for landscapes then; little time in which idle dreams could be indulged. Now, he took long walks after school, discovering haunts of beauty that he would hardly have thought Crofton possessed. Or had he been roused to a keener sense of external loveliness? 
                  One afternoon he wanted a companion, and went direct to the old stone house. The hall door was wide open, the sun shining in through the budding branches of the sycamore. How quiet it was! 
                  He tapped low, but no one answered. Then he opened the door; a curious smile lighting up his face. 
                  There was no one within. The clean floor, the orderly chairs, the fire smouldering on the hearth, Barbara's checked apron neatly folded and lying upon the dresser, Claudia's box of mignonette in the open window-what a quaint picture it all made! This noticing everything in detail was a new trick of his, and he wondered idly where he had acquired it. 
                  He would have gone out again, quietly, but he caught a glimpse of a white dress in the room beyond, and the ripples of shining, golden hair; so he advanced, wondering if Rose were asleep, and Claudia so engrossed with painting, that she had not heard. 
                  Rose was not asleep; and though she knew the step, did not so much as move a finger. So he came quite close to her, noting the fine skin, the peculiar almond shape of the almost transparent lid drooping over the eye, and the thin nostril that quivered with every breath. Should he disturb her? 
                  A half smile curved her lip, and she opened her eyes. There was nothing tangible in her defiance, and yet he read it in every feature. 
                  "Did I startle you?" 
                  "No. I was only lying here in a lazy mood, building air castles." 
                  "Tell me what they were?" 
                  "They wouldn't interest you at all, Mr. Brevoort. Claudia went to E. for her lesson, purposing to spend the day, and Barbara has gone to a sick neighbor; therefore I can offer you no attraction. It's really beautiful out of doors." 
                  "So you wish to send me away?" a trifle fretted, as she could tell by his tone. "How do you know but some presentiment lured me hither this afternoon?" 
                  "People of your stamp, Mr. Brevoort, are not troubled with presentiments. It's a farce for you to indulge in any such ideas." 
                  "How much do you know concerning people of my stamp?" with an almost bitter inflection of the voice. "You jump at conclusions." 
                  "I don't consider you any great mystery. You carry your purposes of life on the surface." 
                  "Are they so easily read, or are you wiser than your kind? You know I asked you one day for your opinion, and you thought you had not given the matter sufficient attention." 
                  "I have been considering since then." 
                   
                  "And my purposes have become apparent? Well, begin. First, what do I mean to do with life?" 
                  "You dare me to tell you?" and she gave him a musical, mocking laugh. 
                  "Yes." 
                  "You mean to make it yield you wealth and honor, Mr. Brevoort. You will never work for nothing." 
                  "A man would be a fool to do that." 
                  "Certainly. You have a good deal of rude energy. You can give hard blows, and take them without wincing. And so you'll go straight on, overcoming obstacles, thrusting weak people out of your path, holding every new height with a giant's grip, and gain what you seek." 
                  "A flattering prediction. I'm not one of your delicate, womanish men, I will confess. And I shall fight hard. But I am not utterly heartless, as you seem to think." 
                  "O, I am glad to know it!" As if his words had put her in possession of a new fact. 
                  "Well, Miss Rose, after I have gained my social eminence, for which I shall neither lie, nor steal, nor murder, what then? Go on with the account." 
                  "You will have a handsome house, with plenty of good cheer within. Soft carpets, pictures, books, company, horses. You will grow stout, indolent, self-complacent, and fancy yourself supremely happy." 
                  "You have left out one important item that a woman invariably thinks about." 
                  "What is that?" In a sharp tone, as if she was annoyed that he should remark any deficiency. 
                  "Love." 
                  She laughed in a soft, incredulous, stinging manner. 
                  "Why, Mr. Brevoort, you couldn't love!" 
                  He walked up and down the room with an impatient step. It was foolish to be so roused by this prickly child's badinage, but it would have been a great comfort to shake her-to make her feel the weight of his anger. 
                   
                  "Not but what you will marry," she went on, trickling her silvery voice over the words, like a limpid stream dropping from stone to stone. "You will do it in a sober, calculating fashion. When you have your house, and an income that will allow of luxuries, you will cast about for a proper mistress. Blonde, I think she will be, tall, with a slow, impassive grace, an opaque skin, in which blue predominates, to show that she cannot be driven about by every gust of feeling. Hair straight and heavy, neutral tinted, large calm eyes, an even, well-cultivated voice, and a quiet, well-regulated heart. She will be fond of rich dresses, diamonds, solid silver, and the approval of the world. You will pass a serene life with her. How could it be otherwise? Tornadoes are never found in frigid zones." 
                  "And that is what you think of me? After the toil, the sacrifice, the waiting, I shall come to the level of this block of ice or marble!" 
                  He paused before her, his face in a passionate glow, his eyes darting out curious rays of flame. 
                  "We all love, and are loved, according to our capability, I think." 
                  "You have gone far astray. Perhaps I shall not marry for years to come; but I can tell you, in that day, Rose Varian, love will be the master passion of my life. You don't know me at all." 
                  He knelt beside her, and looked fiercely into her face. It seemed at first as if she meant to evade him; then her glorious eyes trembled in dewy splendor, the soft red lips fell into entreating curves, and a faint pink fluttered warily up to her pearly brow. 
                  "You don't know-" in a wavering manner, stretching out his hands as if something was eluding him. "I could convince you, but it would not be best for you or for me." 
                  "No, it would not be best. Don't be tragic, Mr. Brevoort. And it's right to count the cost, even in friendship." 
                   
                  "You think everything must appeal to my self-love-a woman's narrow view." 
                  "You don't know what I think-"in a soft, bewildering tone. 
                  She could have gained her victory then and there, but a touch of waywardness intervened. It was too soon. She meant that her face should be the last picture stamped upon his heart when he left Crofton, and this was too early for what she intended to do. 
                  "Why can we not be friends?" he said, suddenly taking the little hand in his, and thrilled by the warmth, and satin smooth skin, the almost clinging touch. 
                  "We are too unlike. I belong to the tropics. I hate cold, calculating people. I like blood that can melt with fire as well as sparkle with frost. And if any man ever dared put anything before my love-" 
                  "He wouldn't;" in a deep, assured tone. "Confess that you have done me injustice." 
                  "When I am convinced,"-and she laughed, with a sort of elfin music, while her eyes grew luminous. 
                  "It is a pity you are losing all this fine weather," he began, presently. "It's glorious for walking. I've been through the woods nearly every day since-" 
                  She colored a little. "Since you gave me some excellent advice that I would not heed. I am in a rare good humor, and can endure the remembrance of my faults." 
                  "I believe you never quite forgave me?" 
                  She smiled again. He experienced a sensation of drifting away to some unknown shores. What if he should allow himself to float with this tempting current? The bearded face sank lower and lower, until it felt the fragrant breath. And then-kisses. 
                  A step, crunching and scraping on the broad stone at the door, sent a warning note through the open window. There was a bright color burning in John Brevoort's face, but he seated himself carelessly in the nearest chair, and taking up Rose's book, read to her. Barbara stirred the coals and filled the kettle. 
                  He staid to supper that evening. Claudia returned in her usual serene mood, but somehow she seemed far off and icy to him. The woman Rose had pictured was outwardly different from her; but how about the spirit, the soul? 
                  When he went home to Dame Green's, everything looked poor and commonplace. His life stretched out barren and chill. So many years to wait! 
                  What if he took the love, and gave himself up to a brief holiday? At least, Rose Varian should acknowledge that she had dealt severely with him in her bitter analysis. 
                  The next morning his eyes were clearer. With that day's mail came a letter from a college chum, that gave the future a more tangible appearance. He went over to discuss it with the Varians. Unconsciously he had come to depend upon Claudia. 
                  It was an opening to commence practice in one of the young western cities. His friend had already established himself in law and real estate business, and considered his own prospects quite brilliant. The only physician of note was to leave the place at midsummer. Brevoort's school term closing early would give him a chance to be on the spot, and his friend urged him warmly not to let the golden moment pass unimproved. There could be scarcely a doubt of his final success. 
                  "I've had a fancy for it all along," he said. "I'd like to try the West. A man grows up with the place, becomes a part of it. The life seems more free and vigorous, as if he might use his soul to some purpose. One isn't hampered by a thousand petty customs, that drag him down into a set groove. Since I must try my luck somewhere this seems truly fortunate." 
                  "You think you will accept?" Claudia's voice was slow, and there came into her heart a nameless pain. How she should miss her friend! 
                   
                  "I don't know that I can do better. I have a little money and good health, a strong, resolute will, and an ambition not easily daunted. I mean to carve out a fortune. I am not afraid of difficulties." 
                  He looked so handsome and manly as he uttered this, that Claudia had no fear for him. But to Rose there came a dread blank. 
                  "Will you read my letter?" 
                  Claudia perused it slowly. A straightforward, sensible appeal, neither glowing in rose color, nor disheartening with sombre shades. The writer proved his claim to the great brotherhood of workers, and he evidently understood his friend Brevoort. 
                  "Yes, I should go. It's something to have such a life opening before one. I feel tempted to envy you." 
                  He glanced at the strong, clear face. A woman's, to be sure, but indicative of much resolution, of patient perseverance. In some dim manner, he seemed to understand, as he never had before, that this soul had inalienable rights, one of which was to carve a path of its own, if there was no way at present in which it might walk with satisfaction. The world was wide, and all she seemed to want was a helping hand to start her on her journey. Their ways would never conflict. 
                  "You cannot stay here," he said, abruptly, looking past her, rather than at her, and feeling how narrow and circumscribed the place was. 
                  "No;" with a decisive air. 
                  "I think I realize the constricted life yours has been. You do need a broader sphere." 
                  Glancing up, their eyes met. Something in hers touched him. As if the high soul in them flashed like a sudden ray of sunlight, and spoke in a language that could not be misinter-preted, glad of a recognition at last. 
                  He rose, and began to walk the floor,-a habit he had when he was trying to shape something in his own mind that required thought. 
                   
                  "What will you do?" 
                  "I don't know. I have been trying to decide all winter. Like you, I have a little money, but I am afraid I have chosen a rather expensive career. If I could work and be paid like a man." 
                  That jarred a little on what he called his sensitive nerves. His ideal woman had no such rude ambition. 
                  "A city will be the best place for you. One might find remunerative employment." Then stopping before her, with a sudden pause, he asked, "Have you never thought of the School of Design? There is a very prosperous one in Philadelphia." 
                  Philadelphia had such a far-off sound. She had speculated on New York. It was going out to Albany, and taking a day's sail down the river, and did not seem impossible. 
                  "I don't know anything about the school. I wish I did. And-I know so little about life." 
                  "Will you have the courage? I told you long ago that it was a hard battle for a woman." 
                  "It is only the first step that is hard. The courage would come to me. I should never be afraid. Tell me what you know of the school?" 
                  "Very little, except that it is a fact. I never was in Philadelphia but once. There's something quaint and quiet about it, and I like a continual stir and activity. But there's an element of generous, helpful Quaker blood, and a sort of chivalrous deference paid to women, irrespective of station. I'm not sure but you would feel more at home, and find friends sooner than in that great seething whirlpool, New York." 
                  "Could I learn the particulars concerning it in E.?" 
                  "The best way would be to write directly there, and get a circular. I think I can manage that for you. I shall be glad to do something, for you have been very kind. Crofton would have proved an arid waste without you." 
                   
                  A little strand in his voice touched her. She was glad if she had given him anything pleasant to remember. 
                  "There isn't much time to lose," he continued. "My term closes the first of June, and I shall want to go West as soon as possible; in five or six weeks at the utmost." 
                  The calm face paled a little. Rose gnawed her lip in her dusky corner. There was no time to lose, indeed. 
                  "I shall be obliged to you," Claudia said, slowly, feeling nearer to him than she ever had before. 
                  "I'll do it to-morrow. And I shall answer my letter. You advise me to accept?" with an odd little smile. 
                  "Yes. I do think it is the kind of life you need. Something that keeps the blood warm and brisk. I know you will succeed." 
                  "I think I shall;" with a man's pride. 
                  She felt helpless and weak beside him, but it was not made apparent in her face. Claudia Varian would never hang out a signal of distress, even if her bark was going down. 
                  He crossed over to Rose to say good night. "What will you do?" he asked, in a half whisper. 
                  "Mine is a poor life. There is nothing in it, and never can be, but just love." 
                  The low, wavering voice thrilled him powerfully, and obeying his first impulse, he said,- 
                  "The right life for a woman, after all." 
                  John Brevoort kept his word. He was becoming strangely interested in Claudia Varian's plans. She was just the woman for a friend. She had the faculty of inspiring one with a curious self-reliance, of keeping him above any weak and treacherous wave of maudlin sentiment. She would never marry. All this early and most winsome part of life would be spent in toil, devoted to ambition; and when she had climbed to her proud height, she would be above the love of most men. They would always respect her, pay her a sort of grand homage, and be glad to call her friend, even those who would halt at the terms love, and wife. Just such a friend might prove of inestimable benefit to him, and he in turn could make her way seem less lonely. He remembered the old compact made out on Crofton Rock. 
                  But Rose! During the last three weeks she had gained a peculiar influence over him. He was not at all afraid of it, only-if the fates had been a little kinder! The new life would be a great deal to her. He could imagine just how society would affect her. How she would sparkle, and rouse all who came beneath her influence. Why, she didn't half know herself. And when she loved- 
                  A strange jealous pang, shot through every nerve. Ah, if he were rich, if he were a rising and successful physician, as he meant to be some day, no man should sun himself in the rays of her love. No man should call bewildering flashes to those changeful eyes, or taste the sweetness of that beguiling mouth, soft and dewy as a delicious dawn. The desire he thrust down left an aching bitterness. She had spoken truly,-there could be but one thing to her life-love, intense and passionate, asking all and giving all. The brilliant warmth in her veins spoke every instant. It would fill a man to repletion. He liked strong influences. There was not a flaccid or feeble nerve in his whole body. And her strength kindled one into tropical glows. Yes, the man who gained her love-well, it was not for him. If he should be wild enough to ask it, he would hate himself for weakness afterwards. 
                  The days passed on rapidly. A world of laughing May breezes and sunshine, birds twittering love songs, the swallows gathering about the eaves in joyous consultation, wafts of apple blooms from the clustering orchards, piney scents from the wood, and the lilac bushes putting forth purpling buds, swelling with fragrance. Soft skies and tender twilights and a strange sense everywhere of coming to life. 
                  Rose recovered, and resumed her rambles. Had she grown more beautiful? For there was something in her fathomless eyes, in the softly flushing brow, the restless scarlet lips, forever changing from curve to curve, nay, in the whole figure, that stirred John Brevoort strangely. As if she, too, was taking on a fuller life, blossoming in some weird fashion. She recalled to him old fairy stories, heard in childhood, of wonderful princesses, or women who lived in enchanted dells, and exerted a curious influence over all who came in their way. He fell into the habit of rambling around after school, and always meeting her somewhere. She had changed, certainly. She was more gentle, less bitter and defiant, and showed that she took much pleasure in his society. One day he reverted to the coming separation. 
                  "Don't," she said, with a gesture of sudden pain. "It will be hard enough to bear at the last; why keep tasting the bitter every moment as one goes along?" 
                  "As a sort of tonic," and he gave a short, forced laugh. 
                  She drew her brows into a little frown. "I hate those things;" and there was an angry vehemence in her voice. "If there is any pleasure, I don't want it diluted with a hundred fears about to-morrow. Let the joy be unalloyed today; if there must be sorrow or repentance, let it come afterwards. 
                  "The old heathen philosophy;" and he studied her minutely. 
                  "My birthright." She went on pulling her flowers to pieces. 
                  What if there should be a dash of rapture to flavor the long, lonely days that were to come? He had been pretty honest, so far as women were concerned, never absolutely flirting. In his great, stalwart manhood he held it a sin to win a woman's heart with looks and tones, and then leave it to perish, righting the case, in one's own estimation, because no promise had been given. He had seen it done; in fact, it was a rather common occurrence. The women married afterwards, and were happy. Was there any such thing as a broken heart? 
                  Then he thrust the temptation out of his sight. They would be simply friends. Bewildering and absorbing as her love would prove, he was not quite sure that she would make a satisfactory wife. She would demand his whole soul, to the exclusion sion of every other object. There was an intense jealousy in her nature. And loving his profession, he was not quite ready to surrender heart, and brain, and days, that were to do so much for him. If in five or six years-but of course she would marry. Friendship was best. 
                  Claudia waited for her fate to be decided. She said but little, though Mr. Brevoort dropped in nearly every evening. At last he brought a thick packet, in a triumphant mood. It bore a Philadelphia postmark. 
                  There was a long and eager consultation. The circular, with its minute description of every branch of art taught, opened a new world to Claudia. She could become part and parcel of humanity, not live her own isolated life, with its solitary aspirations. Every pulse quickened. A glow came into her cheek, a brightness to her eye, a vigor to her whole frame. It was something to be thus identified with her fellow-creatures. 
                  The term would not commence until fall; so there was plenty of time to make preparations, and accustom themselves to the idea of a removal. Rose was elated with the prospect. She made Mr. Brevoort describe the city and the people, so far as he knew them, and in her rapid way reared a pleasing structure. She sat in her old corner by the chimney; and though there was no quivering flame to play about her, she made a peculiar brilliancy of her own. 
                  They walked down the path with him when he went away, and stood a long while at the gate. Claudia strove to thank him for the interest he had manifested. 
                  "I am glad if I have been of any service, doubly glad to have known you both, and to call you friends. And when the time of parting comes I want to carry away a lasting remembrance. I think there ought to be another long, bright holiday. Can't we go somewhere together?" 
                  "O, I know," said Rose. "Down Silver River to the islands. A fairy spot, Mr. Brevoort." 
                  "To the islands! Why, I've never heard of them." 
                   
                  "Crofton hasn't much time to spare for nonsense of that sort. In the summer the boys go down for blueberries. The sketches that you like so much of Silver River were taken there." 
                  "Veritable islands, are they, Miss Rose? Didn't you say once that you rowed down there?" 
                  "Claudia did." 
                  "By all means let us go then." 
                  "I am afraid you will not think it remarkable. And the islands are mere beds of rushes, with one or two exceptions. You must have seen many finer views." 
                  "Don't discourage me. The first of June comes on Saturday, you know. I shall go to New York for a brief visit before I start westward; but we will have a sail and a day of delight. Something for us both to remember amid the toil that will come afterwards;" and he held Claudia's hand in a lingering clasp. 
                  "Isn't it splendid, Barbara?" and Rose's voice rang out with triumph as the girls returned to the old kitchen. "Everything planned to one's liking, only I'm sorry we cannot go untill fall. When Mr. Brevoort leaves the place, the glory of Crofton will be sadly dimmed." 
                  "Miss Rose! As if he was all! A young girl should be ashamed of expressing her opinion so freely." 
                  "May be I'm an old woman, Barbara! I feel sometimes as if I had lived centuries ago, and then taken a long nap in a wizard's cave, till the grim fellow laid his magical finger upon me and brought me back to life. And why shouldn't I like Mr. Brevoort? Claudia does too, only she never confesses her sins and follies." 
                  A bright color flashed up in Claudia's face at this reckless onslaught. 
                  "It's a hard thing to leave one's home;" and Barbara sighed. 
                  "I believe I have outgrown it." Claudia's voice was dreamy as if talking to herself. "I want something different,-work, advancement. Ambition is a noble thing in man, why shouldn't it be in a woman?" 
                  "But women are different. They have their homes and their children, and that is enough. I don't like these new-fangled ideas." 
                  Claudia laid her hand on the bony shoulder. "That will never come to me, never;" and her low voice sounded almost like a wail. "If I didn't have some work now, I should die." 
                  Barbara glanced up into the earnest eyes. What had kindled that peculiar fire in them? 
                  "It will be hard to go away, too," with a softer intonation. "But we shall be all together in the new home." 
                  Barbara did not reply, though she half believed that at her age such a change would be impossible. 
                  Rose hurried off to wonderful dreams. A little of the future, and a good deal of the present. She could not quite understand the mood herself. 
                  Claudia had a head full of vague plans. She was glad of the long respite before the departure. Since they had their home here they would keep it to the latest moment. But she must see Squire Brown and tell him. Every nerve was in a state of activity. She could hardly recognize her old slow-thinking self. 
                  They counted the days for Mr. Brevoort. There was a grand school examination on Friday, and farewells that touched his heart keenly, for he had become attached to the children. Congratulations on every side, invitations to tea, and not a few surmises as to where he was going, and what he would do. 
                  Quite late in the evening they heard his firm tread on the path, and Rose ran out. 
                  "To-morrow bids fair to be such a lovely day that I think we had better take our voyage down Silver River," he said. "I want to get away from the tumult, and I've engaged a boat. Will it make any difference to you? for I could not have gone quite as well on Monday. 
                  "None." Claudia answered. 
                  "A day to be remembered." 
                  Both girls repeated it slowly to themselves. 
                
                
                   
                  X. A DAY TO BE REMEMBERED. 
                  THAT June morning was balmy and cloudless, or at least broken only by dappled drifts that moved slowly across the blue sky at intervals. When Mr. Brevoort came, Rose and Claudia were both ready, and the little basket neatly packed. Barbara had bewailed the scarcity of eatables, as Saturday was baking day, and had earnestly striven since daylight to repair the misfortune. 
                  "We are going down to the groves for nectar and ambrosia," Rose laughed. "There'll be wine of Cyprus, too, bottled in a deep, cool cellar, so no fear of our starving, Barbara mia." 
                  "You'll like some biscuit, I dare say," was the dry response. 
                  They took the shortest way to the river,-the path through the woods. At every step they stirred odorous mosses, or brushed the young grass sparkling with dew. No wind rustled in the trees, but the golden sunlight was filtered through, and fell in shining grains at their feet. The new growth of the firs and cedars was vividly outlined against the sky, the slender points sharply cut. Occasionally a clear song broke the stillness, but all sights and sounds were weird and dreamy. 
                  A gala day indeed! Their last pleasure together for a long while. I believe they all felt it, for even Rose was unusually quiet. It was like dallying on a tranquil shore before the real work of life began. 
                  Emerging from the woods at length, the placid river wound around, silvery indeed in the morning sunshine, and gliding on noiselessly, with scarcely a ripple. It divided Crofton from the next township, level and low-lying, great meadows between the shore and the town, clothed in burnished emerald. 
                  They skirted the edge of the wood for a short distance, until they came to a rude stone fence, piled up with no regard for comeliness. The ground was starred with yellow five-finger in blossom, and half-ripened wild strawberries. Rose must needs pause and gather some, making wry faces at their green side. 
                  "Like too many of our pleasures," moralized Mr. Brevoort. "We grasp them in haste, and learn that we might better have waited for their ripeness and perfection." 
                  "I won't be sermonized to-day, of all times;" and Rose laughed petulantly. "Besides, I thought we were to be friends." 
                  There was a peculiar shadowy light in her eyes, that were perfect ultra-marine this morning. He had at last drawn her into admitting that friendship might be possible between them. 
                  "Are we not? Does the tie presuppose mental blindness? I am glad you are not superstitious." 
                  "About a half-ripe strawberry! I can defy any omen." 
                  "Can you?" He looked at her curiously. 
                  "Yes, I shall take upon myself a charmed life to-day. The water-gods shall not affright, nor the spirits of the air whisper of danger. I will not dream of yesterday nor to-morrow; the present shall be sufficient." 
                  There was a subtle brilliancy in her eye, and her voice was full of potent, overmastering music. She might also have said that she meant to be dangerous. 
                  The boat lay rocking in the slow tide, fastened to a stake. Mr. Brevoort unknotted the rope, and drew the keel up into the sand with a vigorous pull. Then he took the cushions from under the seat and adjusted them, and assisted Claudia, who, with a springing step, leaped over the edge of the boat, balancing herself an instant with a graceful, stately poise. Mr. Brevoort turned to look at her, with a dim thought of some old-world goddess in his brain. 
                   
                  Rose suffered herself to be lifted. So light and lithe was she that she felt herself no burden to these strong arms. As she glanced into his face, with the shy grace of a child, the old thought of possession roused him. To have her always with her wonderful beauty, that seemed forever new! Had she ever been as lovely as to-day? 
                  "One of you will have to sit in the stern, for I think the tiller will need a hand now and then. We shall float with the tide a while, as the whole day is before us. Five miles, I think you said?" 
                  "Yes." Claudia took the seat. Rose had no fancy for any kind of work, on this of all days. 
                  Brevoort thrust the oar in the soft sand and pushed them off. The little boat slid out of her improvised harbor. With a stroke or two he reached the channel, where the current was strongest, then rested his oar in the thwarts. 
                  "What a splendid day! The sun will not be very hot until noon, and then we shall be sheltered. Are you both comfortable?" 
                  Claudia assured him with her voice; Rose, with her eyes. 
                  The shore was edged with clumps of young willows, in their feathery green, swaying alders, and here and there a dark beech. The river was clear as crystal. Rose, bending over, saw the shadowy bottom glittering as if sown with pearls. Tiny fishes darted about, while nearer the edge a miniature forest of sea-weed swayed to and fro. Pink, green, and crimson, in all their translucent beauty, swept continually by the rippling waves, yet making faint stand against them. What world of wonder and unseen life was in those quiet depths! She plashed her hand about in the liquid waste, and thought of Undine. The sound of the water lapping the boat was like a musical monotone. What an odd, queer thing life was, to be sure! What was that far bird thinking about? and was there any joy, or hope, or love for these rainbow-hued fishes? 
                  John Brevoort was in fine spirits. His nine months had been pleasant and profitable. He found himself recruited in health, daring and energetic. Moreover, he had changed the current of life for these two girls-brought them to a keener sense of existence. If Claudia succeeded, as she surely must, she would owe him a little debt in feeling, that it would be sweet to claim; for he did not mean to let the acquaintance die out. Of late, she had grown more exquisitely human, he thought. Lofty she would always be, but it was the pride of purity, not coldness. Or were his eyes keener to-day? 
                  On and on, Rose repeating weird poems in her drowsy, lulling voice, or the three falling into strange conversations, for it seemed as if they were drifting out of the world. Past fragrant orchards, fields of waving grain vivid in the sunlight, long reaches of meadows, woods again; and now the shore grew wild and rocky, clustered about with tangled vines, and spicy with grape blossoms. Here a knot of brilliant flowers, there a dead tree standing stark and lonely, and all the while the air growing more quiet, as if with some magical spell. 
                  The river widened, and presently they came in sight of the islands. The high bank on one side, with its dense green gloom, threw them partly in shadow. Mere beds of rushes, indeed, with wet sedgy edges, spires of calamus, white, with narrow pink stripes for several inches above the ground, poly-pods, with green feathery fronds, horsetail, with its ruff of storied spines, the crested surge wandering around, with feeble attacks, that never gained a decisive victory. Here in the shade the water was covered with the waxen leaves of pond-lilies, supported on slender, swaying stems. Tiny cones of buds standing upright, and a few in spotless blossom, snowy white, and with great golden hearts. 
                  John Brevoort drew a long breath. Were they, indeed, among the fairy isles? Every pulse yielded to the delicate languor. The air was moist and heavy, and mingled with perfume. He saw Rose reaching out for the water-lilies, as one in a dream. The slender fingers, the rounded arm, with its sleeve pushed up above the dimpled elbow, the tangled golden hair, the eyes steeped in a bewildering haze. Through the cleft scarlet lips gleamed her teeth of pearl. Sweetest mouth for kisses- 
                  "Let us go on!" he exclaimed, suddenly, and his voice sounded hoarse and unreal, even to himself. 
                  He took up the oar, and piloted them through the narrow channels, the lilies and the sea-weeds clinging to the boat, or brushing against it, with a touch that seemed like tender entreaty. Occasionally they found themselves aground in the soft bottom; but being compelled to use his physical strength restored the equilibrium of his wandering brain. Rose neither spoke nor stirred. It was enough for her merely to breathe. Flushes, like the pale pink of a sea-shell, came to the surface with every respiration, quivering in her swelling throat, and playing about her lips, like a subtle, yet hidden flame; the large, drowsy-lidded eyes were steeped in slumbrous fire, as if waiting for the advent of some word to kindle them into a blaze. If he should speak that word! 
                  With a fierce and powerful effort he turned to Claudia. Did she understand that he was lingering, unwillingly, on the very brink of danger? For she came to his rescue. 
                  "Look just beyond this point," she said, in her clear, cool tones. "There are my islands." 
                  The river made a sudden curve to the north. When they had cleared this sedgy, shady spot, they came out to open day. The water was clearer, the sunshine lay in broad sheets. Two islands, the larger perhaps three hundred feet in length, and lying rather high. A strata of rock on one side, against which the waves fretted in their silvery passion, and a clump of beech throwing a grateful shade for several yards around. 
                  "I recognize the sketches. Miss Varian, you have a wonderful eye for truth." 
                  He colored after he uttered the words. Did she think him weak? Did she care whether he loved Rose or not? 
                   
                  "We had our dinner there, last summer," Rose said, in a slow, melodious fashion. 
                  "Suppose we land? I should think our morning pretty well gone," looking at his watch. "I never believed there was so much beauty in Crofton." 
                  "We are out of Crofton," Rose said. "In a world of our own; in some of the enchanted vales. If you listen you will hear Pan piping upon his reeds." 
                  Instinctively John Brevoort paused in his rowing. She laughed weirdly. 
                  "We will get out and rest ourselves. Are you not tired?" 
                  "Why, this is life to me," she said, in a curious, penetrating tone. "All the rest is merely breathing. I could stay here forever if it were summer always. But I suppose you common-place people are thinking of dinner." 
                  Her light laugh was pointed with a sting. Latterly these allusions had annoyed Mr. Brevoort. He hated to have her think him incapable of those high, rare pleasures in which she steeped herself so daintily. He was not all dull earth. There were some sensitive nerves that could be made to thrill. 
                  He brought the boat around and helped them out. Rose last; and he still retained her hand, as they sauntered about exploring the place, though he was talking to Claudia. 
                  "Who would expect to find such a spot! And those purple hills over beyond are suggestive of gods and demigods when the world was young." 
                  "Idalian groves, where you might seek for Paris and his woodland love," suggested Rose, with a dreamy smile. "Not until autumn will come none's mournful wail of desolation. Now 
                         
                           'At their feet the crocus brake like fire, 
                           Violet, amaracus, and asphodel, 
                           Lotus and lilies; and a wind arose, 
                           And overhead the wandering ivy and vine, 
                           This way and that, in many a wild festoon 
                           Ran riot-'" 
                        
                     
                   
                  He thought then that she might dispute the prize for beauty. Love and tragedy would go hand and hand in her life; he felt that by some strange prescience. Yes, it would be well for him to keep away from the danger. 
                  After their brief tour they seated themselves in the shade of the trees. Rose, emerging from dreamy sentiment, came to sparkling wit. Claudia appeared cold and tame beside her. 
                  The rustic feast was spread upon the grass. Rose garlanded it with flowers. And while the others ate, she sang snatches of wild songs, and made the summer air mellow with her rich laughter. If one had nothing to do but to idle away life amid such scenes! What rare wisdom did those old heathens possess! 
                  Afterwards they turned the bend in the river, passing the point. The water here was like a broad lake, the shore thickly studded with trees, and everywhere pictures of rarest loveliness. Claudia had never been farther than the islands, so they landed again. Her artistic nature was thoroughly kindled with the scene, and in such moments she was silent. She thought of the night at the opera. The music had taken her into a world of which John Brevoort had no knowledge. And now she experienced the same distance between them. Some undefined lack, that even as friends would keep them apart in the grandest moments of life, when the soul seems touched with hallowed fire. 
                  He threw himself on the velvety turf, and commenced toying with Rose's shining hair. Claudia took out her sketch-book. The shore opposite was rarely beautiful, and she commenced transferring it to her paper. It would be a reminder of the day; and sometime, when she was weary battling with the coarser realities of the world, this would soothe her like a strain of comforting music. 
                  Rose was restless. They began to ramble about presently, gathering curious little wild flowers, and berries of the winter-green, and then climbed a rock for the outlook. 
                  "The river seems to end down there," Brevoort said. "What a world of gloom! The high banks enclose it on either side like frowning guardians. Have you any curiosity to inspect their treasures?" 
                  "Yes!" with a sudden start; and they both ran gayly to the shore. There sat Claudia on her perch. 
                  "Your sister-" and Brevoort paused. "Miss Varian, we are going to set sail for the shadowy realm yonder, to find the fountain of eternal youth. One would hate to grow old in such a world as this. Will you come?" 
                  "Don't disturb her. Look at the inspiration on her broad, calm brow, and in her deep eyes. Claudia, do you care?" 
                  The fate of the three trembled in the balance. A breath, a word-why, the very air waited silently for the decision. Was there no warning note to rouse them? 
                  Rose was imperious and petulant; Mr. Brevoort's face indifferent. 
                  "They do not want me," she thought, with a pang. 
                  "Come!" Rose held out her hand impatiently to him. 
                  Mr. Brevoort glanced back. Claudia merely made a negative motion of the head. 
                  "I told you she did not want to be disturbed." 
                  Rose's voice was sharp and triumphant. She sprang in the boat with the grace of Aphrodite, her shimmering hair making a veil about her shoulders. He sent them down the river with several vigorous strokes, and now the sunlight was nearly shut out. A labyrinth of woods, broken by shadowy ravines, long arms of green overarching them, and giving the sky a tint of violet, and the stream narrowing as if to enclose them. Only the cool plash of the water, for hardly a leaf stirred. 
                  "I have read somewhere of a mariner," he said, in a slow, strange tone, "who drifted away from home and country, lured by a voice that was always calling him onward. He made a vow, I believe, never to return until he found the sea-sprite, or whatever it was. Sometimes the sailors meet him in tropical seas, sometimes amid icebergs. I think he must have gone out this way." 
                   
                  Rose laughed. "Are you afraid we shall follow him? Instead, I feel like this,- 
                         
                           'In the afternoon they came unto a land, 
                           In which it seemd always afternoon. 
                           All round the coast a languid air did swoon-'" 
                        
                     
                   
                  "We left the lotus behind." Brevoort's voice had a softened inflection. He was thinking he had snapped these bands once, why not do it again? He could dally a little longer on the "brink of fate. There might never come such a warm, golden season to his life, or a face so tender and beautiful to smile up into his. 
                         
                           "How sweet it were, hearing the downward stream, 
                           With half-shut eyes ever to seem 
                           Falling asleep in a half dream! 
                           To dream and dream in yonder amber light, 
                           Which will not leave the myrrh-bush on the height, 
                           To hear each other's whispered speech." 
                        
                     
                   
                  He listened to her voice like one enchanted. It trembled over the water with its beguiling melody, it floated in among the dells, it seemed to stir the listening leaves, and the very sky brooded over them with siren smile. A day to be remembered! Would he ever forget it? 
                  He drew in the oar, and they floated slowly in the scarcely rippling current. With his hands now at liberty, he reached out for hers, soft and warm, with a thrill in the bounding pulses, and clasped them with such vehement pressure that it roused her momentarily. Only to smile, and to drop the heavy-lidded eyes. This was like the face he had seen in the waltz. There was a strange music floating through his brain; words that hers had recalled. 
                         
                           "Ah, why 
                           Should life all labor be? 
                           Let us alone. Time driveth onward fast, 
                           And in a little while our lips are dumb. 
                           Let us alone." 
                        
                     
                   
                  To-day these fragrant lips were not dumb. He would taste their sweetness once again-for the last time, mayhap. He drew the glowing face nearer. It scarcely stirred from its tranced repose, but it was warm, bewildering. There was a mysterious, exultant thrill leaping from pulse to pulse. Some chord of magnetism in his soul had mastered hers, and she was gentle as a child. Wild, fiery Rose, full of capricious moods, obedient now to a glance. Her golden-crowned head sank upon his knee, and he listened to the confused beating of her heart. On they floated, in dreamy bliss. 
                  Claudia finished her sketch. Then she climbed the highest rocks, and gazed down the river. The afternoon shades had thrown it into deeper gloom. No sound of oar, no echo of voices in merry talk. How deathly it was! 
                  The sunlight dropped out of her little nook at length. For all it was a brilliant summer day, she was chilled to the very bone. She roused herself, and scrambled down to the shore, walking briskly about; but that did not warm her. Then she seated herself again, and leaned her head upon her hand. A sad presentiment swept over her. Not that her soul was so narrow it must needs rebel at the thought of another woman being loved. She had dreamed much of the new life opening before her. All that was bright, and sunny, and enchanting Rose should have. There would be lovers, and a marriage. After that, she would pursue the even tenor of her way, gaining a little fame, perhaps, and making herself happy in the one friendship that of late had become so much to her. 
                  Instead-well, she had no word to say. She should be crowded out of their lives. They would have no joys to share-it was not Rose's nature. Seas rolling between would not separate them more widely. 
                  Was it sometimes a woman's destiny to be unloved! Unconsciously she made a fierce protest. Not a nerve in her whole frame but was roused to a steely defiance. Was she less worthy, less capable? If those divine thrills and tremors of sacred passion came but rarely to her, was it a mark of insensibility? In that momont she seemed to be aware of some awful depth of love and of suffering. 
                   
                  Would they never come? Long shadows fell athwart the rippling river. Some droning insects began their nightly tune. A beetle crept out on the stone beside her, and some water-spiders chased each other up the sand. The lately brilliant scene was growing cold and gray. She had an ill-defined fancy that she should never like this spot again. 
                  The sharp, incisive stroke of a quick oar clove the distant water. Nearer and nearer. A laugh of underlying sweetness, a voice rich and full, as if it had tasted some rare, magical draught. Mechanically she gathered her book, pencils, and some stray flowers she had picked because they were so curious. 
                  Rose, wreathed in trailing vines and luscious blossoms, looking a very river-queen, sat by herself in the stern. She did not raise her eyes, but as Claudia stepped in, gave up her place. 
                  "You found the enchanted country?" Claudia was the first to break the silence. 
                  "Because we staid so long? I'm afraid, after all, that this isn't the right direction. Down below there, a mile or so, the charm is lost. The river widens, and the country becomes more level. No wood-nymphs wild, nor even satyrs. Did you finish your picture?" 
                  John Brevoort's voice seemed to have a dreamy inflection. 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Will you give it to me?" he asked, briefly. 
                  "If it is worthy of acceptance." 
                  Something flashed darkly from Rose's luminous eyes. It brought a frown to Brevoort's brow. 
                  "We staid unconscionably," he went on. "I had no idea that it was so long. The whole day has been a dream, set to music." 
                  They passed the lotus beds again, and he gathered a handful of the closing buds for Rose. But they did not talk much. Presently the river was illumined with a lingering glow of sunset. The oars kept steady time with echoing strokes, each one bringing them nearer home. 
                   
                  They walked back through the darkening woods, though beyond the summer twilight was lengthening out the day. At the gate Mr. Brevoort paused. 
                  "You will come in and have some supper," Claudia said. "I dare say Barbara has prepared quite a feast for us." 
                  "Thank you; not to-night." 
                  Rose, usually so ready to importune, uttered not a word. 
                  Barbara gave them a motherly welcome. The table was arrayed with snowy cloth and choice delicacies, for she had expected a visitor. Rose threw herself upon the old settle, and declared that she did not want a mouthful. 
                  "You have eaten nothing to-day!" Claudia came and looked into her eyes. Had she tasted the nectar of the gods-love? 
                  Rose pushed her away, pettishly, and declared that she was tired. 
                  "You had better have a cup of tea," was Barbara's rejoinder. 
                  "Put my lilies in a vase of water, and don't distress yourself about me. If you like, you may take these flowers out of my hair. I don't want to stir hand or foot. You, Barbara, I mean." 
                  Claudia wondered a little why she was thrust aside. Before the two others had finished their supper, Rose was asleep. 
                  It was so late when she rose the next morning that she could not get ready for church. She was capricious and hasty. Yesterday's brilliance had faded. 
                  Claudia had her quiet walk alone. It was a serene day, with heaven in the very air. Why the old calm, and peace, and strength should return to her she hardly knew, but she seemed lifted above the pettiness of common life. It was as if God had made her different from other women, and given her a broader path to walk in. She was to come to him for strength. He had placed no supports for her to lean upon, so she must stand alone. The fierce rebellion of yesterday was over for all time, she told herself. 
                   
                  And yet it was a strange day. As if something had dropped out of it that no hand could ever restore. Birds warbled in the trees, bees hummed amid the flowers, the old sycamore waved in vivid greenness. Another summer she would not listen to the soft rustle of its branches. Would she have the courage to go away, leaving behind the graves of her kindred, the home so dear? 
                  They were sitting on the door-step in the twilight, when Mr. Brevoort sauntered up the path. He begged them not to go in, the air was so fresh and warm, and seating himself on the broad stone, they fell into a desultory conversation. Some element of harmony was certainly wanting. Rose was in a captious mood, and his geniality had met with a sudden warp or strain. Once Claudia rose to leave them, but he made a gesture of detention, and said, "Don't go. One hates to lose sight of one's friends a moment, when the separation is coming so soon." 
                  Were they really lovers? 
                  "How soon?" Claudia made her voice studiously calm. 
                  "On Tuesday. I expect to spend about a fortnight in New York, making preparations for my new career. When I get West I shall write. I want you to believe that your welfare will always be of interest to me. We shall meet again, sometime." 
                  "When you are rich and great you will forget us," Rose said, bitterly. 
                  "That allows for long years of remembrance. One doesn't make a fortune in a day. Everything I have ever gained has come by the very hardest. I've given the old dame many a keen wrench," with a short laugh. "And I believe I have a good memory." 
                  "You mean to go to Philadelphia?" he went on, after a pause. 
                  "Yes, I think so." 
                  "There's the strong bond of work between us," Brevoort said, musingly. 
                   
                  "Does it connect men and women?" Rose asked, incredulously, with a fine irony in her tone that stung him. Nearly every word she had uttered this evening had rasped some sensitive nerve. 
                  "I suppose it must." 
                  His voice had a peculiar dreamy sound, as if something was hidden in his thoughts. 
                  Claudia's heart quickened in its beating. Was she recognized at last as soul to soul, and not with the artificial lines of society? When she reached the high point whither her ambition tended, would this friend be proud of her? or if she never gained anything but a livelihood, would his voice give its tender benediction of "well done"? 
                  "I shall come to tea to-morrow," he said presently, rising to go. "Farewells are always awkward things. It would be well if there were none in the world, and one went about the business of years as he does that of a day." 
                  He bade Claudia good night, but Rose walked down the path with him. Barbara, from her post by the window, watched with darkening eyes. 
                  "He doesn't go any too soon," she thought, with her oldfashioned grimness. "It would be play to Rose, but to her-" and the slow motion of the head expressed more than she would have cared to put into words. 
                  Claudia fell into a musing vein. Was John Brevoort making a struggle against the bewildering influences Rose exerted? Did he see that she appealed to only part of his nature? The fine spiritual essence that she had seen flash up occasionally, could not be swayed by mere material power. And was not that the man's soul?
                   
                
                
                   
                  XI. ON THE MOUNTAIN TOPS. 
                  CLAUDIA retouched her sketch on Monday. After dinner a restless mood overtook her, and she went out to walk. Whither? Of late she had neglected Crofton Rock; and, obeying her first impulse, she turned in that direction. It was the loneliest road anywhere about Crofton, and but little used. On the eastern hill Mr. William Brown's new house began to rear its bulky skeleton. It seemed odd to hear the sound of hammers and the shouts of workmen in their vicinity. Some day the old home would be demolished. Well, she would not be there to experience any pang. She must hold it to the very latest hour for love's sake, and then it would hardly matter what befell it. 
                  Rambling around in an aimless fashion, she reached the spot at last. A soft wind rustled the leaves in musical murmurs, and she heard the slow ripple of the little brook gurgling over the stones. She parted a cluster of bayberries, and came suddenly upon John Brevoort, occupying the nook where she had first fashioned her vague dreams! 
                  There was a stern and bitter look in his face that she had never seen before. His hand was clinched upon his knee, the veins swelled to ridges, ready to fight to the death, if necessary; but when a man wars with himself he cannot have the consolation of material blows. The eyes were fiercely fixed on some distant foe, apparent to their own vision alone. 
                  She retreated softly, but the faint stir roused him. He sprang to his feet, and almost unconsciously Claudia turned. 
                  "Miss Varian! I might have known that no one else would haunt these shades. Come back to your bower." 
                   
                  "You were thinking, and I interrupted you;" as if half in apology for her intrusion. 
                  "Yes, I was thinking;" in a deep, resolute tone. "It is well for a man to take an occasional inventory of his life, and find how much of the glitter is dross." 
                  He had always looked at himself with such complacency before, that these words, and the manner in which they were uttered, startled Claudia. It was not a mood of humility either. 
                  "I suppose one cannot keep out all the dross." Her tone was slow, with more of musing than questioning in it. 
                  "Sit down here, Miss Varian," and he motioned her to a seat beside him. "Months ago we made a compact of friendship in this very spot. Did you think me a loutish, stupid boor?" 
                  His eyes questioned her eagerly. They were full of liquid, trembling light, and the lines in his face were singularly tense. He locked his fingers over his knee, and awaited her answer with illy-disguised impatience. 
                  "No," she answered, in astonishment. 
                  "But you had seen so few men. I question if one meets a man once in a hundred times. God has put a stamp on them somewhere, but they overlay it with their paltry shams, their rank vanities, or worse than all, their hideous vices. I wonder that you didn't refuse me then." 
                  "God did not make me the judge." She said this reverently. "And I think I needed assistance-" 
                  "Miss Varian,"-and he clasped his hand over hers with a gesture that would have been hard, had the man been less moved by some unseen emotion,-"have I ever been of any service to you? Is your path any clearer, are you any stronger for anything I may have said or done?" 
                  "Yes." She uttered it in a clear, ringing tone. "And if we should never see each other's faces again, I shall always be glad that I met you. I suppose I had all the forces when you came, but they wanted concentration, I have learned how men govern themselves, how they grasp truths, how they face work. I am thankful to know this. It will stand me in good stead in the years to come." 
                  "It is nothing to what I might have done, what I should have done. Months ago I had some miserable vanity, some narrow views, many, many selfish aims. If I have taught you to fight hard and close, I have taught you a lie that God knows I shall be sorry for to the latest day of my life." 
                  "Not that." She seemed to indicate with her hand, he thought, that no mean motives could ever be ingrafted upon her soul. 
                  "No," he said, "you are too pure, too lofty for that. I'm glad that you have never been shadowed with my mean and sordid views. I've had a hard life, Miss Varian. First as boy, then as man. I never knew any high, devoted love, any passion that sacrificed self first. I had a dreary and unloved youth. I began to hate poverty and toil, and narrowed my creed to one article of belief-faith in gold. Not that I meant to lie or steal for its sake. I went to New York, I worked in stores, and spent my leisure moments in study, for I was ambitious even then. I applied to an uncle for a little assistance, and he wrote me a very good letter. I remember one sentence in it-'that a boy who couldn't help himself wasn't worth helping.' After that I depended entirely upon myself. When a man has builded a Babylon, he generally views it with a good deal of pride. I confess that I have glorified my structure with much complacency. But it's a poor triumph. If a man had no higher aim than to make money, and presently lead an easy, luxurious life, he would not be fit to cumber the earth." 
                  "Your ambitions are higher than that!" and the pride she had for him glowed in her clear eyes. 
                  "They are now, and I owe it to you. I seem to have just awakened from a miserable torpor of soul. There is something grander in life than paltry personal aims. There's an immensity even in this world; an influence of soul over soul; a power of truth, generosity, and purity, that can lift a man to heights where gold looks mean and poor. It has come to me like a revelation! I believe now that the heavens can be opened. And this is what you have done for me, my friend," lingering over the words as if they were sweet to utter. 
                  "You rate it too highly;" and yet every nerve quivered with a consciousness of recognition inexpressibly dear. It was what she had longed to do for him, when she first saw what manner of soul he possessed. 
                  "No," he said; "the influence that is to sway a man's whole life can never be held in too high esteem. My selfish, stubborn pride rebelled at it in the beginning. It was a worse than heathen blindness. Good heavens! if I could have seen then! But I had never met a woman like you. I've had a confused notion that strength in a woman must be joined to a sort of vulgar radicalism. I know now how pure and noble a thing it can be made. There might have been a fine, deep harmony between our souls, and to miss this-" 
                  He brought his clinched hand down upon his knee as suddenly as he had raised it to his forehead, as if some acute pain had pierced his brain. He pushed aside the clustering locks, and gave a great gasp, as if the fiery breath was strangling him. She noticed that the drops of perspiration stood out in great beads. 
                  "There are deeds and words in a man's life that can never be blotted out. There are moments of weakness that it is bitter to remember,-bitter! The past cannot be recalled, Varian." 
                  Her pure life had known no worse sins to be repented of than hours spent in vague dreams. In a dim way she seemed to feel that it might be different with a man. Occasionally he had touched upon some reminiscence of city life, in which she had seen the possible danger. Was it an old memory that tortured him now? 
                  "No," she answered slowly, "the past is gone forever. From it we learn our lessons for the future. It is weak to lament when there is so much work to do. If one has made mistakes, and suffered from them, I think he is just the person to help others; to show that any error can be atoned for." 
                  In her narrow experience she generalized. 
                  "You think it can?" with a furtive outlook of the eyes past her to a clump of young beeches. "That one mistake ought not to mar a man's whole life?" 
                  His labored breathing was audible in the silence that fell about them. She felt that he must be deeply, strangely moved. 
                  "No man has a right to mar his life. It belongs to others as well as himself. God meant that he should use it for the best and wisest purposes." 
                  "And when he longs for something higher than himself-you may know how I have changed when I say this,"-and a grim smile relaxed his features; "you think he doesn't entirely belong to the influences that would still keep him vapid and trivial?" 
                  "He should cast them behind. When he seeks something above the material elements of his own nature, he is aspiring God-ward. Who shall dare to thrust him back?" 
                  He walked across the narrow ledge in an abstracted mood. He did not feel the spicy, aromatic breath of summer; he did not see the sky of dreamy blue above. He was wondering if it were possible for him to reach the high ideal of manhood that floated through his brain. If he attempted it, he must find some path out of the world of glamour that seemed to cling to him with a thousand arms. 
                  "Some time I am coming to you for judgment. In a year, perhaps; it may be longer. In the mean while, I shall remember that you have been my friend. Talk to me now. I am tired of this endless tangle of thought. It is the last time I shall be here." 
                   
                  He threw himself on the grass at her feet. He wanted to be made strong and clear-eyed, forgetting that she could only judge him from the few detached fragments he offered her. 
                  The moody look had gone out of his face. It was manly and resolute, and somehow reminded her of the first time they had met. She found no lack of topics. She had never really confessed that Rose was any impediment to unrestricted conversation, yet she knew she always talked more fluently when alone, satisfied herself better. 
                  Just now her soul was enlarged and glorified. She too had come into a more delightful atmosphere, as one always does with a friend by whom one is sure of being understood. There was no incredulous smile, no indifferent word to chill her sensitive brain. 
                  As John Brevoort listened, all that was black and distasteful in his past grew utterly insupportable, Now he saw his wild, fearful mistake. This soul, that he had sometimes sneered at in his lofty man-fashion, touched the deepest chord of his being. What perfect, what almost divine harmony there might be between them! Friends-was it that alone? Did mere friendship stir all the vital pulses, and awake such thrills of rapture? This clear, sweet voice, purely tender, but never thickening with passionate heats, roused the spiritual nature that he had been hardly conscious of hitherto. He had thought it cold, the type of an impassable, phlegmatic temperament. He saw now the subtle strength that repressed the electric energy; the rare delicacy, inborn; something that no art or cultivation could ever equal. It was like the veins of light in a moss agate. The man who won this woman's soul would have what the mines of India could never buy. How she would keep alive his pride, and ambition, and interest! There would be no flagging, no weak selfishness, no petty tyrannies, such as most women considered indicative of power. And it might have been his! The keen sense of loss stung him bitterly. 
                  They talked away the balmy afternoon. In such moments of interchange of soul, the mists and vapors of pure material life are lifted from the mental vision. His eager, active, impetuous spirit bowed to her gentler grace. His soul expanded. The indifference, that he had once characterized as philosophy, vanished beneath her penetrating eye. A warm, pliant air lighted every feature, reflected from her own lofty enthusiasm, tempered with a tender, human interest. 
                  Then she remembered, with a little pang, that it was his last day, and it might be selfish to keep him from Rose. She dreaded to break the charm of the interview, yet, with her accustomed decision, she rose. 
                  Mr. Brevoort glanced at his watch. "Will it be too early to accompany you?" with a half smile. "I intended to spend the afternoon in making calls, but it has been more satisfactory to me, and to you-" 
                  "A time I shall love to remember." 
                  What was there in the softened lines of her face, the pinky tint, so rarely visible, the drooping, liquid eyes? Like a flash, some strange, sweet knowledge penetrated his brain. An Eden from which he had barred himself out; and yet- 
                  He clasped her hand with an impulsive gesture. His eyes were sublimed with an overmastering passion; it penetrated his faltering voice. 
                  "Claudia,"-the first time he had ventured to use her Christian name,-"it is worse than madness to say this, but I cannot let you go without the confession. A torture you can never know wrings it from me. I love you! To-day, in my heart, you stand for the peerless embodiment of womanhood of which men dream. It is my loss that you are so far above me-unattainable!" 
                  She turned suddenly. A tremor seized every nerve. The color deepened into a fluttering crimson. The eyelids drooped with a sweet, subtle consciousness, and the mouth fell into softened curves. A moment only, but it was like a lifetime. His humility had touched her so deeply that her love bade her raise him, for we can only judge of the present impression of soul How could she know what had been there a day before! 
                  "I think," she said, in a low and touching tone, the crimson going down to her very finger ends, "that love makes us all equal." 
                  He caught at it strangely, fiercely. "I know that I might bring my life up to the height of yours; but there would be stains upon my soul that even love could not wash away. No, I am not worthy! Heavens, what ages must we live through before that!" 
                  She struck her remaining hand out, as if blindly groping for something that might vanish. He caught it, drew her nearer, felt the yielding motion of her whole frame, saw the light that seemed to radiate from her face and was lost. And though he experienced a presentiment from that interior self-knowledge which we call conscience, that one day he must repent this with bitterness of soul, a resistless passion drew him onward. To breathe her fragrant life in one long, lingering kiss. 
                  He ground his foot savagely in the soft turf. Must a man be forever bound by the fatal mistake of a moment? 
                  "Forgive me!" His voice was full of the pathos of tears. "I want you to know that you alone could rouse the highest worship of my soul; could inspire, nay, have inspired the worthiest passion of my whole existence. If ever a time should come-" 
                  Claudia had been so engrossed, so amazed by her own rapid emotions, that she had listened to the rapturous thrill of his voice rather than the words he had really uttered. She fancied she understood why he still hesitated. 
                  "I can trust you. We both have much to do in the future." 
                  A woman thinking only of personal happiness, could not so resolutely have denied herself the present bliss. But she saw that patience was best for them both. She felt afraid, too, as a pure and noble woman ever must, of the powerful spirit she had invoked. Let it stand veiled to-day, and until the atmosphere was clear enough for its glorious presence. 
                   
                  They walked on in silence, which to her was rare and exquisite. The very air appeared sentient with hope. All the dreary shadows fell away. It was as if she had been transfigured. A radiant summer this, a season of blossoming, such as she had never dreamed would come to her. It was perfect and sufficient without words. 
                  They came in sight of the old house. It wore a soft and dreamy air, and the great sycamore seemed to nod a tender possession of her secret. Yesterday she had stood isolated, to-day she was connected with the whole world by a fine, indissoluble tie. 
                  Mr. Brevoort entered the room, but Claudia ran up stairs lightly, her heart throbbing in great but noiseless bounds. She did not want any one to look into her face, she did not even dare glance at it herself. She bathed her hands in the cool water to still the rapid pulsation; she smoothed her hair and changed her dress, and even then waited. He and Rose were skirmishing; the quick tones and a little bitter laugh floated up to her. If Rose could reach infinite peace through some blissful love! 
                  She heard Barbara roll out the table and begin to handle the dishes, and went down in a helpful mood. The china, and the quaint silver tea-service, that had come from England two centuries ago, were brought out to do honor to this parting occasion. Flaky biscuit, jellies, in amber, wine, and purple hues, a few scarlet strawberries, cake in different varieties, until the bountifully-spread table looked like a picture. 
                  Rose was in white, and brilliantly beautiful, but in a most fitful and unreasonable mood, that jarred strangely upon Claudia's serenity. In her large heart she would have made every one as happy as herself had it been possible. Mr. Brevoort saw the dissimilarity as never before. Claudia's affluent nature was too rich and self-sustaining ever to descend to the petty moods that swayed Rose, who seemed to watch, with a jealous eye, to weigh every word. 
                   
                  Mr. Brevoort did not acquit himself in his usual genial fashion. He appeared constrained and absent; but Claudia forgave him freely, little knowing how far he had sinned against her. Before his eyes gloomed a grim phantom, that he was trying to thrust into the unknown future. He would simply wait, he told himself. 
                  After supper, an incident occurred that marred the grace of the parting. Miss Arabella Sandford and a friend dropped in, ostensibly to invite Rose to a picnic, but in reality to satisfy their curiosity concerning Mr. Brevoort. Miss Arabella fancied herself sadly ill-used. Of late many jealous eyes had been turned upon the Varians. 
                  "I don't believe he'd take one of them girls," she said, in lofty disregard of grammar, suspending her giggle for a moment. "He could do so much better. Why, they won't have mor'n a few hundred dollars apiece! Dan Stebbins said any man'd be a fool to marry 'em. If there is anything in it, he'll be over there to-night; so we will go and see." 
                  And surely they did see. Rose grew furious over their vapid talk, and fulsome protestations that a party wouldn't be anything without her. Her keen tongue at last penetrated their dull brains, and then they "staid for spite," as Arabella afterwards expressed it. She annoyed Brevoort terribly with her endless questions and surmises as to his future. 
                  "Of course you'll come back sometime?" and then her giggle had a meaning patent for the most obtuse understanding. 
                  "That depends," with rather a brusque air. "And now I must go. I have many things to do this evening." 
                  He turned away fiercely, for they had exasperated him. 
                  "We're going right along in the same direction, aren't we, Jane?" 
                  The complaisant Jane gave an acquiescent nod. 
                  The farewells were formal enough before these prying eyes. Perhaps it was as well, Mr. Brevoort thought, racked with some hidden anguish. 
                   
                  "I believe I could have murdered them!" Rose exclaimed, with glittering eyes and a scarlet spot on either cheek. "And the last time! Who can tell whether we shall ever see him again?" 
                  She burst into a fit of passionate weeping. Claudia attempted to infold the slight, quivering frame in her arms. 
                  "Go away!" she said, with vehement anger. "What is it to you! What do you know of pain or-" But the deep flush upon Claudia's brow arrested her. The elder turned hastily away, Rose following her with passionate persistence, intent upon reading the face. 
                  The motion of Barbara's dress brushing by restored apparent calm. Rose hurried into the parlor, and flung herself into a capacious arm-chair, while Claudia seated herself by the window and glanced out, her thoughts in a wild tumult. 
                  Did Rose love him, as she had sometimes suspected? And if so-But she could never forget that he had said she was the one woman of all the world for him. If he were Rose's wedded husband this very hour, there would be a niche in his heart sacred to her. She felt this in just the same clear, positive manner in which she knew she was alive. Then it would be her duty to banish all remembrance, and Heaven should be witness of her earnest efforts. But was it now? Was a woman called upon to give her very soul to another, when this other could have a world from which to choose. Rose, with her youth, her entrancing beauty, her winsome air! And she could see, as she always had, that they were illy fitted for each other; yet if he came to prefer Rose in the future years, she would yield her place without a moan. Perhaps she said this because she felt so secure. In this first great trust of her life she made no reservation. There was much of simple belief about her. 
                  She would fain have comforted Rose that night, but she found her thorny and satirical, and so withdrew ter own musings. Her secret was too precious to be shared with another at this early stage. They had been so little used to intimate confidences. 
                  John Brevoort left Crofton, and for a week rumor was most busy in allying him with the Varians. Then a note came directed to Claudia, though the commencement included both names. It was brief and hurried, but a little adventure had befallen him that might change the course of his life. He had accidentally met his uncle in New York, and been invited to his summer residence on Staten Island. His uncle had advised him not to be over hasty in his choice of a location, and thought he could do better than take the first that had offered. He was spending some delightful days, but he was not unmindful of the higher purposes of existence. He should not be drawn into any visionary plans, or idle away this golden time. He would write soon again, and keep them informed of all changes. 
                  "You'll answer this?" Rose said, positively. 
                  "I think not. He doesn't ask us to;" and there came a sort of absent, dreamy look in Claudia's lustrous eyes. Her delicacy would have forbidden the slightest advance. 
                  Rose studied her curiously. She did not understand this grand calm of perfect faith, yet in her weird way she fancied that it might be as well to have silence kept between the two. 
                  The days passed wearily. There was a sense of loss and incompleteness. Rose vibrated from moods of pettishness to wildest gayety. Barbara sometimes lost patience with her. 
                  A fortnight later another letter made its appearance. Long and closely written, and at the first glance Rose uttered a cry of dismay. 
                  "Gone away!" She clutched Claudia's arm, her face ashen pale. 
                  "You must be dreaming, Rose." 
                  Claudia was sitting before her little work-table, Rose leaning over her shoulder. A rush of inexplicable feeling swept over her, and the letters blurred before her vision. 
                  Rose placed her cold, white finger on the paragraph. "When this reaches you," it said, "I shall be on my way to Europe." 
                   
                  It seemed for many moments as if neither of them breathed. Then Rose began to devour the lines with fixed, staring eyes. 
                  The story was long. One of the accidental chances of fortune that come to but few. Mr. Brevoort, senior, had found his nephew a stirring young fellow, capable of making his mark. The nearest neighbor, a Mr. Alger, had two sons, who were preparing for a two years' course of study abroad, one of them an enthusiastic devotee of medical science. Mr. Alger had been endeavoring to find some responsible person to send with them, and had taken a wonderful fancy to young Brevoort at the first interview. The strength of purpose, the air of integrity and manliness in every feature, his resolute manner of grasping everything that came in his way, and his clear, honest eyes impressed Mr. Alger with a sense of security. The brothers were equally delighted. 
                  The offer to accompany them was most tempting. If Mr. Brevoort had felt inclined to decide against it, his uncle would have overruled. 
                  "John," he said, "it is just the thing for you. You'll return with experience and prestige, and take a position at once. I want you to do it. If I had known half your worth I should have befriended you long ago. And I'm going to give you a liberal allowance, so that you need not be compelled to practice any petty economies. My children are all married, and I have enough to afford myself that pleasure. Forgive the past neglect, and assure me of it by accepting this trifle at my hands." 
                  John Brevoort held no old rankling grudge, neither had he any desire to relinquish this splendid opportunity. There was about a week for preparation. He had meant to make a flying visit to Crofton, but the distance precluded the possibility, as the Algers were impatient to start. 
                  There was much besides mere business details. They would find him a regular, perhaps tiresome correspondent. No sight or sound of interest to them would escape him. He should remember the old life at Crofton, the hours they had spent together, the new birth that had been his, hallowing all aims. And if any trouble or want came to them, any slight perplexity even, he held that by the most sacred bond of friendship it would be his privilege to comfort and alleviate. Something in his tender earnestness touched them both, moved them even to tears. 
                  The letter had been finished at midnight. He had mislaid their direction at Paris, but would send it from Liverpool, so they might expect to hear from him shortly again, and then he would be able to tell them more of his plans, as for a month or two they expected to travel, and might not reach Paris until October. 
                  "Two years," Rose said, slowly. "He will forget our very existence." 
                  "You don't know him;" and yet Claudia's voice trembled, but not with fear. 
                  They did not look each other in the face. Some consciousness kept them effectually apart. Presently Rose took the letter, and went into the adjoining room, and read until every word seemed imprinted on her brain in traces of fire. Claudia took her wide-brimmed hat and went out to walk. 
                  Two years! What would she do in them? Come up to new heights for the sake of the man who loved her; make herself more truly a woman. In this contact with the world, how jealously she would watch, lest spot or stain should mar his ideal of perfection. Fresh and sweet she must keep herself, like this summer day. A sky of peerless blue, with soft, gray reefs; a wholesome west wind, shaking clouds of fragrance from bush and tree; birds in their jubilant prime, bees softly musical, floating with heavily laden bodies. What a clear, inspiriting day! As if mother Nature crowned labor, out there in the long fields where the breezes blew furrows in the ripened grain. She had never belonged to summer before; now she seemed to be identified with every breath, every blade of grass, every carolling bird. It was good to live, and a thrill sped through her exultant pulses. 
                   
                  That Mr. Brevoort would cease to care, never once entered her mind. She judged him by her own large, serene faith, her own pure love. Instead of seeming a dreary while, the two years were the briefest space. Why, she had just begun to hope! 
                  It was towards the end of June. In a month they would hear again. After that, their own preparations must begin. 
                  For the present, Claudia could do but little. She did not want to paint. July came, with its long, glowing days, when rambles were hardly possible. She and Barbara exhumed trunks of old clothes and bedding, sorted, repacked, and made ready, with an air of unreality, as if they could hardly believe in a change. She spent much of her leisure time in sewing, for she had taken a strong fancy to this feminine mode of occupation. One day she told Squire Brown that she should sell, and he rubbed his hands with a satisfied chuckle. 
                  Rose was dreamy and abstracted. She used to lie on the old settle with closed eyes, never heeding what passed about her. The least mention of society roused her bitterness and disdain. She wanted to see no one, she hated even to talk. If she felt any delight at the prospect of a speedy removal, she made no mention of it now. It was as if she was drifting away from the accustomed strongholds. 
                  They both watched for the return steamer. Rose despatched Barbara to the office for a letter, but none had come. Claudia admitted a curious thrill of disappointment to herself, but aloud excused him in many ways, and then went on with more decisive preparations. 
                  Another steamer, and another disappointment. 
                  "A man's regard," Rose said, bitterly. "Notes payable only at sight." 
                  "Do not misjudge him too soon. An hour's delay, little to him, is much to us. We do not need to leave Crofton until the very last of August, so we can wait once more." 
                  Claudia, how much faith have you in Mr. Brevoort?" 
                   
                  "All faith, Rose." 
                  "She has nothing at stake," thought the younger. "It was a farce to fancy she loved him,-as if a woman of her temperament ever could love!" 
                  And though this might have delighted Rose a month ago, she was strangely indifferent to it now. 
                
                
                   
                  XII. THE DREGS IN THE CUP. 
                  IT had been a peculiar summer day, and was now a peculiar summer night. An August day, with a stillness in the air that could be felt. A tawny atmosphere that only comes in seasons of drought, through which glimmered underlying shades of purple. A sky full of scudding clouds, betokening some commotion at hand. Farmers predicted a shower, and prayed for it as well, for the earth was parched and brown, the trees drooped their long dusty arms with imploring gestures. Although some streaks of purple-black, with yellowish edges, hung low in the south, nothing came of it. The sun dropped down, a ball of fire, visible through a glowing veil, lest his lustre should smite too severely the withering earth. 
                  After sunset a few gusts of wind blew up fiercely, twisting the trees until they groaned and creaked, and roaring through the valleys. Several broad sheets of lightning played over the sky, looking more like a midnight aurora than like a storm. Yet there was a peculiar monotone in the haunting breeze, a thrill of electricity in every current of air, not sufficiently charged to bring the elements to a crisis. Presently there came cool sweeps from the south-east, most reviving. Ragged edges of blue pierced the threatening black, and a few stars made their way through the straggling vapor. 
                  At the old gray stone house there was a peculiar quiet brooding everywhere. Claudia watched the far-off heavens, with their evanescent flashes and restless purple drifts that hurried to and fro. She was in a curious mood of expectancy, the more susceptible, perhaps, because she had been so deeply touched of late; brought into a more intimate connection, as it were, with a world of hopes and fears. 
                  Because she was so pure, so sacred to herself, so rich in her own heart, this love was the more to her. It had brought her a heavenly peace, a restful content. She enshrined it in her innermost being, made it the choicest luxury of life. To have thought it a necessity, to have leaned upon it, or in any manner to have extracted strength from it, would have been to lower it in her eyes. It was a sacred flame, kept burning upon the soul's purest altar, to be forever veiled from rude eyes. Rightly did L. E. L. say, "A woman's love is essentially lonely and spiritual. It is the heathenism of the heart; she herself has created the glory and beauty with which the idol of her altar stands invested." 
                  Claudia Varian's faith was profound. Her experience had been so narrow that no rude shocks had ever come to belief. She went to bed in a serene and contented state of mind, as different from the peace before she knew John Brevoort as the fullest life can be from a mere negative existence. She fell into a half dreamy, half wakeful state, steeped in a sort of delicious languor that did not deprive her of entire consciousness of self. 
                  O, why is not happiness the end of all perfect love? Why must we linger on the blessed shore only a brief moment, drink in one long, heavenly draught, and then be hurried down the stream by wild and fearful storms, until blinded, drenched, utterly wrecked among the fierce breakers, we stretch forth imploring hands, and utter agonizing cries, to the pitiless elements around us? There may be some happy islands of the blest, and a few souls, under Heaven's cherishing smiles, win their way to the peaceful shores; but too many of us, if we prevail at all, do it through agonies that shadow the future as with drops of crimson blood. 
                  Was it a dream that some one came and kissed her? Warm, throbbing lips touched with despairing passion? Is that electric tric chord, binding souls together, so keen that at times they can be disembodied and float through space? 
                  She opened her eyes wide. She sat up in the bed, every pulse thrilling with a nameless influence, deepening into terror. 
                  What white thing floated across her vision? What step went softly down the stairs, imagined, rather than heard? The moon was nearly at its full, though it had been obscured much of the evening by great ramparts of clouds. Now breaking through a rift, it shone in at the window, and fell over Rose's bed in a long silvery ray. There was the pillow, white, daintily ruffled, one of the girl's fancies; there was the impression her sunny head had made. The sheet and counterpane were smoothly folded, but a little hollow through the middle showed that the occupant was no longer there. 
                  She heard the bolt creak in the hall door. At any other time she would have thought it the groaning of the old sycamore. She sprang up, her senses brought to one keen focus. There was no Rose in the bed. A white, wraith-like thing was skimming along the road, as if floating on the wind. 
                  Claudia gave no alarm. There was a long, black Spanish cloak of her father's hanging against the wall. Barbara had been airing it through the day. Hastily wrapping herself in this, and finding some shoes, she followed noiselessly. Only one thought could gain entrance to her brain-that Rose had risen in a dream, or under the influence of somnambulism, and gone forth ignorantly. She had been moody and capricious of late, shutting every one out of her life with an angry impatience that her two companions seldom cared to rouse. How still the night was! A few crickets and other insects sent forth faint, fearful chirps; an uncertain air wandered up and down with an inarticulate throb akin to pain. The dew was so heavy that the roadside paths were literally drenched, and every stir shook out a rain of fragrance. Claudia shivered. Yet as she followed the white figure flying in the distance no special fear entered her mind. Indeed what danger was there? 
                   
                  The moon passed under a cloud. Here and there, in the breaks of the dun purple, floated a long streak of white; some aerial bark freighted with stars, sailing through wondrous seas. Years afterwards she remembered the weird, vivid picture. 
                  Under the old poplars skirting the road-why, she was going to Crofton Rock. What spirit lured her thither? Claudia quickened her pace as Rose plunged into an opening in the wood. How well she seemed to remember the turns; for that she was awake had never once entered Claudia's mind. 
                  No, she was not going to the Rock. On into the darkness of the wood, never once looking behind. The dry leaves crunched beneath her feet, the tangled undergrowth was impatiently thrust aside, its rustle effectually precluding the suspicion of a follower. Great tree boles, festooned with mossy parasites, tender saplings, sturdy oaks-she knew them all, and could see them even in the darkness. They trod the pungent sweetness out of the winter-green, and the branches shook down an aromatic dew. Here the forest became more dense, and the trickle of the stream winding about seemed like phantom music. The ground grew lower, and some distance beyond there was a sluggish pond, stagnant and ghostly. Around the spot vegetation was rank. Trailing, poisonous vines, whose berries ripened and decayed; blossoms of deadly nightshade, hanging stems of ivy, with its thick waxen leaves and peculiar odor. No one ever sought it. Even Claudia had no taste for its wild, unwholesome solitude. 
                  The pond or swamp made a decided break in the midst of the wood. The trees at its edge being mostly cedars, had no long branches to arch overhead. The moon, sailing in mid-heaven, broke from the hosts of darkness, and dropped down a sheet of silver. At one side a ledge of rock gave the water a sort of abrupt shore. Rose stepped lightly, flying from point to point, and then paused, shaking back her shining hair with the old imperious gesture, used alike in pleasure or pain. Of what was she thinking? 
                   
                  Claudia was now within an arm's length of her. Hitherto her progress had been so rapid that the elder had hardly gained a yard, and some strange impulse had kept her silent. She gave a quick, suspicious glance. 
                  Could this be Rose, bright, beguiling, dazzling Rose? For her face was as white as the garment she wore, terrible in its rigidity, with set blue lines around the pallid lips, and the eyes strained and desperate, as if starting out of their sockets from some unseen tiger-grasp. For a moment Claudia was paralyzed. A sickening horror stole over her, every nerve grew tense, her throat was parched as if with fire, her lips frozen into an inarticulate cry. Did she really understand Rose's meaning? For the child was certainly awake, and this expression was one of defiant resolve. 
                  A low, bitter laugh shivered into fragments, and seemed to sink like lead in the dark waters. A laugh so mocking, so despairing, and yet so strong! 
                  "As if he cared! As if any one would care!" 
                  That was all the prayer Rose Varian made. Then a deathly silence. Claudia came nearer, but it was like forcing inanimate limbs to move. She stretched out her arms. 
                  Rose gave a sudden spring, but the clasp holding her back from destruction was something more than human. 
                  If Rose was amazed, she made no sign. She turned with a look so stony, so resolute, that Claudia quailed. 
                  "Go back home! This is no place for you." 
                  The voice sounded hollow and terrible in that solitary darkness. 
                  "Rose!" and Claudia seemed to make a giant effort. 
                  "Let me go!" fiercely, and with eyes that shot out in lurid, blue flame. The very breath was scorching. 
                  Claudia had recovered her self-possession in part, though the whole scene appeared like an awful dream to her. Still holding Rose tightly, she sought to fathom her purpose, wring it from the relentless eyes. 
                   
                  "You meant to drown yourself!" Claudia's voice was clear and cold, for both brain and heart were slow to comprehend the fact. 
                  "Yes!"-sullenly, and glancing into the turgid depths below. 
                  "Rose-why?" 
                  The look and the tone would not be evaded. The salient forces were returning to Claudia. 
                  Again that bitter laugh, such as might have been wrung from a lost soul on the brink of the gloomy, fateful Styx. 
                  "You ask me!" she began, scornfully. "Claudia, there are some questions it is best for death to answer. And I wanted to take this out of your reach, out of your sight. One is always pitiful to the dead. What no tears nor prayers could gain, is granted to dripping hair, waxen face, and limp fingers, past the thrill of any tender clasp. And you might never have known! The God who watches over his own children will forgive you, if you go away now. He knows it all. I can endure any torment"-with a fierce intonation, and set outlook of the eyes. "I have lived my day out. I have had some dreams of bliss too bewildering for this dull, ice-bound earth. I tell you death is nothing to the awakening! I don't ask any more of life. Go home, Claudia, and believe you dreamed this. Keep it forever a secret in the bottom of your soul. Your hands are so pure and stainless that God will require no one's blood at them. Forget that I ever lived at all. In the years to come you will be happy, be famous, and, best of all, be loved. No matter for me." 
                  The tone was awfully calm, but she never shrank from the mystery she had sought to face. 
                  What Claudia endured during those few seconds of her sister's rapid speech, only God knew. Something that could never be put into words; pangs that martyr souls instead of bodies. Wild beasts at Ephesus-what were they! 
                  "No," she answered, solemnly. "I was led hither to save you. I shall do it." 
                   
                  "You cannot." 
                  No bitterness, no triumph, no despair in the tone. Only the resolve of a desperate strength. 
                  "Yes, I can. You do not know me, Rose." 
                  No persuasion in this voice, no passionate entreaty faltering through it like a tender rivulet, but, as in the other, strength-unlike the other, saving strength. 
                  A glance, that was like a keen sword-thrust. All that was registered up in heaven, Claudia knew. 
                  "John Brevoort loves you," Rose said, unflinchingly, though it tore her heart with a giant's grasp of anguish. "And you love him." 
                  For a moment only the darkness and stillness answered. The calm, high soul crushing out the sweetness of its own life, thrusting itself into an unknown grave, could not utter a cry to ease the anguish. 
                  "You are wild!" she said, in order to gain time, for she could not deny her woman's holy faith in a moment. 
                  "I am not wild, but as little am I blind. He did love me! Nothing can take away that consciousness. I would not give it up to be a king's wife. O, you can never know anything about it! There is no warm Southern blood in your veins; the kin of love not to be satisfied with cold friendships. I never could filter my emotions through my brain. They spring from the heart, electric with life in an instant. And since I have had the joy, I will take the grief. Why can I not repent? why do I not weep? As if tears could bring back the lost happiness! May be a lifetime of such bliss would be too much!" 
                  The questioning eyes swept the narrow space where the moonlight seemed to quiver and shrink in pain. A chilly mist made heavy the air, and there was a slow dropping of gathered dew pattering among the leaves. 
                  "It is best," Rose continued. "In marrying you, Mr. Brevoort will give up nothing;" and there was a perceptible sneer in her voice. "His books, his plans, his ambitions, will satisfy you where I should want kisses. To see him a successful man, to have him known and admired, would fill you with stately pride. I should want him to myself; I should be jealous if his eyes strayed from mine. I should torment him daily with fond, eager questions, while you would wait patiently for the crumbs he chose to scatter. Because, Claudia, you have something besides your heart, and I am only a woman!" 
                  Claudia crowded down the outraged love, so cruelly misunderstood, so longing to assert itself. O, it is too true that they who close the bleeding wounds, without a moan, at the voice of duty, are thought cold and insensible, while others, who yield to dangerous impulses, lay the blame on some inherent weakness of nature, and scarcely think it a sin they might have resisted! 
                  "Yes, he loved me;" with a far-reaching look, as if she was going over the past. "Down in the depths of his heart he is of my kind-you will learn that!"-clinching her small, fair hand. "But your calm face was like a cool, smooth sea-" 
                  "Rose," Claudia interrupted, her heart rising from its deathly throes, "I want you to believe this,-that whatever happens, were you a hundred times dead, I could not be John Brevoort's wife. He has never asked me, never will. And I believe that some day he will return to you." 
                  "Never asked you!" in a broken, but exultant tone. "You are not uttering any miserable lie? A woman could do it for the sake of the man she loved. But he will never return. If I believed that, I could suffer the pains of perdition!" and now her face began to glow with the old, bewildering light. 
                  Heaven and the angels witnessed the pangs that might have won a martyr's crown for Claudia. Great swells of love, and anguish, and despair. Not only to be shut out of hope, but to see faith a mass of ruins at her very feet, and to tread over them pitilessly. 
                  "I think he will. Be comforted." 
                  Was it some subtile presentiment that she had not suffered to the full extent, the innocent for the guilty? For the one pang bitterer than all would be to meet John Brevoort again. 
                  "I don't know whether you are right or not," Rose said, drearily. "It is so much easier to die than to live when one has emptied the magical goblet of existence. Can it ever be filled? and if not, what is there to live for?" 
                  Ah, Rose, who shall answer the question rightly? Men and women have stood on the brink of the fateful gulf, looking into the seething waters below, and, lacking courage to endure, faith to believe, having no vital pith when the passion of terror and despair swept over them, taken one fearful step to end it all, refusing to bear what in their blindness they have brought upon themselves. 
                  What was there to live for? Claudia's agonized heart echoed the cry, but her lips were parched and mute. If she had slept on quietly an hour ago, this great burden might never have fallen upon her. She had loved John Brevoort innocently and ignorantly. She could not banish the consciousness that the one highest love of his soul had been hers. She held the key now to his strange reluctance on the day when the confession had been wrung from him by the very force of truth. Well was it that no vows had been exchanged, no promises of passionate love, such as trembled on the lips of both. It appeared to her that she was scarcely less willing to be saved than Rose. And yet she was pitiful even then. She seemed to understand how he had been beguiled from his better self in some unguarded moment, and felt that the penalty must be paid by the future, wrung from two lives, hers as well as his. 
                  "Claudia, think a little. If you should repent some day?" 
                  For Rose had been studying her sister's illegible face. She was blind and dumb to the greater torture that stung like a slow, consuming fire. Hers had been the mere courage of desperation. 
                  "I shall never repent. You do not understand me, Rose. God meant me to save you, to take you into my keeping until some better love should claim you. Whatever he gives me to do, I shall do. You are the only link that binds me to the world, and nothing shall be refused you from my life. I begin to learn now why this strong, undaunted nature was given me. And you must promise to endure. This attempt must never be repeated." 
                  Something in the tone awed her. An expression in the saintly face,-for it was saintly then, and always afterwards,-gave her a strength she could never have found in her own wayward soul. 
                  "It was to save you!-to save you!" with a furtive drooping of the eyes. 
                  Had this poor child no knowledge or fear of a hereafter? Was her blindness or hardness the result of a fateful temperament that held in it some perversity or warp with which only God could deal? For she had looked upon death with no weak terrors. She had been willing to save Claudia that pang more bitter; for death is not always the keenest agony. Not from contrition, not from tenderness, but out of some underlying motive that baffled all scrutiny. 
                  "Promise. Your life belongs to me." 
                  Rose came to her sister's arms, pillowed her face upon the the sore heart, whose very throbbing was held in check. The lips moved faintly. 
                  No kisses, no tears, no sudden revulsion of feeling. They went steadily forward out of the wood. Did the heavens foreshadow any coming time? For the clouds were driven low down into the south, the wind was free and clear, the moon trembling in ineffable glory. It made Claudia brave to glance adown the future, to bear the cross thus laid upon her, and thereby atone for her brief dream of love. What kin, indeed, had she and love ever been? 
                  They reached the doorway once more, Claudia holding Rose tightly by the hand. She paused, and said, hurriedly,- 
                   
                  "You are cold; shall I light a fire?" 
                  "No." Rose glanced at her with frightened, deprecating eyes. 
                  They crept softly up the stairs to their own room. The door was shut between, and Barbara, a sound sleeper, had not awakened. 
                  "You must have some dry clothes, Rose," in a gentle, yet commanding whisper. 
                  Rose sat down upon the side of the bed, helplessly. The desperate courage had vanished. Her large eyes followed Claudia about in the wistful manner of some shrinking dog who has lost his master. The room was sufficiently light without a candle. Claudia went about with a noiseless step. 
                  Rose allowed her icy limbs to be chafed, and her damp clothing put away. The soft hair fell about her like a golden mist. 
                  "Claudia," in a weak, pitiful tone, "may I come into your bed?" 
                  "Yes;" thrusting away the longing to be alone. 
                  Rose nestled in her sister's arms, and laid her head on the bosom that was to be her sure refuge. She was worn and weary. The hard battle had exhausted all her vital forces. As the grateful warmth and sense of security stole over her, her eyelids grew heavy, the tumultuous pulses were calmed. Presently her regular breathing announced that she was asleep, her burden forgotten. 
                  Then, for the first time, Claudia dared to think of herself, and her desolation was appalling. The first hard blow of fate! A drifting up of bits and fragments to show how entire the wreck had been. Out on a far wave floated the corse of faith, its stony face heavenward, but not with expectation. Love had gone down utterly. 
                  Unlike Rose, in her first intense anguish she would gladly have taken back all knowledge of the sweet mystery. For as the bliss had been entire, so was the pang. If she could return turn to that old, quiet time, when her books and her pictures had been sufficient for her! 
                  But the fact was there, looming up in its awful significance. She had loved this man with an intensity that surprised herself, from the very night of his first coming, it seemed. He had touched the secret springs of her being, roused the longings and the tenderness of the woman. She had responded very slowly, but at last, with a look, he had proclaimed himself master. O, why had he spoken so late, and yet, alas! ages too early for her! 
                  A devastating whirlwind had laid waste the sweetness of May. Stately forests brought down with a crash, tender shrubs uprooted, the young buds blighted and strewn about. The ruins had overwhelmed her. She was to crawl out, bruised and full of torturing wounds. Not only to know the love gone forever, but to put it by; outlive it. Never to keep one vestige for slow, comforting tears. Not a thought of it was hers, only a dim remembrance that unwittingly she had helped to mar another life; and now her duty was to make the crooked paths straight, to take out the thorns with her tender fingers, making no moan when she was pricked. 
                  O, that terrible, dreary future! She shrank from it with a woman's weakness. She would fain have found some other way out of this tortuous labyrinth. 
                  If she could have been shattered utterly, if these throbbing pulses could have been stilled forever by the cruel shock, or if the dim sense of realities actuating Rose had been hers also,-but we always pay for a higher light in a keener and rarer consciousness. She saw her way clearly defined. The powerful brain and strong hands would not shrink when brought to the test. The child she held in her arms,-the strange, mysterious soul, blinded by elfish fancies and beliefs, and, perhaps, in some way rendered less accountable-she could not tell,-for these awful gaugings and definings of human souls belonged to God alone. When we tried to fathom them in our weak groping ing, we rendered ourselves blind, and narrow, and unjust. Since sacrifice was demanded of her, she would give it in the fashion of her own soul, grandly. A tie of blood bound her to Rose,-a memory of the father who had loved them both. 
                  I told you once that she could be very tender to any suffering that appealed directly to her. She pitied Rose now with an infinite sympathy. She shivered at the remembrance of visions that yesterday had been so dear. If any word or act of hers had changed the child's destiny,-and she felt that it must have, in some inexplicable manner,-she would make the fullest reparation in her power. Was the sweetness of life really meant for such strong, enduring natures as hers? 
                  Ah, yes. Her whole soul revolted against this cold philosophy. Better believe herself worthy of the happiness she had missed. For in destroying love one sapped the very foundation of life. 
                  She was glad when she saw the gray dawn quivering in the eastern skies, and the clouds astir with light; glad of any change where thought could be merged into active employment. She had fancied latterly that leaving Crofton would be like rending ties of blood. Now, there would be nothing to remember, nothing that it would be right to hold. That word rang out the key-note of her being, shrill now, but to be softened into tenderest music as the years passed. 
                  When she would have slipped softly away from Rose, the clinging hands restrained her. What rosy, baby fingers! not made for grasping the thorny facts of life. A smile crossed the parted lips, now beauteous with a vivid glow. Security and ease were part of her nature. A temperament unwilling, perhaps unable, to burden itself with unpleasant thoughts. She clung to the brightness and hated the shade. Would endless sermonizing and wearisome platitudes change her? If this powerful shock failed, of what avail would be the rest? 
                  So they lay locked in each other's arms until the day broke, and Barbara's voice roused the one from her slumber, and the other from her interminable reflections. 
                  Rose placed her hand across her eyes a moment, wondering, in a vague way, how she came to be in Claudia's bed. Then she remembered the night, and shivered, wringing her hands pitifully. 
                  "Claudia, have you repented?" The voice was low and wavering. 
                  "No;" but she turned away her eyes, lest they might too strongly express condemnation. 
                  "You ought to hate me!" 
                  "Hush!" and Claudia's voice trembled. 
                  "You are so good;" with a touch of gratitude. "But we are going away from Crofton-suppose he should never find us again?" and Rose's face grew pallid with terror. 
                  "I think he will find us;" in a resolute tone, that was inspiration. 
                  "I wonder if he will? For the most cruel of all would be to be forgotten when one loves." 
                  Was there not a sharper pang? Claudia smothered a despairing cry. 
                  Barbara, at breakfast, saw no change in Rose; but under Claudia's eyes there was a dark line, and around the mouth some sharp contractions. She seemed suddenly to have grown old and wan. There was a furtive nervousness hanging about her, unlike her usual stately ease. Barbara's heart warmed towards her with a peculiar sympathy. 
                
                
                   
                  XIII. AT THE LAST. 
                  THE day was hot and dry. The grass fell in swaths, as if it had been mown. The trees drooped, dusty and disconsolate. The cattle huddled together in shady nooks, with lolling tongues and imploring eyes, catching up every stray whiff of air. In the hedges the birds sang at rare intervals, and then wearily. But Rose glowed as if the day supplied her with some hidden fire; as if she were akin to midsummer intensity, and could never again lose the radiance. 
                  Yet she was very quiet and gentle. Her voice had a new and rare inflection, that haunted Claudia, like music heard in a dream. Her eyes were steeped in a sort of shady light, that seemed to suggest something hidden rather than any mood revealed. 
                  Claudia faced her destiny resolutely. Her pain had raised her above the common level, as only grand and heroic souls can be raised. The vital pith of the old Puritan blood bore her up proudly. She smiled a little as she thought of the battles she had planned in the coming contest with life. Why, they were mere child's play, like visions seen in the half spent coals. The sparkling, ruddy hues had burned to ashes, and she was to raise a new flame. 
                  She did not pause to consider how far John Brevoort had sinned against herself. No soul of high and pure fidelity can change at a word. It would be a struggle of months; for as her love had been, so would be the coming contest. She placed her duty plainly before her eyes, resolved for the present to see no other sight. 
                   
                  Going up to her room her glance fell upon the cloak she had used last night. Sitting down by the open window she tried to form some plan for the future, for the old ones were useless. One daring thought animated her. If it could be possible! If to her should be given the power to save them all! 
                  There are times in some lives when a spirit of enthusiasm gives a daring that no calm, reasonable moment could ever bring. An inspiration flashed over her now. Her own life, so far as the sweetness and delight makes rich a woman's heart, had ended. No new love could animate this unshriven corse, no star of faith ever light her sky. What matter then how she disposed of herself, so long as she kept true to the higher principles of humanity? 
                  A hard necessity for work stretched out before her. Their few hundreds would soon melt away in a great city. If it could last while she was establishing herself, she could dare fate afterwards. The more she considered her prospect, the more feasible it became to her. To walk the world with a clear, unstained brow, to demand labor as her right, to protect one who would always be dependent upon her, unless God should work a miracle. 
                  "Barbara!" she called, and the methodical step came slowly up the stairs. 
                  "You look like a ghost this morning," said the woman. "You're not well. You're on the worry about something." 
                  The voice that answered her had a strange, breezy ring, like the Claudia of a year ago. She wrested her soul from the old influences, and stood erect, as women often are compelled to do, for the new life had already begun. The reticent, high-bred face brought itself up to a level Barbara had never known. 
                  "Sit down," she said. "I have a story to tell you, Barbara. You have given me a mother's love, and now I ask a mother's fortitude from you. Afterwards, if you choose to stay in Crofton, I of all others can never blame you. Remember that." 
                   
                  Barbara's lips twitched curiously at first, with no sound. 
                  "I meant to go with you," she said, at length. "It would be hard, but I meant to go. Living loves are stronger than the dead in their graves." 
                  "You must hear me first." 
                  A faint color fluttered up to the marble forehead. She glanced out at the pitiless sky, at the parched earth. Was there a God who noted these things, and heard the faintest cry of his creatures? For now she wanted Him. 
                  It was nearly noon when Barbara came down again. Rose was asleep upon the settle, her hair drifting over the pillow in golden waves, her face peaceful as an infant's. Barbara studied her many moments, but the grim resolve, working in every nerve, was not executed then, or ever. Of what avail would be writing on the sand? 
                  At nightfall Claudia took her way to Squire Brown's. She listened to his droning talk about crops, how the drought would damage everything, the danger there was of a fire in the woods, and what he had been offered for his timber. At the first break, she managed to explain that she had come to negotiate for the sale of the place. 
                  "I knowed you'd come round right, Miss Claudy. I told Billy t'wan't no use pesterin' you. 'Billy,' ses I,'people allers likes to take their own time. If you go to hurryin' on 'em, they stan' out all the longer.' He'll be powerful glad to have the place-no mistake about that! What be you goin' to do?" 
                  "I shall leave Crofton." 
                  "Why, you don't say!" Squire Brown opened his eyes to their utmost capacity, not very extensive. "Goin' away! Where to?" 
                  "To some city where I can find employment. There is a school in Philadelphia that is very good for female artists. I had thought a little of that, but I shall go to New York first." 
                  "You've an uncommon gift about picters, though men folks never make a fortin' by it, I guess! It's resky business, Miss Claudy." 
                  "I can do something;" with a confident ring in her voice. 
                  "School teachin's better;" and the squire's eyes contracted shrewdly. "Widder Mayne goin' with you?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "She's a good, stiddy hand, and knows how to manage. Costs an awful sight to live in cities, though. Now I've got a cousin John in New York, and he might be of sarvice. He's a good-hearted chap, and ought'er be worth a mint o' money by this time. I might give you a letter to him, if you've no friends of your own." 
                  Claudia's first impulse was to decline. Then she thanked him, and said she would take it. 
                  Her compliance pleased the squire immensely. He was fond of doing cheap favors. 
                  "To-morrow we'll come over and settle the business. You needn't be in any hurry gettin' away. Billy can't finish till next summer. Seems hard for two young gals to set out this way, tryin' their fortins." 
                  "We want to go while it is pleasant;" and then Claudia explained that there would be some furniture and books to be disposed of-if the squire would undertake this-" 
                  "Glad to do anything for you, Miss Claudy, anything. Your folks have lived in Crofton ever since t'was a place at all. It'll seem queer like to have you go away." 
                  His rough tones touched a tender chord, and she was silent. 
                  "So Brevoort's gone to Europe!" the squire suddenly lurched out, a dim thought piercing his brain that her departure might in some way be connected with it. "A smart chap, that Brevoort! but close-mouthed. Who'd a thought of his bein' a doctor? Have you heard when he's comin' back?" 
                  "He intends to be gone some years, I believe," with an absent air and a steady look down the garden-path. 
                  "He's the sort of man to make somebody. A smart chap, Miss Claudy." 
                   
                  Claudia rose to go. "Never turned a bit red," the squire said to himself, as he watched her stately figure and firm step. "Guess t'was that youngest hity-tity thing Brevoort was after. Yaller hair, and all that. But Claudy's worth half a dozen such gals. She's good grit." 
                  The long-delayed shower came that evening. A vivid furious thing, as if the elements were holding high carnival. The wind racketed through the trees, the lightning flashed in long fiery rays, pointed with a blue, steely gleam, and the rain poured in torrents. Presently there occurred a terrific crash, that almost made the house reel. Rose uttered a cry of dismay, and clung to Claudia. 
                  "The old sycamore!" Barbara exclaimed, after many moments. 
                  It seemed to Claudia then that the tie binding her to the old house was broken. The place and the family would fall into decay together. 
                  Rose gave way to a fit of frightened, passionate weeping. Claudia soothed her into calmness, and when the storm lulled a little, persuaded her to retire. She and Barbara sat in the familiar kitchen until long after midnight. The rain pattered drearily upon the window-sills, and dropped from the eaves. Down in the south the thunder kept up a sullen muttering, and a low wind made pitiful moans. 
                  They talked a little, but often lapsed into silence. Claudia remembered, with a peculiar vividness, the first time the idea of sale had been broached. Rose's pathetic girlish pleading that they should leave Crofton, and John Brevoort's first call. How she had watched him down the path, in spite of Rose's entreaty! 
                  If they had gone then, or in the spring! A trifling incident might have changed the whole course of fate. 
                  If we could look into the future, we should be as God. And if the tree of knowledge stood in our way, would we eat? 
                  Somewhere along in life every human soul comes to the test, proves its birthright by the ring of the true gold. In such moments the hollow chink of alloy is evident. 
                   
                  But whatever mistakes, whatever wrong or selfish desires she had been led into, Claudia Varian determined to redeem them all now. If she had sinned against her own soul in listening to a love not meant for her, if she had stooped from her lofty ideal, and dragged to the dust the proud aspirations of earlier days, they should be raised anew, brought to a finer and higher maturity by the fiery baptism poured upon her brow. The new life would be undertaken in a spirit of sacred humility, as the red cross knight of old sat out upon his quest. The dim, half-forgotten words floated through her brain, "When thou asketh the death of the body, thou shalt have it, and then shalt thou find the life of the soul." As he waited in patient prowess, so would she. 
                  When the maimed and dismembered branches of the sycamore were borne away the next day, it seemed to Claudia like carrying an old friend out to burial. There was the huge, scarred trunk, so gray and unsightly. Did it suffer any pang in that last hour? The sun shone on the mossy stones, on the damp, spongy roof, and hunted out many a long-sheltered crevice, making the decay more apparent. It was time for them to seek another home. 
                  The business was settled in friendly fashion, and after that the news spread like wildfire. Many a farewell visit was made from the baldest motives of curiosity. To all questions Claudia gave her unvarying answer, and her dignity repelled impertinence. The furniture was sold; the books they desired to keep, bedding, clothing, and the lighter articles, were securely packed. 
                  In accepting Claudia's generosity, Rose had laid aside her own sense of torture, that had once driven her to the verge of destruction. She was grateful, but there was no profound self-abasement to her nature. Quiet, tender, cowering a little under Barbara's stern glance, and occasionally starting in mysterious amazement, but otherwise unchanged. She paid some flying farewell visits, apparently elated by the hope of new scenes. In her soul she beheld a continual vision. Since another had taken her burden, she dared to dream. 
                  There were no old haunts for Claudia to linger over. The places she had once loved were drearier than churchyard graves. Calm and pale, but filled with high resolution; no swaying step, no trembling hand, no quivering lip. 
                  And so they turned from Crofton, to the world that was so wide, so kind and gracious to success, so cold, and bitter, and merciless to failure. What shall be their fate? 
                  It was quite a sensation for the sleepy village. Women discussed it over their tea, conjectured, added piece by piece, until they had the whole story, only there was a strange mismatching of ideas. Was Mr. Brevoort in love with Rose or Claudia? Rose had gone on in a shameful fashion at Mary Gregg's wedding, but she had likewise flirted with every other available young man in Crofton. Mothers rejoiced that she had not succeeded in captivating their hopefuls. Daughters gave thanks that she was safely out of the way. 
                  But then Mr. Brevoort had spoken very highly of Claudia. He had taken tea at the Varians' the last place, though Mrs. Green was sure that he had not gone over in the morning. No one knew how many evenings he had spent there. Christmas he had taken them both to E., and written to them twice since his departure. He had been blind, and dumb, and foolish to let the good chances go by, and take up with them; and though everybody protested, fiercely, that he wouldn't marry either of them, in each heart there lurked a secret fear that this would be the case. 
                  They had left word with the postmaster that all letters should be forwarded to New York. As none came very speedily, the matter finally began to die out, especially as Mr. Brevoort's predecessor was not long in gaining the favor of the feminine portion of the community. 
                  Had John Brevoort proved recreant to the two women whose lives had become inexplicably linked with his? I am glad for his manliness that I can say no. On reaching Liverpool he had mailed a letter, giving them an outline of the projected tour, and sending addresses for both Paris and Heidelberg. By one of those inscrutable accidents of fate it missed its destination. He felt confident of their replying, and, disappointed in the first instance, was most impatient to reach Paris. A letter from his uncle, another from a college chum, but none from Crofton. For several days he was in a state of most miserable apprehension. Then he wrote again to Philadelphia as well as to their native town. 
                  One letter reached Crofton some six weeks after the departure of the Varians. It was nearly dusk when the mail arrived, and the chief official being absent, his wife, who often attended to the distribution of letters, took his place. The contents of the leathern bag were deposited upon a narrow counter, and most conspicuous amongst them was a foreign letter directed to Miss Claudia Varian, in John Brevoort's bold, clear hand. The knowledge astonished the good woman. She had discovered an inexhaustible mine of conjecture, but being alone in the place, she could not run out and impart the wonderful secret. She studied the letter minutely, and would have given her best gown for a knowledge of its contents. 
                  She thrust it under a pile of papers until she had distributed the rest, and when the shop window was closed, betook herself to her kitchen, there to study it again. It was sealed, and could not be tampered with. She turned it over and over, held it before the candle, behind the candle, looked through it, and still was ignorant of its contents. 
                  There was a sudden flash of light in worthy Mrs. Crane's face. With a half cry of affright she flung the blazing mass upon the hearth, and stared at it, with incredulous eyes, as it slowly writhed itself to soft, gray ashes. It had caught from the flare of the candle. Well, no one knew anything about it! 
                  I think that was the only secret Mrs. Crane ever had wit enough to keep. Some weeks later, when Miss Arabella Sandford averred that no letter ever had come, she preserved a grim silence. 
                
             
             
                
               PART II. 
               THE STORY OF A SUMMER. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Not die; but live a life of truest breath, 
                           And teach true life to fight with mortal wrongs." 
                        
                      
                     ALFRED TENNYSON. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "Our passions never wholly die, but in the last cantos of life's romantic epos, they rise up again and do battle, like some of Ariosto's heroes, who have already been quietly interred, and ought to be turned to dust."
                      
                     LONGFELLOW. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "If any one desire, or is fond of another, he could never desire, or be fond of, or be a friend, unless he in a manner belonged to the object of his love."
                      
                     PLATO. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "There are inscriptions on our hearts which are never to be seen except at dead low tide."
                      
                     BULWER. 
                   
                
                
                   
                   
                  I. A WOMAN'S VICTORY. 
                  THE time was late June; June in her glory and perfection, the maturity of spring before it reaches summer ripeness. A breath of fragrance, subtile and penetrating; an odorous air, that made one dream of lying on velvety banks under shady trees. A sky of luminous azure, with weird drifts of white floating about; shadowy fleets, sailing over unknown but tranquil seas. Crowning all, a soft golden sun, giving everything a touch of tenderness, hinting at some possible joy, never perhaps to be realized, or coming too late for waiting hearts. Not the fiery ball of midsummer, but gentle and vivifying in its heat. A sun to bring out roses rather than ripen corn. A soft, suggestive sun; a quiet, suggestive day. A time when one is haunted by old visions, rather than new and stirring thoughts. 
                  The place was the studio of an artist, almost unknown; a young man who had been living in strictest retirement. But New York is wide and indefinite, unless one mentions a locality. 
                  To particularize. There stood, in the early days of Central Park, on the west side of the city, in what is now a most aristocratic neighborhood, a row of unpretending, wooden cottages, cosy enough for any romance of love and happiness. They all had little courtyards in front, some boasting a tall hibiscus, others a more modern evergreen. The houses were two stories, with peaked roofs, broken by one dormer window, except the corner house, which was rather more pretentious. Each one was detached from its neighbor by an alley-way, in one or two instances sufficiently wide to admit of some vines or flowers, although pale from too much shade. They were neat, old-fashioned residences, known in the adjacent vicinity as "Old Maid's Row," though I think there were full as many widows as spinsters inhabiting them. They were a quiet, orderly, non-committal, non-inquisitive set, belonging to that class known as decayed gentility, which invariably clings to the refinements of higher life. Once in a while they sighed, "Poor Miss Vanduyne!" and when their indignation was more thoroughly aroused, they protested, energetically, "That it was a shame!" 
                  Poor Miss Vanduyne! In her bright, girlish days, when these houses were considered "out of town," when she used to canter down to the city on her shining black pony, leaving orders here and there to tradesmen, nodding gayly to acquaintances, and bestowing upon them sweet, but haughty smiles, how little did she dream of the later times! 
                  There was a brother and sister younger than herself when their father died. Oliver Vanduyne was a handsome, brilliant, wilful fellow, impatient of control, and having those weak points that make one a victim to designing persons of both sexes. He soon ran through with his fortune, borrowed money of his sister and friends, drank, gamed, and went rapidly down the descending scale. 
                  Martha was a beauty and a belle. She flirted away her halcyon days, was vain, imperious, selfish, and faded into a fretful "old maid." As years passed she became an invalid, and aggravated trifling disorders by lack of regular living and exercise, and passionate indulgence in temper. She had turned the point of half a century now, was wrinkled, thin, and sallow, but persisted in keeping up those youthful habits least becoming to age. 
                  With these two in her charge, you will readily believe that Miss Vanduyne was to be pitied. No one ever knew all she endured, for she "made no sign." There is a martyrdom beyond the stake and fagot. Tall, thin, and pale, dressed in soberest colors, there clung about her an unquestionably old-fashioned air. The world outside might imagine what a trial this broken-down, trembling old man, with his watery eyes and maudlin ways, proved to her, for Miss Vanduyne was an undeniable lady. But they never guessed the sorer burden, the daily crown of thorns bestowed upon her by her weak and selfish sister. Thank God, there is to be a heaven, where not only the wicked cease from troubling, but the weary are at rest. O, do you, can you know what that means? We grope along faint and blind, crying out between our pangs that the way will never end, until some day we reach the golden gateway leading to the other country, and find inscribed over its portals that blessed word, in letters of living light. Such heavenly comfort! AT REST. Just as we now say in that glad, relieved tone, AT HOME, after any great turmoil with the hard problems the world brings us to subdue. 
                  Miss Vanduyne realized that this was the only rest for her, so she bore her burden meekly. Her father used to say, "No one will ever impose upon Hetty; she has too much spirit." It is the women of large brain and soul that can be heroic for others. Pain and suffering never yet took a narrow mind out of itself. Somewhere along life she had put on the apostle's ornamentation. She had loved, suffered, and was now patient. Some tender dreams had blossomed and withered in that forlorn heart, some brightness and glory had gone out of it, but she gave freely of what was left; perhaps in its kind grander than the first sweetness of many others. The rest was between God and her own soul. 
                  And yet my story is not about her. Indeed, I don't know why I gave her more than a casual mention, except that she always interested me deeply, and her pale, wistful face strengthened my belief in another world, where what she had missed in this would be made up to her. St. Paul was right,-"If the dead rise not again, we are of all men most miserable." 
                  All the land in the vicinity had belonged to the Vanduyne estate. Oliver was not long in testing one point of Scripture-the deceitfulness of riches. Then he hung around, living, no one knew exactly how, but managing to impoverish his sisters, until there was little left besides the house in which they resided, and the one next door-Martha's. 
                  This had been suddenly vacated nearly three years before, and Hester was in some consternation about a new tenant. Being so near, a curious, gossiping neighbor might prove a serious annoyance. When Miss Martha persisted in promenading the garden in her faded finery and deeply rouged cheeks, or indulged in shrill and unreasonable criticism upon the members of her family, or Oliver wandered about in his poor, foolish way, it was a comfort to know there were no eagle eyes in the vicinity ready to pounce down upon an unlucky situation. 
                  By a special providence they found a tenant quite to their liking. An artist and his wife, strangers in the city, and an old servant, who was as grim and reticent as Tacita herself. They had the appearance of foreigners; and as they could give no reference, six months' rent in advance was offered. 
                  Miss Vanduyne accepted, with a misgiving that was perfectly natural; but before the six months had elapsed, she was thoroughly satisfied. An addition had been made to their household in the person of an infant, and they seemed fully as desirous of a quiet home, as Miss Vanduyne of a quiet tenant. 
                  Two years and a half later the neighborhood knew very little more concerning them. Claude Tresorier was an artist-French, German, or Italian; though it was whispered they spoke the French language. He rarely went out during the day, and always, except through the heat of summer, enveloped in a long Spanish cloak. He was short of stature, decidedly youthful, and not noticeably handsome. Whether he would ever be famous, no one ventured to predict. 
                  But whatever charms the husband lacked, were amply compensated for by the wife, in the plenitude of her abundance. She was something more than beautiful. A glimpse of her face stirred up all the romance, dying a lingering death at the bottom of Miss Vanduyne's heart, and made her smile with rare, dreamy tenderness. 
                  Occasionally she went to walk with her husband about sunset, and at intervals they drove out, taking the child with them. One lady in the neighborhood, more daring than the rest, ventured to call, apologizing very prettily for the intrusion. The tall housekeeper, looking taller and more weird in the twilight obscurity of the hall, said in answer, "that master was too busy to see any one, and madame engaged in putting her child to sleep." Leaving her compliments, the lady withdrew, and made no further attempts at cultivating their acquaintance. It was remarked that the servant invariably said madame and master,-another proof of their foreign origin. 
                  But the child was a great source of interest. Possibly some one might have wormed out a few particulars concerning the Tresoriers, but as I said, it was not an inquisitive neighborhood. Every one had some burden of his own or her own, or too much to do to eke out respectability on straitened means, to devote much time to curiosity. 
                  The little Tresorier had been taken out in a baby carriage the first summer. The visible and outward signs, in this case, appeared to be lace, embroidery, and fine muslin, and a handsome blanket worked in silk. People did not talk of afghans then. But the second summer the child was a marvel. Fine, large, with wonderful blue eyes, and rings of golden hair, a complexion of perfect purity-marble whiteness is a very correct term in this case. It had not that soft, pinky flesh hue most babies display so abundantly. Its very features had a cold, chiselled look. Placed on a pedestal, no one would have questioned its being a veritable statuette. It was too perfect. It gave you a sense of pain, as if some new and strange stamp had been placed upon humanity. 
                  And now he was still more etherealized, if such a thing was possible; grown finer and more immobile. He rarely smiled or gave way to the eager motions of childhood. Even when he stretched out his arms to the nurse,-arms and hands that were not less marvellous than the face,-he never did it with sudden, impatient joyousness. He might have been the offspring of some of the old fabled gods, for surely he had sufficient grandeur and dignity. As a baby merely, he must have been unsatisfactory. Even the nurse never indulged in the boisterous caresses so common with those who have the care of children, but treated him as if he were something she could not account for nor understand. 
                  The house being small, the lower floor was devoted to the more material purposes of life. In the upper room, at the rear, facing the south, the artist spent most of his time. Sunsets were familiar there. Glimpses of the Hudson, blue in the distance, the opposite shore of New Jersey rising here and there in small bluffs, suggestive of the after palisades; the uncultivated stretch of land, with the white, hard road, known as Harlem Lane, winding through green trees like a silvery cord. Art had hardly begun to vie-with nature in the spot since rendered so attractive. Beyond all, the hazy outlines of West-chester, like the indistinct after-thought of a dream. 
                  The family triad made a lovely picture on this June afternoon. The apartment was spacious enough not to look crowded with the articles it contained. A couch luxuriant in soft crimson damask; a companion arm-chair, wide and suggestive of delicious indolence; a centre-table filled with papers, sketches, and loose engravings; the top of the old-fashioned half closet, nearer the window, devoted to the keeping of sundry artist's materials, while on the one opposite were arranged some choice books. Between the windows stood a workstand, surmounted with a dainty basket, betraying its devotion to feminine purposes. 
                  Mrs. Tresorier sat by the window at the right. Her sewing, a pretty trifle of gay silk embroidery, lay neglected in her lap. The child was on the floor beside her, busy with a bright colored ored toy-book. His eyes, his transparent complexion, his golden hair, and his lovely mouth and chin, were inherited from his mother. At a first glance you would have pronounced him her perfect counterpart in the sense of resemblance. But his broad forehead, and the conformation of the head, that gave him his princely air, had evidently come from another source. The straight line of the brows, and their peculiar bronze tint, seemed the work of a pencil rather than natural growth, and the long lashes were edged with the same glittering hue. He had an unconsciously sad expression, and the eyes seemed peering into some dim, half-revealed future. What did he behold? 
                  There was a suggestion of this pain, that could not be put into words, in the artist's face. But the mother's was gay and girlish, with a touch of fire and spirit, an impatience that now and then brought two little marks between her brows, and a wilful daring that sat well upon her. You could not imagine her a meek, uncomplaining wife, or a woman given naturally to lofty self-sacrifice. There was about her an air of vivid life, a desire to love and to be loved, a fervent interest in any one's behalf while her liking lasted, a sort of absorbing sweetness that amounted to positive exaction. 
                  At the other window stood an easel, containing an unfinished picture, while back a little, upon another easel, was placed a fine monochrome. Several studies in pastel and water colors were scattered here and there, yet the room was not in disorder. 
                  Claude Tresorier's palette lay on a high stool, untouched. He had pushed his seat in front of the work-table, which brought the child at an acute angle between them. His face was good. I use the term advisedly, though it sounds tame until you comprehend the full meaning. It had a grandeur and nobleness that could not possibly have been born of any other element than pure, absolute goodness. It was grave and kind; the man looked as if somewhere along life a great trial had confronted him; a lion in the way, that must be met. Not the thing to fight with either, but just simply to endure. You know men have conquered wild beasts by looking them directly in the eyes. He had brought the glance of an heroic soul upon his Apollyon, and subdued it. After that, minor cares and trials could make but small impression. 
                  It was not a handsome face, though this high look seemed to render smaller details unnecessary. It lacked something that you always missed, without being able to define precisely what it was. At least, to an acute observer. 
                  A loose, black velveteen garment, that partook of the nature of a dressing-gown and coat, partially enveloped him. It was thrown carelessly open, and displayed an immaculate shirt-front and collar, and a neatly tied black ribbon. There was something undeniably jaunty about this; and the hair, glossy and nearly black, worn rather long, the ends falling in loose waves. You could not help remarking the whiteness of the throat, and the hands with their slender fingers. If a sense of beauty resided in them, you could understand at once that the man might come to be a successful artist. 
                  They lay listlessly across his knee now; the face and the droop of the shoulders expressing hesitation, indecision. 
                  Mrs. Tresorier read and re-read a note that she held in her hand, then glanced up at Claude, feeling half vexed at his abstracted manner. 
                  Her thoughts, like her flushes, soon came to the surface. 
                  "I like it," she began abruptly. "It pleases me immensely. And I like this Felix Dana, whoever he may be-his perseverance." She settled that last with a spicy laugh. "You will grant him an interview now?" 
                  "Why any more now than before? I had decided the affair, you know." 
                  "And the fates willed that it should not remain decided. O Claude, listen to me this time. I have never dictated-scarcely even advised; but I feel a strong and peculiar interest in this matter. It may be of much importance to you, and it is certainly the least compliment you can pay him. Do consent?" 
                  A little shiver ran through the artist's frame. She did not see it. There are some people nervously alive to every impression that touches them, yet singularly slow and obtuse in regard to others. They have sensitiveness, but that fine, rare gift of comprehension seems entirely wanting. 
                  "You will see him," she said again. 
                  "No, I cannot. And then, since we are going away, it is useless to undertake any acquaintances of this kind." 
                  "It is not useless," she began, vehemently. "You have no friend, and you need one. This man may be capable of advising you; his society may be an advantage, a comfort you scarcely dream of in this isolated life." 
                  "As if a friend"-Claude Tresorier paused suddenly, while a far-reaching look shot out of his eyes pain and apprehension, and a pang from some quivering depth below, rarely moved, but now stirred unwontedly. Every pulse throbbed, but something held them in a giant's grasp. 
                  "Claude, I am the more reasonable now. A friend like this may be of incalculable benefit to you. You realize what your life should be; its true ambition. You need artistic society, something that will draw out your higher capabilities. You need to talk, to enjoy freshness and warmth. I am not blind, and God knows I do not mean to be selfish. It seems to me that this is one of the rare opportunities that happen but once or twice in a lifetime. I have a curious presentiment concerning it. A man still young, with the advantages of wealth and position, desires your acquaintance. That he possesses delicacy and true refinement, I think he has proved." 
                  "There may be another side to the picture. The man is rich, to be sure; he has seen much of the world, and possibly been flattered until he thinks his dictum superior to all beside. To gratify an idle whim he takes me up, patronizes me, and when he grows weary, or wants a new excitement, he will drop me as coolly as an old glove." 
                   
                  "You are unjust;" and Mrs. Tresorier's lip quivered like a grieved child. "It pains me to see you becoming so morbid and faithless. In the beginning, you know, I opposed your plan as the wildest and most impracticable romance, but when I found you so resolved, I yielded. In all this time, Claude, I have obeyed you unquestioningly. But I have seen with a pang, that while your ambition remains the same lofty purpose, all else is slowly changing. I cannot endure the thought that I shall finally wreck you. If it comes to that-" 
                  "No, it will not;" and a strange terror spoke in voice and gesture. "But since we have decided to go away so soon, it is best to keep on in the same quiet manner. You are mistaken if you think it harms me." 
                  A subtle light flashed into her eyes, making the liquid softness tremble like some wind-blown wave. There was a heat of passion in her voice when she spoke, though she tried to control its impatience. 
                  "I am not mistaken. Do you think you can hide everything from me? Or are you afraid?" 
                  She almost stumbled over this last word, and glanced up furtively, as if she had transcended her power in asking such a question. 
                  "Afraid!" The deep eyes looked out resolutely; and if any nerve quivered in its tension, she never knew. She was not gifted in reading souls, though she had some perception. 
                  "In justice to yourself, you must answer this note to Mr. Dana. If you do not like him, you need not continue the acquaintance. Remember he can see you without your knowing it. I believe I should gratify myself in that manner if refused a second time." 
                  "A gentleman would respect an incognita," Claude said, sternly. 
                  "Neither will a gentleman presume," she returned, in nowise abashed. 
                  He glanced out of the window with stony eyes. The tender June day touched him, and made him feel weak. He put his hand up to his forehead, as if to shelter himself from some invisible danger. The firm lines around his mouth relaxed, and left a hollow sinking. 
                  "O Claude!" and springing from her seat she clasped her soft arms about him, while her voice quivered, "if I am always to be your first thought, my very life would become hateful to me. I have some pride as well as you, and you shall not sacrifice yourself in everything. If you force me to it, I can take a desperate step, as you will see!" 
                  A terror flickered up in his face, and he tried to unfasten the arms that almost strangled him. 
                  "My darling, you don't know what you ask!" 
                  The tone was resolute, but it sounded as if it came over depths of pain. 
                  "Yes, I do! I do!" 
                  The face was so lovely in its tears and vehemence; the tone faltering in little breaks, moved him as it rarely had before. 
                  "I want you to have such a friend. This lonely life you are leading breaks my heart. I am willing, this day-" 
                  "Hush!" he said, in an awed and solemn tone. "Whatever I have done before, has been of my own free will. There is nothing to regret; but this-" 
                  "Is done for my sake, as all the great acts of your life have been." 
                  "Let me see the note again." 
                  She knew then that he had yielded. And it seemed to him that he had taken something into his own life which must one day be put out again with great pain and suffering. A dim remembrance of another man who had offered him friendship, and when he looked for bread, he had found worse than a stone,-thorns that stung. But some fate hurries us on, even when we would pause. 
                   
                  This was the note he glanced over again:- 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "DEAR SIR: Ordinarily one refusal in the matter of acquaintance is sufficient, but in the present instance, though I may need an apology to bear me out in my presumption, I confess I am not satisfied with the possibly abrupt termination of our hardly-begun intercourse. It would afford me the sincerest pleasure to meet you. I do not say this from any idle curiosity. My interest in you is deeper than anything I have experienced for years. If, for any particular reason, you decline being known, except through Mr. Shultz, you will pardon my intrusion, and believe that henceforth I shall pay the strictest attention to your wishes. But if you can be induced to grant an interview, it will afford me a high degree of pleasure, and I think I can promise that you will not regret the permission. 
                              "If I have exceeded the bounds of true courtesy, pardon me, and rest assured that it has arisen from my warm interest in you. If possible, grant my request; if not, consider me, truly, an unknown friend. 
                              
                                 "FELIX DANA. 
                                  
                                    "TO CLAUDE TRESORIER, Artist." 
                                 
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  "You will write," she said. 
                  As one in a dream, he wrote, making an appointment. He did not dare to muse over friend or pleasure, for he had thought them shut entirely out of his life. The path that he had marked out for himself was not to be interspersed with flowery meads. He mistrusted any desire for companionship as if within its secret recesses lurked some dreaded foe. 
                
                
                   
                  II. THE INTERVIEW. 
                  SOME explanation is necessary before you can understand this matter of the letter. When Claude Tresorier came to the city an entire stranger, he had resolved with a courageous heart to work and wait. Without friends or influence, it was necessary to begin at the lowest round; and as his income was limited, he applied himself diligently to the less interesting but remunerative branches of art, spending now and then a few hours in taking lessons of a good master. 
                  He succeeded passably well. I am not going to relate the discouragements, the trials, the hours of despondency that not unfrequently seized his heart, and held it in a grim, torturing clutch. There was that in his soul and in this home that kept him in one unswerving course; and when a man has learned to turn neither to the right nor the left, he has won half the battle. There was a quiet persistency that interested the master, and he would fain have learned more of his pupil, but there seemed nothing in the uneventful life to tell. 
                  Presently he was recommended to an extensive picture dealer, and had gradually grown into the man's graces. One day he ventured to offer a landscape, which elicited some praise, and was finally sold. Then the head of a Madonna. 
                  When this found a purchaser, Claude drew a breath of triumph. A keen sense of elation thrilled every nerve. It was no longer a contest at the far spear point, but a hand to hand fight; and he warmed with the conscious excitement, as one always must when the quick brain enters the arena and presses its way through material things, dashing down some strong obstacle here, breaking through barriers that at first glance looked impassable, and achieving at last some sure footing. It is always these first steps that are the hardest and thorniest. 
                  "You have never exhibited in the Academy," Mr. Shultz said, one morning. "Have you no ambition that way?" 
                  "No influence, which amounts to the same thing," answered the young artist. 
                  "Ah, but do you care? Have you anything you could send?" 
                  "Yes, I care," said Tresorier, with a sudden accession of boldness. 
                  "It is too late to set about it now, I suppose. Have you anything completed?" 
                  "One or two landscapes, and-Then he paused, for the breath seemed strangling him. A deep, luminous light flashed into his eyes. Shultz had seen it there, once or twice, in moments of great emotion. 
                  "And what? Don't be afraid of me." 
                  "A picture that has been my dream for months-two years I might say,-Joan of Arc." 
                  "Not a very good subject!" 
                  "Pardon me. I think it depends on the treatment." 
                  There was a curious confidence in the artist's tone, far removed from any small vanity. 
                  "I could enter something for you. An intimate friend of mine, one of the committee, bores me half to death for a new sensation. He purchased your Madonna, and that made me think of you. You cannot finish anything in time, then?" 
                  "If you would allow me to send you the Joan of Arc. But you have bestowed so many favors." 
                  The man laughed. He was a German, with a fair, good-humored face, and a genial, light blue eye. Prosperous and happy himself, life appeared to broaden to him, and he took his fellow-men into his soul with a generosity that was most delightful. He had assisted several young artists over the path to easy going. So he said now, in his frank, kindly manner,- 
                   
                  "Send the picture and I will give you my opinion. That is all I can promise at present." 
                  "Thank you." 
                  The artist bowed with unconscious reverence. Mr. Shultz was half his world. 
                  The picture was despatched to No.-, Broadway. Claude waited three days before he presented himself for the opinion. 
                  "My dear young friend,"-and there was something deeper than the usual cheery ring in the German's voice,-"your tranquil manner of announcing your young damsel misled me wonderfully. As for the picture, it is in the Academy. Can you take greatness calmly, even if it should be thrust upon you?" 
                  Claude smiled, but every pulse in his body thrilled with keenest pleasure. 
                  "You liked it?" was all he could force through his quivering breath. 
                  "Yes, I liked it; but that wasn't all. It surprised me. Tresorier, why do you keep at the drudgery of art?" 
                  "For bread," was the brief answer. 
                  "You committed a boy's folly in marrying; that being done, the bread is an urgent necessity. I wish you would take a studio in this neighborhood. Portrait painting isn't a bad thing. I take it that you have an aim in life, and the most important point is getting established. A man who could paint that Joan of Arc deserves to be known. I don't say that it is superior to everything, but it is a great stride. The expression in that face is wonderful. And the rising flames, that just begin to crisp the ends of her hair, the nervous strength of the hands, that seem absolutely to demand divine assistance, tell a story one doesn't see every day on canvas. It has roused me into being enthusiastic, you see." 
                  "I don't know how to thank you for your favorable judgment," began Tresorier, his face fairly transfigured. 
                  "Don't thank me at all. The exhibition may not advance it one inch, but it cannot take away its merits as a fine picture. We shall see." 
                  Claude's heart was too full to continue the conversation, even if Mr. Shultz's valuable time had allowed of it. He walked slowly homeward, past his home, indeed, over the wilds and rocks where hundreds linger to-day. Down into the deepest nook he plunged, the cool green of the trees stilling his throbbing pulses. It is one thing to dream of a great joy, another, to come so near that you can touch your lips to the brim of the fragrant cup, and yet know that it may dashed down. 
                  He had fought many a battle in these shady coverts. When you know what his past had been, and what a bewildering maze his present was, though it looked smooth enough to the casual observer, you will not wonder. We often carry about in our own souls contrasts more tragical than the world would dare to dream. The swelling ocean rolls on with its endless and changeless diapason; we are born and die, but below the surface there is a fiery under-current, that spans from heart to heart, where love, and hate, and all the profounder elements of life meet and mingle. The weak cry out for help; but the strong look into the seething abyss, and walk the narrow path with faces that rarely betray the quivering nerve, the pang of agony. If we could but understand these subtile antagonisms of life, and learn which we must endure, because God placed it there for us to fight and conquer, and which was thrust in by some selfish human hand, that would not exert itself to bear its own burdens! 
                  Claude's face was tranquil when he joined his family. He was not one to betray the hard blows fate gave him. And by this time the sense of possible triumph began to look too daring and unreal, so he merely announced that his picture had been entered. 
                  He hungrily devoured every notice of the Academy. The picture was spoken of in the very moderate terms art critics are wont to use towards a new comer, for we are apt to carry our conservatism into the praises of our neighbor. He went on with his daily avocations, and fell into a state of comparative calmness, when he was aroused by a criticism that displayed much technical knowledge, but little true estimation of art. It was tinctured strongly with pre-Raphaelism; every fold of the drapery, the disposition of the fagots, the flame, the stake, were held up to a most minute examination, but the martyr's soul had been left out. The whole thing was cold and superficial, and abounded in a kind of satirical advice that exasperated the artist. 
                  He went to the store one day with the portrait of a child that he had been copying,-a little dead child, who was here represented with all the charm and glow of life. 
                  "You have seen the critique?" Mr. Shultz said, hurrying towards him with a roll of engravings in his hand, which he was too excited to remember. 
                  "A vile, miserable thing! The man may be a scholar, but he has no soul!" 
                  "O, you meant in the-? H. thinks it is a religious duty to write down young artists. I was a little indiscreet in acknowledging the paternity of the picture. But did you not see last evening's-?" 
                  "No!" 
                  "An incalculable loss if it could not be made up to you;" and there was a twinkle in the blue eye. "Sit down and look it over while I attend to some business. It will be a most delightful surprise." 
                  Mr. Shultz's business lengthened itself out like remembered poetic sweetness. But what cared Tresorier? He had found true appreciation-a soul that could understand his. And of all subtile distinctions, the one that touches us the most deeply is the capability of seeing not only the work complete, but the spirit in which it was done. A mind of high purity, a correct judgment, quick to discover both beauties and defects, pointing out the first with rare delicacy, the second with a kindness that persuaded gradually; an earnest endeavor to rouse the man who could do so well, to attempt something better. It was like a draught of sparkling old wine. It penetrated every pulse of the artist's being. The writer seemed to enter into his very life, to touch upon his aims, his hopes, and guess at some depth of inward struggle, of which only God and the man's own soul were cognizant. All this with an elegance of diction, that while it aimed at no display of superior culture, betrayed a master mind, entirely at home in art life. 
                  Tresorier was still sitting entranced when Mr. Shultz returned. 
                  "H. is quite thrown into the shade! You can defy him now, if you like. I am rarely mistaken in a pen, and I think I know the author of that. And now, if you can assure me you are quite sane, I have another surprise for you." 
                  Tresorier looked bewildered, but turned his questioning eyes upon the speaker; and though his lips moved, no sound escaped them. 
                  "I have had an offer for your picture." 
                  "An offer?" Was Tresorier really awake? For his brain still seemed steeped in the melody of those delicious sentences. We may come up to great heights in our after life, but no voice ever has the perfect sweetness of the one that uttered our first true commendation. All the fine, hidden springs in Tresorier's sensitive nature had been touched by it, and thrilled even now. 
                  "Yes; and the man wants it at any price. He's a curious person, this Dana. He's seen everything in the Old World worth seeing, and one may rest pretty securely upon his verdict. The truth is, Tresorier, your fortune is made. You meant to dispose of the picture?" 
                  "Certainly." And yet everything about Tresorier appeared fabulously unreal. He was hardly sure of himself. 
                  "My advice is to accept this offer. In Felix Dana you will find a friend such as a man doesn't meet with twice in a lifetime. He is a gentleman by birth and breeding, is most refined and generous, and has the entre of the best society. I knew him before he went abroad. I couldn't place a brother in better hands. That critique is his, I am sure. When will you see him, for he is very anxious to meet you?" 
                  Tresorier shut his eyes, with the sensations of a man going over the rapids of Niagara. He drew in his breath with a sharp pang. 
                  "If you will arrange the sale of the picture for me," he returned, slowly, when he could command his voice, though it still held an under-current of tremulousness, "I can rely entirely upon you; and though it is a great favor to ask-" 
                  "Do you mean that you don't care to see Dana? My dear fellow, you are crazy!" 
                  "There are reasons why I must refuse all society at present. My manner of living is very retired, and there is much for me to do. I cannot explain all-"And for a moment the shoulders relaxed, the whole frame took on an indescribable air, as if it would fain have sheltered itself from some impending evil, and understood how hard it was to be strong in its own strength. 
                  "These poor fellows are always the very devil for pride," thought the picture dealer, knowing no more of the artist's struggle than if it had been written in Sanscrit. Then he said aloud,- 
                  "This is too absurd and costly a pride to indulge in, Tresorier. If I did not know how really admirable the man was in every respect, and the valuable friend he will prove, I should not insist. You might go to him a beggar, and he would raise you so delicately that you would hardly feel the touch of his hand." 
                  "O, Mr. Shultz! don't think it pride;" and Tresorier's voice had in it a strand of womanly pathos. "If you could know how entirely I appreciate his and your kindness, and how, under some circumstances, this acquaintance would afford me the highest pleasure, you would understand the sacrifice I make in relinquishing the opportunity. I am not free to enter society, nor to make friends. By another spring I expect to go abroad, and in the mean while I must be industrious." 
                  "Most inconsequent reasoning. Why, Dana could place you in the way of earning twice the amount you could gain by yourself, and his society alone would be half an art education. You are blind and obstinate;" for Mr. Shultz was getting out of patience. 
                  Tresorier turned his face full upon his friend. There was an expression of such deep and wordless pain that Shultz started. The delicate-lidded eyes trembled as if on the verge of tears. 
                  "I'm rough, may be," the man said, softening his tone, "but it vexes me to see you let such a chance slip. He was in here yesterday, talking, and his head's full of vagaries about you. I'm not sure but he's right. You artists are all crochety. You don't know how he will be disappointed." 
                  "Just as he can never know how I regret it; but it is quite impossible;" and Tresorier drew a resolute breath, while the color left his face, and his lips were set hard. 
                  Mr. Shultz began to think his protg very peculiar and unmanageable. After some discussion they fixed upon a price for the picture, and Claude wrote a note to soften the refusal. It was the answer to this on which Mrs. Tresorier had expended her woman's pertinacity, and conquered where a man had failed. 
                  After having made the appointment, Claude resolutely thrust the subject from his mind. And yet he noted every passing hour with a nervous fear. What danger lurked in the path? 
                  It still wanted fifteen minutes of the time when Tresorier sauntered into the store of his patron. Nodding carelessly to one or two of the clerks, he passed through to the ante-room, the repository of choice pictures, and where not unfrequently some statue found its way. The place was not very large, and lighted from the top by a glass dome. The clouds floating over the sky subdued the light, and gave it an air of cosiness. Through the centre of the room were ranged a row of seats. A few stray cane-seat stools were grouped at the edge, as if some one had been studying a picture intently. 
                  Two ladies, dressed in mourning, were taking a quiet survey of the place. Tresorier chose the end of the sofa, and began perusing his paper, or at least making a pretence. In reality he was watching. He had come thus early, in order to compose himself, and be on his guard. Every nerve was held in a sort of rigid control. Every breath came at measured intervals. He had chosen this mood, because he did not desire to be kindled into any warmth and enthusiasm. He set himself deliberately about disappointing the man who already understood him too well. There are times in the lives of many of us when we prefer to be misjudged. 
                  Presently a bevy of young and elegantly dressed ladies, attended by two gentlemen, entered. They were very bright and animated, and yet showed their good breeding by their low voices and well trained gestures. It was a pleasure to watch them; and for a few moments he lost his own sense of discomfort. 
                  The next interruption brought the warm blood to his face. By some subtile mental misgiving he feared this was Felix Dana. A man of five and thirty, tall, well formed, and dressed with exquisite taste, from his faultless beaver to his dainty French boots. There was about him an air of indolent self-sufficiency; style, I suppose the ladies in his set pronounced it. The English whiskers were unexceptionable; his hair had been brushed until it shone like satin; indeed, the exterior man was perfect. But the face, handsome as it was, did not meet Tresorier's approbation. To-day he was unusually sensitive and critical. 
                  His first impulse was to leave the place; then the absurdity of the proceeding brought him to his senses. 
                  The gentleman sauntered slowly around, now and then giving Tresorier a sharp glance. The artist understood him at once. The cultivated man of society, whom people delighted to honor, expected the young artist to make himself known with becoming humility. Why had he been so weak as to allow himself to be drawn into this adventure? or why had he not petitioned for Mr. Shultz to be present, and thus save any awkward contretemps?
                   
                  Every sense concentrated upon an intense feeling of repulsion. He took no farther note of new comers. His lips were shut with an expression of profound antipathy, and his eyes held a curious light, for he had quite forgotten the mask he was to wear. 
                  A stranger entered slowly, paused to address a few words to the clerk, and then glanced at Tresorier. A quiet smile crossed his face, for he seemed to take in the, to him, amusing situation. 
                  He, too, might have been five and thirty. He was rather tall, and gave one the idea of being slender; but it was more the round compactness of his limbs, and their lithe grace; for as you looked, an underlying consciousness of strength stole over you. The same with the face. At first one seemed inclined to pronounce it too delicately handsome, but presently its latent power impressed you. I do not know that I can describe it satisfactorily, it had so many moods, and varied so with each one, that an enumeration of features could scarcely give an idea of the whole. It was clearly cut, with a full, broad forehead, brows in nearly a straight line, indicative here of a curious strength. The eyes were of a peculiar deep blue, shady, as if some old sadness slumbered in their depths. The black pupils enlarged and contracted with wonderful ease. Nothing escaped them, though they were not obtrusive eyes. And when they smiled, which they did as frequently as the mouth, the light in them startled one, for it seemed as if in some shadowy land, long before this mortal existence began, they had known of your soul, then floating in dim, chaotic space. 
                  The Grecian nose with its thin, sensitive nostrils betrayed a breath or an emotion. At least you fancied it did, and the face appeared an easy one to read, but very few could master it. When you thought you knew him perfectly, he surprised you by a variety of changes, in which you were bewildered, lost. It was a most perplexing face. Keen, kind, grave, satirical, softening to a rare degree of tenderness, and capable of hardening to a steely impassibility. It was a study to watch it. 
                  He wore a full beard, almost black underneath, but assuming beautiful gradations of bronze, and as it neared the mouth, the rich shades of amber. It was silken soft, and at the sides curling into graceful tangles. The hair was quite light, of the same texture and peculiarity. 
                  In the mean while, Tresorier, unconscious of this counter-attraction, began to grow internally exasperated. He brought himself at last to a desperate resolve. If the unknown would not speak, the matter might go by default. And if he should-Claude experienced a womanish desire to scream. 
                  The unknown did not speak. He gave the place a lofty, sweeping glance as he neared the door, and Claude felt immensely relieved. Then the party passed out; the two in mourning had gone before. A great throb of joy fluttered at his heart, and he turned in exultant freedom. 
                  A hand was laid gently upon his arm as the two came face to face. Found thus defenceless, Claude colored with boyish bashfulness, and was silent-quite at the mercy of the other. 
                  "Claude Tresorier, I presume," said a peculiar voice,-a voice that found its way to the farthest pulse of the artist's being, and moved him in an inexplicable manner. 
                  The stranger presented his card, but Claude was too much bewildered even to proffer his hand. 
                  "I believe I saw the pantomime," began the slow, melodious voice. "You mistook the gentleman, who has just passed out, for me?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "And felt relieved as he retired from the scene?" 
                   
                  "Yes." Claude's eyes drooped perceptibly. 
                  "Frank, at least. I hardly know whether to feel complimented or not." 
                  "Pardon me," Tresorier began, with more energy. "Truth to tell, I feel like adopting the old woman's test, as to whether 'I be I,' except that I have no little dog at home. I have been in a most uncomfortable state of mind for moments back-an age, it has seemed." 
                  "I fancied you would wait until the last moment in order to punish my persistence. Have I annoyed you seriously?" 
                  The tone was so winsome, the face so pleading, that Tresorier could not regret, and yielded to the pleasant spell. When one has been strong all one's life for others, very dangerous it is to meet with a person who demands nothing, but leaves one free to give, and yet impresses one with the feeling that he has only to exert a tithe of his power and you are a captive. The union of strength and forbearance, as Claude saw it in Dana's face, impressed him forcibly. 
                  "I have acted like a foolish boy," he said, half in apology. 
                  "You will know some day that it was no idle whim on my part," Dana began, gravely. "I am patient, and can wait for your favor. But one always wonders about such a rencounter. Shultz offered to be present, and introduce us in true orthodox style, but I declined. I wanted to test my own power, for I fancied I could choose you from a dozen others." 
                  "As you did!" 
                  "I will be honest. I asked Bailey if Mr. Tresorier had come, and he nodded towards the ante-room. Your face betrayed the rest." 
                  Tresorier colored as he met the shady eyes charged with luminous magnetism. 
                  "And yet you are not what I expected. Why, you are a very child. I feel ancient as the everlasting hills beside you. Shall I count up your twenty summers?" 
                  "Twenty-five." 
                   
                  "Have you found the fabled fountain of the gods?" and Dana gave a light, musical laugh. "There are thirteen years' seniority on my part. And now, Claude Tresorier, take a good look at me, and tell me if we are to be friends. I have already made my election." 
                  "What is there left for me, then?" for Claude felt altogether in the power of this man, who swayed him with a simple intonation of the voice. 
                  "My dear friend, I shall give you the widest liberty to choose or to refuse. I am conscious of having forced the matter upon your attention. But believe that I am not ordinarily ungenerous. It is only when some very strong feeling is at stake that I am possessed to overleap all barriers. I wanted you to see me and judge for yourself." 
                  The voice and manner were wonderfully fascinating. Then the air of gay audacity, far removed from impertinence, sat well and gracefully upon him, but was fully as paradoxical as the face. You felt that under the velvety softness, the glow of ease and luxuriance, there was a will and power that could drift you into his own resistless current; an isle of sirens you could not sail past. Claude felt utterly incapable of stemming the tide. 
                  "You have not answered me?" 
                  Claude roused himself, and held out his hand. It was warmly clasped. 
                  "Which makes us friends, as truly as the old custom of eating salt. Can you vouch for its being the hand that painted such an expression in the face of Joan of Arc?" 
                  "If need be." 
                  "Suppose we try the shady walks in the square. I have much to say, and we shall be more free from observation." 
                  Claude assented, and they walked out together. 
                
                
                   
                  III. A FRIEND UNSOUGHT. 
                  THEY crossed the street, and took their way towards Union Square. This bit of greenery in the city's midst lay smiling like an island in the sea. 
                  "The ceremony is over, but we reverse the order of things," Dana began, presently. "We take each other at a venture, as women are wont to do, trusting to time to evolve harmony. Did it ever occur to you, Tresorier, that friendship was more than a 'name'? Poor Goldsmith found it hollow enough!" 
                  The tone fell into unconscious sadness. Claude glanced up. 
                  "Not that I mean to rail at Dame Fortune," Dana appended. 
                  "We all meet with some bitter things in life," Tresorier said, slowly. 
                  "'Et tu?' But your twenty-five years should not have brought the bitter. In after life, when we come to know real trials, we smile over the early miseries that plunged us into the blackness of darkness-as if we knew what it meant then! Yet I had a feeling that I read somewhat of your experience in the face of your heroine. I want to talk about her. I rambled into the Academy one day in a rather blas mood, and much in want of a stirring sensation. I found wonderful landscapes, impossible fruit, blinding sunsets, and portraits of every degree. Then I caught a gleam of fire, and turned to look. I am an old hand at such sights. Mornings at the Louvre, the Vatican, and many other places, have rendered me critical. I found the title no misnomer. I did not pause for relative excellence, for trick of drapery, or touch of color. I went directly to her face, and then, in spirit, to the marketplace place at Rouen. If I had been among the rabble that day, I could hardly have been more moved by her lofty, unflinching courage. The bitterness of death passed when her ungrateful country betrayed instead of saving her. Call her what you will, fanatic or simple maid, her death cast her in an heroic mould, and made her worthy of a better heaven than those superstitious bigots gave her. I read in your picture, of a woman who had given up the best and dearest part of her nature, who had gone through a profound and costly experience, and learned how little, and base, and vile men can make themselves, and yet, thank God, never swerved from her high ideal. When she came to the fagot and the flames, the lofty spirit, enfranchised from earthly desires, looked steadily forward to something beyond this narrow life. As if she, like the first martyr, beheld the heavens open before her; and you caught the deep, spiritual significance of this in a remarkable manner. The firm lips, shut over a great agony of soul, will bear this torture without falling into wavering lines; those slender, clasped hands will never tighten in wild terror; those brave eyes will scorn pleading for any human favor. I cannot imagine her as being glad to die, for she is still warm and womanly. You have made her no cold abstraction, given her no impossible saintly fervor; but no one save God will read one pang that she suffers. I find myself wondering continually how you came to translate her soul so perfectly; and now it is more of a mystery than ever." 
                  "Why?" Tresorier asked, under his breath. 
                  "Because-I may be old-fashioned in these matters, but it seems to me a man must express, if he does any great thing well, what has become a living truth in his soul. At such times he brings up what exists strongly within himself,-the deep, the hidden, the chord that no stranger-hand could touch. It seems to me that it cannot be the power of creative genius alone. I do not mean that a poem, or a painting, or a novel must necessarily be the index of a man's whole life, understand stand; but that it must have been at some time a part of his soul, before he could venture to translate it into language or form." 
                  "You believe one must first have had the experience?" 
                  "I did, I confess." 
                  "Well," Tresorier said, recklessly, "granting I may have had the experience?" 
                  "Honestly, I think it quite impossible;" and the sweet smile would have disarmed any suspicion of under-valuation. "In the first place, you are too young to have known intense suffering. Nay, do not contradict me with that face. When I flew to Herr Shultz on the wings of enthusiasm, he told me your story, as he knew it. A man of twenty-five, who has never been absolutely stranded on the dreary shore of poverty, who has home, and wife, and child, and is tolerably successful in his art, cannot have gone to measureless depths of pain." 
                  "Perhaps you are right," Claude returned, hoarsely. 
                  Dana gave a sudden glance at the face. What secret did it thrust so hurriedly out of sight. Not altogether, for there was a fluttering about the lines of the mouth, and a sinking at the temples. 
                  "Tresorier,"-the voice was low and dangerously sweet,-"can you understand that I might be your friend for years, and not feel wounded if there were pages in your heart that you did not choose to read to me? I have reached that philosophic stage of life when I can be content with what is given, without making myself miserable over what may be, for wise reasons or delicacy, withheld. All human lives have their dark hours. Few, I think, are aware of their full capabilities for either joy or suffering in youth." 
                  "Or love," Tresorier said, with sudden daring; and waited breathlessly for the answer. 
                  "Is it treason to say first loves are not always best or wisest, and often manifestly untrue? Our mistake is, we think ourselves ready for any lasting impression, whereas the men and women, who have the stamina to reach great heights, mature slowly. The gourd, you know, came to perfection in a night; but it takes the oak years." 
                  Tresorier turned his eyes in mute questioning, for he could not trust his voice. 
                  "Judging from my own experience," the other went on, "many first passions are evanescent. At twenty-five I fancied I had come to the dregs of life. If I could have died-for to me there seemed no escape. As far as my nature could go, I suffered to its uttermost. Since then I have looked into depths that appalled me, dreamed of possibilities, in comparison with which the past was a mere pale shadow." 
                  "Yours is the reverse of general beliefs," Tresorier said, deeply interested. "Why does all the romance of life surround first loves? There must be some truth in them." 
                  "God forbid that I should deny it. When a man comes to that which satisfies his nature thoroughly, let him cling to it, as if it were indeed his better angel. There let him be content. But if his sweet has proved bitter, if instead of peace he finds the fierce pang of thwarted hopes, he doubts God when he says all is over for him." 
                  "And yet it is, for some." 
                  "No, there is still a work for him in the world. If he has made good use of his lesson he can teach others to endure." 
                  "You have suffered?" Claude could not help saying, involuntarily. And some way he drew nearer to the man. 
                  "Yes. And like many another poor soul I felt that there was no beauty in the heavens, and no bloom upon the earth. I was on the verge of despair, and had begun to say, as the fool, 'There is no God.' Then I took to studying myself. Not my ideal nor my vanity. Heaven knows it went hard with me. I had to uproot so many cherished illusions, come down from my pedestal, and be so much less of the hero than I had considered myself. And I found, not in a week, nor a month, but after a long and dreary time, that it was possible for me to be what I had never before been,-a man. I looked over what had been my Via Dolorosa. I did not smile, I assure you, but I found I had stumbled over rose-briers rather than real thorns. To-day I could love and suffer as I never dreamed in that old time." 
                  "It is not every one's experience, I think." 
                  "And yet when Tennyson said,- 
                         
                           'For I, myself, with these have grown 
                           To something greater than before'- 
                        
                      he foretold the possibility of more than one soul. Why do we live, if not to grow broader, and richer, and truer? There is a popular fallacy that one must needs become blunted and apathetical by time and sorrow. No pure soul can, if it has positive elements to begin with. We go on until we reach the full stature in everything, I take it." 
                  A silence fell between the two. It seemed at that moment as if a new possibility electrified the fragments Claude Tresorier was putting together for his life. The soft air murmured about them, touching a tender chord in both hearts. The day, with its subtle harmonies of color, the waving trees, the tints of mellow gold, and the faces that went to make up the picture, thrilled the artist's soul with something beyond mere ambition. As if he was glad and thankful for the boon of existence, and no longer felt it a burden. 
                  "Where did we start from?" inquired Dana, with a light laugh that rippled along under the trees like the last sweet note of a distant bird. I keep to my text after the fashion of an itinerant. I was discoursing on Jeanne d'Arc. Shall I bore you?" 
                  "As if an artist ever considered himself bored by an approval of his own works;" and Tresorier smiled oddly. 
                  "You see, my dear young friend, that I think it is possible. You have a girlish delicacy that I should feel sorry to offend. But you must have been strongly interested in her story. Have you settled the vexed question of her inspiration?" 
                   
                  "I hardly thought of that. I wanted to paint a picture for the sake of an idea that haunted me." 
                  "A woman's sublime courage. You must have great faith in the sex, Tresorier." 
                  "I have." It was uttered in a deep, entire tone. 
                  "Well, why should you not? I honor the man who has found, and believes in a woman's love. But you have suggested a marvellous capability for the whole sex!" 
                  "Rather, I think, for the exceptional woman, who, finding herself girt by fire, endures without one weak cry. A few rare souls may understand her agony, but the great secret of her life is with God." 
                  "Is it so, indeed?" and Dana glanced at the far-off sky, but his thoughts were busy with his friend. He resolved to fathom this strange soul if it took years. 
                  "Does it seem wonderful to you that I should paint her story in her face? Why paint her at all, if not for the sake of the story?" 
                  "True. Yet I fancied you had put another history in it as well." Dana's hand slipped softly into that of the artist. "And henceforth we are to be friends. I have bought your picture, but the rest you must give me." 
                  You will know some day that at this moment Claude Tresorier stood at the stake, and felt the air from the hot blue flame creeping slowly among the fagots. He would remain and dare it. And this, with a smile so purely heroic, that Felix Dana, much moved, said,- 
                  "My friend, you have the expression of Jeanne d'Arc!" 
                  Claude's eyes drooped, and a quiver ran over the delicate chin. 
                  "Let us come back to common life," Dana began, presently. "If it is not impertinent, what are your plans for the future? For you must have some plans, and a little ambition." 
                  "If I could please the world as I have you!" and there was a lingering intonation, not full enough for hope, but partaking more of the nature of fear. 
                   
                  "That is still to be done. What any earnest worker most needs is a firm belief in his own capacity. Faith in ourselves is one of the characteristics of true courage. With this, and energy, one rarely fails of success, unless the Fates prove most unkind;" and Felix Dana meant, in this case, at least, to wield fate to his liking, since he had the power to shape its course in some degree. "What are you at now?" he continued. 
                  "Nothing of importance. Some copying that Mr. Shultz has kindly put in my way, and some water-coloring which pays fairly, and is a respite from severer toil." 
                  "Feeding your soul on husks!" 
                  "Don't think too highly of me. I could paint superior pictures only upon inspiration. I may never achieve another." 
                  "O, you will. You distrust your own strength. You have grown too much in the shade. It does a man incalculable good to meet the world, and try his power in some conscious battle where all he holds dear is at stake. I think Herr Shultz said you had no studio?" 
                  "No, I paint at home." 
                  "Pardon me for presuming to dictate; but you will do better by taking a decided position at once. Unfortunately the state of the world is such that one is often compelled to declare his genius upon the house-top before it is credited." 
                  "I do not think it best to make any change," Claude said, with slow decision. "I shall go to Europe shortly. I had appointed next spring, but your kindness places an earlier departure within my power." 
                  "Give the deed its right name, my dear friend. It was a simple business transaction, and deserves no gratitude. But if I can serve you in any respect, command me to the utmost;" and the deep eyes rested upon Claude with a tenderness born of the highest regard. 
                  "Thank you;" and Tresorier made a strong effort to be master of himself. This man's generosity was so unlooked for, that it touched the secret depths of the artist's nature with a peculiar power. 
                  "I confess to a strong interest in you and your future. Just now I am the veriest idler alive, and it will be a deed of charity to give me something to do." 
                  Tresorier trembled to his finger tips with some strange emotion. Dana was studying the lights that flitted over his face. Something thrust down deep into a prison-house, but not crushed. An old want or sorrow,-crime it could not be,-that had power to rise and threaten him at any moment, and that he must battle against continually. Felix Dana possessed a curious patience; and it is this, after all, that wins one half of the victories of life; an ease and buoyancy under waiting that disarmed suspicion; a rare forethought that kept him from ruining any plan by ill-digested haste. 
                  "Since I cannot understand him in a moment," he mused, "there must be much below the surface. He is not an ordinary man, and his life has held in it something more than common elements. It will be brought to light after a while. I must win his confidence first." 
                  "I am glad you are going abroad," he said, giving Tresorier time to recover himself. "I have spent many pleasant days in the land of art. I love my birthplace with a most fervent affection, and am proud that she bids fair to do something worthy of herself in this respect. We seem to lack that high national inspiration which has been the true origin of art in other countries that have become distinguished. It is doubtless, in part, owing to our life. We are too material. Our railroads, our ships, and our stocks engross us too much. We spend our money for meretricious ornament, because our tastes are not fine enough, or sufficiently cultivated to distinguish between the pure and the false. Student life abroad gives one an ease, a breadth of thought, a rare culture that it is difficult to obtain elsewhere. Now and then a man proves that genius is not dependent on those Old World accessories; but I often feel inclined to wonder if such a one might not have reached greater heights had fate been kinder." 
                  "There is so much to do," the artist said, slowly. 
                  "You will hardly feel the pressure there," Dana answered, encouragingly. "The deep religious fervor, the earnest and simple faith of the early painters, inspires one. It is true their spirit has passed away forever in the long divorce between art and religion. We are waking to a new faith, a new inspiration, and we are to seek not only the body, but the more subtile and thrilling harmonies of the spirit. We want the soul; not cold, hard lines, impressed with an individuality that runs into prosaic materialism. It is not so much what we see, as what we feel, that warms us, kindles anew the spirit of devotion." 
                  "You should have been an artist," Claude said, eagerly. 
                  "I have the faith, not the sight. So my keenest pleasure must be found in the works of others. If God bestows upon me the opportunity to help one toiler up the rugged path, I shall be satisfied." 
                  "Heaven grant you may not be disappointed in your election!" Claude exclaimed, fervently. 
                  "I have much faith in you," was the quiet answer. "Suppose you walk over to my house with me, and inspect my treasures. I have some fine copies-a few originals." 
                  Claude started and flushed. 
                  "Will you excuse me for to-day?" he said. "My time is limited." 
                  "On condition that you do come soon. I have been using up your moments unconscionably; but I do not mean that you shall be the loser. I shall take it as a favor if you will dine with me to-morrow, at any hour that suits your convenience." 
                  "I do not go into any society," Claude said, in a scarcely audible tone. 
                  "You shall see no society unless you choose. In fact, at present, I am too much absorbed to bestow you upon other people, though anything I could do in that respect would be most cheerfully done, I assure you. But my selfishness leads me to consider my own pleasure first;" and again the soft, mellow laugh floated out on the wandering air. 
                  Claude remained silent, his eyes downcast; but the mouth had lost its power of firm resolve. 
                  "You will come?" Dana's hand glided into his with a reassuring pressure, and by some strange power he summoned the eyes to meet his own, which were fearless and fascinating. 
                  "To-morrow, at six," Claude replied, swayed by a stronger will than his own. "That gives me my day without interruption." 
                  "When you return to your easel, don't think this affair a dream; though, by my faith, it savors strongly of romance. To-morrow we will place it on a firmer foundation. After you have once eaten salt in a man's house-" 
                  "Yes," Claude interrupted, hurriedly, as if the other had touched upon some secret pain. 
                  "I have a hundred things yet to say," and Dana gave him that sweet, winsome smile. "To-morrow will be almost as long to me as it was to St. Patrick's snake. And for this interview I am more than obliged. Let me give you my address." 
                  He found a card, and after a few lingering sentences they bade each other adieu. Tresorier was first to turn away. Dana watched him, in a speculative mood, and murmured softly to himself, "To-morrow." 
                  Tresorier went directly home. There are times when one takes a holiday of thought, as it were, and for a brief moment revels in some bright vision, quaffs deeper of the imaginary joy, because the soul realizes that it can never be more than a dream. Such ecstatic happiness could come to but few, and alas! never to him. It made him tremble in every nerve, and left him weak as a child. He held out his hands, as if groping through shadowy paths. Only an instant, and then he was cold and calm; colder and calmer, he thought, for the splendid possibility that had just passed by his life, missing him, and yet sending a ray down that long, long future. Ah, could he command himself for it? For this utter solitude of inward being was like sitting in the valley of the shadow of death. 
                  He paused a while on the steps before he dared to open the door. That thin partition between him and common life! For now he must take up his burden again. 
                  Something fluttered through the hall to meet him. Two soft hands enclosed his face, turning it towards the light. With a great effort he made it fit for her inspection. 
                  "You were pleased; you liked him?" 
                  Her voice had a satisfied ring in it. 
                  "Yes, Mignonne. He is a prince of the blood royal. And-we shall go to Italy in September." 
                  "So soon!" The lingering cadence suggested disappointment. 
                  "Yes. Our arrangements can easily be made. I am impatient to be gone." 
                  "You are right," she answered, slowly. 
                  "Dear, believe me, I could endure a whole lifetime of this, if it were necessary. I dare say I shall sometimes look back to the old freedom with longing. But I feel assured now that I can do something. I begin to find the pursuit of fame fascinating." 
                  There was strength and assurance in his tone, and yet it failed to inspire her. Some dim consciousness seemed to be struggling into existence; an undefined fear, to which she could give neither shape nor words. 
                  "Mamma! mamma!" cried a baby voice from the rose-covered porch. 
                  She forgot all, and flew to him. She loved her child with passionate devotion,-this eager beauty,-and any new emotion always crowded out the previous one. 
                  After a light lunch, the artist went to his painting. Mrs. Tresorier took her book and her baby to her room, and indulged in a long, luxurious lounge. Through the warm evening she made Claude talk of his interview with his new-found friend. But long after the lovely eyes were closed in slumber he softly paced his studio. Not with the impatient step of any fierce struggle. The slow impassiveness that had been growing year by year had settled into a restraining force, and struck against something in the soul. Sweet as freedom might be, it could do nothing for that inner life. He was not praying for release, but for strength; and when it comes to that, one must have looked into the pale face of Despair. 
                  Was it true, as Dana had said, that there was more than one hope, one love to life? O, not for him! 
                
                
                   
                  IV. AN STHETIC FEAST. 
                  THE house of which Felix Dana was master, and in which he sat watching for his guest, was at the corner of a quiet street and a broad, fashionable avenue, fronting on the latter, but almost embowered by great trees. It was of brown stone, and solidly built, but with a rather old-fashioned air, that contrasted strongly with the more modern elegance by which it was surrounded. It was very quietly kept. The servants were middle-aged, and not given to gossiping. The master, since his return from abroad, had not courted society, and old friends respected him too much to intrude upon him. The sad story of his life gave him a certain romantic interest in the eyes of most women, but he was slow to avail himself of it. 
                  The exterior of the house presented a rather gloomy appearance. The basement windows were barred, and the rooms on the lower floor seldom opened except for the purpose of airing, though the neighborhood remembered when that spacious drawing-room had been a blaze of light and beauty. And when the peculiar gloom of suffering or misfortune falls over a house that has once been gay and delightful, it is always remarked. 
                  Up stairs you had the whole floor at command; for even the rear, shut off by sliding-doors, was nearly always open. The multiplicity of windows, from both street and avenue, gave you a variety of light. Dazzling sunshine, or cool, green glooms sifted through the trees, vivid morning rays, or the pale purple of coming night. Every part of the Old World seemed to have been laid under contribution to adorn these rooms. Pictures, statuettes, bronzes, vases of rare workmanship; an Indian cabinet, curious in itself, and giving out a subtle, delicate Eastern perfume, as if it had laid for a century steeped in Oriental odors. Its shelves were rich in relics; mosaics unearthed from ruins where they had slumbered through generations; cameii of exquisite workmanship; ivory carvings, that displayed a patience and art almost superhuman; illuminated missals, that spoke of a time when the world had scarcely any other light save their brilliancy. 
                  Between two of the windows stood an odd Japanese table, burnished in glowing colors and grotesque figures. It held several large portfolios. In one you turned over specimens of sea-weed, preserved with such nice care that their colors were still as fresh as when beneath the translucent waves. In another, rare flowers and ferns; this from some tropical South American forest, that from Himalayan wilds; and as if by contrast, some odd and stunted growth of Afric's burning sands. 
                  Elsewhere you found valuable engravings. A series of cartoons that recalled Raphael, with the heavenly face; drawings from a master-hand, where a few bold strokes gave you a complete picture. You followed Ary Scheffer, as he traced the pathetic history of Margaret, with her sweet downcast eyes and pure brow, and lost yourself with profoundest pity in the last sad scene of all that closed the drama for one soul, to be played again by the countless many. 
                  Here on a bracket, or there on a slight stand, you beheld a slender vase containing a few flowers, choice in themselves, and most exquisitely arranged. Some rare, half-opened rose buds in one; cromatilla, with their creamy tint, or lamarque, with the faintest suggestion of green or buff. Another filled with sprays of heliotrope, diffusing its delicate but pungent odor; lemon blossoms of waxen whiteness; and as a contrast, just opposite, some gorgeous tropical blossoms, that mocked you with their dazzling hues, and sent you dreaming of tangled wilds, through whose rank luxuriance the foot of man rarely found a path. Being grouped in small clusters, made them the more effective, for they appeared to haunt you at every turn. 
                  The blinds were partially closed, and the glowing summer sun going westward, quivered through the trees, making weird shadows, or hovered over the clustered lilies in the carpet, like tiny birds indolently floating rather than flying. The soft light and odorous air were most beguiling to the senses. 
                  It was not without a purpose that Felix Dana had so arranged the room, or rather rooms, for beyond these there was a third; the whole seeming like a vista of fairy land. And now he paced softly up and down, counting the moments with a strange impatience. What was there in this young man that had so interested him, that stirred every pulse of his being with unwonted emotion? Nothing had appealed to his pity; not even a look had demanded his love. He seemed, instead, the suppliant. 
                  He was generous by nature. I cannot pause to tell you of half the Quixotic deeds Felix Dana had performed, and how frequently he had been rewarded by indifference, if not positive ingratitude; for some narrow natures, though they never hesitate to accept a favor, always cherish a grudge against their benefactor. Yet he rejoiced in the assurance that he had made a few souls happier, if it was never confessed to him. But now it was not simply a matter of generosity. If he could win such love as a younger brother sometimes gave to an elder,-a love pure, without any taint of selfishness, free from any thought of aggrandizement! 
                  For years there had been a pang of secret hunger in his heart. Not so much for the old lost passion-dreams that had burned through to black and bitter ashes, and left only a heap of ruins behind. He had studied his own soul well and wisely. He knew now where the pang might have been keener, the joy higher. And though there had been times of awful solitariness in his life, he had never rushed out to feed upon husks and stain his soul with taints from which only long agonies could free it. 
                  He resolved to be fascinating this night with a purpose. He had a suspicion that Claude Tresorier desired to hold himself aloof from friendship. A fine, sensitive pride hedged him round, shrinking and delicate as a woman's. Dana did not mean to attack the barrier, and conquer by superior power, but gently to persuade, until the other should be ready to come. He promised himself a rare pleasure in reading this pure soul, refined, susceptible, weak in some things, yet subtly strong in others. 
                  A few moments after the stroke of six the door bell rang lightly, and Tresorier was ushered through the hall. Dana came to meet him, with a radiant smile. The long lashes only partially veiled the intense light in his eyes, just as through the silken fringe of mustache you caught a gleam of the red lip, wreathed in tenderness. It would have made almost any other face weak, this changeful, joyous light, this half-beseeching expression; but you discerned presently that it was strength held in abeyance; that he felt so secure in his self-possession, he could allow a wide liberty to both feeling and imagination. 
                  Tresorier found his hand held in a clasp that he could scarcely desire to break. So together they entered the room, hardly a word having been spoken on either side. 
                  "I have been thinking about you for the last hour;" and Dana broke the silence with his slow, melodious voice. "It was so good of you to accept my invitation, when there are other pressing interests in your life. If you were an idle fellow, like me, you would appreciate the favor." 
                  "Idle from choice, I think. Society would need no additional incentive to seek you if you would be sought." 
                  "Ah, that is what I don't like. This continual rushing hither and thither with people who haven't depth enough or sense enough not to bore you, wears me horribly. Now and then one meets with a person who has the rare grace not to thrust himself upon you, and that strikes the very root of my appreciation. I believe I like to work for my treasures-unearth them myself." 
                  "But if, instead of gold, you come upon pyrites?" and Claude smiled. 
                  "I should go on until I found the gold. We all hate to confess to a blunder of this kind." 
                  "How cool and fragrant you are in here," Claude said, anxious to escape direct allusions, and touched in his sthetic senses by the beauty and harmony. 
                  "It pleases you! I think we are alike in these matters. And now, as we have some time before dinner, will you take a survey of my pictures?" 
                  "Yes," Tresorier said, turning; and then he suddenly faced Dana with a conscious flush. 
                  "How modest you are;" and the latter gave his peculiar laugh. It stirred one strangely, and though very musical, had not the effect of music. It reminded Claude of something he knew he had never heard, paradoxical as that may be, and haunted him in the deepest recesses of his nature. Did it wake some far inner chord of possible melody to life? 
                  The flush had been called up by the sight of Joan of Arc, hung in a most excellent light. 
                  "I don't believe I painted it," he said, half despondingly. 
                  "Then you stood for it. I saw it in your face yesterday." 
                  The dark eyes were turned upon Dana just an instant, and then withdrawn, as if he dared pursue his scrutiny no farther. 
                  "My collection embraces a little of-I will not say everything-but I have a variety. It has been a good deal the result of whims. I purchased the pictures because they appealed to me through their sense of beauty or sense of power. Some of them, too, are interwoven with pathetic tales." 
                  "Your sympathy is unbounded," Claude remarked. 
                  "For pictures or for people?" 
                  "For both." 
                   
                  "Shall we make a tour from this point? Let me arrange the light, first." 
                  That perfectly trained eye saw where the slightest shade or the faintest ray was wanting. At some windows the blinds were merely turned, at others thrown wide open. The pictures had been hung with the nicest care as to their relative dependence on light. 
                  Claude Tresorier drew a long breath. A faint flush stole up to his face, and the eyes grew luminous with anticipatory delight. 
                  Here a dark Rembrandt, the color brought out by this golden summer sunset. A Spanish Woman, copied from Velasquez, her hair and eyes of such a wondrous tint of black that it startled you. The majestic poise of the head, the throat, the proud shoulders, with the warm, rich blood flowing in crimson sinuosity beneath the delicate skin, and touching the curved lips with a flame that thrilled one. The high comb and lace mantle gave a picturesque effect, and you almost wondered that she did not step down from her frame and reign a veritable queen. Murillo's tender Virgin, in strong contrast with this, so pure, so saintly, yet withal so ineffably simple. And here the Flight into Egypt, with Correggio's angel hands among the painted palms, so perfect that you could fancy them swayed by this faint summer air. Smiling faces leaning over to bless the lovely Mother and sinless Child, and ward off the destroyer, while all Judea lamented for her first-born sons. Holding her child in that tender embrace, little did she anticipate the bitter pang that was to come afterwards. 
                  Landscapes, blended with the faces in so exquisite a manner that it was like going from land to land. In a shady corner hung a sunrise, with just sufficient light to show the rosy mist gathering in the nooks and crevices of the far mountains. A glorious morning sky flashing above them, lines of pearly cloud lifted up like drifting wings, and long rays of shimmering gold veiling the glory soon to crown the new day. A tender, mellow sunset, and one or two weird night scenes, with dense shadows, storm-riven and black with tempests, and full of vague, terrible meaning. 
                  They walked slowly about, the two men, Tresorier studying the pictures, for it was as if a new world had been opened to him; and Dana noting every gesture, every expression that illuminated the artist's face, more curiously suggestive than any picture. Grave to sadness, trained to a stoical reticence by some peculiar fate, the compressed lips evincing great strength of will and endurance, and yet not manful. The air of extreme youth might be answerable for this. Yet it was neither happy nor satisfied. Somewhere in the background lay a fateful shadow. He remembered Mr. Shultz had once said, "Tresorier's wife is a perfect marvel of beauty. I don't wonder he was beguiled into marrying her." An odd smile crossed Dana's face. "Little lady," he thought, "you have half ruined him by adding to his cares, when he should have been free; but if I can rival you, I will save him yet." 
                  Tresorier paused suddenly, and covered his face with his hands. Dana was in one of those subtile states when one divines a mood at a glance. He stole softly away to a window, where the slanting rays of the sun seemed barring in the city with golden gates and battlements of chrysoprase. And though beyond immediate personal contact, he seemed to enter into the artist's soul. A peculiar feeling, as if in some indefinable way he had a right to it, and it was nearer to him than anything on earth had ever been, save the one holy love of his life. Yet in the silence of those moments he seemed more keenly alive to a sense of potent mystery. 
                  There was the little silvery tinkle of a bell. Tresorier started nervously. 
                  "Only dinner," explained his host. "You have not half examined the room; but you have the whole summer before you. I wish you'd treat me as a friend or a brother, and drop in any time when the fit takes you. You can never be otherwise wise than welcome. And if there is anything you care to study, it is at your service." 
                  "You are most kind." 
                  The voice came over a great wave of suppressed feeling, and was visibly tremulous. 
                  "Of which you will best show your appreciation by making use of me. I do not say such things often, Tresorier; indeed, I have the reputation of being most exclusive; but in this case I shall measure your regard by the freedom with which you take me at my word." 
                  Tresorier looked a little confused. After one or two ineffectual attempts, he said slowly, steadying his voice with some difficulty, "Mr. Dana, do not think I undervalue your friendship, or if I hesitate to take advantage of it, that it springs from any coldness on my part. Shall I tell the truth? I am poor, and compelled to improve every hour of my time; and if I deny myself many pleasant things others might freely take, believe that I feel the sacrifice. Perhaps, too, I am not strong enough to indulge in these luxuries without swerving from the path I have marked out for myself." 
                  Again, the expression he had painted in his picture. 
                  "Since I want your love, I shall leave you perfectly free," Dana answered, softly. 
                  Claude made a sudden gesture, as if he would have snapped an unseen bond. 
                  The doors at the end of the apartment opened noiselessly. Dana escorted his guest thither, and seated him. 
                  An oval table of rich, dark walnut, exquisitely polished, the plate and dishes standing on snowy damask, forming a pleasing contrast. Transparent china, of palest green tint; Bohemian finger-glasses, curving at the top like a wide blown tulip; snowy vases, containing a few choice flowers, which gave a spicy fragrance to the room. A massive sideboard, at the back of the host, displayed treasures of cut and ground glass; antique goblets, Venice glasses, clear and thin, rare, little bell-shaped things in pale hues, ranged in perfect gradation. The walls abounded in pictures, and two luxuriant couches, in green velvet, wooed you to their dreamy depths, when you fell into a languid, after-dinner mood. 
                  The neatness and richness impressed you at once with a sense of the host's exquisite taste. Not the least observable was the quiet that reigned through the house and the street. Tresorier could hardly fancy himself in the most fashionable part of the great city. 
                  The waiter was also unexceptionable. Claude paused now and then to watch his graceful motions. A slender, lithe figure, with Egyptian blood mantling warm beneath his dusky skin, and large Oriental eyes, heavy-lidded, and swimming in lakes of pale, pellucid amber. An air of quiet, sumptuous life that inthralled; a picture so completely harmonious, that one could not question, only enjoy. 
                  Dana placed his friend at ease immediately. He possessed that fine breeding that could lift others, when he so chose, to his own level. Wonderfully attractive, he could also repel with equal grace and suavity. A cut from him was no rough thrust, but so daintily keen that the victim was hardly aware of the wound at the first moment. The gay world which he frequented occasionally, for he was no misanthrope, allowed him to pass unchallenged. Few dared subject him to any test. What he gave of his affluent nature they received gladly; when he withheld, they did not venture to question. There was some occult and magical charm about him. It was well for those whom he met that his soul was pure and lofty, for with his peculiar endowments he would have proved dangerous indeed. 
                  He entertained Claude royally, in a mental as well as material sense. Some little foreign reminiscence started him. He had been an indefatigable traveller, and his mind was richly stored. He held his guest captive by a few glowing touches, that were brilliant as a fine picture, and warmed Claude to the farthest pulse; brought him out of the reserve in which he had fancied himself permanently enshrouded. First, he listened with intense interest, then he dared to share it, and straightway it became conversation. 
                  Dana watched the light dawning slowly in the artist's eyes. It was as if there had been some inner struggle, and he had yielded almost against his will, swayed by a power he could not resist; and then throwing off restraint with a desperate resolve, had blossomed like an arctic summer into late beauty, but clear cold. 
                  With the dessert came wine. They had lingered over their creams, and jellies lovely in hue, and fresh from daintiest moulds. Now the table was arrayed in luscious fruits and tempting berries, that seemed to have imprisoned summer's glow and beauty in their scarlet tints. 
                  "And now your favorite wine. Let your artistic mind take in a view of clustering grapes, purpling through the long mid-summer as they swung on low terraces by a murmurous sea, drinking in the dews of heaven, and ripening slowly to the ambrosia of the old gods. Though we lack the Ganymede." 
                  "Hardly," said Claude, with a smile, and then he made a sudden pause. 
                  "Let me fill for you." 
                  "Do not think me insensible to your eloquence if I refuse;" and Claude's voice faltered slowly over the words. 
                  "No. I cannot take a denial. One glass at least. A pledge to your success." 
                  "Do not urge me. It pains me to deny you." 
                  The voice was steadied to a measured simplicity, but the eyes were turned away, the face slightly flushed, and there was more emotion than a mere refusal needed to call forth. 
                  "If you have any scruples, believe that I shall respect them," Dana said, in the tones that could be so dangerously sweet. "The wishes of a friend are always sacred to me." 
                  The graceful readiness with which he yielded his point moved Claude more powerfully than any persuasion could have done. I think Dana saw his victory, for a satisfied light played about his eyes that were too wise to smile. 
                  "Tresorier," he said, presently, "you have seen but little of the world." 
                  "Very little." 
                  "And it would seem as if your calling, above that of many others, required a rare experience. You have a warm and genial nature. I think you have lived too much alone." 
                  "The years to come may have something different in them," Claude said, evasively. 
                  "A truthful nature," Dana thought, "but not frank. Or else some hidden chain wears upon him." 
                  The sun dropped down behind the distantly outlined hills, leaving in its wake a rosy glow. The whole atmosphere was filmed with golden motes, undulating like an ethereal sea. The two left the dining-room, and began to stray among the treasures of art, Dana revolving how he could best lead Claude to talk of himself, his hopes, his aspirations, and perhaps most of all, his feelings. He had never met with a soul so difficult to fathom. Most of his guild were free enough about their inner lives, but this one seemed to have no vanity that could be allured forth by even the most delicate flattery. As if in some strange way he preferred to be misunderstood. 
                
                
                   
                  V. SOUL TO SOUL. 
                  WHEN a tinge of purple came in the waning light, a new thought entered Dana's mind. He might evoke the spirit by the mighty spell of music. Something in the secret depths of the artist's nature must reply to this,-an underlying want that could not be first told in words. If he could obtain the key to this peculiar soul, he could trust himself to thread its intricate mazes. So he paused and opened the piano. 
                  "I need not ask if you are fond of music; your face answers that. But do you play?" 
                  "Not at all." 
                  "Enough to amuse yourself, surely? I cannot fancy any one living without music." 
                  "No. I do not think I have any genius beyond listening." 
                  "You love to listen?" 
                  "I can fancy music being full of delight; nay, more, that it might interpret the needs of the heart as nothing else could do. I have heard very little, and my pleasure would be more in the impression than in any correct understanding of it." 
                  "What have you heard?" 
                  "Do not ask me! Five hours would compass all the music to which I have really listened in my whole life. Not because I am insensible to its charms, but it has not come in my way, and I could not afford the luxury of going to it." 
                  "How rare to find a person so entirely new to any sensation!" 
                  Dana's voice was almost cold, so afraid was he of betraying the wild delight that thrilled him, and brought a consciousness of triumph. 
                   
                  "You think me shockingly ignorant, almost obtuse;" Claude rejoined, deprecatingly. 
                  "May I play for you?" 
                  "If you will, after such a confession. But if one could put in one's own life all these dreamed of and impossible delights, it would be too rich, too full, for endurance. It is the rugged highway that calls out one's strength, not the valleys of sensuous ease." 
                  The voice fell insensibly, and made the last sentence seem a mere thought. For an instant Claude was unconscious of having uttered it. 
                  "Don't think it because I am unmoved if I keep quiet," he added, after a pause. 
                  "I want you to be quiet. Noisy admiration quenches my enthusiasm at once. And sit here by the window. It is just music time, when the day is dying. It stirs the soul so much more than at any other hour. As you are not much acquainted, I shall make my own selections." 
                  Claude thanked him with a grateful look. He did not dream that he had been placed in this peculiar position that Dana might the better study his face. The high, luxuriant chair of crimson made the artist positively pale, but brought out the deep tone of the clustering hair, softened the features, and rendered the eyes more luminous. On one side of him the window, whose light would betray every emotion that ventured up to the surface, and Dana in range to translate it all. 
                  "What do you know about any of these rare souls who have wedded themselves to music?" he asked. 
                  "A little about their lives-Mozart, with his wonderful childhood, Beethoven and Mendelssohn. That of the last seems such an idyl, when you think of his home, his sister, and the friends who loved him. His rambles through Italy and Switzerland are my delight. And then the crowning glories of his later life, too brief, alas! yet terminating in a manner so fitting-translation, as it were." 
                   
                  "Then, if you feel in that way about him, you cannot help loving his music. It is so intensely human. Here is some for Antigone. You know the play?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  Why did Claude start, with that strange, quivering breath? Was some old chord, long since laid away with relics of the past, suddenly galvanized into new life, all the ache and agony keen as at its inception? 
                  "Some of the choruses are very effective, but they need an orchestra. The pathetic parts, as Antigone draws near her end, touch me most deeply. A woman, noble and grand, made more so by the contrast with Ismene, capable of the highest joys, deliberately choosing that tragic fate, and walking heroically the martyr's path to death with a courage one cannot but applaud, though one may question the sacrifice. Whether it is best to elect suffering, in order that life may be perfected-" 
                  "Only for some great and urgent cause," interposed Claude, quickly. 
                  "Then you would not choose the pain if you could have the joy?" 
                  "Ah, who would? So small a choice is left us! We can suffer proudly, if we will; we can bring our shrinking hearts up to that high point of mental endurance which is really grander than physical courage; or we can go tremblingly along, praying desperately for some latent aid, never ready for the crisis, and overwhelmed by it at last." 
                  "Tresorier, if you are ever called upon to suffer, you will take the first course." 
                  "Will I?" 
                  The intonation was peculiar, but he put up his hand as if to ward off some glance that he feared, and Dana could not see his face. 
                  The low melody of the piano keys broke the soft stillness. Then Dana struck a full, deep chord, of wondrous melody. Tresorier could not separate his sensations at first, but was carried along by the very force of the music, and hardly rested, hardly breathed. 
                  When Dana could recall himself to perfect sentience,-for music always moved him powerfully,-he watched the effect with intensely acute eyes. 
                  "It is too heroic," he thought. "It appeals to the grand side of his character, and to-night I want the heart." 
                  Then he tried the "Leider," with its dreamy, rippling movement, speaking of green fields and shady forest brooks, wandering up and down with soft summer airs, wreathed with pale and faintly fragrant woodland flowers. Here and there a flash, a sparkle, as it shook a shower of music out of the notes, settling at last into a wide, clear sound, that died away, by slow degrees, to a mere murmurous echo. 
                  That Tresorier was touched, pleased, he could see. But surface susceptibility was never any tribute to him. And now that he was kindled to more than ordinary interest, he must go on. 
                  The darkness was softly falling. Gold and purple melted into mauve and dun. Dusky shadows, of lingering sweetness, settled in the corners of the wide room. Claude was glancing out of the window; the pale face, distinctly outlined against the chair-cushion, looking boyishly youthful, save that no immature face could wear the depth of expression that suggested a conscious isolation which pained Dana. 
                  "I am coming to the Songs without Words," he said. "I think your soul can translate them." 
                  Claude just moved the drooping eyelids in answer. Presently a faint flush started to the temples. The broad chest throbbed with troubled respiration, for the swift current of his heart was pulsing in great bounds through his whole system. As if some occult fire, creeping up to his brain, melted the mask of ice, and sent a new ray into his eyes, like that of a later sunrise. 
                  What was there in this Sonata Pathetique that stirred the very depth of his nature? A conquered soul that has made a good fight, but is still uncrowned, still suffers, still struggles. The adagio, swaying to possible depths of anguish, rising to impassioned and immortal longings, making one capable of all suffering, all endurance, for the reward, if long delayed, will be heavenly at last. All narrow and weak desires are forever blotted out. The soul still submits to destiny, for it must; and yet it thrills at the thought of its day of enfranchisement. 
                  The delicate, aerial melody ceased to vibrate. The air still seemed to rise and fall in silvery waves. This utterance of purest passion, so akin to pain, held in thrall the artist's entire being, controlled him above any volition of his own. His soul had been won through the music, made to respond from the depths of its secret recesses. For the lips, vivid and swelling, just parted with a faint sigh, expanded into the languor of sweetness, the luminous eyes, wide open now, saw beyond, into a heaven of their own. The forehead grew transparent, the rounded chin quivered, the very throat and chest yielded to the profound emotion that had mastered him against his will,-highest victory of all, sweeping away the last barrier of false strength. The hands lying in his lap were drooping and appealing. 
                  Dana crossed over to the window. It was not quite dusk, for the long summer evening still clung to the perished day. A gleam of the lamp opposite, on the sidewalk, shone through the interstices of the trees. He seated himself in the chair facing Claude, and laid his hands on those of the artist. A nature strongly tinctured with positive magnetism, was this of Dana's; one to give, rather than take. Few persons influenced him, and always in a lesser degree. 
                  Claude gave a long, quivering sigh, and would have started, but the stronger will held him captive. His brain was in a trance of light. Glittering sparks rayed off in a thousand directions. A mighty rush of something more potent than the music brimmed through every avenue of sound, and drenched his soul in seas of perfect melody. Every pulse throbbed, his whole nature was kindled to a point of most intense enthusiasm, and yet held quiescent, unable, perhaps unwilling, to struggle. 
                  Dana bent forward, his steady eyes coming nearer, and growing radiant in their fine, spiritual exaltation. Another moment and the spell must have been complete, but a shiver ran through Claude's frame. Like one in a dream, he moved, he essayed to speak, but was powerless. The imploring eyes asked what the inarticulate lips failed to utter. 
                  "I think I could mesmerize you, Claude." 
                  The tone was very low, half question, half assertion. And then he turned a trifle to let the other answer if he would. 
                  "But you will not!" 
                  There was an infinite entreaty in the wavering voice, touched by some far sweetness. It appealed to Dana's soul in a mysterious manner, and half subdued him. 
                  "O," Claude said, with a sob in his breath, for his mood was not material enough for tears, "do not, because I confess myself weak, and ask your pity!" 
                  He looked once again, his eyes full of their bewildering glory. Many a woman would have given half her soul for such an inthralling glance. 
                  What was there in those pleading eyes, girlishly soft now, that disarmed him? At a later day he went back to this very scene, and no longer marvelled. Give up his victory on the very verge of completion? 
                  It was a great sacrifice for Dana to make, and showed the generosity of the man. It was seldom he cared to rule or triumph, but when he did, his will passed almost beyond his own control. He had thrilled so with an assurance of conquest, that for a moment his senses rocked in the balance. 
                  "As you will," he made answer, barely above a whisper, for he feared to trust his voice. "But you can never know what I give up; and I do it because your happiness is dearer to me than my own pleasure." 
                   
                  "Thank you." 
                  Claude trembled violently. The transparent paleness left his face as the warm blood surged through it. And yet there was something totally inexplicable in the expression it wore. It seemed to Dana as if he had been stranded on some far shore, with the mystery of the other's soul still unsolved. 
                  He raised his hands and left Claude free. He moved his eyes that were glittering in the dusk like amber, while the pupil contracted to a steely point. 
                  "No, you can never understand," he murmured, softly. 
                  "But I appreciate. And I give you what you most desire in return." 
                  If the voice faltered, it was not from hesitation. 
                  "Is it so, indeed? But my demands have increased since yesterday. A cold, theoretical friendship will not answer me, I must have-love!" 
                  The word dropped tenderly from lips that did not sue in vain, and stirred the depths of a heart long silent. 
                  "You have it." 
                  The answer was a faint whisper, and might have lost itself in the rustle of the trees, had not Dana's senses been electrically empowered to translate every sound. 
                  "Not because I have wrested it from you?" 
                  "It would be no gift then." 
                  "True." 
                  "And I trust you to be patient, merciful. I told you at dinner that I was not strong enough to indulge in some luxuries." 
                  "Is love so rare a luxury to you that you fear it? Tresorier, you puzzle me as man never did before. You affect an entire simplicity, and yet you are as mysterious as some of the old Greek oracles. Do you know yourself." 
                  "I am not sure that I do. An hour ago I would have said 'yes,' unhesitatingly." 
                  "But you cannot now, because I have touched some hidden spring in your soul; revealed you to yourself, as well as to my satisfaction, or rather dissatisfaction. I confess I feel childishly impatient for further results. Do not start,-how nervous you are! You will see how well I can control my almost feminine curiosity. And, by the way, Tresorier, you have so little." 
                  "Is it a fault?" 
                  "In some cases." Dana laughed gayly and naturally. He had come back to his perfect self-command. "I think, for the purposes of friendship, I can excuse the lack. We rarely seek in others just what we possess in ourselves." 
                  "I used to fancy friends should be much alike." 
                  "A mistake youth is apt to fall into." 
                  "We often see relatives, for instance, who are dissimilar, and yet fail of that nice contact of soul, and fine mental harmony; if, indeed, one ever meets with it." 
                  "Because both lack important elements, or are too evenly balanced to gain any ascendency the one over the other. We fail to study ourselves sufficiently, and when the kindred spirit, which might be in perfect accord with ours, pauses on the threshold, it passes by, finding no shelter, no sweet invitation to enter and be blest. And then, in some weak moment, we reach out and pluck a Dead Sea apple-bitter to the taste." 
                  "And you believe in it-friendship?" 
                  "Is that sweet old story of David and Jonathan pure fable? I think it is found, though rarely. I believe we can find it-if we will?" 
                  "And love?" Tresorier uttered, almost breathlessly. 
                  Dana, with a sudden impulse, placed his fingers carelessly over the hand, gleaming white upon the window-sill, the wrist partially upturned. The pulse was tranquil enough for a second, then rapid and unequal in its vibrations. 
                  "If some souls were not blessed, life would be a failure, nay, a living death. And because we do see men and women reaching a full and harmonious development by contact with the being cast in the same mould as themselves, we know that happiness piness is possible. Since I am capable of loving with intensity and purest passion, I know some other soul must be. Not that I have found love in its perfectness, though once I fed my heart on its semblance. Some day I want to tell you a story." 
                  "And yet how many die daily. How many grope among shadows all their lives, or realize some possibility dropped out, that a sure instinct tells them they were fitted for." 
                  The voice sank to that perceptible pathos we invariably use when speaking from the depths of the heart. Dana's quick penetration caught at a fact-that husband and father though Tresorier might be, he did not realize in himself any blissful ideal of love, the rare essence of highest spiritual as well as material life. It required an effort on his part not to make too rapid a descent into confidence, for he read his friend thus well, that he knew the slightest personal allusion would cause the sensitive nature to shrink back into reserve. 
                  "But insensibly, we hope" he said, musingly. 
                  "There is no hope to some lives. To them it is given to wander in a dreary desert, forever cheated of their soul's right, rest and peace." 
                  "I used to think so. But God is grander than we know. He did not create men to hunger continually. At some day he places in our way, if not the great prize of life, at least a sympathy, a comforting assurance. Sometimes we refuse it-dash it down with despairing ingratitude." 
                  "O, who would!" and the tone was a passionate wail. 
                  "Pride is so subtile a fiend. It is the rock on which many a noble soul strikes and goes down. Heaven help us all, for we are more willing to sacrifice ourselves to our ideas than to the peace of others. We wait for some great and signal good, refusing the lesser blessings within our reach. As if a man on board a sinking vessel, when he heard the crunch of the keel on the jagged rocks, and saw the fearful chasm amidships, should refuse the life-boat because that was the common manner of escape, and persuade himself that he needed something different." 
                   
                  "But natures are not all alike. What is highest happiness for one, might not touch another." 
                  "They are alike in some essential points, because the needs of human life must be answered. Now and then you meet with an isolated soul who stands proudly alone, but the majority of people agree in their search after some great good or enjoyment. When we are understood and ministered unto, does not a thrill of heavenly satisfaction pervade every pulse? The world is full of men and women longing to love and to do, but thwarted and hindered by unseen obstacles; the fire in their hearts burning to waste, warming no one, and finally smouldering into a heap of bitter ashes, gray and cold. The saddest thing in life is to see some fine possibility quenched in despair, that might have lighted another perishing soul." 
                  "But how can we tell, how discern, this hidden fire?" 
                  "When you have had some rare and deep experiences of life, these things will be no longer a mystery. And yet you will be doubtful of the love, and try the suffering first." 
                  "How do you know?" Claude started visibly. 
                  "Because I can read your temperament. You think you are strong; you take pain as a sort of natural right, and endure it without a moan. And I tell you Fate always avenges herself on these strong, self-centred souls, who dare to defy her." 
                  "No, you are mistaken," Claude said, softly. "I should never dare to defy." 
                  "I think you will. You have a boundless capacity for suffering, and by the divine law of compensation, an equal capacity for joy. Claude, I think some great bliss will transform you. I want to see that day. One glance into your face will repay me for many broken visions. And if I could assist you-" 
                  "Hush!" Claude said, with an awed and tremulous inspiration. "You are too kind, too generous to go unrewarded. And-that day can never come!" 
                  For if he had felt stranded before upon the shores of existence ence, he knew now that the wreck was entire. A pang of mortal agony, keener than death, sped through his frame; but the darkness was pitiful, and hid the faltering lip, the drooping eyes, the deathly paleness. 
                  "I believe it will." 
                  If he should go on listening to that strong, sweet voice, if he dared longer expose himself to that powerful influence, the great crisis of his life could not fail to come, and he was not ready. A cold terror took him in its grasp, and restored his self-possession. 
                  "Will you play again?" he said, presently. "Not Mendelssohn, this time." 
                  "But you like him! Don't deny that." 
                  "I should not dare deny it to you." 
                  "Will you have a light?" 
                  "No," said Claude, softly. 
                  In passing, Dana laid his hand on Tresorier's shoulder. The sensitive flesh quivered beneath the touch, but did not shrink. 
                  "I like this soft darkness," he said. "And now I am going to give you Et Resurrexit, from Mozart's Twelfth Mass. A solemn foreshadowing of glory, that tranquillizes one's soul with a vision of what will be at the last. 
                  And Claude, listening, felt more closely drawn to the player. There was a deep and entire satisfaction in his presence that the artist had missed in all the other influences that had shadowed his life. He knew how the face must look, but he was glad not to see it. 
                  As the last sound fluttered gently through the room, the clock struck ten. Tresorier rose. 
                  "You will not go?" Dana said, with quick apprehension. 
                  "I must, indeed." The tone, though low, was resolute. 
                  "I shall not persuade you to stay. You were to be left in possession of your liberty and your senses;" and Dana's pleasant laugh bespoke his ordinary mood. "But we have said so little, that you must give me audience soon again. And I want to tell you-a friend of mine was inquiring about a small landscape. Have you one?" 
                  Claude had two, finished. It was impossible to refuse Dana an invitation to his studio. 
                  "I shall give myself the pleasure in a short time," Dana said, ringing for lights. 
                  At the hall door Claude found the carriage awaiting him. The attention was too delicate to be easily declined. 
                  Lovely as the night was with its troop of throbbing stars, Tresorier did not heed it. Sinking down amid the soft cushions, the tension of his nerves relaxed entirely. The hands clinched with some inward spasm; but even they had no power to hold a pang tightly in their grasp. There flashed through his brain a vision so glorious, so complete, that he was as one stunned by lightning. He had taken upon his soul a life-long impression, had seen a depth of possible passion and possible anguish, to which all other joys and pains were as nothing. 
                  Yet he turned from the path before him, sick and faint. No immediate avenue of escape. How long could human nature endure such torture? 
                  "He shall have the friendship," the pale lips murmured, over a great heart throb. "And at the last he will forgive; he must." 
                  And then the eyes were lifted beyond the stars, in a prayer more desperate than was Jacob's when he wrestled with the angel. 
                  In happy unconsciousness of this, Felix Dana, left to himself, extinguished the lights, and threw the blinds open to the sweetness of the wide, warm night. At his heart there was a mysterious sense of exultation. To quicken and kindle another human soul, so pure and strong as this, was no mean victory. Yet a positive and generous nature like Dana's could not be content with the simple ideal. Now that he had found his friend, he must live for him; his love was active as well as ardent. He had many of this world's blessings. Wealth, position, influence. By some curious fate he now stood isolated, no particular human being having a claim upon him. Hosts of acquaintances stood ready to come at his beck, partake of his bounty, applaud his fine taste, his superior judgment, and feel proud of the honor accorded them. But this did not satisfy him. It left an emptiness and weariness of soul; a hunger and poverty that narrow, self-satisfied natures never dreamed of, could not even comprehend. 
                  And yet he had sometimes fancied that he could be content to drift with the tide. To-night the grand major chords of existence had been touched. He had tried to lose himself in the different regions of intellectual fascinations; he had taken up art, music, and religion by turns, and found that some peculiar power of application was lacking. He had not roused himself to any earnest endeavor, save where his own integrity before God and man had been concerned. That he had kept his soul stainless was no special merit in his own eyes. He was far too fastidious for any of the forms of vice to be alluring. 
                  With his intense and subtle vitality he had found much to enjoy. He had endured his fiery trial, and found that suffering, nobly borne, ennobles the heart. Rich in a certain self-sustaining power, he had never feared loneliness; and yet there comes a time in the lives of many when they are weary of experimenting upon themselves, and turn to general humanity, willing to risk coldness and ingratitude, so that they may but benefit their kind. 
                  And now an overruling Providence had brought Tresorier within his orbit. There was a work to be done for him. Influence to be used in a skilful manner, patronage that would not wound the sensitive pride, and yet bring him before the public, advance him to his true height. But the rare soul he meant to keep intact for himself. He possessed an exclusiveness amounting almost to jealousy. There were certain moods and feelings that it seemed sacrilege to share with more than one, and what he gained for himself alone he most earnestly desired to keep. Once established in his empire over Tresorier's heart, he could afford to defy the rest of the world. 
                  And then he thought of the one who must ever come between, whose right was first and strongest. It was foolish to dislike a woman of whom he knew nothing, but he felt that in some manner she had interfered with Tresorier's full and harmonious development. Her love must be weak, her soul narrow, since she had failed to anchor her husband's heart. Was there not a lonely depth she had never reached? 
                  Yet she was an immutable fact. He could not ignore her, and every feeling of honor protested against widening the but half-conscious breach. It was necessary, then, to overplan her. And since his first miserable failure in life he had studied women deeply, not with the scorn of a shallow brain, but the breadth of a ripe and rare intelligence. Still he could not blind himself to the fact that in some strange manner they must always be rivals. 
                
                
                   
                  VI. ARIEL. 
                  IF Felix Dana had followed out his first impulse, he would have sought Tresorier the next day; but he understood him much too well. He meant to give him time to wonder a little, and perhaps experience a want of him. He could even endure to be doubted. In this he planned wisely. 
                  For with Claude's earliest retrospection came an agony at the thought of the betrayal he had made. The reaction from a long reserve, and the fascination there had been in this interchange of soul with one who seemed to divine thoughts before they were fairly uttered, had thrown him off his guard. And now he dreaded seeing Dana, with a nervous and morbid terror. What use would he make of the knowledge he had gained? Go on probing the heart that lay quivering before his eyes-possess himself of the dread secret before the time? Only a strong will could have kept such a rebellious soul in order. He listened to every footstep with senses warily acute, and a ring at the hall door served to send him into a state of active resistance. More than once he resolved not to see Dana again. 
                  To this mood succeeded a calm, an indifference, the result of stoicism rather than courage. And then a fear that tortured his sensitive pride. What if he had been used for the transient amusement of this man, who had the dangerous faculty of penetrating the secret recesses of one's nature? Or what if Dana considered him deficient in that real fineness of soul that could rightly appreciate kindness so delicately bestowed? And now that the first brilliancy of the dream was fading, he clung to it with frantic eagerness. 
                   
                  Therefore the relief was delightful, when one evening the housekeeper announced his coming. Mrs. Tresorier had taken her child out for a walk in the pleasant sunset air, and Claude was alone in his studio. 
                  "Show him up, please," he said, quietly, but every pulse throbbed with unwonted emotion. 
                  There was a shy grace in his welcome, which, if a trifle constrained, was not so from any lack of pleasure. Dana read in a moment that he had come at a most auspicious time. The longing was at its height, a flood tide of warmth, lighting and beautifying friendship. 
                  "My dear fellow," Dana said, with his easy insouciance, after the first greeting was over; "in my fear of boring you I have half martyrized myself. Give me credit for some self-denial." 
                  "Why did you not come before?" he asked, simply. "You would have been welcome." 
                  "Would I?" Dana gave a curious smile, that made the other color vividly. "You have quite forgiven me, then?" 
                  Claude made an effort to recollect. "There was nothing to forgive," he said, slowly. 
                  "Absolutely nothing? I am compelled to believe you, for there is an expression of fine honor in your face that satisfies me, sets me at rest. But while it is light, let us look at your pictures. We can talk afterwards." 
                  "There are only a few. You will see that I have had just one inspiration." 
                  "Which is mine;" and Dana turned upon him that fascinating smile, dangerous alike to man or woman. Claude felt powerless to resist the subtile mastery. 
                  "It is such a poor feast," he began, despondingly. 
                  "It will be better some day. I have much ambition for you. And I think you were brave to dare the battle single-handed. You must have had unbounded love for it." 
                  "And urgent necessity," added Claude, "which kept me from dreaming my life away, as I might have done." 
                   
                  Some old remembrance reasserted itself in his face, and he made a gesture, as if to thrust it out of sight. 
                  "I honor your perseverance all the more. But I was speaking the other evening of a landscape. Is this for sale?" 
                  Dana indicated the picture of a sunset striking upon a rocky declivity, broken here and there by knots of brilliant autumn foliage. At the base ran a tiny stream of water, visible only at intervals, but defined through the rank grass and reeds. 
                  "I shall be glad to dispose of it." 
                  "And my friend wants a sunset. Will you trust me to make a bargain for you?" 
                  "I shall be deeply indebted. Your partiality for me must not render you oblivious of its faults. It is one of my early pieces retouched, and it always vexes me. If one could imprison such rays as that," and Claude glanced from the window. 
                  "It is well we cannot, for we should be as gods. There's something in that glory and immensity that cannot be put upon canvas. And the eye never wearies of it, for its variety is endless. It stirs the soul's inmost depths." 
                  "Mr. Dana, I wonder you are not an artist," Claude said, suddenly. 
                  "Because I am subject to artistic impressions? That is my misfortune, or rather my pleasure, since I cannot create. When I first grew up-some time I will tell you all about it, but now I shall only say, that I had a most intense longing to achieve distinction. Law, politics, and medicine were not sufficiently sthetic for me. And youth has unbounded confidence in itself! Well, I tried painting. I used to have such glowing, tantalizing visions. I went at it scientifically, too, and toiled patiently for a long while, but the divine inspiration forever eluded me. Correct lines and prosaic materialism, or faithful imitation, is not all. The soul must be transcribed to thrill and enthrall. I could feel my ideal in every pulse of my being, in every drop of my blood, but it never came to the surface except in appreciation and love. Ah, Tresorier, it was being born dumb, but not deaf; always hearing what another said in the touch of a pencil or the stroke of a brush, but never being capable of answering in the same electric speech. So I relinquished it." 
                  "But you have music?" 
                  "And that's only as a performer. I had the same experience regarding music. I did compose some few things, but the divine essence was not in me. And so with poetry. It was a hard matter to acknowledge to myself that I was not born to create. I suffered acutely at the time. But now, music is my passion, my comfort, and solace." 
                  Claude's breath came rapidly. "It's so wonderful," he began, with a strange glow, "that painting should enchant you, while your soul makes itself known through music; and though painting seems the voice of my being, music moves me beyond description. I have been dreaming of it ever since that night-steeped in trances that bewildered me. I could hardly paint." 
                  "You will come again?" Dana said, with a strange thrill in his voice, a satisfaction heavenly in its completeness. "There will be the more perfect accord between us, because each can supply what the other lacks. A nature complete in itself is a monstrosity. It would ask nothing from any living being, for it could stand so perfectly, so awfully alone." 
                  "And yet it would be glorious to feel one's self so rich in sustaining power!" 
                  "No, you can't mean it. It may appear dazzling to you, because you've never known absolute solitude of soul,-that terrible want and craving for companionship. To go down to a blacker depth than that of despair! There was a time in my life when I thought to stand alone. Like the Ancient Mariner, 
                         
                           This soul hath been 
                           Alone on a wide, wide sea; 
                           So lonely 'twas that God himself 
                           Scarce seemd there to be.'" 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  Claude shivered, and was silent. The pain and anguish was not to be equal to the solitude. 
                  Dana, standing by the window, glanced out, for these unwitting revelations of a secret sorrow appealed to his delicacy. He knew some day it would be unveiled. From this point you could look into the street, running north and south. Through a space, where the trees were wide apart, he saw a picture. A lovely woman holding out one hand to a not less beautiful child, who was lagging behind. 
                  "O, Tresorier!" he exclaimed, "come and look at this child. It is perfect!" 
                  The artist obeyed his summons; but at the first glance a deep color flushed his face. 
                  The woman, still in the bloom of a glorious girlhood, caught the look, and smiled. Then she took the child in her arms. 
                  Claude drew back into the shade, the flush fading to deathly pallor. 
                  "It is Mrs. Tresorier," he said, in a cold, unnatural voice, that startled Dana. There was no pride in it; no joyous ring. 
                  "And the child is yours! Are they coming in? I want to see it. I have such an extravagant love for children. I had a little girl once, but not like that. If she had been, I think her death must have killed me. Wifeless and childless! It is best so, Heaven knows, and I would not call back the dreary past. But sometimes I envy happier men, whom love has blest." 
                  Claude was moving towards the door, but he went as one stricken blind, and reached out his hands in a nerveless, uncertain manner. 
                  There was a stir in the hall, and leaning over the railing, he said,- 
                  "Will you come up here, and bring the child?" 
                  The tone was curiously low and distinct. It chilled Dana, in some inexplicable manner. 
                   
                  "So you want us!" The answer was electric in richness and subtile joyousness. 
                  A whispering in the passage, and then Claude returned. A baby voice began its soft lispings, as it was taken into the adjoining room to receive a few touches from its fond mother's hand. 
                  When Mrs. Tresorier entered, Felix Dana stood silent from something beyond surprise. Her presence flooded the room with a sense of beauty that thrilled every nerve, so keenly alive to such impressions. Her beguiling grace, her repose, far removed from coldness; her warmth and luxuriance, that while bordering on the sensuous from its very affluence, never palled, and must have charmed the most fastidious beholder, as being a part of her nature you could no more separate than take the color from a deep-hued rose. It bewildered you. It was like the sparkle of fragrant wines, or the odor of powerful perfumes, and mastering you with a sensation akin to fear. 
                  To think of rivalling this woman in her empire over her husband's heart! 
                  Dana came forward, and responded to the introduction with his usual high-bred elegance, veiling the wonder that rushed through every pulse like a torrent. The child was shyly hiding in the flowing folds of his mother's dress-some light airy fabric, that was but a foil to her loveliness. 
                  "I saw you out there in the square a moment ago, so you must pardon my desire for a nearer acquaintance with your child. Will he come to me?" 
                  "He rarely goes to strangers." She drew him a little forward into the light. 
                  "What do you call him?" 
                  "He has never had any name besides Ariel." 
                  "Shakspeare's 'fine spirit.' How wonderfully appropriate! Yet if he had been mine, I should have called him Raphael, in token of the other up in heaven, angel-eyed now, indeed." 
                   
                  Dana bent on one knee, to be on a nearer level with the child. Holding out his hands, he said, softly,- 
                  "Come to me, Ariel." 
                  The little one paused, and swayed uncertainly, attracted by the resistless eyes that sooner or later made their spell apparent. 
                  "You will come." 
                  The added charm of the voice won him. He stretched out his tiny hands unhesitatingly, but his eyes were full of wonder. 
                  "You rival me with my child, Mr. Dana," Mrs Tresorier said, in a tone rendered sharp by some feeling, yet it was neither anger nor distrust. 
                  "But I don't mean to vex you. How beautiful to be alive!" and, lifting him in his arms, he went to the window. 
                  "If he should ever die!" his mother thought, with a spasm of agony that constricted her very being. 
                  So ethereally fair, like some white cloud floating upon the bosom of heaven in vague innocence; so unearthly the light of the deep impassioned eyes; so quiet to awesomeness the parted lips, whose expression was like nought of earth; so golden the haze made by the fine vapory rings of hair that a breath blew about, and seemed melting into gradual indistinctness. Dana repressed a strange shiver of presentiment. There was something here that had come from neither parent; a spirit, with so slender a claim upon earth, he wondered that it remained at all, fulfilling its God-appointed time. 
                  "How you must love him!" he said, with a burst of irrepressible feeling, kissing the soft, unconscious lips. They did not warm with the caress, nor shrink from it, but were simply passive. 
                  "Yes. And strangest of all, I never fancied I should love a child." 
                  "Why not? Pardon me, but the thought seems monstrous for a woman." 
                  "Does it?" She gave a strange little laugh, as if amused "Don't tempt me to frankness. I have a fancy that people feel inclined to tell you truths. I used to think there must be some capability of return in all affections, but I have been converted from that heresy. The utter helplessness of a child appeals to one as nothing else on earth can." 
                  "I should think so. As if there was not an abundant capability of affection in every child that was not cursed by some fatal hatred in which it had no share;" and his voice was roused to bitterness. "But this is such an exquisite little being! I don't see how you ever came to have a doubt about loving it." 
                  "It's more than love now," she said, fiercely. "It's my very life. Nothing can compare with it!" 
                  Dana started, and thought of the husband in his shady corner, silent, and spiritually alone. This beautiful woman's heart had but one side; she could love but one object. Her loveliness had dazzled his artistic sight, and now he was doomed to pay the fatal penalty for yielding to the senses instead of the soul. Dana fancied that he understood the artist's mystery now. Some far-reaching fate had drawn them together, and made him capable of ministering to a soul that sat in the gray ashes of desolation. 
                  They chatted on in the twilight. Mrs. Tresorier was decidedly piquant and original, and possessed a keen wit, that flashed fearlessly, indifferent as to its effects. Now and then he paused to kiss the child, who scarcely stirred in his arms, but watched him with a rapt look, until the eyelids drooped over the lovely, but most unchild-like eyes. 
                  They were interrupted by a messenger for Tresorier, who left the room at the summons. The housekeeper lighted the hall lamp, and a long, slender ray from the stairway crept into the apartment. 
                  Mrs. Tresorier crossed over to Dana. 
                  "See, you have put him to sleep!" she said, "which is wonderful. No one ever did that besides myself." 
                  He glanced steadily up into her eyes, but there was nothing responsive in them; no soul that he could touch. 
                   
                  "Let me relieve you," she continued. 
                  He did not offer to relinquish the child, but said,- 
                  "I wonder what you will do with him. I wish I had been godfather, so that I might have a little right to him." 
                  "You will make me jealous!" 
                  "Yes, you have a jealous temperament. Mrs. Tresorier, are we to be friends or enemies?" 
                  "Why enemies?" and she laughed in a peculiar fashion, as if it came from the lips only, and yet it was not heartless. 
                  "Because-I like your husband." 
                  "O, you couldn't make me jealous of Claude!" 
                  His eyes were searching her face in that rigorous manner that not a breath could escape. 
                  "Not if I take his time, his interest, and attach him to myself? I shall do it for his advancement as well as my own pleasure, for I confess to a strong interest in him. He is not living the sort of life he should have. It makes one sad to see that cold, starved look in his eyes." 
                  "I think so too," calmly, as if they were discussing some person indifferent to her. 
                  "Of course he must have loved you immensely. He has a quick sense of beauty, but a deeper sense of power. And after your child came-forgive me-I thought when I first saw you that you couldn't love two objects at the same time. It isn't your nature. And you left him to find his own happiness." 
                  "How peculiar you are," she said, her eyes never once wavering from his. "I believe you can read souls. Did you read Claude's?" 
                  "Partly." 
                  "I wish you could read it wholly." 
                  She bent over until her soft curls brushed against his cheek, still gazing, as if riveted by some mesmeric spell. Though he fancied he understood her, the far soul, if soul she had, was a sealed book, so little do we comprehend the inner life. But the first grand and generous impulse that had ever warmed her heart had its birth then. She judged the man more by instinct than any fine discrimination, and yet she was right. 
                  "Yes," she continued, in a voice that was rapid, but not excited, and never varied throughout the sentence, "I wish you could possess yourself of his very soul. Do not think I shall interfere, or descend to any childish tricks. He is all that is good and noble. I don't want you ever to have a doubt of him. And if he should seem cold and distant at times, if there is some mystery you cannot fathom, be tender with him; do not force him to any confidence. In two months we are going to Europe, and I promise then to explain any seeming inconsistency." 
                  "You are most weird and mystical." 
                  "I want you to trust me. I shall be the best interpreter. Can you be patient?" 
                  "Try me and see." 
                  She took the child from his arms. He kissed the still face again and again, and if she could have been drawn to any one, he must have appealed powerfully to her through her child; but though grateful, her heart never for an instant warmed towards him. He saw that in her eyes. 
                  "You will let me have him sometimes," he said, with deep tenderness. "Ariel in the cloven pine. And you are not angry with me?" 
                  "Why should I be-because you happened to tell some truths? I knew them before. You have been so good to him-Claude, I mean. I want you to know that I actually made him write that letter to you. He was afraid to test you." 
                  She uttered this last with childish abandon, and laughed not unlike some elfin sprite. 
                  "How strange you are!" 
                  "I believe I was born different from other people." 
                  They clasped hands in token of the mutual confidence. Then he watched her floating softly out of the twilight room, and it seemed as if, when she was gone, the darkness fell at once. 
                  Claude did not enter until then. He seated himself at the farther window, pushing the easel aside. The cool, calm face could baffle any scrutiny now. Not even Dana's keen and accurate eye could detect the secret processes going on which congealed so readily into mental ice. And then he remembered it as he had warmed it into life, the pleading eyes, the tender, tremulous tones. Would it do to waken them again? Not to-night. For this bland mood was too awful in its significance to be tampered with. 
                  So he led Tresorier to talk of more practical themes. His rare cultivation and ripe judgment, and his passionate love for art, made the dryest topics eloquent. Every idea showed that it was textured by his own fine brain processes, continually filled with every attribute of ideal beauty. To the artist's hungry soul, it was as an illumination from some brilliant northern aura. What would genius have been with such a mind? And then Claude felt himself miserably poor of soul, deficient in power, irresolute in will. The ambition that had stirred him appeared so paltry a thing, he almost cast it from him with disdain. 
                  "I am afraid you have mistaken me," he said, presently. "And if I fail to satisfy your ambition, the friendship will be a disappointment;" and the voice fell perceptibly. 
                  "No, you wrong me there," was Dana's quick rejoinder. "If you never did another thing worthy of that Jeanne d'Arc, I should still think lovingly of the soul which wrought that. And it is because I understand you better than you understand yourself, see more clearly what you are capable of, that I dare to predict. You're out of your proper sphere, Tresorier. You have all the graces, and refinements, and wants of a higher life. You're not naturally silent and despondent. You need to talk more, to mingle with the world. And I could manage this so easily for you, if you would but give me the permission." 
                   
                  "I shall go away so soon." Claude's voice was low with the effort he made to steady it. 
                  "But I want some one to know you," Dana replied; "for though I am exclusive in one respect, I can be generous in others. The sooner you come up to your true position, the better for you. And you might get some commissions to execute while in Italy." 
                  "I am willing to work, and gather results slowly." 
                  The voice was so cold, that Dana must have been annoyed but for a remembrance of what Mrs. Tresorier had said. He was thankful that he could make her a strong ally. 
                  "How long have you been painting?" he asked. 
                  "About six years, in all." 
                  "And you have been in the city the whole time?" 
                  "O, no. We came here hardly three years ago. I had studied before that with a careful, but not enthusiastic teacher, and have since found that experience of incalculable benefit. But, as I told you, I was poor, and forced to work." 
                  "A shock brought you out; tested your metal?" Dana fancied it a reverse of fortune, though he was too delicate to say it. 
                  "Yes," Claude answered, absently. 
                  "You had given yourself up to a love dream before that? I don't wonder, Tresorier, she is so marvellously beautiful. Why do you not electrify the world by painting her?" 
                  Claude shivered, but the fast falling darkness hid the convulsive motion. 
                  "You and she are both strange compounds. By what freak of fate you were brought together, I cannot determine, for I think you as far apart as the poles, in nearly every attribute. Her devotion to her child is intense. Didn't it make you jealous at first?" 
                  "No." Claude drew a long, stifling breath; but the sound did not go beyond the pale lips, tortured by passionate compression. 
                   
                  "I confess it would me. But I should worship the child. Ariel;" and he lingered lovingly over the name. "One would know it was her conceit, for everything about her is unique, in spite of its extreme delicacy. And, Tresorier, I want to ask a favor of you, but I hardly dare." 
                  "If it is in my power." 
                  "I want you to paint him for me." 
                  "I don't know that I could," Claude said, huskily. "I should distrust my art there." 
                  "Would his mother object? Nothing can be more lovely, only he doesn't look alive. The peculiarity impresses me strongly. Somewhere his earthy development seems to have stopped, and turned into pure spirit. Is he like other children?" 
                  "More grave and thoughtful." 
                  "As if he was continually revolving some deep mystery. But you haven't answered my question. If I might ask his mother, I should have no fear." 
                  "If she consents, I will try it." 
                  "With your full permission also. I don't know that I can make you understand my passion for children. When I meet one astray on the sidewalk, I feel like clasping it to my heart; and occasionally some particular child awakes in me such a strong desire for possession that it amounts to a positive pang. I don't know why I haven't adopted scores, unless it was that I wanted them to have a mother; for I think a motherless child is the saddest sight in the world. There's a sore place in my heart; a grave too deep to hold a child only; a spot where love went down, wrecked, utterly. If fate had been a little more tender-but regrets are in vain." 
                  He rose and paced the room softly, as if he were at home. Why should the old dreams throng about him here? What was there in Claude Tresorier that should recall the blessed visions that had once been his? A far-reaching and subtile fellowship in suffering; a bliss dropped out of life; a May, whose promised fruitage had been chilled by a worse than winter frost. 
                   
                  He paused before Tresorier at length, and taking the soft face between his hands, turned it towards the solitary ray of light. What glittered on the points of the fallen eyelashes?-tears! 
                  "Good night," he said, abruptly, yet in a tone of deep emotion. 
                
                
                   
                  VII. SUMMER DAYS. 
                  FELIX DANA'S mind was occupied with plans regarding his friend, and they served to while away the days that had grown strangely wearisome to him. He had thought, on his return to New York, that he would open his house again, and fill it with choice society; that all the sthetic delight which wealth could afford, should be his. And if Love, that divine visitant, fluttered to his arms, he would hold her in so tender a clasp that she should be won to stay. Whatever of bitter resolve had been in the old life was all gone now, and he thanked Heaven for it. 
                  To a man in his position success was certain. With his attractions he could not fail of being courted and flattered. Women brought out their richest gifts for him. Men of genius deferred to his fine taste, and correct judgment. He had looked forward to years of tranquillity. 
                  All this was suddenly changed. He told himself that it was foolish; but the thought grew upon him-he would leave his native land again-become the companion of this friend, who had grown so dear in a brief while. He could not be satisfied to relinquish him after this short acquaintance, so fascinating in every respect. He needed some love or some duty that should call forth all that was best and noblest, as nothing had since his father's death. Claude's utter lack of experience would set him astray when he tried the world; and who would be so gentle and considerate a friend as the man who held for him a brother's purest affection? He would leave him, as now, with the widest possible liberty, but so sway him with that occult power, that he would come to him in any need, whether material, or, far higher, spiritual. If there were no Mrs. Tresorier, if Claude were free to work out some brilliant future, and if he could absorb his whole life as it were, take him to his heart and home, shield him not merely from want, but from compulsory work, that must wear his energies, and chafe the fine soul! 
                  And then he thought of Mrs. Tresorier's promised explanation. If she had not said, "We are going to Europe," he might have fancied it Claude's intention, or her wish, to be left behind. Whatever infatuation her bewildering face had caused at first, had perished now, burned itself to dust and ashes. The disappointment might have developed the artist's soul, but he shuddered at the vision of days and nights of agony the sensitive spirit must have endured before it reached this state of comparative calm, that was hardly less pitiful than despair. Whatever alleviation was in his power, Claude should have. If he could not work himself, he would bring straws of gold and silver for the bricks in the other's temple, whereby he might ascend to fame. 
                  On the morrow, Tresorier received a note concerning the picture, which Dana wished sent by the messenger, if the artist would intrust him with the business part of the arrangement. The delicacy touched Claude, and he had no desire to refuse. 
                  Accompanying the note was a basket of choice cut flowers for Mrs. Tresorier. He had made the selection according to his estimate of her taste. Wide blown tropical flowers, in richest hues, and others whose powerful fragrance steeped the senses in delicious languor. She took them with the eagerness habitual to her, and spent hours in arranging them. 
                  "Your picture is sold," announced Dana, a few evenings later. "Tresorier, you are fated to be rich and famous. Do not turn to fortune the cold shoulder." 
                  "It is your kindness;" and Claude stood with downcast eyes. 
                   
                  A light laugh rippled through the hall, and Dana was not unwilling thus to be interrupted. 
                  "I must see Mrs. Tresorier," he said; "I have my favor to ask." 
                  Claude summoned her and the child. He stretched out his hands immediately to Dana. 
                  "You see he remembers me?" and Dana flushed with gratified pride. 
                  "You are determined to make me jealous," she said, gayly. "Ariel has talked of you continually." 
                  As Dana took him, he glanced into the fathomless eyes. What made this child, of all others, appeal so mysteriously to his heart? Not the mere fact of relationship with one for whom he held an unusual regard, for he had been won by the face before this fact was made evident. What far-reaching chord of human sympathy brought him into close contact with this little life? It must have a peculiar destiny. The soul, clothed in this almost unearthly flesh, must be exquisitely organized. How delightful it would be to watch its unfolding. If he could have Claude and the child! 
                  Why did he wish to shut that lovely woman out of the future? He had not the slightest personal aversion to her. She seemed, indeed, one of those weird psychological studies that invariably prove fascinating. For he could fancy her luring one on and on with her manifold charms, never palling with her infinite variations, never wearying with her piquancies, yet always standing so aloof that the gulf between, of something more than propriety, was distinctly manifest. But he could not dismiss the thought that she had in some way wronged Claude and he was nervously quick to resent what his friend bore so patiently. 
                  She was delighted to grant him the picture, but it was more from an ebullition of motherly vanity. They discussed drapery, and position, now and then appealing to Claude, who set them right when they were astray upon any point. 
                   
                  "Doesn't he look unusually pale?" Dana asked. "I hope you did not feast him continually upon those flowers. Some of them were rather too powerful for such an organization." 
                  "No; and yet it was singular that he should desire the white, or the pale, fragrant ones. I confess I luxuriated in the gorgeous colors. You don't know what a comfort they were to me!" 
                  "I'm glad if they were. And it has come into my mind, that since my carriage is at the door, I don't see why you shouldn't avail yourselves of it for a pleasant drive. It would be a favor to me, and a possible benefit to the rest." 
                  "I should be delighted!" Mrs. Tresorier exclaimed, eagerly, then glanced at Claude. Dana raised his eyes sufficiently to intercept the look, but it was unintelligible to him. 
                  "Come, then," he said, with a gesture that not only persuaded but led, and overruled any weak misgiving. Certainly, if it had been some plan of his arranged beforehand, he betrayed no consciousness of it. 
                  Mrs. Tresorier made herself ready in a few moments, and returned with Ariel's hat in her hand, as he had not shown the slightest disposition to leave Dana. He carried him down stairs, thrilled by the touch of the soft baby arm that clung to his neck. 
                  The elegant barouche, with its rich appointments, was most tempting. The beautiful grays, slightly mottled with a darker tint, arched their graceful necks, and pricked up their sensitive ears at the sound of their master's voice, assaying to glance around with their large, almost human eyes. 
                  "What magnificent animals!" Mrs. Tresorier exclaimed. "How can you help loving them, Mr. Dana?" 
                  "I don't try to help it;" and he smiled. "They are my choicest favorites." 
                  After seating his guests he exchanged a word with the driver, and the horses, impatient to start, were off at a nod. If he had thought Mrs. Tresorier lovely before, he wondered now at the radiant vision leaning back amongst the cushions. The shining golden hair floated like changeful waves from beneath the dainty summer hat which just served to crown her. The whole attire was faultless, down to the small, exquisite feet. He understood how a young, artistic soul had been won by this sensuous beauty that thrilled even him, impassive as he usually was to the sex. She added to it the graces of a cultivated intellect, and the entire absence of those small vanities that seem a part of most handsome women, though she was not without a certain spice of coquetry. These three people, with their ease and refinement, the air of mystery as well as romance surrounding them, were unlike anything he had ever met with before. Their manner of living was simple, bespeaking economy; yet there was a style about Mrs. Tresorier's dress and bearing that would have been the envy of many a fashionable belle. They had been educated far above this station. And it was not education merely. Both natures were strongly marked-full of positive qualities, and tinctured with a certain rare power. They appeared to harmonize so perfectly with every scene. They were wasted in this narrow sphere. Mrs. Tresorier should be queening it royally in some brilliant circle, and Claude tasting the delights of the position he was so eminently fitted for. It fretted Dana, that out of his abundance he could not bring this to pass immediately, but must be hampered by a hundred little conventionalities. 
                  They fell into a charming conversation. A few soft, gray clouds toned down the brilliance of the western sky. The air was still, but tremulous with threads of fragrant vapor that seemed neither of heaven or earth-rather the suggestion of an intermediate world. Turning out of the quiet street, they met numbers of gay equipages, and elegantly attired women, but not one could rival this sumptuous beauty, with her regnant air. Admiring glances were frequently turned towards the mother and child, and Dana was amused by the indifference with which Mrs. Tresorier received them, quite as if they were hers by royal right. Now and then a friend bowed to him, or some question was asked by eyes that could not have been put into words. After they had gained the smooth road, and were off the pavements, at a sign from Dana the spirited animals flew like the wind, leaving behind scarcely a sound of their footsteps. A bright color blossomed in Mrs. Tresorier's face as it kindled with the excitement, her eyes deepened, and through the half-parted lips shone a row of teeth even and brilliant as pearls. In this mood she looked more child-like than her princely child. 
                  Cloud wreaths of snow, and dun, and amber drifted across the sky. Clumps of trees, hazy in outline, low-growing copses, wide fields of rank grass slowly nodding to the drowsy air, made up a picture of weird but affluent beauty. Every breath they inhaled was drenched with summer evening sweetness. Afar, the glimmering reaches of the river, caught only now and then, and mingling its faint voice with that tender silence, suggestive of nothing so strongly as some dim remembrance of music. 
                  They came home more slowly. Ariel wide-eyed, yet wonderfully quiet. It seemed to satisfy him occasionally to give a long, earnest glance at Dana's face, which was always returned with his most fascinating smile. 
                  "Those lovely, lovely horses!" Mrs. Tresorier exclaimed, longingly. "For their gentleness and delicacy makes them seem that, rather than magnificent. They remind me of you, Mr. Dana, for you must have a great deal of power, though you don't choose to use it; and they are all fire and spirit within." 
                  He laughed musically. "You are more than half right," he answered. "A man's belongings are no mean index of his character, that is, when he is free to follow out his fancies. Some lives are so restricted that they rarely find their true voices." 
                  She glanced unwittingly at Claude as he said this, and his eyes followed her. 
                  "I wish," Dana began, slowly, "since you admire the horses so much, that you would allow me to send them around for you and Ariel every morning. They have to go somewhere for exercise, as I cannot use them sufficiently, and it would really be a favor." 
                  It would have been difficult, indeed, to resist that insinuating voice. 
                  "O, you are so generous!" she said. "Claude, shall we trespass too much upon Mr. Dana's hospitality?" 
                  Claude assayed to answer, but the lips merely parted. 
                  "I think it will benefit both you and the child. And I have the most perfect confidence in my driver, or I should not offer him." 
                  Claude could not dissent. 
                  Dana crossed the sidewalk with them. 
                  "I want you to come soon again," he said, in a low tone, to Claude. "This morning I exhumed a rare treasure, an old Greek monochrome, with all the lights and shades in a golden tint, on a sort of golden, azure ground. It will be a treat, it you have never seen one. When shall I expect you?" 
                  Claude's slight figure swayed with some powerful emotion. Even in the growing dusk Dana observed it, and it seemed to him that the face grew deathly white. 
                  "Mr. Dana," he began, huskily, "I seem to make but a poor return for your favors. If you could understand that it pains me to refuse, but that at present-" 
                  "Is it always to be so, Tresorier?" Dana asked, with a sort of breathless impatience. 
                  "Forgive me. I try you beyond endurance. I am not worth so much regard." 
                  "Tresorier;"-and Dana's tone showed that he was strangely roused,-"let me be the judge of that. It hurts me cruelly to have you think or suspect that you cannot fill the place in my heart that I have assigned you. If you do not choose to occupy it, it must needs stand empty. It is true that my life of leisure has given me the habit of following desultory whims; but if this regard was nothing beyond mere caprice, Heaven knows I should be ashamed to offer it to such a man. Can you not trust me?" 
                  The voice sank to a low, pleading intonation. There was not a secret spring in the artist's whole frame but quivered to the touch and torture. 
                  "I do trust you. It is not that." 
                  A pang of anguish wrested this confession from the writhing lips. 
                  "I told you that the widest freedom should be yours. And if to-night, for some reason that I do not seek to know, you should refuse to see me again, I must ever regard this brief acquaintance as holding one of the rare possibilities of a pure and perfect friendship. Have these things come so often to you, Tresorier, that you hold them in light esteem? For I confess they are as angels' visits to me." 
                  He meant to conquer, of course. He would not take the citadel by open assault, but by a finer and higher warfare. And Claude, feeling that the chain tightened with every word, and having a dim consciousness that sooner or later the other would gain any point he resolved upon, saw that he must yield. 
                  "It isn't that, Mr. Dana," he said, weakly. "If I had any fear, it was because the temptation with me would be to make too much of the friendship. And for the present, as a favor to me, do not ask me to come. I appreciate all those luxuries to the fullest extent, but I cannot share them and live the life I must live. Visit me whenever you like. Your society is one of the rare delights of my existence." 
                  "Thank you; but I want you to know that you couldn't make too much of the friendship to please me. No one is wronged. Not a soul has a claim on my love or my fortune. I stand like a solitary palm in the desert, thankful for the voice of some lonely traveller. Good night." 
                  The hand he clasped was icily cold. 
                   
                  To the ride succeeded a long, quiet day. True to his appointment, Dana had sent the carriage for Mrs. Tresorier, accompanying it with a gift of choice fruit. But after her first delight had subsided she went away with her child, and left Claude alone with his task. 
                  For these two people, although bound by a sacred tie, never seemed to come within each other's true orbit. As a planet, continually revolving in its circle, fails to be influenced by some other planet, though both may dwell in the azure heavens for ages, be warmed by the same sun, and see each other's faces in the silvery radiance of the changeful moon, and be ministered unto ceaselessly by hosts of lesser lights, and yet keep their own respective spheres; so these two souls failed in that flue and close contact that gives to love, friendship, or any ordinary relation of life, its most potent charm. Thus it came to pass that many a day Claude painted alone, with but a careless smile vouchsafed to him occasionally, and knew no pain from the lack, experienced no want, because hope had never dazzled him with her beatific vision. 
                  To-day the solitary hours were peopled with phantoms. Whatever of loss or gain had been in that old life he had fancied left far behind; whatever of pain, or agony, or despair had been shut in the grave of a dead hope, rose now like an unquiet ghost, and reasserted its power. As if one should chain an iceberg in the winter, forgetting the summer sun had a resource far more potent than snapping the chain, and could release the prisoner with a surety that must remain forever undisputed. Sailing through leagues of green pellucid sea to a rosy south, think you the melting berg, touched by the subtile thrill of the tender waves, and resolving slowly back to its original element, never quickened with a sense of delight? What was its icy existence among glittering crystal peaks even though touched with prismatic hues from low-hanging polar moons, to this soft rush of translucent waves, where the undercurrent of ethereal influence interfused soul with soul, losing itself at length in the broader sea, whose eternal smile ever translates one of the variations of God's illimitable love. 
                  And Claude, in the desperate strait that sometimes befalls a human soul, had fixed himself, as it were, in an arctic solitude. Midnight moons might meet a sun skirting the far horizon of sparkling light in its broad, unearthly glory, and glance upon him with their coldness. Luminous stars, softened in their splendor by auroral tints, might swing forever in their circles, ice-bound still in their spheral music. He was henceforth to see a world of beauty, as it appealed to the senses; but love and sympathy were forever barred out. The soul was to have nothing beyond material needs, as it could be fed only on cold, abstract theories. It had drained, at one unwitting draught, the sweetness of life, and found, as many another has, that strength and healing were to be extracted from the bitter dregs. 
                  It was his mistake when he had said, in his dreariness, that there was nothing beyond the desert. For now he saw a possible Paradise, of which he had never dreamed. It is one of the cruelest things of life to come suddenly upon a great joy that stirs every pulse of one's being, and fills the finest fibre with that intense satisfaction which but few rare souls can realize, and know if fate had been a little kinder, if some change in the ever-shifting sea of events had worked but a little in our favor it might have been ours. The one pearl, without which the setting must remain forever vacant. No after diamond can be so nicely fitted but that some unfilled niche will show upon minute examination. I wonder if, when Moses stood on Pisgah's top, and viewed the distant Promised Land that he was never to enter, it gave him any pang? 
                  For the perfectness of 'Claude's vision was exquisite torture. Now and then some favored being may reach a grand and harmonious development by propitious circumstances and contact with the soul strong enough to pilot it through dangerous channels; but to most of us it is given to behold these darkly, as in a glass; to know where we were warped and stunted, and yet be able only to utter a bitter cry for the help that never comes Then we return to common life, too often dead in soul. How many just such pitiful corpses lie along the highway of the world; for though there may be Christian burial for bodies, no kindly hand cares for these. Now and then some vacant eyes stare at us, and we know the spirit has been too weak or the body existed too long. Is God keeping watch over all these things? Is he deaf to the passion and agony of these who know the desertion and the crucifixion, without the love that makes it all glorious? Heaven keep us from doubting him in our despairing moments! 
                  Claude worked and thought. All the old life rose before him. A step here, a decision there, would have changed his own fate and that of another. At the moment he had lacked courage, faith in himself, doubted his own capacity. His ambition had been the same as now, but his powers of execution had needed centralizing. He could make no bridge from that unsatisfactory existence to the point where he had wished to be; and two or three tragical touches of fate had brought him thither, with the rush of a mighty torrent. If he had trodden on any jagged edge of stone, he had made no outcry. There are times when we go steadily forward, as if girt on the right hand and on the left by paths of fire, and reach the goal none the less surely. But think of the terror that beset every step, the fierce breath of flame that threatened to devour us. 
                  He saw a certain and not far distant end. He was to leave this tangled path, to begin another life with a truer estimate of himself. But could he endure, unflinchingly, even for that brief while? For it brings a strange misgiving of our own powers when we fancy we have known ourselves thoroughly, to be surprised by some chance word, some tone or glance, into moods we hardly dreamed of possessing. 
                         
                           "And slight withal may be the things that bring 
                           Back to the heart the weight which it would fling 
                           Aside forever." 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  Dana resolved to give Claude time to recover himself, and take whatever possession of his own soul was still possible. And when he did come, it was in the mood in which Claude had first met him. Gay, keen, and perplexing, without the depth of sentiment that of late had rendered him so dangerous. A geniality that soothed and put anxious fears to flight. He meant slowly to disarm Claude, and leave him at last defenceless, but not until he was ready to submit himself a captive. 
                  Ariel's picture was commenced. There was no need to idealize; and presently it began to prove a strange relief to his brain, always wearying itself with puzzling conflicts. The summer warmth penetrated the most secluded recesses with its intense and enervating languor. It seemed to affect the child noticeably. At mid-day it always drooped, and a shadow came into its eyes that was not the shadow of sleep, but of a weariness, further reaching and more occult. He wasted away in a manner scarcely perceptible, for the rounded outlines never absolutely sharpened; but it was as if the solid substance of the pearly flesh grew more and more etherealized, and some unseen influence drained it slowly of physical life, and gave instead the tone of that land we know only by faith, and in our inspired moments call heaven. 
                  The mother, meanwhile, seemed to ripen to a fuller and deeper beauty, to take on more brilliant tints, to hold in her eyes a light that thrilled and dazzled, and yet warmed no one but her child. The two grew closer together every hour. She fed it with rapturous kisses; it slept on her bosom through the warmest nights, or rather she slept, holding it to her heart in lieu of some old, bewildering dream. 
                  There were times when she absolutely startled Dana with her weird, inexplicable splendor. He kept her supplied with flowers, and she always wore them at her throat, or in her quivering hair, that forever seemed shaking off waves of liquid amber. What secret did she hold in the far depths of her being? As if she must have been coeval with the old gods, and practised in all their mysterious charms. There was a witchery in her very voice, infiltrated with a sentient vitality that stirred every pulse. And yet she never held the slightest degree of fascination for him beyond the sense of affluent loveliness. 
                  He found Ariel drooping and listless one evening. The child seldom talked, but he loved to lie in Dana's arms, and watch him with wide, wondering eyes. On this night he clung to his mother. 
                  "Is he quite well?" Dana asked, with a little alarm. 
                  "Yes;" and Mrs. Tresorier's tone was a trifle sharp. "He slept too long this afternoon, and the warm weather always makes him languid. You should see him in the morning, after his drive." 
                  "I don't mean to alarm you, but I should consult a physician. August is generally severe on these little ones." 
                  Dana's eyes met Claude's for the merest instant. The artist was ashen pale, as if some pang of mortal terror had seized him. 
                  "He is extravagantly fond of the child, in his quiet, self-contained fashion," thought Dana. 
                  Claude glanced straight through the distance with fierce eyes and compressed lips. As if some phantom stood in his path which he dared not question. A way out of the labyrinth of which it was a sin even to dream. 
                  "I shall see Dr. Mercer to-morrow," Mrs. Tresorier said, coming at length to a conclusion. "Though I think the child is quite as well as usual. He drooped in this manner last summer, but was never sick." 
                  When they were left alone, Dana said,- 
                  "Tresorier, do you mind telling me about your plans? You still keep to your determination of going abroad?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  A curious expression crossed the artist's face, and his eyes wandered out of the open window. In the softly blending lights the countenance seemed womanly weak, and struggling against some unseen fate, as men rarely do,-for here there was a clinging despair it pained one to see,-rather than the pride of will and mastery. 
                  "I mean to make the best of the brief while left me," Dana continued, studying the other, and wondering if the idea of companionship would be distasteful or irksome to him. "I've been thinking all day what an idle fellow I was, and how little good I really did in the world." 
                  "At least you make others happy," Claude answered, half unconsciously. 
                  "In a merely negative way for the most part. Giving money or material pleasure never touches me very deeply. But I think I could be a warm and steady friend to one in need-one whose soul kindled mine. Do you know, Tresorier, what it is to live years and years alone as to one's inward being? After any cruel shock we are glad to crawl into the solitude where no eye can reach us; but presently we do recover, and return to our old wants and longings. I cannot satisfy myself; my life seems like a wandering stream, threading its way along shady banks, but never finding the deeper sea it searches for; and because it hears the distant melody it cannot reach, it throbs and grieves even in brightest hours. There's a sore and tender spot that refuses to be healed. You see I show you my weakness. Why is it that we would rather stamp on our own souls, and crush them to atoms, than to have some persons hear their restless beating, while to others we unveil them freely?" 
                  "Because we know, with that fine and inexplicable sense, that this other sees with eyes like our own," Claude answered, startled from the strong guard he usually kept over himself. 
                  "Like the touch of a hand or the tone of a voice. And that is why I liked you so at first, Tresorier. When the right chord is struck, your soul responds before you can speak. I saw it in your eyes that morning at Shultz's. One doesn't need to use words with you in the 'strong hours,' as Wallenstein calls them." 
                  Claude started at this. "You must always talk to me," he said, with sudden energy. "I like it. And I have a nervous notion that I always feel safer when I hear people talk." 
                  "And I like to talk," Dana answered, as if he had not observed the unwitting betrayal. "We should be the best of friends, for what one lacks the other supplies. We are alike, and yet not alike." 
                  "You are sanguine and joyous. Adversity would only bow you for a while. Your resolute and genial soul must reassert itself. And I fancy I am naturally inclined to melancholy." 
                  "It's because of your life. Let me say it, Claude, with tenderest regard, there's a chain chafing you somewhere. I can wait patiently until you choose to show it. But I hope to see you taken out of this shade. I want you to live a full, free existence, and then, wherever you are, I shall ask to come and look at your soul. I can fancy what it will be in its blossoming, but that does not suffice. And if any power in my hands could hasten its completion-" 
                  "O, no, no!" and the tone was freighted with unutterable anguish. "Some souls are doomed to walk the darkest and bitterest paths alone, and mine is one. Yet do not fancy me wholly miserable. Though I must wear the chain, and refuse, with something that savors of ingratitude, to let another share my burden, you have all that can be given. The rest is with God, for he only can judge me rightly." 
                  "Hush," Dana said, coming nearer. "I think there are some human hearts that can be pitiful and tender. And I want you to believe that there is no extremity, whether brought about by your own act, or that of another, but would find a lenient judge in me." 
                  A statue could not have been stiller than Claude Tresorier, save that he breathed. There was no motion to win Dana, and his own subtile intuition told him this was dangerous ground. For the shame of being too soon is not less hard to bear than the agony of being too late. 
                  "Tresorier," he began, in his usual tone, "I heard you say once that you loved the water. There's a little fairy spot in the Harlem River, just above High Bridge, that I used to haunt when a boy. And now the spirit has taken me, as it did the Ancient Mariner, and I want to tell you my story. It must be there in the quiet and shimmering lights. I'll drive you up any evening, but let it be soon, while the moon rises early. Mrs. Tresorier shall not say that I tempted you to late hours." 
                  Claude cast about for some reasonable pretext to allege for not complying, but in his desperation the crisis passed. 
                  "You will not refuse me this?" 
                  It must have been a stronger heart than Claude's to resist the beseeching voice. 
                  "Any evening you like." Since it must come, it were best to be over soon, and save the torture of a long anticipation. 
                  "Thank you. I was afraid you meant to put me off, but you wouldn't try if you knew how much I cared. Thursday night, then, if you are disengaged." 
                  Claude assented, and Dana bade him a kind good night. He judged that the artist's soul was rich in sympathy, and that its profoundest depths would be stirred by the appeal he meant to make. For himself, he could have borne on in silence. There was no inherent and fatal weakness in him, such as renders confidence necessary to some persons. But the time was brief, and he must take some bold step to attach this fine soul to himself; to have it rest on him as the dearest friend one can know. 
                  When Tresorier shut the hall door he shivered, although the night was so warm. Then he entered the room where the child and its mother lay asleep; but if there was any latent resolve in his mind, it was not put into execution then, or ever. 
                
                
                   
                  VIII. A CONFIDENCE. 
                  LEAVING the carriage at the hotel, on the high bank, Dana and his friend began to descend the narrow foot-path. The declivity to the river's edge at this point was quite steep, the bank showing in the soft light like miniature palisades. The river lay in a faint mist of silence. A silvery ribbon flowing between green shores, narrowing as it went on, through dark copses or ridges of rock, and dusky bits of woodland. 
                  Some strange instinct caused Dana to reach out his hand, as if to assist the other, as he knew the way better. Claude's slight figure, contrasted with his own, gave him a sense of protection. He felt the fingers tremble in his clasp. He pitied this fluttering soul with the purest, tenderest passion, such as one can only give to a person unconsciously weaker. He understood his power, but was too generous to use it freely, knowing what the end must be, even if Tresorier resisted a while with the armor of false strength. 
                  "You are not afraid?" he said, his tone low and soft, as accorded well with the shadowy night and murmurous monotone of the river. 
                  "O, no." 
                  "There is our boat. I was up here this afternoon and selected it. At Yale I used to be considered a fine oarsman, though during late years I have rowed very little; but I think your life will be safe in my hands, as we have no rapids nor breakers." 
                  A man emerged from the door-way of a cottage at the water's edge. Seeing Dana, he nodded sagaciously, and scrambled bled down to unfasten the chain knotted over a stake. But Dana was before him, and had thrown it off with a quick jerk after Claude was seated. His motions were light and agile as those of some graceful wild creature. He pushed the boat out with one oar, and then took his place, facing Tresorier. 
                  "Look about," he said, softly. "Isn't it veritable fairyland? The bridge shuts us out from the world-the great city lying below there. And this is such a miniature bay, deepened by the shadow of those great arches, and the hills on both sides, though they used to be higher. There isn't air enough to stir the trees, so it's a picture of still life." 
                  A soft plash broke the resemblance, and the awe that was falling over Tresorier, bringing him back to the world. 
                  "I don't ask if you like it, for I see by your face. And yet you are not quite at ease." 
                  "I shall be, soon." 
                  Claude held his hands over his eyes for a few moments. What old ghosts drowned out the present with a dim remembrance? For if he had ever sighed to live over that time, he did so no longer. He was willing to let it slip away and hold the present,-the present, with its greater pain and surer end. He found a secret joy in every pang. 
                  They went slowly up the river. Presently the banks grew lower and more irregular; the purple shadows trembled softly in the arms of the silver light. Here and there a tree stood boldly out against the transparent heavens, where scarcely a cloud drifted. The sky was not blue, but of a serene pearly tint; pure floating ether, in the luminous hollow of which sailed golden stars. The young moon, like a bashful bride, glided frequently behind some hazy veil, as if half afraid of the wooing earth waiting to clasp her shadow, and prison it within some leafy nook. Beauty of that overpowering but refined type that unconsciously saddens the heart, because it calls up visions lost and forgotten save in hours like these. 
                  Tresorier's eyes grew large and lustrous, and yet were full of a touching melancholy. So deep, indeed, that Dana said, in an under breath,- 
                  "You are not unhappy because you have come?" 
                  "Do not think that," Claude replied, hastily. 
                  "I want you to be happy and at peace with me. I want you to feel, that though I may sometimes stir the depths of your soul by an intense power that in certain conditions is as much a part of me as my own life, I shall never extort from you any sign of the regard for which I so ardently long." 
                  Vain promise; and that Claude felt. For those eyes of azure, with the shade back of the irids as it were, quivered in their crystal lakes with a sense of strength, tempered and controlled by the fine brain, but discerning and mastering the tendencies of another towards this mental light. When the eyes said, "Thus far and no farther," they could chill the warmth and freedom of any soul; keep it in its own range as securely as with the strongest chain; but when they bade it come hither, the very sweetness, the smile of heavenly light, the rare and subtile enthusiasm, won it, even against its will, to dare any peril. 
                  And now Claude was so won. Knowing that an hour or two would end the tension and the spell, he weighed the arguments on both sides, and yielded his soul as well as his senses. Yet he said, almost coldly, for so sound the first passion-pure utterances of the soul when moved to the mysterious depths of inward being,- 
                  "Why should you care so much? For you there certainly can be no lack of friends!" 
                  "Not in the ordinary acceptation of the term, perhaps. But I am peculiar, and peculiar people suit me best." 
                  "I was not aware that I was in scarcely any sense peculiar." 
                  "Because you know so little about yourself. I don't see where you have been living all these years; at all events it must have been with those who had a faculty of appropriating all the best qualities of your soul. And you don't seem the person to be so appropriated either, for your individuality is strongly marked. And though your life may have given you a certain passive patience, because endurance is so strong in you, your nature is all made up of positives. You ought to love and hate; to desire with eager passionateness; instead of that you have no desires at all. I don't believe you ever sought a friend in your whole life." 
                  "I have had very few. I do not believe friendship is my forte." 
                  "Tresorier, you're afraid to love, to trust. You dont't dare to open your heart. I shall never ask you why, for I think some time you will tell me of your own accord. But there is a depth to your nature that will amaze you when the flame bursts up. There are stores of mental riches yet to be brought forth. I wonder if bliss or pain would be the better test?" 
                  "Do you believe in suffering as a necessary preparation for happiness? I do not see why one cannot enjoy any delight fully as well if he has never known sorrow. Misery benumbs the soul. Can it ever respond as easily again? It must learn to doubt, to fear." 
                  Claude's voice was deep, and had in it all the passion of some old undying pain. 
                  "Not as readily perhaps. But if it is refined and enobled, as large souls can be; if in the primeval fires of pain the dross falls away, and the gold of a great and high power comes forth; if the purposes of life are made more manifest, and we see at last beyond mere material existence to purer truths, and know ourselves, not exactly as God knows us, for that is impossible, but in a more comprehensive manner than the world judges us, we learn to honor in ourselves the aspirations we revere in others; to make our sacrifices in no unwilling spirit, but suffer patiently and nobly, not merely because we must. Yet something is gone, I grant you-the glitter of youth that looked so fair; yet is it anything more than ignorance of pain-pride in a strength yet untried?" 
                  "I am a coward," Claude said, almost fiercely. "I shrink from either mental or physical pain;" and he let his glance float away on the crest of the wandering waves, but his hands were clinched tightly together. 
                  "I am going to contradict you. I believe you shrink from the idea of suffering. Quick and far-reaching souls have their keenest pangs in anticipation. They often suffer more deeply than when the blow falls, for that brings with it a vigorous repelling power, a strength to dare. When your hour of trial comes you will make no weak moans. You hardly know what it is by actual experience; how should you?" 
                  Claude's breath came in great bounds, and yet with a mighty effort he governed it. He saw they were on dangerous ground unless he meant to talk of himself, which he did not. So he said,- 
                  "You were to tell me your story." 
                  "Yes. We are alike in this; evening would suit us both best for confidences. See, we are leaving all that shade behind. How calm the world appears from these low, tranquil shores. One gets nearer to God, here." 
                  Claude felt it as he never had before. Something tangible instead of cold abstraction; a God to whom one could cry on lowly bended knees, bringing him nearer with every breath. 
                  "It will not pain you?" he said, thinking again of the story. 
                  "Not now. And if it did, I should still wish you to know it. Some curious power draws me to you. Though your attraction is passive, it is very strong. And there you are unlike the majority of men, whose natures are generally aggressive." 
                  Claude smiled thoughtfully at this, a wandering light fluttering over his face. So long it lasted that Dana paused and watched it in silence. 
                  "You are not beginning," the artist said, nervously. 
                  "True. I shall go back to the very first, for I think early impressions have much to do with forming one's nature. My mother died shortly after I was born, and my first distinct recollections are of coming to occupy the house in which I now live, though all around them was a garden, a perfect wilderness of beauty. My boyhood was spent there with my father, part of the time going to school, and part of the time being taught by him. There must have been a perfect unity in his marriage, or else he, being the stronger, endowed me with a temperament in complete accord with his. He was very handsome. I have several portraits of him, which I will show you sometime. He was married quite late in life, and was my senior by thirty-eight years, but I can never think of him as being old. Everything about him was so harmonious, gentle, and refined, but not weak. He was an invalid all his later life, and physical suffering may have rendered him more acutely sympathetic. 
                  "His soul was clear and lofty, and most unselfish. He did not desire to keep me exclusively to himself, much as he loved me; but he made my home so delightful that I hardly cared to leave it, and I longed for no other friend. He taught me my music, and I think it would have been the delight of his life if I had been musician, painter, or poet. There's an organ down stairs, in the house, on which he used to play those divine chorals of Bach's, and the great anthems of Handel. But, as I told you once, I had no really creative genius. 
                  "I was eighteen when I went to Yale. I much preferred Columbia, because there I could remain at home; but he wanted to send me quite away, in order to test my own strength, for he had a great horror of weak principles. That I did very well, is, after all, no especial credit. With the refinement I had inherited from him, the distaste to vice and vulgarity of all kinds, I was not likely to make any headlong plunges into temptation. I was ambitious to distinguish myself, as much for his sake as my own, and yet I was glad and thankful to return to him. 
                  "He was verging on to sixty then, a fine, noble-looking man. His complexion was exquisite, for all the paleness; his hair snowy white, fine as threads of floss silk, and his beard worn long, was soft and wavy. His hands were beautifully shaped, for, thin as he was, they had not the bony look so natural to age. 
                  "I believe I understood then, for the first time, that his health was actually failing. I had been so accustomed to his gentle invalidism that I had hardly dreamed of any serious ending for long years to come. He kept his room a good deal, and rarely even went out to drive. It was then I began to paint, but much of my time, as you may imagine, was devoted to him. We used to read together. He had an extravagant passion for Shakspeare, and several of the old English poets. And we both revelled in Shelley's 'Prometheus Unbound.' I used to know it half by heart. So you can imagine the kind of life we led. 
                  "His great desire was for me to be happy. So far as worldly good went, there was nothing wanting. I was welcomed into society, for he would not listen to my declining invitations. I was made much of, and especially noticed by women. I confess I found a great deal of pleasure in the world, for I had a genial nature, and was susceptible of a high degree of pleasure. Youth is so fearless. It scarcely hesitates to undertake any conflict, but it always underrates the possible defeats, disbelieves in them, in fact. 
                  "After a while he began to discuss the event, which would, of course, touch me the most nearly in every respect-my marriage. His brief experience had been very blissful, so he never made any bitter flings at matrimony. He looked upon it in its highest and most serious light. I began to understand soon that he was anxious to see me married, because he felt that his life was slowly waning, and wanted to be perfectly satisfied about my future. 
                  "I had an ideal of love, too, gathered from poetry, art, and such dreams as haunt youth; and not the desire only, but the assurance of intense happiness. I knew I was fitted for it; and my father used to say, 'Felix,'-(it should have been 
                     Infelix, but he couldn't see through the far future when he gave me the name and the nature for joy,-'Felix, I want to see you very happy. You have such a keenly susceptible soul that storms and adversity would crush you to the very earth. You will best ripen in peace and serenity. Sunshine is needed for your true development. God grant that I may not have made you weak, but I confess I have as much anxiety for you as mothers have for their daughters.' 
                  "Did you ever think, Tresorier, how many men were wrecked by marriage? They have other resources, it is true. They can solace themselves with ambition when their passion-dreams float by, wrecked on some treacherous shore; but an ill-assorted union as surely curses and paralyzes a man as it does a woman. He is warped and wrenched from his centre no less certainly. Byron was right when he said,- 
                         
                           'Accident, blind contact, and the strong 
                           Necessity of loving, have removed 
                           Antipathies.' 
                        
                      And this necessity is inherent in so many natures. We are lured on in a blind, eager fashion, to accept a glowing something, that in the end cheats our very life with a hunger never satisfied. If we could know-but then we should be too wise. 
                  "By this time there had been many alterations in our part of the city. Our grounds had been divided and sold. One of the houses at the end of the block had been built by a Mr. Delisser, an extremely aristocratic person, who prided himself no little upon his pure descent; but he was a perfect gentleman. My father took a great fancy to him, and the two became friends. 
                  "He had one daughter, Isabel. She was about twenty then, and considered very handsome. I will do her full justice. She was rather tall, with a regal figure and bearing. Her face was proud and dark, or it gave you that idea; but though the hair and eyes were of a midnight intensity, her complexion was what you rarely see in that connection-an almost opaque white. Her nose and mouth were the perfection of haughtiness; the lips a vivid scarlet, and on her cheek a rose bloomed perpetually. It never wavered, as you see the color in some women's faces. To this beauty was added the grace of perfect manners. She must have studied herself well, for every feature, every gesture, played its part with an ease that was marvellous. 
                  "I studied her first with an artist's eyes. Of love, I never thought at all, for with all this sensuous glow, and something so suggestive of fire, she did not warm me to anything deeper than an enthusiasm for her beauty. She was a fine musician; indeed, she was accomplished to the last degree, and she used every art as a foil to her loveliness. I used to think then that she was fond of admiration, but too proud to show her gratification. 
                  "One night we had a little supper party, my father's birthday feast. He had rallied considerably in the last few weeks. Several old friends and their families had been invited, and it was one of those charming, social gatherings, always so enjoyable. The Delissers were there-father, mother, and daughter. 
                  "I know now what inspired Isabel Delisser that night, but then I could not have divined so occult a cause. She blossomed into richest bloom, she glowed like a summer sunset, and I will confess, electrified me. Her brilliant lips were wreathed in sweetest smiles, her voice was low and beguiling, and her eyes followed me about-not in any unwomanly way, but as if she was drawn thither by some spell. Ah, what blind, weak fools we are! but that is the province of youth. I experienced a strange thrill of power at being able to sway, as I thought, this cold, proud woman. No wonder that I lingered by her side, sang with her, and was impressed as I had never been before. 
                  "My father was very weary, and retired immediately after his guests left him. I resigned myself to a reverie in which the lights and the music, and that beautiful face, were blended by a vague, mysterious influence. 
                  "I always took breakfast in my father's room with him, when he was well enough to rise. On the next morning I went as usual. I noticed that he observed me closely, but I was still in a half trance. I would rouse myself to make some trifling remark, and then relapse into silence. 
                  "'Felix,' he said, presently, 'what have you and Miss Delisser been doing?' 
                  "I blushed as if I had suddenly been accused of a crime. I could not even meet his eyes. 
                  "He laughed, in a rich, genial fashion, that quite reassured me. 
                  "'I don't want you to think-' I began, with a sudden accession of courage, and then halted in my speech. 
                  "'I am sure you need not be ashamed of such a conquest. If ever a woman was strongly attracted, Miss Delisser is to you. Strange that I should not have remarked it before.' 
                  "I must say here, that Miss Delisser was quite a favorite with my father. He admired her style and bearing exceedingly, and the lofty manner in which she held herself above common advances. 
                  "'I do not think it ever occurred before,' I said, finding my tongue. 'It is not love.' 
                  "'What is it then?' 
                  "What was it, surely? I had never dreamed of loving her, and she had not acted as if such a thing was possible. 
                  "'There is always a first time,' said my father, gravely. 'And, Felix, when you entered the room this morning I saw the change.' 
                  "I leaned my head on my hand, and thought. Had the passion stolen over me unaware? 
                  "'My boy,' my father began, in his tenderest tone, 'you know we have spoken of the possibility of this. While it would be gratifying to keep your undivided regard to the very latest moment of my life, I know the awful loneliness that will be yours then, and I would fain leave you in tender hands. Love and companionship are absolute necessities to you. 
                  "I thought so too, then, but the least hint of his dying almost broke my heart. He loved me in such a strange, absorbing fashion, that it was most generous for him to be willing to share my time and affection with another, for the sake of my being comforted afterwards. 
                  "'What would you advise me to do?' I asked, presently, feeling quite adrift as to purpose. All my ideas seemed to lack concentration and energy. 
                  "'Do nothing at present. If it is love, it will make itself felt. If it is merely an evanescent passion, called into life by beauty or fascination, it will perish of itself. Only be sure of your own heart.' 
                  "We talked nearly all the morning. I know now that love would have shrunk from this mental inquisition; that it would have sought solitude, and shut out even the tenderest eyes. But we are so much wiser after we have gone through with one experience. In some ways his judgment was as unreliable as mine. It was so long since he had mixed much with the world; and though his discrimination was fine, it was drawn more from his pure and lofty ideals than from actual contact with men and women. There appeared no reason why Isabel Delisser should single me out unless she loved me; for with her beauty and position, as an only child and heiress, she might have had throngs of suitors. 
                  "I know it will surprise you to hear that in a fortnight I was engaged to Miss Delisser. She had given me every encouragement. Cold to others, she warmed to me. She brought out the full store of her charms, and they were many. She sang to me, read to me, as if by some strange intuition, the poems I loved best, talked in her most dangerous fashion, fell into moods that were suggestive of the intensity that might be roused by the man who possessed her love. And I went straight on without a thought. The craving for love, once awakened, proved masterly. The half consciousness that she loved me, blissful as it was mysterious, proved a strong ally. At twenty-three, one feels rather than reasons. We do not think enough of marriage, but rush into it before we are positively assured of the existence of one common sympathy, or of one need which the other can supply. 
                  "A month or so after my engagement there was a great crash in the financial world. Mr. Delisser had been speculating largely, and, with many others, was dragged down to ruin. I went to Isabel immediately, for the loss of fortune never caused me a moment's hesitation. 
                  "I found her in tears. Not weeping passionately and heavy-eyed, but with the dark orbs swimming in a pellucid sea. It makes me angry now to think what a consummate actress the woman was, and that I could not see it! For I might have known that calm face, whose beauty was its first care, was no index of deep feeling or tender grief. But when she offered to relinquish the engagement, as circumstances were so changed with them, I could only believe in her superior nobleness, and be the more anxious to take her into my keeping. 
                  "The marriage took place almost immediately for several reasons, the most important one being that Mr. Delisser was desirous of returning to France, to look after some property he held there. I thought Mrs. Delisser rather ostentatious, but I made no remark. I am afraid my heart was too much with my dear father. Isabel encouraged me to devote all possible time to him, which I fancied particularly unselfish, as she was a woman one felt inclined to pronounce exacting, to a point of jealousy. And I realized so little of it all, for the movement of the drama had been too rapid, and I was under a spell that I called love then, but which I know now for a most fatal infatuation of the senses. 
                  "We went away on a brief tour, but before it had ended I was summoned home. My father had been prostrated by a stroke of paralysis. I found him helpless and speechless. I can't tell you the shock it gave me. My heart was literally rent with anguish. I was thankful that Isabel did not endeavor to comfort me, for I wanted solitude in my first passion of grief. 
                  "It was December then. He rallied a little, and lived until March. All that time I was his faithful attendant. I don't believe any daughter could have been tenderer. There's a sort of feminine element in my nature. I never have a desire to get away from one who is suffering. It appeals to me in a strange manner, as if I would fain share it. And if I could have saved him any pang,-but I do not think he was conscious of much physical pain, for his brain seemed affected. Part of the time he even forgot about my marriage. 
                  "Whether wisely or not, I could not help in some degree being separated from Isabel. She shrank from the sick room. I used to notice a curious aversion settling in the lines about her mouth. What was stranger still to me, she never appeared to feel lonely over my defection, or experience any want. She kept up her circle of friends, drove out daily, and paid a minute attention to the elegancies of dress. I confess I began to feel wounded by her readiness to yield me up on the slightest occasion. I wanted her to long for me, to take my presence as a pleasure. My heart became chilled with a phantom fear. I am glad now that my dear father never wholly recovered his faculties, for his eyes might have detected what I was trying to hide from myself. 
                  "At last he died, with his hand in mine. I was alone with him, and I kissed down the fluttering eyelids, and left my last caress on the pale lips, growing cold with the touch of that awful mystery-death! And I did suffer, as Heaven will bear me witness. Sometimes, when I read De Quincey, it all comes back to me. Every pang is remembered in its freshness. 
                  "It is curious, Tresorier; but I fancy you would always prefer to suffer alone. In your nature there is a solemn depth that does not respond easily; a sort of reserve that is almost pitiless in its seclusion. To me, sympathy is so sweet, so dear! My father was right in that. And as Isabel was a part of myself, it was natural that I should go to her-solace myself in her tears and tenderness. 
                  "It was like turning to a stone. She uttered common-place platitudes, and busied herself in her mourning, which was most elegant of its kind. I believe she never shed a tear; and a woman whom sorrow does not touch, is a monstrosity. 
                  "Afterwards she insisted upon going away while the house was altered and refurnished. I was too deeply stunned by grief to gainsay her, and she commanded with so imperious an air that I felt a word might bring on an outbreak. I had an intense dislike of disagreements, and had learned, ere this, that Isabel was no angel in temper. Then, too, a strange sweet hope was dawning upon me. The ideal happiness of youth raises us above depressing commonplaces. We are continually looking forward until some day when we find the flame of imagination, once so powerful, has burned out to ashes. 
                  We came home at length, and took up a life so unlike the one I had planned, that I could hardly recognize myself as an actor in it. In autumn, our child was born. I can't tell you how I had counted on it, longed for it; but it was not the thing I wanted. A dark, weazen-faced little thing, with staring eyes, and thin, spider-like fingers, that seemed forever seeking to clutch something. There was a starved look in every feature, a sort of stunted development, that struck hard against my sense of harmony. But it was my child, and the thought of ownership gave me a thrill in spite of all that was lacking. 
                  "It had a pleasant room and a nurse, and its mother, when she recovered, went back to her old place in society. She appeared to have an insatiable desire for excitement, change, gayety, and yet I fancied that she did not thoroughly enjoy them. As if she was trying to drown out something that haunted her; an unquiet ghost, that began to walk when we two were alone. 
                  "She did not love the child, that I soon saw. It was a sickly, wailing baby, never ill enough to be in danger, never well enough to have its limbs round out, to grow rosy and smiling. Yet hungering for something, I unconsciously drew nigh that, fed my heart on the hope of what it might become; for at present it was not winsome. It never clung to one, as babies so frequently do; but when I took it, straightened itself defiantly, and sent up its piteous wail. 
                  "And this was the manner in which my hopes had blossomed. A wife whose chief interest was in herself, a woman of a cold, yet passionate nature, who could control her temper admirably when she chose, but who did not always choose. Her persistence, even in the most trivial matter, was untiring; her will a very giant. As the months passed on, she made me feel as if I had wronged her in some way; and Heaven knows I was sore and humble enough to make any concession, had she charged me with neglect or coldness. But I could never bring her to any point of intimate conversation. She would not remain alone with me if she could avoid it, and so we came to have guests in the house much of the time. Mrs. Delisser was with us also. 
                  "My mother-in-law was still handsome and young looking for her years, but haughty and narrow-minded. There was not the slightest sympathy between us; and though there did not seem much with Isabel, the two agreed very well, for society was the god of both. There was nothing left for me but to count on my child. 
                  "'If it had only been a boy,' Mrs. Delisser would say, 'one would not mind its being so very plain; but it will be extremely mortifying for a girl.' 
                  "In her eyes want of beauty was a capital crime in a woman. 
                  "I was not miserable all the time, for society had many charms for one constituted as I was. I had agreeable friends, and wealth brings various pleasures. Music became my passion, and I used to lose myself in its divine alleviations. I might have been more resolute if I had felt quite conscience-clear. If I had been more to Isabel in the beginning-if I had not allowed her to stray so far away from my heart. I could not instance any particular time, but I had a fatal misgiving that the foundation had not been altogether right. For it did not seem now as if Isabel had been the woman to treat any man as she had treated me in the days of our courtship. What wretched blindness had possessed me! 
                  "There, Tresorier,"-and Dana paused, resting on his oar,-"look about in the wide, still night. If we did not come to just such calm oases in the desert of life it would be unendurable! God knows how weak we are, how wavering, how we cast about in our own desperate needs, and he has made some quiet places for temples, where we can utter our sorest cry in his ears alone." 
                  The river had narrowed insensibly. On either side broad level shores, broken with clusters of shrubs at intervals, and the rank grass softly swaying in the night air. Wafts of distant clover fields, and the spice of orchards in their indescribable greenery; the peculiar fragrance of wild grapes, some vines of which must have been near. The faint lights in some far cottages were the only suggestion of life. At the left they heard the monotone of the Hudson fretting its foamy way on and on. Claude held his breath, moved by the solemn beauty. 
                  "You'll paint the better to-morrow for this," Dana continued. "And now I'm going to turn the boat about, and start her out here in the channel where the tide will float us." 
                  With a stroke from the oar he executed his purpose. Then he drew it in, folded his arms, and lingered a moment, as if loth to begin. Claude's eyes questioned, but his lips were mute. A deeper feeling than interest was expressed in his face,-a sympathy absorbing and profound. 
                
                
                   
                  IX. A MAN'S LOSS. 
                  "WE had been married two years, when one evening, at a large party, a friend of Isabel's came suddenly upon her. I was standing by, and she introduced me. A Mr. Maurice Chevenor, a man who would be pronounced fine looking at a first glance, but as I examined him closely, I found his face gave me a feeling of distrust. His eyes had a peculiar stealthy glitter. His forehead was high, but narrow at the temples, and his lips thin; but his figure was manly, his voice full and fine, and impressed you with a certain sense of power. 
                  "I learned in the course of the evening that he had lately come into possession of a considerable fortune; that his family were well connected, though formerly poor. He had been the travelling agent of an importing house, or at least had gone abroad in that capacity. He had met Mr. Delisser in Paris a few days before his return, and would be happy to take the earliest opportunity to pay his respects to Mrs. Delisser. When we parted I invited him to call, and Isabel seconded my invitation. 
                  "I was not jealous. I don't know what I might have proved under the influence of a tenderer and more absorbing passion. I had grown so accustomed to Isabel's pleasing herself with the admiration of the world, that Mr. Chevenor's call meant no more than that of any other person. I did not even wonder what sort of friends they had been, though Mrs. Delisser glanced at Isabel with a sort of dismay as she made the announcement. I was not at all suspicious, and the acquaintance was renewed without comment. I knew Isabel well enough to believe she would never have married a poor man, so the thought of his having been a lover never entered my mind. There was no change in her conduct to rouse me. 
                  "There is a room at the rear of the house that in my father's time was used for a conservatory. Isabel had insisted upon its being altered and fitted up for a library, as it joined the drawing-room. One rainy afternoon in February I had been down there reading, and feeling drowsy, stretched myself on a sofa in the darkest corner, and soon fell asleep. The doors between were not entirely closed, but no one would have dreamed of visitors on such a day. 
                  "I must have been sleeping very soundly, for I did not hear the slightest stir, though I will give Isabel the credit of possessing that rare quiet which is an admirable quality in any person. She always talked low, unless in a passion; her dresses were soft, and never rustled, and her motions were light and easy. Presently I started at the sound of a voice, which, though smooth and rapid, was not hers. Opening my eyes, I found the place in a twilight gloom. Before I could think, and much before I could have acted on the hastiest impulse, I heard Isabel say,- 
                  "'You shall hear my justification. The world may think me cold and heartless, yes, even my own husband, but you must, you do know better! I told you when we parted that I could never be happy as the wife of a poor man. Luxury, and ease, and beautiful surroundings are absolute needs of my nature. I should be most miserable without them. Nothing could make amends for a hard, bald, distasteful life. Even your love would have failed there. But I did mean to wait, for my beauty would not have waned in five years. I would not promise, it is true, but the idea was sacred to me. Then came the terrible winter of our misfortunes, and not ours alone. My father made a great effort to extricate himself, and kept up to the very last, for he was desperately proud. But my mother told me, taunted me, with having allowed my fine opportunities to slip, and pictured the life to which we must shortly be reduced. We were coming to this house to a small birthday party that evening, for old Mr. Dana was then alive. All the afternoon I thought over the ugly black facts. The fate I had not even dared for the sake of your love, was about to overtake me. There was but one resource-marriage. I considered in my own mind which of my suitors would be least objectionable. Ten minutes after I entered this drawing-room my election was made. I had always liked Mr. Dana very well, and he possessed every requisite. Don't imagine I deluded myself into thinking I could love again. I did not even desire such a thing. But as I had fascinated many a one without an effort, I felt assured I could not fail when I did try. I soon had him at my feet, and kept him so deeply absorbed in his own feelings that he did not question mine. So when our house fell, I had made a friend of the mammon of unrighteousness. Was I so very wrong?' 
                  "She uttered this with such a withering sneer that every pulse within me fell like lead. 
                  "'You certainly followed scriptural advice.' His tone was mockingly bitter. 'But you could not hide the truth from me! The first night I saw you, I knew you had added another to the list of miserable women who have sold themselves for gold.' 
                  "'What else could I have done?' she began, fiercely. 'Perhaps it was as easy to starve in one respect as in another, and starvation of some kind stared me in the face.' 
                  "'If you had waited.' 
                  "I can't tell you what the man put into his voice. A suggestion, that must have been maddening to the woman who loved him. 
                  "'Yes, if I had waited. Be merciful, and don't torture me with the thought. For it is all done. And it is best now that you should forget me in some other love. I am not a generous woman; far from it; but I will make no moan when I hear of your doing this;' and her voice faltered with passionate anguish. 
                   
                  "'As if I could. How well you know me!' 
                  "'It is best,' she murmured. 
                  "'Because you are afraid? Isn't your golden chain strong enough?' 
                  "'I am not afraid.' Her tone was cold and clear. 
                  "'What does it matter then? We are both sufficiently wise to hide our hearts from the dear world.' 
                  "She would not plead. There was a moment's silence. Then she said, calmly,- 
                  "'There is my dressing bell. It is enough that we understand each other. You are the only person in the whole world to whom I could have told the truth. I wanted you to know.' 
                  "They moved down the room. Presently the hall door closed. I remained in a sort of stupor. The conversation had been so rapid, and so entirely unexpected, that I did not question whether I should have avoided hearing it. I did not feel particularly conscience-smitten, for it seemed as if I had a right to it; but O, miserable knowledge! I knew then how strongly I had been hoping the breach between us would some time be healed; that in the mysterious development of the law of adaptation we would in time draw more closely together, and reach a level attractive to both. And now this was most surely ended. The awful certainty chilled me to the heart's core. I could not even be indignant at her duplicity, her scheming to save herself from poverty; the wound was too deep for minor considerations. 
                  "To my astonishment Isabel appeared at the dinner-table with her usual ease and elegance, not showing the slightest trace of discomposure. She chatted with her mother concerning some new shawls at Stewart's, was courteous to me, and I began to wonder if I had not dreamed the scene. 
                  I felt that any appeal to her would be useless. What she would not yield to my tender care and devotion, she would not give to any argument, however forcible. It was wisest, therefore, to bear my blow in silence for our child's sake, if from no other motive. As the days passed on, all outwardly alike, to the world rose-colored, my anguish grew into a slow, soul-consuming torture. 
                  "I understood, after a little, that we were drifting further apart. I fancied Isabel was losing her steady self-possession. At times a strange gayety came over her, rendering her doubly fascinating; then a gesture or hasty word betrayed to me, knowing the secret, that the chain galled her. I devised expedients daily, and realized how fruitless they were. Mr. Chevenor was apparently the same. He lingered in her vicinity, yet no word or look betrayed to the world a more than casual interest. And yet I began to feel that it was like the current of a whirlpool. We were floating round the first wide circles, where the air was balmy and the current smooth; but I could see the centre, with its seething waves, its scorching breath, and black ingulfing tide. I knew, too, that Mrs. Delisser had a little fear. It was my duty to save Isabel at any cost. I thank God I was never tempted by any weak longing for myself, sweet as liberty would have been. I could not forget that she was my child's mother. And then pride recoiled at the thought of open shame. 
                  "He had attended her to the opera one evening, in company with several friends-for she made her engagements without any special reference to me. They had returned alone, however, and he remained some time in the drawing-room with her. When she came up stairs, her impassible face had been softened by some strange emotion, and her voice had a touch of tremulousness in it, very unusual with her. I tell you, Claude, I envied the man bitterly who possessed this power over her. I understood, too, that they were nearing danger's brink, and to keep silence any longer would be cowardly. 
                  "She began to take off her jewels in a listless fashion, then, as if bethinking herself, reached forward to ring the bell for her maid. 
                  "'Isabel?' I said, interposing, 'it is so seldom that I find you alone, that I shall improve this opportunity to speak of a most important matter.' 
                  "She stared at me with cool, haughty eyes, and with a half yawn answered,- 
                  "'Postpone it for to-night. I am tired and sleepy, and shall prove a stupid auditor.' 
                  "'It must be said now;' and I roused myself to a sense of authority, in spite of the imperious turn of her head. Though her supercilious-'Begin, I am all attention,' was not calculated to assist in maintaining one's mental equilibrium. 
                  "I did begin, slowly and calmly. I spoke of my bitter disappointment in finding the realization of life had fallen so far short of what she had led me to expect at our marriage; of my patient waiting, month after month, in the hope that our natures would assimilate; of the love I had always been ready to give her, and that I thought I had a right to expect in return. Presently I came to that February afternoon. She started and turned pale for an instant, then listened unmoved to the end. 
                  "'What do you propose doing?' she asked, as if of a most indifferent matter. 
                  Her coolness astounded me, and yet I declare to you, Claude, if she had shown any contrition, I should have taken her to my heart at once. She was my wife, and I did desire to love her, to have her love me. And I plead for it as a man might plead for his life. 
                  "'All this is useless,' she said, with an air of weariness. 'I tell you so in kindness. Since you did hear that day's weak confession, and I was a fool for admitting it, I will allow that I did not love you. Yet I think I have done your house no discredit. I gave you beauty, and to a man of your pride and sthetic culture that should be a great deal. You see I did not love Maurice Chevenor well enough to marry him.' 
                  "'Because he was poor,' I groaned. 'I did not offer to purchase your beauty. I wanted your heart, your love. With it I should have counted myself rich; now, no beggar is so utterly miserable!' 
                  "'Mr. Dana,' she said, calmly, 'in justice to me go over that past time. I do not think I promised you any extravagant affection. You were an ardent wooer, absorbed in your own passion. I allowed you to love me, since it appeared to give you much satisfaction, but can you recall any particular demonstration on my part? You misled yourself.' 
                  "It was a wretched subterfuge, and yet I did not feel quite blameless. True, she had allured with all the arts and fascinations a woman could use; she had feigned enthusiasms that she did not feel, a tenderness for my father and myself, generous beliefs that were absolute mockeries. She had deliberately planned to insnare me. Does any one possess so rare an insight at twenty-three that he could be sure of distinguishing between the true and so complete a counterfeit? 
                  "'If you had been honest,' I said, 'told me you had no heart to bestow, instead of taking my love, and giving me a paltry sham in its stead, or if since, even, you had endeavored to make amends, I could have forgiven you.' 
                  "'I am not suing,' she returned, haughtily. 'If it will be any comfort, you can believe I have punished myself as well. But now that you know I do not love you, and the reason why I cannot, it is folly to waste words. I think we are as well situated as some of our friends who have begun with the highest hopes. There is very little of your ideal love in the world. As for Mr. Chevenor, I have never sought his society. If he chooses to linger around the old flame,' and she shrugged her shoulders, 'the risk is his. Rest assured that I know my position too well, and have too much pride, to barter all for love.' She uttered this last scornfully. 
                  "I felt assured that no passion would be strong enough to stir her from her central poise. 
                  "'Well,' she said, at length, 'the night is waning, and I await your commands.' 
                   
                  "How was I to extricate myself from this slough of misery. 
                  "'For your child's sake!' I exclaimed, making one last appeal. 
                  "'If it rests with me,' she said, calmly, 'we will go on as heretofore. You will have no more to complain of in the future than in the past. And it would be foolish to declare to the world that we are weak enough to bewail a mistake that occurs daily.' 
                  "She ended with a scornful laugh. The hard, cold face never softened. I was wild with anguish. 
                  "'And go on living this miserable lie?' I said, in my passionate pain. 
                  "'If you choose to make yourself ridiculous by a separation, I will not thwart you. If every woman was called to an account for some old lover, there would be few wives left. 
                  "The irony in her tone was enough to madden one. I knew she did not mean to leave me, did not desire a separation. Our child's welfare was to be considered. Had I any right to make her motherless? and to send her away under the protection of an unloving mother would be still worse. Our marriage looked fair to the world, and I must take the blame and the risk of any positive step. I was torn by a thousand conflicting emotions; and before me yawned the long, dreary future! How could I endure it? The May of life blasted by Winter's snow. 
                  "I left her at last. I had played my trump card, and lost all that a man holds dear. The hope that we might, some time, reach a mutually safe point for an explanation had perished. There was nothing before me but blackest despair. 
                  "Two events occurred the ensuing week that made it seem as if fate had conspired against me. Maurice Chevenor left the city with a number of friends, who expected to make a somewhat extended tour, taking in California. Mrs. Delisser received a letter from her husband, asking her to join him, as he was likely to be domesticated at Paris. She decided to go, though I could not help feeling that she was relieved by Mr. Chevenor's departure. 
                  "I had a wild fancy to send Isabel with her mother. If she had expressed the slightest wish, I should have consented immediately. Outwardly there was no difference between us, except one distinction she made of her own accord. She consulted me about accepting invitations, and placed herself under my protection in a somewhat exclusive manner, yet without ostentation. It blinded Mrs. Delisser; but misery had made me too keen-sighted to believe that it arose from even a tardy repentance. She never asked a question or made the slightest overture. To keep discussing the matter was worse than useless, so it was mutually avoided. 
                  "Time goes on whether one is wretched or happy. During the summer Isabel visited various places of fashionable resort, while our child and its nurse were in a quiet, healthy country home. She developed so slowly. I think she was unlike the majority of children. By degrees she outgrew some of her dislike for any person besides her nurse, and would come to me; but it was not the sweet, endearing fondness of a child for its parent. Had she really inherited an aversion from her mother, and was this stunted growth, both mental and physical, the result of a fateful marriage? There was another thing I so much regretted. Music seemed one of her strongest dislikes. I had given up playing on this account, as the nurse declared it made her more fretful. As she grew older the feeling remained instead of dying out. One doesn't look for any very remarkable characteristics in a child of hardly two years, but this one appeared weak in all the qualites I most desired. Being so delicate, the indulgenceshe had received had filled her with caprices and rendered her a perfect little tyrant. And yet I loved her. I can't explain it, except that she was my child; and whatever defects I saw in her constitution or temperament, seemed more the result of a fatal mistake on the part of others than any fault of hers. I meant, as she grew older, to take her in charge, and educate her as far as any father could. I could count on her mother's not interfering. I had a sort of blind belief that at the last, when she understood how much she might become to me, it would soften her nature, and I might have one joy wherewith to solace my dreary life. So you see hope was not quite dead. 
                  "We were domesticated, as usual, through the winter. Our affairs remained in the same state. But although it was deemed judicious to keep up appearances before the world, we made no attempt to disguise the facts to ourselves. Since love was at an end, we would no longer cheat our souls by any semblance of it. As I had perfect confidence in Isabel, I told her that she was free to seek any honorable pleasure. I would not appear mean and suspicious when I was not so. I did not wish to feel compelled to appear constantly in society, but she should be at liberty to choose her friends and enjoy them. I don't know whether this was wise, but I felt I could not endure any other course. My wretchedness had begun to affect my spirits. I was weary of the show and glitter that could not satisfy. 
                  "Maurice Chevenor returned to the city, and it was impossible for the two not to meet in society. She neither sought nor shunned him. I knew by the manner in which he treated me that she had not prejudiced me in his esteem, and I thanked her sincerely for this. I had no fancy for being quoted as a domestic tyrant. Yet the life was wearing in the extreme. I often felt as if I could not endure it. 
                  "The winter dragged its slow length along, and spring came again. With it the usual discussion of summer resorts. Isabel began to grow strangely dispirited, I thought. She would fall into musing moods, quite unlike her former activity and excitement. She looked worn, the outlines of her face sharpened, the eyes restless, and sometimes with a perceptible shade underneath. From my very soul I pitied her. If you have never tried, you do not know how hard it is to live in the same house with a person, and be on apparently friendly terms, while between you there is a black, impassiable gulf. Not a nerve in your whole body that is not stretched, as if on the rack, and yields to that state of morbid sensitiveness, where every hour's endurance seems the last that can be borne. Though I had suffered the more intensely, I felt she would be the first to yield to the pressure of misery. I resolved to make one more overture. 
                  "I was mistaken again. Perhaps in those early days I judged her too much by myself, for I would have taken up with a lesser degree of happiness. If she pined for any love, it was not my love. If she was haunted by a vision of any lost joy, it was not what I could have given. But that the bond was growing irksome, she could not hide entirely from me. At last she proposed that she should rejoin her mother in Paris. Heaven help us! We invariably take our most important steps in the dark. Only God is always wise, and always patient, because far-sighted. He knows all our weakness and our temptations, and the hard battles where we so often give up just before the victory. Yet I do not know that I could have averted the end, so I consented. 
                  Little Isabel had always done without much supervision on her mother's part. My chief interest was with the child. Yet, as the time of separation approached, I fancied she grew more ill at ease with every hour. She would start and change color if I came upon her suddenly, and this was the more noticeable from her former impassibility. However, all things were made ready, and I engaged her passage. She never softened at all towards me, but I think she was tenderer towards the child, who really loved no one besides her nurse. 
                  "Our parting was friendly. In fact, anomalous as our positions had been for the last year, we had never even strayed to the verge of a quarrel, but gone our separate ways quietly. Endearments were so palpably out of place that we did not attempt them now. I was solicitous for her comfort, and she seemed to appreciate it. Yet I confess I returned home with a very curious feeling,-presentiment, if you will,-that our separation was as final as if decreed by law. 
                  "Upon glancing over the list of passengers, a day or two afterwards, the name of Maurice Chevenor caught my eye. It made me positively angry. I hated to be deceived. My confidence in her was so great, then, that if I had been aware of it before, I should not have prevented her going. But that she had not the courage to avow it, or from some reason of her own did not wish to, stung me cruelly. Was I weak to let it all go on as fate willed? When experience is limited, we hesitate and falter on our way, ask ourselves the same question hundreds of times, and never reach any decision. She had never hinted that a permanent separation would be agreeable to her, and legal liberty was out of the question. 
                  "I heard from her upon her arrival in Paris. She was residing with her parents, and alluded but slightly to the voyage, which had been pleasant, but never mentioned Mr. Chevenor. She seemed in very good spirits, and sent some fond messages to her child. 
                  "I took lodgings at the farm-house with little Isabel and her nurse. I think those months were the strangest of my whole life. Have you ever remarked one of those curious summer days, when earth, and sky, and air appear charged with a great, dumb shock of electricity, that isn't quite sufficient of itself to bring on a storm, but you feel the deep, awful power everywhere, and it magnetizes you into terror? Especially as the night draws near. There's a peculiar look in the sun, half obscured by the low cloud-strata, with yellowish black edges; there's a mysterious rustle in the leaves, and the grass turns up its soft, green blades, as if listening for the tramp of the storm. Dense shadows settle in the nooks, as if some spirit was lurking in ambush. There are half lights on the meadows, mixed with stealthy green shadows. The very air seems to throb, as if pained by a sentience it is powerless to control. And the night drops down with such a fearful stillness. You wait for the storm that holds you in its threatening grasp, and mocks you with its long delay, until every nerve is like a flash of the fine, forked lightning, that in steely blue and molten gold tears a jagged path across the heavens. Do the clouds suffer, I wonder, when their hearts are so wrenched open? 
                  "This was my state mentally. In that sort of awful calm I waited for the storm. Spasmodically I ate and slept not caring whether I did either. I rambled through the dense woods: no place was too lonely. I questioned God and fate-I think we all do in any great emergency. I felt myself hardly used in thus being bound hand and foot. 
                  "Can you guess the end, Tresorier? Such a bitter sense of shame and humiliation as tortured me; of trust betrayed; of fair name dragged into the dust! She wrote herself, not attempting to palliate the wrong, but simply announcing it. She had placed herself under the protection of Maurice Chevenor. Although she did not say so, I knew she wished me to procure a divorce as soon as possible. 
                  "I could not return to New York. I ordered my house closed, and resolved to hide myself from all pitying or inquisitive eyes. What had I done that this misery should come upon me? No wonder that I rebelled! I was weaker than the heroic woman of your picture; and, Tresorier, noble and grand as we think ourselves sometimes, women put us to shame when the trial-hour comes. Theirs is the faith, and the greater than faith, submission. I think it is because they go to God immediately, while we try to make our own strength sufficient. 
                  "You remember the day on which we first met, that I told you I had gone down to the depths, and beheld my own soul! It was during this dreary time. If my child had clung to me tenderly, I might have been saved through her; but I had to find my way out to the light alone. It was a hard battle. I thrust aside my high idealisms, my pride. I gave up vain speculations and endless questions, and came back to the simple faith my father had taught me. And then I found there was much for me to do. To forgive first, and then set about fulfilling my duties. 
                  "I obtained my divorce in a quiet manner. Mrs. Delisser had repudiated her daughter, therefore it would be useless to send the tidings through her. There were other methods, but some powerful motive induced me to undertake the journey. My little Isabel, being still weakly, might be improved by the change, and all places were alike to me. So I made my preparations speedily. 
                  "I went to Florence, and established my child and her nurse there. During my brief sojourn in Paris, I heard accidentally that Maurice Chevenor was at Perugia. I did not intend to see Isabel; still I was anxious to know how it fared with her. If I had cared to revenge myself, I could have done so by keeping her in ignorance of her liberty, but I had no desire. I wanted to convince myself that there was man enough in Maurice Chevenor to marry Isabel, now that he could; so I drew nearer to those whose destiny I fancied I held in my hand. I heard they were living quietly. I managed, at length, to bring about an interview with Mr. Chevenor. 
                  "He was very much surprised, though he met me with an air of cool bravado, that under some circumstances would have exasperated me. Before I had exchanged half a dozen sentences with him, I knew he meant to act the part of a dishonorable villain; that Isabel had lost the great stake of life as surely now as when she married me. If I had loved her then, I must have been tempted to murder the man. Do not start. I should have done it in a manner approved of by the world, even if condemned by God and my own conscience. I had always abhorred duelling, but I understood now how sorely a man might be tempted to such a deed. I did not love her, although I pitied her profoundly. My suffering had given me a strange sympathy for any being plunged into the gulf of anguish and despair. 
                  "I took up a life of desultory wandering, never making my journeys very long. From one of these I was recalled by Mrs. Allison, my child's nurse. We had thought Isabel improving, and growing stronger, but some childish disease she had contracted had assumed a serious aspect. I hastened back. Medical skill was of no avail. The physician declared that her constitution was so frail it must have succumbed to the first serious illness. I never so felt the bitterness of her being worse than motherless. Lying in her nurse's arms, she moaned her feeble life away,-the poor pale life, composed of neutral tints, so unlike one's visions of childhood. God knew best when he took her. I never questioned his mercy, though I missed her sorely. Not quite thirty, but hopeless and aimless, having suffered more than most men are called upon to do, when I had seemed born for happiness. 
                  "And now I come to the strangest and saddest page of all, as my story draws to a close. About six months after my child's death I was in Florence, and visited her grave. A night just like this, with such a moon, and everything pervaded by an intense quiet. I was to leave again in the morning, but I would have chosen this time to visit the lonely spot. As I neared it, I saw a figure crouching in the grass. My step startled her, and she turned. Good heavens! my child's mother. 
                  "I don't know how long we looked at each other, or what feeling predominated in my heart. She was still royally beautiful, but hope and joy had gone out of the face, and left a pathetic loveliness that moved one to tears. 
                  "'Forgive me,' she said, humbly. 'I had no right to come.' 
                  "The old proud stateliness had dropped out of the voice. I knew then how she had suffered. 
                  "'I can never forget that you were her mother,' I answered. 
                  "'Her mother!' She made a fierce gesture of abhorrence. 'I thank God that she never lived to know how bitter a blight that mother put upon her. When I heard she was dead, I was seized with a passion of tenderness. I had never loved her before. Safe in some angel's bosom, my evil affection could work her no harm. So I came hither.' 
                  "There was a wistful look in her eyes that pained me to behold. 
                  "'You are right to hate me,' she began, presently. 'I wrecked your life; but you are free now. You can begin again.' 
                  "'I do not hate you, as God is my witness. There was a time when I did, but that has gone by. I only regret the evil fate that threw me in your way. Or, if I could have found a path to your heart.' 
                  "'It was too late. Do not reproach yourself with one act or thought concerning me. Cast me out of your life. Forget me, and be happy in some other love.' 
                  "'And you?' I confess, Claude, I was deeply moved by her air of desolation. Perhaps she saw it in my face. 
                  "She laughed bitterly. 
                  "'Never mind about me. Yes, you have a right to know, too. There is a Nemesis of its own kind for every sin. I told you once that love was no such precious boon as deluded souls dream. It is a snare and a curse. I did not think ever to be tempted by it. But he made the life I was leading with you appear insupportable. When I left you in New York, I had a dim consciousness that I should never return. I did mean to keep my own soul honorable. I trusted to my pride; to something in my nature that seemed like rock and ice. But to glacial heights there come avalanches. Somewhere in the treacherous waters I went down, and found the love I grasped at a very straw. Ah, you were grandly avenged! And I will justify myself in one particular. I did not know, until the very hour of the steamer's sailing, that Maurice Chevenor was on board.' 
                  "How could we endure all these mysteries, these strains, and breaks, and perverted uses, and endings, if we did not know there was One above, who never lost sight of an atom, and in some way made each one evolve his high purpose? I experienced the profoundest charity for her. Some impulse made me reach out my hand. She took it tremblingly. 
                  "'You have not said that you forgive me. I must have tried you fearfully many a time, but you were always patient and generous. Heaven knows how bitterly I have wronged you.' 
                  "'It was forgiven long ago. Whatever I may have thought in moments of anguish, whatever anger may have been in my heart, I can believe that the child is dear to you now.' 
                  "'May God bring you to the happiness you should have had years ago. And now leave me.' 
                  "I obeyed the motion of her hand. Glancing back in the soft moonlight, stirless as snow, I watched the bowed figure, until through the dusky distance I lost the outline. The next morning I left Florence; and when I returned, nearly two years later, she was sleeping beside her child. The sad drama had ended. I was to begin life afresh, but no longer with the light heart and sanguine hopes of youth." 
                  "O," Claude said, with a long, deep-drawn sigh, "in that lies the sting of all bitter experiences! We can never be the same again. How dare we love or hope, when these blindly climbing tendrils have once been dragged to the earth, and made a mound of ruins?" 
                  "That is the rock on which so many of us go down. We take a single result as the whole of life, forgetting that it is but an isolated fact, while existence is meant to be a grand and comprehensive chain of events. I had long since outgrown my desperate mood; but though I had faith in God, I was faithless in all things else. I saw the hollowness of the world so plainly, its deceits, its petty meannesses; some low and common thought robing itself in a heavenly garment, and trying to assume the highest purity, too often succeeding in the treacherous purpose, until, with Carlyle, finding the notes all forged, and no gold to be had for them, I took to crying, in my despair, that there was no gold, and never had been any." 
                   
                  "Well?" and Claude's intense eyes were fixed upon Dana with a strange glitter. 
                  "When a man's first passion-dreams are blighted, intellectual natures are prone to seek refuge in a stern, solitary existence, and look scornfully down on their fellow-creatures still groping on the illusive sea-shore for the great joys of life. And for sensuous natures is the greater danger of rushing madly to their own destruction-of allowing themselves to be tempted beyond what they are able to bear. I tell you, Claude, I have a strange pity for such as go down to the flames of the bottomless pit before their time, stifled with misery, plunging madly after the light, and yet missing it, and swelling the list of those who were too weak for destiny." 
                  "We can never quite save our own souls from their grasp," Claude said, with a quick shiver. "For the wrong-doing of others often changes our lives as surely as if we did it ourselves. It is a mistake to say those who sin suffer the most. Heaven only knows how we suffer for them!" 
                  "I think it is meant to bring us nearer the One who suffered for the whole world. If they were all in his eyes worth dying for, shall we refuse to stretch out a helping hand? We are to 'bear one another's burdens.' At the last God will make it clear." 
                  Claude placed his hand over his eyes. He had borne a burden proudly; had it been done with the great love that hallows all things, and makes them stepping-stones to a higher state? 
                  They had floated silently down, until the dense shadows of the bridge loomed up before them. Now the moon was in mid-heaven; the river showed distinctly from edge to edge; every tree, shrub, and rock stood out like basso-relievo, or the wondrous minuteness of a stereoscope. 
                  "How the moments have flown," Dana said, glancing over the peaceful earth and the wide, untroubled sky. "And our life goes like it. When we see the golden sand slipping from beneath neath our feet, is it any wonder that we long for one draught of joy so keen that it fills and satisfies every pulse? I used to think I should never feel content to die until I had been perfectly happy, if but for an hour only." 
                  "And now?" Claude's voice was husky with some emotion that the other could not read. 
                  "The old longing still;" and a fathomless tenderness suffused Dana's eyes. "Is happiness a dream? I cannot believe it. Just so surely as I feel capable of satisfying some other soul, I know there is one that can answer to the needs of mine. Will God keep us forever apart?" 
                  The voice sank to a pathos that thrilled Claude. His lips were compressed, and his eyes seemed piercing the dim future like points of flame. Had he been brought under this powerful influence for no purpose save torture? been given a glorious vision, only to make the reality more bitterly dark? 
                  Dana seized the unused oar, and brought the boat around to the gravelly shore. "One could linger here forever," he said; "but not to-night. We shall come again." 
                  Like one in a trance, Claude stepped on the solid ground; but it seemed to quiver beneath his feet. The hill was again ascended, and they paused to view the scene from these heights. The waves, crested with a thousand points of light, the clustering banks, with their weird shade, and the transcendent, beautiful night. They understood each other so well that silence was as satisfying as words. One had shown his heart to his friend as he had never been moved to show it before, and the other had taken it into sacred keeping. 
                  The dainty wagon, with its superb grays, was at hand. They drove slowly homeward, the streets in this vicinity hardly less quiet than the silvery river. 
                  At the cottage, Dana paused, with the reins in one hand, though the perfectly trained horses scarcely needed any restraint besides their master's voice. 
                  "Claude," he said, with that rare inflection one uses only in the great moments of life, "my soul summons yours. Will you still resist? For you satisfy me, or can if you will; and perhaps no other love, so pure, so deep, may ever come to us. Would it not be folly to cast it aside? For there is nothing but what I could give and do for you. As you value your soul's peace, fail me not now nor ever!" 
                  He bowed his head to look into the other's eyes, which, since they could not be averted, were half closed. What glory was shining in their hidden depths? What revelation was in this rapid, fluttering breath? 
                  With a sudden gesture, Claude's lips touched his cheek. So passionless, indeed, was the caress, that had Dana been less spiritualized, he could not have kindled at a contact icily cold, that seemed to penetrate his brain like some strain of half-remembered music, heard in one of the magical hours of life,-heard, indeed, to be never forgotten. 
                  He moved a trifle, and a wandering smile, half sad, half siren-like, crossed his face, like the trail of some dreamy cloud floating across the moon. His voice was low, yet tremulous with a possibility of rapture, as he said,- 
                  "If I had won a woman's heart, she would have kissed me on the mouth." 
                  For an instant, brief as a flash of light, their lips met. Dana was conscious of a wild impulse that stirred his soul, and yet held it in powerful thrall, beyond present deliverance. He could neither move nor speak. He seemed trying, in a blind way, to gain the clew to some mystery that touched the very springs of his being with the profoundest passion he had ever known. 
                  Claude darted out on the sidewalk. With a good night, that was half smothered in a thrill of agony, he flashed up the steps and disappeared. Through the house, with a noiseless tread-into his studio, where he shut out every possible ray of light. Then he groped his way to a chair, and throwing himself on the floor, buried his face and the cushions. A storm of inward ward sobs shook his frame, but no sound escaped the rigid lips. In this great trial-hour all outward signs were impotent. There are times when a thousand pangs seem concentrated in one human soul, as if it made up by its suffering the deficiency of many others. And, though the hours until morning were but few, centuries appeared to pass over him. 
                  In the gray light of dawn he rose, deathly pale, but calm as one who has reached the furthest bound of pain, passed through waves of anguish, whose very force crushes a weak soul, but leaves the strong one still and calm. The cold lips murmured,- 
                  "When I am gone he shall know the truth, and judge me by it." 
                
                
                   
                  X. THE VALLEY OF SHADOWS. 
                  MRS. TRESORIER had consulted Dr. Mercer about her child. He caught himself indulging in a series of speculations, at which his medical brethren would have smiled. He watched the mother, glowing with that intense, absorbing vitality, the vitality that drew continual nourishment from everything that came within its sphere correspondingly fine, yet weaker and lesser. A nature profoundly passionate, tender in its moods, yet never moved by any pure, self-denying affection. Whatever ministered to her, she loved. Had the child lacked grace or beauty, been cast in any ordinary material mould, and wakened slowly to intelligence, she would never have cared so to absorb it into herself. Could he make her understand the danger? 
                  He saw its proximity but dimly himself. Not being conversant with their lives, he could only judge from a few outward points. He questioned her closely. 
                  "I think the child is well enough," she said, half pettishly. "Or, at least, he is not sick; if he were he would fret. He did when he was teething. And, though he seems delicate, he is large of his age. It was because another person was anxious." 
                  "Does he sleep well?" 
                  "O, yes. He is seldom restless. He is always languid in the summer, and loses his appetite; but he doesn't seem to mind it." 
                  "He needs a thorough change. If you could send him away with a good nurse-" 
                  "Send him away!" she exclaimed, aghast. "Why, he has never slept out of my arms a single night since he was born!" 
                  "The worse for him!" Dr. Mercer was losing his patience. "So much coddling and tending is enough to ruin any child. He hasn't much constitution." 
                  "I think you are mistaken," she said, sharply, with all a mother's sensitiveness. "He has never been ill." 
                  "Which proves nothing." 
                  "I certainly shall not part with him," was her decisive reply. "What do men know?" 
                  "Very well, take your own course. If my advice cannot be followed, I will not hold myself responsible. I should like you to use this prescription, and if you need me again, send." Bowing stiffly, he withdrew. 
                  But the unearthly little face haunted him. "I suppose they think it beauty," he mused, with a hard contraction of the brows. "Brain and nerves, with nothing to feed them upon, and she continually stifling it with kisses, keeping it in a hot-house of passionate excitement that would exhaust a grown person. If there ever comes an age to the world when people begin to know themselves!" 
                  Mrs. Tresorier procured the tonic and administered it according to directions, and laughed over the advice, to Claude. Dana, upon hearing it, looked grave, for it trenched upon some half fear of his own. The wilful beauty would have carried her point over flood and fire. The child was hers. 
                  But one day a great terror fell upon her. The lustrous eyes held in their depths a strange light, deepened by shadows underneath. The transparent skin had taken on a waxen hue, and the chin, hitherto so beautifully rounded, had a suggestion unpleasantly near to sharpness. He was unusually languid, too; would not drink his milk, nor taste the tempting jellies. Even Dana's choice fruits seemed to have lost their charm. 
                  The morning was close and hot. The air was grained with floating particles of gold, rayed from the blazing sun. The carriage had been sent early so as to avoid the more intense heat, and Mrs. Tresorier held the child in her arms all through the slow drive. He did not even care to look at the horses, which generally were his delight. 
                  "Will you tell Mr. Dana that Ariel is not as well as usual?" she said to the driver, knowing that was message enough. 
                  He bowed politely. "Mr. Dana has just started for Washington. A friend was ill, and in some difficulty." 
                  "When will he return?" 
                  "In a few days." 
                  She wished him back ardently. In some singular manner she had come to depend upon him. His royally endowed nature won the confidence of those with whom he came in contact, and inspired them with implicit faith. It had mastered her from its immense personal influence, and not any secret sympathy, for the attraction of both lives would invariably run in parallels. But if she could consult him in regard to some physician! 
                  She sent for Dr. Mercer again. He had just gone out of the city for a week. Having no serious cases on hand, his patients had been distributed among his brethren. One of these was called in, and in two days Mrs. Tresorier was dissatisfied, and discharged him. The treatment was too harsh. She could not see Ariel tortured. In this she was right enough: it would not have saved him. 
                  When Claude heard of Dana's departure he drew a long breath, as if he had scarcely breathed since the moment of parting with him. Self-preservation is a strong instinct in all of us, and his first impulse was to fly beyond the reach of the influence that at another glance must unveil the dread secret of his soul. And yet an equally intense power urged him to stay, to dare fate. But could he meet Dana again? 
                  "Suppose we should leave the city a while?" he said. "It might be better for Ariel." 
                  "Perhaps," Mrs. Tresorier answered, with an indecisive air. "But I want to see Mr. Dana first. I have more faith in him than in any physician." 
                  Claude yielded weakly. 
                  Mrs. Tresorier gave way to the wildest excitement concerning her child. For now he no longer slept, but lay with wideopen, questioning eyes, that filled her with apprehension. For a third time medical aid was summoned. 
                  A round, portly figure, of solid flesh, a face that bespoke a tolerable share of ease and good living, and a composed step, ushered in the new-comer. There were cases on which Dr. Varick's good-humored face and indolent air exerted a most beneficial effect. In acute diseases he was admirable; but the fine discernment, necessary to understand such a case, was almost altogether lacking. He went to the broad, exterior result at once. 
                  I am not sure but Mrs. Tresorier's tearless eyes and steady voice misled him into thinking her more able to bear what he had to say. 
                  "The child's in consumption," he began. 
                  She laughed incredulously, with a sort of fluttering hysteria in her voice. 
                  "Why, he has never coughed! Even now he isn't feverish!" 
                  "Exactly. If you want a finer name, atrophy will do. It was born with him. I don't believe any medical skill in the world could keep that child alive until he is six years old. He has too much brain; and then he's grown too fast. There's no constitution to support it. This weather is against him, and I don't think he has the strength to rally." 
                  "But something can be done!" She could not take in the great fact of death at all. 
                  "My dear madam, there's absolutely nothing to work upon. The child has exhausted all his vital energies. I will do the best I can, but I do not feel justified in promising much." 
                  "If-a fortnight ago-"and her voice failed. 
                   
                  "A month ago couldn't have saved him. If cool weather was at hand, that might brace him up a little, but he hasn't the stamina for recovery. It may seem hard, but I think it best to tell the truth in such a case." 
                  Claude followed him to the street door, and asked, huskily, the awful question-"How long?" 
                  "He may last a week or two, but he's failing fast. If you would like to consult any other physician, I shall be satisfied." Then he came back a step or two, and added, "He may drop away at almost any moment." 
                  Claude returned to the mother and child. He had been so occupied with himself for the last few days, that he had found his thoughts wandering continually. He had not been able to paint, or even color. Sometimes it seemed impossible to go on living without a decisive change, and yet he shrank from all the plans that presented themselves. 
                  The beautiful, wide eyes of Mrs. Tresorier were full of questioning terror. And yet it was so different from all her preconceived ideas of sickness and death, that the nearer it drew nigh, the more steadfastly she refused to believe in it. If human love could have averted fate, if her warmth and intensity could have transfused new life into the languid pulses, it would have been done. The child's eyes, growing dimmer, gave back a heavenly smile; the soft lips parted now and then to murmur some baby endearment, as if he understood his mother's anguish. 
                  A sultry August evening dropped down upon them. The stirless air was almost suffocating. A few trails of violet-colored clouds settled in the north-west, and after dark, quivering sheets of flame began to play about, but there was no thunder, and no welcome sign of rain. Mrs. Tresorier sat by the open window with the child in her arms, and Claude fanned them softly. Once or twice he had attempted to relieve her, but the child moaned for his mother's fond embrace. He did not seem to suffer, and this deceived her, for she connected death with a longer or shorter period of agony. And she believed, because she would, that morning must bring relief. With her, relief was hope. She never increased her pangs by anticipation, and always delayed the evil hour. 
                  All through the night they watched, the grave housekeeper joining them. Claude saw in her face a certainty, and he understood it also from the mysterious hush of her voice. The stillness was intense. What was coming nearer with the dawn? For the waning moon began to falter in tintless space, the distant stars straggled out of their ranks like tired soldiers drooping by the wayside after a long and toilsome march. A soft, dun haze brooded in the hollow of the horizon, to be lifted by spears of purple and amethyst, and filled with sapphire lights. But the sunrise had no charm for Claude. Its glory was dimmed by haunting fears that tore his heart pitilessly. 
                  When they dared to glance at the child, their eyes sought each other with wordless dread. For on his brow was set that awful signet-a beauty that inspired terror. 
                  Mrs. Tresorier rose and carried him down stairs. In this room, where he had opened his eyes to the world, it was fitting that he should close them. She lay on the bed, still holding him in her arms, brooding over him with lips of speechless passion and pain, and eyes flooded with great waves of agonizing tenderness. Claude seated himself beside her, helpless to comfort, but trembling in every nerve. Presently the doctor looked in upon them. 
                  "This intense heat tells fearfully upon him," he said, with a slow shake of the head. "I never saw any one fail so fast." 
                  Mrs. Tresorier understood then that human skill could not avail. She motioned him away with an imperious wave of the hand. No stranger eyes should witness her agony. 
                  "Claude," she said, in a voice of intense, yet tearless entreaty, "I suppose it is right, but I can't make it so. I don't see any use of putting so much pain and anguish in the world. Why are we made to love, if loss must follow so soon? Why do we long for possession, when our treasures must be wrested from our grasp? Why not be marble or ice, and have no warm, human feeling? I never thought of his dying. Will you pray? I've said my prayers night and morning, but I never had the faith to ask God for anything. May be He will hear you. For I don't seem to know about him, except in that cold, far off way. And your hands are clean, your heart is pure. Claude, you remember you once prayed for another life. Will God be more cruel than I was?" 
                  Claude shivered, but knelt by the bedside. His voice faltered, and throbbed up in broken sentences. A wild cry for faith, for strength, for endurance. 
                  "Not that;" and she clutched his arm in her excitement. "I don't want any strength, for when he dies I shall die too. I haven't anything in the world but just him. The old dream has faded. And if I can't have his life-O, Claude, are you afraid? Is your God so pitiless?" 
                  She raised herself, and glanced fiercely into his eyes, her own a blaze of fearful light. The red lips writhed with some unuttered cry. 
                  He prayed as one on the very brink of despair, clinging to hope with desperate energy. If there had been any time when it seemed to him his way would be easier with this little life removed, he no longer remembered it. He had vainly questioned why it should ever have been, but even that was over. As if the mother's strong yearning were upon him, he uttered the words she dared not breathe. For her life ran in a strange groove. Some fate had shut it out from common lives. 
                  "Claude," she said, suddenly, "do you know what death is? Do you think they will let me have my child in that far country? No one will ever love me so again. I have been all to him. You don't know. You people with cooler blood and clearer brains never can understand it. Your souls divide with your hearts, and you live half the time in some speculative future. I think I must have been born without any soul. There's a great, throbbing, passionate heart that has been hungry ever since I can remember, and cannot be satisfied with crumbs. It needs a continual feast. And my darling has given me that; so, when he is gone, I don't want to live. I think God will not let him die. It's wandering out-we don't know where." 
                  Claude groaned. 
                  "Am I wicked? When I went to church I couldn't believe all the minister said. I used to get lost in those endless mazes. Does God bring us into the world to suffer, to see joys that are forever beyond our grasp, joys that would fill every pulse to satisfaction, and then punish us because the love was so dear that we couldn't help striving for it? Better have lived in those old days of myths. Are we so much wiser and better now?" 
                  Claude listened to her wild ravings with a tortured brain and a quivering frame, that one moment writhed as if in fierce flames, and the next, seemed locked in seas of ice. It was his misery to be helpless. All he could say would not comfort or relieve her. Words were useless. 
                  "He is too lovely to die and go back to dust," she murmured. "To be shut into the cold and dark, to have no kisses on his still lips, no warm arms around him. No, I cannot endure it! Is there any mercy at all?" 
                  She stretched up her hands wildly, as if she would force Heaven to loosen its grasp on this little soul. Her glittering eyes were still tearless and like balls of fire. Throbs of bitter agony crept along every nerve in sinuous currents. The old contest, ever since life began to struggle with death. 
                  They never noted how the moments went by. The feeble breath fluttered like a wandering zephyr. The languid eyes moved more slowly, the low moans came at shorter intervals. The soft flesh became more like marble, but one could see the little shivers that thrilled it into spasmodic action. Stiller and stiller, with an awe so great that the mother's impotent questioning tioning ceased. But she would allow neither of them to relieve her. To the last breath he should be all hers. 
                  There was a start presently, a quick turn of the eyes, a sudden gesture, followed by a great calm. The waxen lids drooped, but did not entirely close; the lips parted with a faint smile. Claude and the housekeeper exchanged glances, but the one who loved him best was slow in comprehending the truth. No one spoke or stirred until she bent to kiss him once again. 
                  The heart-rending cry moved Claude to the depths of his soul. His arms were around her, his cheek pressed close against hers, as if he would fain give her all strength and love. 
                  She made a desperate attempt to free herself, and would have shaken him off, but with another pitiful cry, unconsciousness came-best so for her. 
                  The housekeeper took the little dead form in her arms, white as snow, pure as any angel. For whatever stain others might have put upon it, was no longer existent. In heaven, where all things are known, the innocent no longer suffer for the guilty. 
                  "It is best so," she said, brokenly. 
                  Mrs. Tresorier passed from one swoon to another. In the few moments of consciousness between, her eyes wandered wildly around, and her hands clutched the vacant air, as if she could not believe it empty of life. At last a great fear seized upon Claude. Who could they summon in this trial-hour? for assistance must be had. How utterly friendless they were! 
                  The housekeeper answered a ring at the door. A voice electrified Claude, and yet filled him with helpless terror. He stood quite still, for the steps were coming thither. And in an instant a friend's grasp, strong and tender, stirred every pulse. If he dared but lay his weary, throbbing head upon that heart! 
                  "That I should have been away at such a time. I have feared this since the first night I saw him, and yet he grew so dear to me that I did not want to believe in the danger. For you-" 
                   
                  "Hush," Claude said, huskily. "Do not think of me. Hers is the bitterest pain, and for her must be the present care." 
                  Dana seated himself on the edge of the bed, and took up the lifeless hand. Why, the pulse was nothing! He found the heart, but neither did that seem responsive. He looked at Claude as if for an explanation. 
                  This spasm had been of longer duration than the previous ones. The limbs had grown rigid, and the beautiful face was like a piece of rare sculpture. Claude went briefly over the events of the last hour. 
                  "You need a physician immediately," Dana said. "This is more than ordinary faintness. She possesses a peculiar temperament, a peculiar physique also. This great strain will tell fearfully upon her nervous system. Who have you had?" 
                  Claude shrank instinctively from Dr. Varick. He spoke of Dr. Mercer's absence, and the difficulties they had experienced. 
                  Dana raised his head suddenly, after a rather close examination of her state. "Tresorier," he began, "I don't want to alarm you, but I think this trouble comes from her heart. I have seen cases before, and ignorant treatment may prove fatal, or at least leave her an invalid for life. If you choose to trust my judgment, I think I can recommend a skilful physician-a young man who spent a year or two in Paris, making diseases of the heart a speciality. He has only recently returned, but has signalized himself already. If you would like me to go for him-" 
                  Claude caught at the offer. The anxiety was driving him nearly wild. 
                  "If you will," he said, with a gasp. "You are most kind." 
                  In passing, Dana's hand was pressed a moment to Claude's brow, which was throbbing fearfully. If he had ever questioned his love for wife or child, he did so no longer. The bowed figure, the trembling frame and hesitating voice, bespoke him ruled by some terrible emotion. 
                  When the hall door closed, Tresorier turned and buried his face in the pillow. A time in life when all aids seemed swept away, when one or two great incidents stare a person in the face with such a mighty power that all minor considerations fade out like pale stars in the hazy dawn. In this coming daylight of a terror that cannot be described, his strange and ghostly secret became unendurable. As if he had borne the burden long enough. 
                  What if God meant to set him free? To open a path out of the tangled wilderness, in infinite pity for this poor soul that had found the way longer and harder than it had believed. If we could see the future! If we could reason from the unknown down to the confusing present: but instead, we fight through the blackest night for trust in something stronger than ourselves. He glanced at the beautiful, marble-like face. Was some fiend whispering that death might be better. What had she to live for now. 
                  He prayed as Jacob did in his wrestling with the angel. A wild, overmastering petition for strength. The storm must come. Hoping to evade it was sheerest folly. Planning in human ways was utterly futile. In God's time and in God's way the end would draw nigh. 
                  The housekeeper bent over the prostrate form and listened. The sleep was so like death, that Tresorier watched her face earnestly, questioning with his eyes. 
                  "She is still alive." 
                  Then he clasped his hands, and breathed only at intervals. Throat and lips were dry, and the blood seemed ebbing from his own heart. A time like that makes one shiver as he recalls it in after life. As if the whole world hung on a thread, and a crash was inevitable. 
                  "If they would only come!" 
                  The housekeeper's slow voice, with a falter in it as if she was counting out moments, and surely nearing the last. For they had ceased to use the unavailing restoratives, and were breathlessly waiting. 
                   
                  The August day began to shroud itself in the red and orange of sunset. Long rays shot up into the sky, and made tremulous shadows through the vines. Weird and suggestive they were in their hovering beauty, like faint outlines of angels. Now and then a sense of fragrance rushed in on some wandering breeze, and halted midway, as if startled at the sight. 
                  Claude bowed his head again, this time in his hands. You could tell how fearful the strain was by the ashen hue of his lips, and the blue circle chilling the blood underneath the nails of the cold fingers. 
                  Some time after-it seemed as if he had lived through ages-there was a sound at the hall door. Dana had turned the spring in the night-latch as he went out, and now let himself in without summoning any one. Beside his light and elastic tread there was a firm, manful step, waking a dim remembrance of something long past. Tresorier started, and yet shrank unaccountably from this new-comer. They entered the room, but he stood motionless, as if unwilling, as well as unable, to stir. 
                  "This is my friend," Dana said, advancing. "Dr. Brevoort." 
                  Claude tottered as if he would have fallen. One mute, helpless look, then the eyelids fell, quivering and abashed. There was a strong magnetic presence in the room. The very air throbbed with its sentiency. 
                  The physician came nearer. He gave one quick glance at the lovely, death-like figure on the bed, another at the person standing beside it. 
                  "My God!" he exclaimed, while great drops started out on his forehead. "Rose Varian and Claudia" 
                  And Claudia, betrayed by the womanly blood surging up into her face, knelt in an agony of shame, and hid it from the two men who loved her. 
                  If the room had been still before, it was awesome now. A silence more solemn than that of death; a silence in which hope is beggared; a moment that might stifle the soul, and leave it a stranded wreck to all eternity! 
                  Claudia Varian's body seemed numb and pulseless; but her senses were in that keen, electric state when one comprehends without either seeing or hearing. She knew how the one man stood in speechless surprise, brought face to face, by a sharp turn of destiny, with a reality he had perhaps dreamed of evading. And the other! Through her closed eyes, through the wavering purple light that dimmed the golden grains of floating air, she saw him with that rare sight vouchsafed to but few indeed. The grave, startled face, struggling between a conscious mystery and a thought of blame, the set lips, the brow still smooth, because the surprise was too new for outward token. Did he pity the woman crouching at the bed's side-a woman who had dared, and failed, and lost all that life holds of happiness? 
                  He took one step forward. Not toward her. If she had been wild in any past time, dreaming of joys that might never be hers, Heaven knows she suffered bitterly enough now for any woman's redemption. 
                  The door closed softly. It was wise to shut her out so soon; kind not to prolong moments of agony that snap the tense nerves. Only a grave where her heart should be irrevocably buried. Wild dreams of infinite beauty and tenderness thrust in the deep covert with a pitiless hand. She came back to her destiny, a weak woman in the grasp of a giant fate. Her only choice now was to yield, as a woman always must, sooner or later. 
                  "Claudia, Miss Varian!" 
                  The same rich, manful ring in the voice. A breezy, cheery strength, as if he brought with him the freshness of an upland dawn. But it touched her no more than any indifferent tone. The power to thrill and quicken her into joyous life was forever gone. She wondered at herself. 
                  "Will you leave me alone with her?" 
                   
                  Claudia rose, and went slowly out of the room, without a word or look. He never saw her face; but he realized, with a deathly pain, that he had no right. He had played with hearts and lost; but there was something better in the man than had come to the surface hitherto. He crushed down a great agony, and put away the temptation. The noblest act of his whole life was when he conquered himself, as he did now, and allowed her to leave him in silence. 
                  She groped her way blindly through the hall to the kitchen at its end. Barbara sat in the centre of the room, the late rays of light softening her rigid outlines. Her hands were clasped in her lap, her face gray with contending emotions,-for she had suffered as a mother over these two girls. 
                  Claudia threw herself upon the floor, and leaned her throbbing temple against the kindly knee that had been her rest in childhood. 
                  "O, Barbara!" 
                  Such a deep, agonizing cry! All the long-repressed woman's nature, kept in rigid bonds, blazing up at last into a blue, scorching flame, that seemed to lay in ashes the whole path over which she had gone. 
                  Barbara Mayne bent and kissed her. Tenderly, as a mother might, with a lingering fondness that touched the poor desolate heart. 
                  "Child," she said, huskily, "what black fate sent him hither?" 
                  "O, Barbara, what if God cared and guided his steps? What if through these years some wiser will than ours has been working? For Rose loves him still. And now, in this great trial-hour-" 
                  Barbara turned the girl's face suddenly towards the light. It was "pure womanly," full of weak, sensitive lines, and timid shrinking. She searched it with her keen eyes, until a faint color began to flutter over the pale features. 
                  "I never thought to betray my knowledge by word or look," she began, slowly; "yet I believed then that you loved him." 
                   
                  How strange to go over any dead past without a pang: to walk among graves with untrembling feet! 
                  "You were right," Claudia said. "Heaven can bear me witness that the wound cut deeply. But was it love? For now I stand amazed at myself. It has vanished like last year's snow. Barbara, of what can human hearts be made?" 
                  "Thank God!" was the woman's fervent ejaculation. "For to see you suffer again-" 
                  A shiver of deathly terror shook Claudia, like the blast of a coming storm. She reached out her hands in a wordless, despairing entreaty, as if she were grasping at some support that eluded her. The face was ashen pale, the lips slightly apart, strained and colorless. The temples seemed hollow, the eyes pitiful in their anguish. 
                  "O, child, child! it is as I have feared. You were not strong enough to dare such a fate!" 
                  "Did I dare it?" she exclaimed, almost fiercely. "I seem to have been made the sport of circumstances. Was I born under some baleful star that I should be thus tortured? thus permitted to see a heaven whose glory can never be mine? God knows what it cost me to tear up that old love. I had begun to be so proud of him, to have so much faith in him, and then to learn that he belonged, body and soul, to another woman! O, it was bitter! But it was right that I should strive, and I did to the uttermost. I came out proud and strong, with added wisdom; and, though baptized in fiery waves, I think there is no smell of the flame in my garments. If he were free this hour he could be nothing to me. But what matter? I am alike shut out of love. Am I unlike other women? For they, with souls no tenderer than mine, are comforted with kisses, made glad and happy with sweetest vows and fondest care, while I am barred out of human joys. Barbara, God's hand is laid heavily upon me! Has He forgotten that His mother was a woman and suffered? Why is He so cruel to me?" 
                   
                  "Hush," the woman said, in a low and awesome tone. 
                  "Let me talk a little. I shall never make any moan again. When the sword point reaches the heart one does not cry aloud. There comes for the soul, then, the dread silence of the grave. And for a long while I have ceased to be a woman. I come back the weakest of them all, kneeling in dust and ashes. Did I give up my birthright? I gauged my own heart, and found it deeper, broader; rich and complete, where it had been deficient. I trembled at my own capacity. Did God mean that no one should feast upon the sweetness? Why must it elude me with a mirage of glowing ripeness, mock me with visions forever unrealized? Ah, Tantalus is no myth. And so I have come to the desert again!" 
                  "Will all that friendship count for nothing, think you?" 
                  "O, Barbara, friendship would be cruel, like feeding a starving man with the beaded foam on a wine-cup. In this hour of humiliation we will call feelings by their true names. Some wild fate urged me on. I can never justify myself to him; but your tender and loving heart will pity me, as mothers do their forlorn children. I would have shunned him. I tried to be cold and self-contained, for I knew the danger from the very first. But he supplied all the needs of my nature. Can you tell what it is to meet with a person who understands you so well that every word he utters fills some empty place in your soul, that but for him must have gone forever vacant? And yet I was wild to let Rose persuade me to meet him that day. I seemed to have a misgiving then. And the current was so strong that I could not go back, but had to drift on and on to the end." 
                  "But the end has not come, Claudia." 
                  "How good it is to hear the old name once again. If we were back in Crofton, and John Brevoort had not yet crossed our path. Idle wishes all! And the end will be so bitter, Barbara, so bitter! Is it nothing for a woman to love? Before I went to the store that day, I had not thought it possible for me. Although the capability was in my soul, I did not believe any temptation sufficiently strong could come in my way. But his voice, when he spoke, mastered me. A quick shock, like a lightning flash, that rends the veil and discloses all in an instant. I tried to evade him. I would even have pained his generous heart, and made him think me ungracious, not susceptible to the high ideal he called friendship. But he read my soul too thoroughly. He made me feel his power everywhere. There was no escape. Heaven help me if it was wrong, but when I yielded to his sway I thought to make amends. I meant to write when I left the country, and explain some of the things that must have been continual mysteries to him. In either case fate was against me. There could be no happy ending to the wild dream; but as he went out of the room this afternoon, every step he took was on my heart. I wanted it to lie there and be crushed utterly!" 
                  "He will return. He is too noble to condemn any one unheard." 
                  "No, you don't know him, Barbara. There is a sensitiveness in his nature that can never recover from such a wound. He will think it a wild, daring, unwomanly freak. I cannot justify myself in his eyes by saying it was to save her. And now I look at it as if some one had told me a strange story. I can hardly believe it of myself. When I took the step, I said, 'All men are to me like shadows.' The one loving and loyal heart has missed me. Ah, I did not think to find it, to hold it a brief day, and then have it snatched from my grasp! I have been more than a woman and less than a man. What wonder the way was hard! Barbara, comfort me, as other women are comforted, in their sore and desperate needs. To-morrow, I must get up and battle with the world again; grope around for phantoms. But to-night, I am weak and weary." 
                  The voice died down to a sorrowful pathos. The bowed head, the clinging arms, the whole figure was one that would have aroused sympathy. And yet what could she say? Like a vision, the time came back when Claudia, high-hearted and full of resolve, had not hesitated to dare the world. And this was all! 
                  Their faces met together, both wet with tears. So rarely in her life had Claudia shown her need of sympathy, that now she was touched, melted. A thrill of unutterable weakness and loneliness came over her, and she was glad to cling to the one with whom all betrayals would be sacred. And yet she seemed to realize, that she must always stand alone, in a fashion more awful than that made by the bereavement of death. There was but one will strong enough to subdue and harmonize, and that not for her. 
                
                
                   
                  XI. A MAN AND A WOMAN. 
                  THE opening of a door roused them both. A voice said, from the hall, "May I have a light?" 
                  Barbara procured one, and carried it to Dr. Brevoort. 
                  "How is she?" was her question, in a low tone. 
                  "Better," was the brief reply. 
                  And then a long, long silence. Claudia leaned her head on the casement, where a stray breath of the south wind found its way. She did not think-there was no further need of plans and resolves; no strength to be called up and concentrated; no ambition to fire her pulses. Every energy was spent. Tense nerves relaxed. The active brain was chilled into quiet. If she could die! She had never thought of death before as a refuge. Her intense and abundant vitality shrank from such cold abstractions. It was, perhaps, the weakest moment in her whole life. As if, somehow, her sacrifices and toil had all been useless. And of what avail were triumphs in the future! 
                  Some time afterwards, there was another summons. This time Claudia heard her name pronounced, but the tone was almost hesitating. She went as one in a dream, not roused to any feeling. 
                  "May I ask a favor of you-a conversation? Rose is asleep, and if Mrs. Mayne will sit by her and fan her-" 
                  How oddly it sounded to hear all the old names! Barbara went, and Claudia was left with Dr. Brevoort. She listened for some sound, some word. 
                  It came, at length, in a faltering voice,- 
                  "If I might trouble you-will you take me to see the child?" 
                   
                  Claudia lighted another lamp. Her step and gestures seemed purely mechanical. Neither fear nor embarrassment were visible in her face. Indeed, she did not think of herself at all. She said, simply, as if some words were necessary,- 
                  "Is Rose improving?" 
                  "Yes. It has been a dreadful shock, and will leave its mark for a long while. But she will recover. Why should she not, since she has everything to live for?" 
                  The last was uttered almost gloomily. Claudia's heart gave a sudden bound. She had not then been entirely mistaken in him. 
                  She led him through the hall to the front room, rarely used, and dignified with the title of parlor. The furniture was plain, with no attempt at ornament. It looked sombre now in this shadowy gloom. In front of one window stood a low crib, whose white covering swept the floor. Above it lay all that was left of Ariel, robed in softest white, that did not hide the outline of the figure, but toned it to the beauty of a dream. 
                  As lovely as in life, but with the awe death always gives. The broad brow, with infantile, golden rings of hair, the drooping eyelids, with their long fringe, the mouth, still blossom-sweet, with its curved and faintly-parted lips. The stainless clay bore no impress of wrong, but was passion-pure. 
                  Shadow after shadow passed over John Brevoort's face, making a dusk of deep emotion. The eyes were heavy, the lips tremulous, and the clasped hands white with the intensity pervading his whole frame. So silent, indeed, that Claudia placed the lamp upon a table, and would fain have left him to his thoughts. 
                  "Stay," he said, reaching out his hand as she turned away; and she stood with bowed head. 
                  "Claudia,"-his voice was a mere whisper, yet wonderfully distinct,-"I want you to listen to me; to be patient with me in what I have to say. To-morrow the mother of this child will be my wife before the world, as she has long been in the sight of God and the angels. But by my readiness to do her justice now, I want you to believe that one word from you or her would have summoned me back then. If I was weak, I was not a villain!" 
                  "I did not know where you were. We heard but twice. You were on the eve of your departure for Europe," she murmured, slowly, for she seemed but half awake. 
                  His breath came in heavy, struggling bounds, and she heard the throbs of his heart vibrate on the still air. He advanced a step, and glanced into her shrinking face. 
                  "I wrote again after that from Liverpool, and I never received a word. Do you think I could have left the woman I loved, in such a fashion? For Heaven will bear me witness that I did love you. No, do not spurn me. I knew there was a gulf between. I confess I had wild, weak thoughts of bridging it over, but I had not then dreamed of this! Do me the justice to believe that whatever else I had been guilty of, I wanted in some sort to regain my own estimation before I should have dared to venture upon any open step. And your silence was my keenest punishment. I cannot tell you how I watched and hoped while at Paris; how sometimes a wild desire crossed my mind to return and see you, if but for five minutes. Circumstances chained me there, and, perhaps, fear. Uncertainty is better than for a man to know that he has lost the great stake of his life." 
                  She raised her hand imploringly, but the words she would have uttered died on her lips. There was about her a suggestion of Rose; the nearest resemblance he had ever seen. 
                  "Were you too proud to write? It should have been done for her sake. Certainly both letters couldn't have missed. One was mailed at Liverpool, as soon as the steamer landed. Good heavens! That you should have had all this to bear!" 
                  "They never came." Her voice wandered strangely. It seemed at the moment as if she should faint. To know that salvation had been so near, and yet failed! All her years of useless trial stared her in the face with ghostly grimness. That he had been better than they knew. 
                  "You must believe that I would have come. If not for love of her, for your sake!" 
                  "Hush." Her lips were white and quivering. 
                  "No," he said, in a tone still low, but incisive, as if it could cleave her strongest objection. "I want you to hear all. To-night is till mine, but to-morrow I am to begin a new life. I shall know my duty to Rose. If ever there should come a weak moment, I shall return to the picture of this little dead face, and remember her anguish and despair as well as her love. But the feeling of the old time is strong upon me, just as the pangs near death are always the severest. And the day on which I uttered those wild, fatal words, was like a time of new birth to me. As if my eyes had been suddenly opened-better a thousand times that I had been struck blind! Before that, my own vanity and self-love had kept me from discerning your rare nature. I did not like any equal near the throne. And I had been infatuated with her. A slow, subtle, powerful charm that crept through all my veins, that stirred my blood like some ripe wine, a century old, and won me against myself through my senses. But that flash cleared away the bewildering haze. Like a glorious vision, I saw a regal woman, large of brain, nobly sweet and tender of heart, and was transfused with a sentiment worthy of the name of love. Was I selfish that I also saw that she would be to the man who won her heart? A guiding spirit, an impelling force, that by very contact would bring out all that was best and highest in his nature, electrify him to worthy ambitious, rouse him to a true existence, of which he need never be ashamed again, either in the sight of man or God. Claudia, in that moment your soul spoke to mine as with a trumpet's clang, eliciting a divine harmony from the clashing elements. The mean and petty thoughts, poor desires, and low aims, fell away like a worn-out garment, and lay at my feet in shreds. I was clothed anew in your simple grandeur. Why had I been so blind before, so insensible?-or was it that all the far-reaching influences were condensed at that moment, and I new born, alas, too late! And then I spoke-of all things that will be my lasting regret, those words are the strongest. I had no right to say them to you. I dragged you down then from your high pedestal; but, Claudia, the deed of no man or woman can ever shadow your pure soul. Having heard that, you must listen to the rest of my weakness. I wanted to fly then from Rose. I was glad to put the ocean between. I had a wild hope that patient waiting might give me an opportunity for redemption. I can't tell you how I longed and hungered for a letter, for a word. I used to dream over the old days-always of you. The places where I had wandered with you, the times I had come upon you suddenly, and blamed you for coldness, because no quickening pulse spoke in vivid scarlet. But then I was proud to think you calm and fair. Only one vision sweeter than the rest, the one glance that had betrayed-not your heart, but a possibility. If any day I had felt worthy to win you, no earthly power would have kept me away. My heart struggled with the chain a weak and evil moment had put upon it, and clamored for its divine right, its pure and satisfying sustenance. I wonder now that the struggle did not wear me fearfully; but there were many things to attract. A life of action and interest, a higher ambition than my first dreams. Science brought out her fascinating stores, and I sat at a continual feast, yet never losing sight of my skeleton. Three months ago I returned. While I was abroad my uncle died, and kindly left me, if not a fortune, a comfortable income. I meant to settle here in the city, and bend all my energies towards attaining eminence in my profession. I had met Dana in Paris, and he was among the first to welcome me. But I had a sacred duty that was more to me than any pleasure. I must know how it had fared with you two girls. So I went to Philadelphia, and to Crofton. The place has changed much, but, greatest est loss of all, you were not there! The sight of those scenes recalled all the old passions so vividly that I had no rest, no peace. I could learn nothing concerning you. I caused advertisements to be inserted in various papers, so worded that if they should meet your eye they would not alarm you. I remembered your love for art, and visited places where a woman who had attained much reputation might possibly be mentioned, but I never heard your name. A fortnight ago, I dined with Dana. There were no other guests, and I spent some of the time examining his choice collection. I came suddenly upon a picture that gave me a thrill. Claudia, did you unwittingly paint yourself in that Joan of Are? For I have seen just such a high, glorious light in your eyes, and the very strength of her beauty recalled you. I was wild to know its history, but once heard, the artist might have sunk into quiet oblivion. Had Dana said a woman, my soul would have read yours instantly. As it was, he found me a dull listener, for my senses wandered continually. I confess I had a strange temptation to tell him the story, and ask his assistance. He is a man that one relies upon so implicitly. But I did not. I had not met him again until this afternoon. Driving thither, he told, in brief, the story of the child, and dwelt upon the wonderful beauty of the mother. Was it a dim presentiment that inly stirred me? And if I spoke unwisely, if I betrayed you-" 
                  "He would have known later," Claudia gasped, averting her face. 
                  "I think a man or woman might trust him to the uttermost. His soul is full of the tenderest pity, although so strong and pure in its own integrity. Thank God that you found a friend at last. Your way has been bitter indeed. And perhaps the keenest pang a man can suffer is to know that his hands placed thorns in the path of the woman he loved." 
                  She glanced up imploringly, for the dumb, dry lips could not utter the faintest sound. In mentioning Dana, he had recalled the agony she was striving to thrust out of sight. And he must never dream of the severer pang. From all eyes must this be hidden. 
                  "The woman I love." John Brevoort said it with a lingering intonation. "It cannot hurt you now. If I touched any tender pulse in those days, you have long since steeled it against me. It is right. I know you too well to feel that I have even the slightest claim upon that knowledge. If it caused you any pang, you bore it as your Joan of Arc did her flames, and none save God will ever know. But I will tell you that the first glance of your face taught me my duty, if I had felt inclined to waver, myself. And your work, your influence, has not been wholly in vain. You have saved one man and one woman. You have given me the courage to shut out the glorious vision that I might feel tempted to brood over. After to-night it will not even be a remembrance. You will never feel that I relinquished you too readily, for you can understand the self-denial. If I was weak once, I will never shame you by betraying any after cowardice. But, my God! To stand discrowned before the woman, who, set to a man's life, would make it perfect, would satisfy it with her richness and completeness, is a sting more bitter than a thousand deaths." 
                  "For her sake!" Claudia felt that she must speak, even if the mere effort of sound tore her with physical anguish. 
                  "I have said it for the last time." He moved slowly away, and took several turns through the room. "When a man has played for the great stake of life, and made a false throw, he must take what fate leaves him. I shall set about my work cheerfully. And I want you to know that her happiness will be my steady aim, if not my highest. There will be times when her loveliness will fill and satisfy every pulse of my being, when that bewildering power will win me against sense and judgment. It is the fatal strand of weakness in my character. To you, who can be pitiful, and will measure me by your own generous standard, I dare show myself as I am. And since the days of Samson, men have been mastered by this dangerous beauty; lives and empires have been lost by it. But do not think I shall degenerate into slavish fondness, or allow the lack of what might be best and noblest in love to make me a tyrant. Beyond this mere sensuous delight there is a broader existence-comfort to give, misery to alleviate, the heavenly satisfaction of doing for others what they cannot do for themselves. If I can make some souls stronger for the great work before them, I shall not have lived in vain. And I think my tendency was too much towards self-aggrandizement." 
                  "I can trust you," she said, in a low, clear tone. "And I can trust her with you." 
                  He came nearer, and took her hand. He knew then how utterly dead love was, when she never warmed or quickened to this first touch. Well for him he could not see the more potent spell holding her in thrall. 
                  "Thank you for the words," he said, humbly. "It is next to the forgiveness that I dare not ask. When the books are read in the other country, you will know how I have striven to deserve it. I shall live as if your clear eyes were continually upon me." 
                  She raised them then. Well for her that she no longer loved him. For the tenderness in every feature, the traitorous flush of which he was hardly aware, the irrepressible longing in the intense eyes, where passion had been purified from its earthly taint, and was now awfully grand in lonely sacrifice, would have added to her trial. For it is a hard, hard thing to give away that which we need, when we have but to reach out our hand and take. 
                  Even while she looked, the light of a new dawn broke over his countenance. It had wavered from the flush into a deathlike paleness; the lids, drooping over the eyes, quivered; the mouth, with full curved lips, trembling in dewy sweetness, discarded the expression of almost girlish entreaty. As if touched by some invisible power and strength, a high, manful courage slowly overspread it. 
                   
                  "The last struggle;" and his voice was as the voice of one who had looked death in the face, and returned from that dread shore clearer of vision, purer of purpose. "I am hers now while life lasts. If ever a remembrance crosses my mind of a man who learned too late what love was, who stooped to gather the shining sands, fatally mistaking them for pure gold, I may pity him with some rare and divine sympathy that shall strengthen. And-Claudia-" 
                  She did not need to fear the look of resolve in the eyes, sad as it was, albeit she trembled, for nature was being exhausted by this continuous excitement. 
                  "Am I still weak and selfish? Heaven knows that I do not desire to be; but I have one thing more to ask. After Rose is my wife, my desire shall be for her happiness. In order to compass this, I have said I should put the old dreams aside. And though it may be cowardly not to face the reality, I tell you, in all honesty, that I dare not trust myself to do it. I am not brave enough to look continually upon what I have lost. I shall take her away, and separate you two who have been so much to each other. O Claudia, God knows that this is my sorest punishment! but you and He will understand why it is done. All that the most generous of brothers can give shall be yours. Home, freedom from exacting toil, in order that you may follow out your own high aspirations, friends to appreciate. I only ask to minister to you, unseen, with any good gift that may be in my power. And if there should come a time in after years when she is so much to me that other women are as shadows, we may dare to be friends." 
                  "It is best." Then she came back a step; she laid her hand on his. "If I have said but little," she began, in a tremulous tone, "it was because you saw your duty so clearly. I honor you for fulfilling it now, when you might have made a man's selfish excuses, that she did not fill your heart, and could satisfy but part of your nature, and when this child no longer needed a name. To-night I give you a higher regard than on the day when your words opened before me the first blissful possibility I had ever known. We shall work out in our separate lives some higher truths than we should have learned together. No act of virtue is ever wholly lost." 
                  They clasped hands a moment. Hers was calm, his throbbing to the very finger ends. No smile, no answering looks. Only an awful, deathly stillness, quite in keeping with this fair form beside them that was never to smile again. 
                  "You must go," he said, and yet he did not relinquish the pale hands, warmed with some latent energy. 
                  She drew them softly away. She turned, and went slowly out of the room, leaving him alone with his child. It was so like a dream that he could not think or feel. No sense of loss, for there had been no want, no expectation. It was to him like other deaths in which he had no part. Little did he dream that in after years this one recollection was to be a Mecca shrine. 
                  Claudia went straight to the studio. She could not see Rose that night; and yet she had never experienced such an intense desire to be dear to some human soul. In that lost love there swept over her a possibility that held her in a thrilling grasp. To have been loved, if it were but dust and ashes now, was some faint consolation. 
                  But in this mood of reaction, she asked wildly of fate why these things had been allowed? A happy marriage then would have saved them all years of anguish. In some blind way they had drifted apart, been made the sport of circumstances, and after suffering the worst alone, come to a peaceful haven. The path was all smooth and clear. Rose, blossoming into a brilliant life, leaning on a strength and tenderness that she could never wholly absorb, and therefore never exhaust, and she free to go on to fame. No claim upon her now. No duty to hamper, to keep her in an ungenial path. 
                  Why did she shrink and tremble? When she had been strong all her life, why should she falter now? For she must
                      gird herself anew, and keep in the path she had chosen. The two men who had known her best, recognized her fitness for it. How often Dana had predicted a brilliant future. Love held aloof. When God gave intellect to a woman, genius wherewith to translate her soul, did he mean that it never should use the language of those less royally endowed? Why then the power to love and to suffer? And then came back the remembrance of the first night she had seen John Brevoort. Was it a prophecy when he said,- 
                         
                           "My Father! thou hast knowledge, only thou, 
                           How dreary 'tis for women to sit still 
                           On winter nights by solitary fires, 
                           And hear the nations praising them far off,- 
                           Too far! Ay, praising their quick sense of love; 
                           The very heart of passionate womanhood, 
                           Which could not beat so in the verse without 
                           Being present also in the unkissed lips, 
                           And eyes undried, because there's none to ask 
                           The reason they grew moist." 
                        
                     
                   
                  All about her lay a woman's keen sense of desolation, like a waste of snow, chilling her to the very centre. That glorious light, making the life of some a daily transfiguration, was swept away. Not that she regretted anything in the past love. Had it been hers wholly, she would as surely have yielded it up to Rose. Sacrifice was a predominating characteristic of her nature. But now that the work was all done, a sense of emptiness crept over her. The future loomed before her, bleak and barren. 
                  Of Dana she dared not think. To linger over the last month would have maddened her, deprived her of the little strength left. Whether he would come again, and if the charm of friendship was sufficiently strong to endure such a rude shock, were unanswerable questions, if she could have asked them. A week ago she had drawn so near to him in sympathy, and O, wild, fatal moment, when her heart had spoken through her lips! She shrank from the remembrance with an agony so profound that any eye seeing it must have pitied. 
                   
                  The evening sky had been full of soft, gray clouds, deepening as the night came on. A wandering and fitful easterly wind cooled the throbbing air. Claudia heard a gentle patter on the roof presently, and opening wide the shutters, her weary heart drank in the freshness of the midnight rain. She leaned back in the high chair and closed her eyes, but there was no sleep. Indeed, it seemed to her strained and tortured brain that she should never sleep again, but the rest was a comfort. 
                  Once it was broken by a light, slow step. Two hands were folded across her aching brow, and the measured breathing, that was not spent in vain words, soothed the wounds that were too fresh to desire healing. And after a long silence, Barbara said,- 
                  "Will you be left to yourself? It is past midnight. I wish you could get a little sleep." 
                  "Is Rose alone?" 
                  "No. She needs no one besides him. She has spoken." 
                  "She knows all?" 
                  "I think she does. She can talk calmly of her child." 
                  "Sweet Ariel. 'Tuned to fine issues.' Barbara, it seems now as if he was more mine than hers. They will have each other, and I have nothing." 
                  The woman's heart uttered its melancholy wail there. And yet it was not infiltrated with any strand of lost passion. Her eyes, too, were tearless. 
                  "Barbara, when you were left alone, did you question God? For I seem to have drifted into a maze of doubt and uncertainty. In that darkest time I never entirely lost sight of him, but now I grope about blindly. Does he care how we are tried and buffeted?" 
                  "I think he does. We have all to cross some deep waters. My darling, cling to him." 
                  And with a kiss she was left to her thoughts again. In a faint, wandering way she prayed, and presently another morning dawned. 
                   
                  Rose had improved, though she was still wan and weak. There was a bright light in her eye, and a quiver in her voice that was too rich and full for sorrow. Claudia went languidly about, her nerves relaxed, and sensitive to a sound or breath. 
                  "You were right, Claudia, dearest," Rose said, joyously. He has come back, and I am to be his wife. Last night I thought it a blissful dream. Even now I can hardly make it real. He has gone for a clergyman." 
                  "Why don't you answer? Are you not glad?" and a touch of the old sharpness cropped out this time. 
                  "More than glad;" and Claudia could trust her voice no further. 
                  "Poor baby! It seems ages ago that he died. And all the time is vague, as if I had lain floating on some great sea. I wanted to die myself, but that is past. The angels will take care of him, for he is pure as they are. I wonder if he will miss me in heaven? Yet it is best thus." 
                  The golden head sank back on the pillow, exhausted. Claudia marvelled as she often had before, on the buoyancy of this nature, so near to heartlessness. The present was all to her. The pang once past was forgotten. In the passion and power of her love, the remembrance of her child was swallowed up, as it were, and yesterday's intensity of grief was lost in today's hope. 
                  A quiet marriage, with two witnesses. John Brevoort's face was white, but neither eyes nor voice wavered for an instant. Then the husband and wife were left alone. 
                  How Claudia lived through the day she could hardly have told. It was spent in her studio. No one needed her. Once or twice she crept down stairs to the child, growing dearer with every passing moment. No little hands stretched out, no answering smile, no soft, lisping voice! 
                  The day was peculiar, too, as if in unison with her feelings. Since midnight there had been a slow rain. The parched earth revived, as it eagerly drank in the moisture. The continuous silvery patter on the leaves, like the tread of some fairy troupe, the fragrance exhaling from every nook, the noiseless air free from the faintest wind, yet growing steadily cooler, the vault of heaven bending lower and lower, with a gray under-roof that shut out sun and heat, and all the fiery forces gathered above. Just as if there had been a death out of doors, and the elements were giving their meed of tender grief. One begins such a day with a refreshed and thankful heart, and murmurs soft prayers of gratitude. But the unvarying mood begins to chill at length. Claudia felt this. The sense of loss within, the lack of brightness without, the knowledge of impending change, and that terrible fear of facing the future! She felt herself growing cowardly. As if she longed to shrink into some far corner of the earth, and hide away, burying all her mistakes and failures. The dream of fame had been blighted by a worse than wintry frost. It lay at her feet, a cold and shivering thing. What could revivify it-any power in herself? Her heart beat sluggishly, the great pulse in her temple throbbed with exceeding pain and weariness. Her hands were pale and lay listless in her lap, the veins a mere thread, and well nigh hueless. And the brain seemed leaden. Would she ever think again,-for this passive state was a mere negation, except that she knew herself capable of still suffering. 
                  A faint ring at the door-bell roused her slightly. For an instant, a white terror crept up into her face. How many times must she throttle this old agony and thrust it in the grave? It rushed up in such a whirl now that she was helpless. Why go on fighting a foe that can never be conquered? As well sit down in despair, and let the insufficiency be brought home. Circumstances, want of endurance perhaps, or lack of high purpose, had conspired to defeat her. Some time she knew she should take her place in the ranks again; but from now till then stretched such an interminable waste! In silence she let the storm pass over her. She did not cry to Heaven for aid; she did not reach out her hands for any imaginary support, nor raise her eyes. The sound of that voice, low as it was, penetrated the inmost recesses of her being. Did Felix Dana experience no presentiment? Was there no far-reaching sympathy to draw him to the woman who sat alone up stairs listening-listening as one does for the last breath when one is watching with the dying? Was it an hour or a century? With senses painfully acute, and nerves stretched to their utmost tension, she waited. The soft opening of doors was like a crash in her distorted mental state; the sound of low talking in Rose's room was like the distant brooding of a storm. For now her brain was active enough, and burned like fire to the very centre. Her breath came in quick, feverish gasps; her hands clinched each other; her eyes stared out on vacancy, unnaturally brilliant, seeking some ray of consolation in the mysterious depths, and finding none. Great waves of love and longing were driven far up the shore of being, instinct with vitality and magnetic force. Only a pure and strong woman could so have suffered, would thus have dared the anguish of love, its thrall and terror! 
                  Then he went away. She knew what she had hoped unwittingly, but its loss no longer gave her pain, as if, indeed, she was past that. She rose, washed her face and hands carefully, tried to chafe some warmth and color into them, and brushed her hair. The day had grown positively cool now,-the peculiar coolness of an August storm, and she shivered a little. 
                  Barbara called her from the hall below. 
                  "Will you come down to Rose?" she said. 
                  Claudia's step was light, but firm. The woman's soul was never to waver again, she thought. She had gone to the depths and tested its weakness, roused its strength. In these moments of reaction, ourselves seem so strange to us! As if another person took possession of our body, and talked and acted through us, and there was no longer a demand on our own volition. 
                  Barbara lingered a moment, and the two exchanged glances. Claudia said, with that deathless intensity indicative of high resolve, "The bitterness is past. Have no fears for me." 
                  Rose had been crying. A passion of tears, that still quivered in every nerve and throbbed in the red veins, wandering up the temples. 
                  "Why didn't you come before?" she asked. "Mr. Dana has been here." 
                  "Yes." Claudia's voice amazed herself, it was so clear and untrembling. 
                  "It's odd-I never should be in love with him, perhaps because-"and her voice almost died away, transfused with the present passion; "but I believe I like him better than you do. Are you susceptible to any impression, Claudia?" 
                  "To all necessary ones." 
                  This thrust nearly pierced her armor. 
                  "I don't understand you at all. For while you're fond, you never seem to be warm; you never kindle at anything, unless it's art. You're noble and generous-" 
                  "Do not talk about me," Claudia interrupted. 
                  "Dear, I wish you liked Dana better. For he is so grand. And may be that's where we pass each other. He gives me a sense of inferiority that frets me-only rarely though, for he is too delicate to pain purposely. And he loved Ariel so from the very first! But he thinks he could never have lived. It's all strange-" 
                  Rose leaned her elbow on the pillow, and supported her face with her hand. A peculiar dreaminess shadowed her eyes. 
                  "I went in to see him,-Ariel, I mean. Shut in the cloven pine again. And, somehow, I couldn't make him mine. It is like a dream from beginning to end; a strain of music floating dimly through one's brain. They are going to bury him tomorrow morning. Mr. Dana wants him to lie in Greenwood. He seems to take all the care and responsibility, and he is so tender to-John. It's odd to call him by any other name than Mr. Brevoort, isn't it? Rose Brevoort. I used to think way back there in Crofton, that I should like to marry him. And now it has all come about. Claudia, dear, I begin to believe in-what shall I say, a Providence or Fate? What is the use of worrying one's self about so many things? they're sure to come, soon or late. Can one help or hinder? And if one could, would one give up the pleasure for the pain? blot out the good things of one's life, because one had to go over thorns for them? And though, I suppose, I shall cry many a time, when I see Ariel's little clothes and toys, I shall remember that I have a love which makes me happy; something more satisfying than a child's affection. It was a mystery all the way, and I shall grow more and more content with the ending." 
                  Was it the old Greek blood speaking out after centuries, breaking through the thin crust of soul with which she had been vainly endowed? Her life would always be in the senses, rare, subtile, and delicate, full of absolute consciousness wherein enjoyment was concerned, and a negation to the pain that lifts up true humanity to the likeness of angels. The spontaneity and ease with which she went from one phase of happiness to another, the brilliant, capricious moods that swayed her, the readiness with which she took the pleasure and left the suffering for others, would have been heartless, save for the generosity with which she gave of what she had. That it was narrow, and flowed in but one channel, that it was sense rather than soul, a sort of butterfly existence, that warmed with its beauty, instead of any spiritual significance, cannot be denied. Barbara, with her grim, Puritan ideas, had failed to make any impression. Claudia, with her finer insight, and rare, strong intellect; her high purpose and purity, had touched her as deeply as a cloud drifting across the sun. What could she say now? To preach against the face of facts, when your hearer's vision can only take in the mere material presence, and not the wide-spreading causes, is folly. And then, who can explain these mysteries? People have sinned, and been happy, since the world first stood; others have suffered, put away the great prizes of life, walked in high, heroic paths over jagged stones, and then gone down to their graves, never having known any joy. Does it stagger our weak faith? 
                  I think Claudia must have been more than human not to have stumbled a little. For an instant, she groped about in the blackness of darkness. Her life so cold and barren-this other's rich and complete! And she to be thrust out of their joy, as it were, for no fault of her own! 
                  "And, Claudia, there are some bright days for us yet," the sweet voice went on, like a rivulet trickling over a way of silvery pebbles. "John has a fortune, and this old, tiresome, work-day life shall end. I mean to share all my good with you, and it is his wish too. I was jealous of you once, dear; but I shall never be again. Only-I wish-" 
                  "O," Claudia exclaimed, reading the desire in the eyes; "don't Rose! If my way leads through the desert, let me go. God knows best." 
                  "Why do you always stay so far off? For now, Claudia, I want to love you. But I can never understand-" 
                  Claudia bent over and kissed her. When John Brevoort returned, he found them weeping there together. 
                
                
                   
                  XII. CLAUDIA'S BIRTHRIGHT. 
                  To the day's rain succeeded a bright, delicious morning, with clear, cool air, that sang in soft melody among the trees, and whispered over the waters with a siren voice. A serene sky, flecked with dreamy trails, wandering purposeless over the luminous blue. There had been times in Claudia's life when such a dawn would have proved an inspiration; but now she seemed too utterly adrift to concentrate her energies. The awe that lingered in the house was still strong upon her. And the prospect of separation-for now she began to feel the curious charm that Rose had always exerted over every one, herself not entirely excepted. When one has had some peculiar drain on the mental and physical energies, and this is suddenly removed, it has the effect at first of an actual loss. Life narrowed to her. Was not the struggle too severe for the end attained? 
                  She knew she should undertake it for all the weariness and shrinking now. Go abroad with Barbara, study and paint, perhaps succeed tolerably well. A long life was before her, and to idle it away in vain regrets would only be perpetuating misery. If these partings were but over! 
                  One came speedily. In this beautiful morning, robed and coffined, little Ariel was borne forth to his resting-place. As the carriage rolled away, Rose sank into a death-like swoon, again growing so rigid that Claudia was alarmed. 
                  Dr. Brevoort had provided for such a contingency, well aware that any intensity of feeling might lead to a recurrence in her weak state. They administered the remedies successfully, darkened the room, and sought to soothe her into slumber. 
                   
                  "I shall do very well with her," Barbara whispered, presently. "Mr. Dana gave me a note for you;" and she slipped it into Claudia's hand. 
                  Claudia Varian stole noiselessly out of the room, and went to her studio. The shutters were but partially open, and the light was mellowed to a beguiling softness. She seated herself, and sank into one of those calms that not unfrequently come upon the soul before any great crisis. She did not even wonder at first what he had written, it seemed so far from any purpose of her present life. 
                  The moments glided by. Was she dreaming? 
                  It contained but two lines, these:- 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "I have heard all of your history that it is necessary for a third person to tell; the rest I shall ask from yourself, this evening. 
                              
                                 FELIX DANA."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  It did not move her in any respect. She folded the note again, and let it lie in her lap. Yesterday it would have given her the wildest thrill; to-day it was a mere fact, one of the duties incident to the present that she must meet. 
                  And then a troubled question arose. She was to take up a woman's existence. The spell that had induced her to begin her strange masquerade was at an end, the necessity over. She was glad to come back. Latterly the desire had been intense. That Dana expected this of her, she was certain. But how to assume the old ease and grace puzzled her sorely. And how to meet him; for the recollection of that last parting was burned into her soul as with a tracery of flame. Did he mean her to justify herself? How much had she forfeited! 
                  "Barbara," she said, in a languid manner, an hour or two later, "I am coming back to womanhood. I suppose I ought never to have left it; but it was the easiest manner of solving the difficulty then. And yet I do not believe God ever means us to go out of the beaten track. He sets a seal upon us at our birth, and strive we never so hard, we are still women." 
                   
                  "I am glad it has ended," the housekeeper said, with a sigh of relief. 
                  "Barbara, am I turning to stone? For I cannot seem to feel anything. Yesterday was a continual warfare, and my senses took in every impression. To-day is an unillumined polar solitude. I neither regret nor approve the past. It is like waking from a troubled dream, and reaching out your hand in the dark. No one takes it." 
                  The immovable face, and slow-falling tones smote the heart of the listener. She had always realized that this girl stood on a much higher plane than herself, and with her love had been mingled an element of worship. She pitied Claudia profoundly now, and longed to comfort her; but there was in Barbara's heart a vein of delicacy. After a moment, her strong common sense came to the rescue. 
                  "Yes," she said, "the sooner this disguise is over the better. And you must have a dress." 
                  It sounded so oddly that Claudia smiled. She wondered, too, if she should not miss the freedom to which she had so long been accustomed, and the sort of fictitious strength that had proved a rock to her, crumbling now to sand indeed. 
                  "I shall not know myself," she mused. "Is there anything that will do?" 
                  "I can find something, I think." 
                  And Barbara plunged into the closet, where stood a trunk of long unused clothes. 
                  "Barbara," Claudia said, presently, in the same steady voice, "there will soon be a change for us all. Dr. Brevoort means to settle in the city. Rose will have a bright life before her. And why not? Her salvation will never be worked out through waves of trouble. I am glad the certainty has come for her. And we will go to Rome. You will not refuse me this, Barbara? I shall be all alone." 
                  There was an inexpressible pathos in the last sentence. She was steadily ignoring the dream that had looked possible a fortnight ago. 
                   
                  "Child," Barbara said, much moved, "do you think I could desert you?" 
                  "No, you will not. Thank Heaven for one trusty friend. If it was all over and we were there, or if life was through with! I feel so old and worn. Will ambition ever rouse me again?" 
                  "You are tired in body and soul. You have slept so little, and the late excitements have been most wearing. Rose will do well enough now, and I shall send you to bed. You are not to think of the dress, or anything, but just rest." 
                  Claudia made some weak objection that Barbara overruled. Though she could not understand the fine gradations of the other's mood, she felt there was an urgent necessity now for a strong influence upon this soul, tossed about like a frail ship at sea. Adjoining the studio was a sleeping-room, and Barbara led her thither, arranged the pillows, and shut out the light. 
                  "You are to lie still for two hours," she said, in her determined manner. 
                  Claudia felt like a child in her hands. She closed her eyes and lay quite still, breathing slowly. At first she had no idea of sleep. A dumb oppression reigned over every sense, that made the quiet and the silence most grateful. For a while she followed slow-moving, disconnected thoughts, that wandered over her like autumn clouds; then came a mysterious cessation from effort, brooding about her like a heavenly peace, and wafting her to some far land. Faint strains of music, dim remembrances of a blessed time when the soul was free as now. And nature, wearied with the intense strain, relaxed entirely. 
                  Some time later she awoke refreshed. A quiet dinner with Barbara, a glimpse of Rose growing bright and bewildering again in the sunshine of love, and then Claudia went to her painting, for she felt strong, and must either work or think. It was not so much hope that actuated her, as a firm resolve to endure bravely whatever loneliness might be her lot; courage, now, rather than despair. 
                  She kept her mood until nightfall, when, being dressed, there was nothing further to do but wait. And then a sense of shame overtook her, a trembling and shrinking. Fain would she have delayed the interview; but even while she thought, a light ring announced Dana. He did not pause this time for Rose or Brevoort, but came straight up the stairs, every sound of his elastic tread as distinct to her as if he had been in the room. Not hurrying, and yet it appeared but an instant. 
                  Claudia took one step forward, and then stood still. She was to read her fate in this man's aspect at a glance, she told herself. Did she? 
                  It was inscrutable then. He had too much at stake, was too intent upon his own desires, to carry them fully in his face. The brow was pale, not with coldness, but rather with the white heat that quivered in every feature, and the eyes were sublimed with an expression so subtile and delicate, so veiled by patience, that the intense warmth of temperament was scarcely discernible. No far ray of light revealed the secret held in a thrall that was torture, for now something more than mere love was at stake. The bliss or misery of a lifetime. Warily would he note, wisely discern. 
                  She looked more lovely in this waning light than his dreams of her had been. Not the bewildering beauty of Rose, not the seductive sweetness and softness, considered one of a woman's most potent attributes. She was to be judged in her strength and her power, for through these she had sinned, if sin it were. And yet the fatigue had given her a peculiar languor; the flowing robe, clinging about her, displayed the perfect symmetry of her figure as he had never seen it before. 
                  "Claudia!" 
                  The voice was not entreating. It left her quite free. Too cold for love, she thought it at first, and a tremor seized her limbs. Had she not told herself all the time that it could never be love? 
                  "Claudia!" 
                  She took one step nearer, but the floor quaked uncertainly under her feet. The air filmed with a dun haze, in which were sparks of fire that shone, but were cold for all their glitter. 
                  "Do you need me, Claudia? For you know, you must understand, what has drawn me to you through all these weeks. You, with your deeper knowledge, your rarer insight, your secret that ever baffled me. I am glad now that you know my life, my one great want. And if you cannot love me as I desire, if my soul is not necessary to make yours complete, tell me so with a look, for I think a word would kill me! Tell me so, and let me go." 
                  What was it blinded her eyes-weak, womanly tears? What faltered through her voice, so unlike words? The room seemed to swim around, and she stretched out her hands, uttering a low, pathetic cry. He knew then where her heart lay. 
                  She was folded in his arms-her resting-place from henceforth. He found the trembling lips, and kissed from them the confession she could never have put in words. A moment of rare and infinite tenderness, such as can come but once or twice in a lifetime. The very air throbbed with heart-beats, and then grew hushed with a soft and solemn stillness. The shadowy dusk dropped her mantle about them, and they, in a heaven of their own, scarcely stirred. 
                  He took her to the window at length. Far down in the west lingered level bars of yellow light. The eager eyes surveyed her with a most delicate, yet profound passion, a sweetness tempering every feature to a sense of unearthly bliss. The lack that had haunted his life with a melancholy like pathetic music remembered in dreams, the terror that had at times seized upon his sensitive temperament, the doubt of ever finding the one soul tuned in the same key as his own, with which love might make one of the grand master-chords of existence, blended now in a measure of perfect content. The doubts were over, but the wants had but just begun. His-this rare soul that had been forced by a cruel necessity to evade him at every turn, when its joy and delights should have been to bask in his smiles. 
                  "Claudia," he said, slowly, and with such an exquisite into-nation that he felt the pulses under his hand throb and tremble. His very voice then ruled her. 
                  "Strange that I should have been blind all this time! You kept your secret well. Yet from the very first I felt there was some mystery clinging about you in undefined shadows. The child and his mother bore you out in your daring disguise." 
                  She disengaged herself from his tender clasp with a pang, and a more than mortal terror crept over her at the thought of its final loss. But her very love, since she had tasted the rapture, made her brave to dare the pain. He should know her as she was, as she had been. 
                  "Why?" he asked, remarking the gesture, yet he made no attempt to restrain her. 
                  "I want you to listen to my justification," she began, almost proudly. 
                  He smiled at the pride. "Dr. Brevoort told me yesterday," he said. 
                  "He could not know all. It was more than love of adventure;" and a flash of disdain gleamed in her proud, pure eyes. 
                  "Yes, I think he did you justice, so far as he understood. Whatever fault he may have been betrayed into, he has redeemed nobly. But if he had so much as hinted that-" 
                  The steely gleam in Dana's eyes thrilled her. She would never lack a defender, it said. 
                  "We were poor, far too poor to brave the world's censure. Not even the choice of retirement was left us, for toil of some kind was necessary to lengthen our scant fortune. I said then, since God had given me strength and talent, I would dare the contest. As a woman, I should be subject to neglect, and slights, and that flimsy patronage that cuts so deeply into a proud soul, for I confess that I was proud. When this idea came to me, I thought I could save us all, for our destinies were indissolubly linked together. I resolved to make the attempt, wild as it was, and before six months had ended I had no fear of success. While as a woman I must have waited, and at the best made but small ventures, in my disguise I could dare greater things; I could demand employment. And she was shielded." 
                  The low voice, which had been rapid, paused with a falter. In spite of the dusk he saw the crimson flashes stain her cheek, and the marble whiteness of her brow. The head drooped a little, and he gathered her again in his arms, with a pressure resolute as warm, though she struggled faintly against it. 
                  "I absolve you," he said. "If your sanctity was as difficult of invasion to all others, as I found it, which I cannot doubt-" 
                  "You were my only friend," she interrupted, with passionate vehemence; and he felt the sob that thrilled her frame. "I should not have come to you-" 
                  "Save for a will stronger than your own. Claudia, darling, I put my whole soul in the strife. I resolved to conquer, to win some acknowledgment. Was it a presentiment. How many times I have thought that yours was not a man's nature. It was so rare and subtle that it stirred every pulse within me. I could sooner have given up my own life than to let it go. And when you confessed your secret to me with a kiss, the night on which I brought you home, I knew I stood on the very verge of some rapturous mystery. A moment more and I must have solved it. But you vanished like a sprite. And I know now, sorely as your poor torn heart longed for comfort, resolutely as it thrust away a possible happiness, the consciousness of love must have pervaded every pulse to give you that courage. Confess." 
                  "I have something else to confess first," she said, hurriedly. "You must hear this while you are yet quite free;" and again she disengaged herself with tremulous hands. 
                  He waited in silence; but his eyes never moved from her face. 
                   
                  "I want you to know that I loved John Brevoort once!" 
                  Now that she had said it she stood still and white, amazed at her own daring, and asking herself, in the pause of reaction, if it was quite necessary. 
                  "Loved him! How much?" 
                  The tone was so cool, so incredulous. Then he folded his arms across his splendid chest, and stood quietly attentive. No assistance would she have from him here. 
                  "How much?" she repeated, musingly, dreamily, in so soft a voice that it gave him a momentary jealous pang. "I hardly know. Yet I will not attempt to deceive you. I did love him then, so far as my nature understood and allowed of such a passion. Until I met him, I had lived in the most profound silence and coldness of inward being. I think the very first time I saw him he brought before me the lack of my life, of all womanly lives. His stirring and electric sense of humanity made me feel my own isolation. I found myself in a desert, hungering for food. And yet I did not grasp at it. He admired Rose so much the more, which was natural. At times he was plunged into a bewildering sea of love, when he saw no sight but her. Was it foolish to experience a sad, yearning want? Since you will, you must know me as I was then; my weakness as well as my strength. One day the knowledge flashed upon him. Like a sudden burst of the sun after a lowering day, he glorified me with it. A fatal moment for us both. A few words of hurried love, but look and tone luminous with rapture. At that instant he became my embodiment of aspiring manhood, and I did not pause to question its truth. There was no promise, no answer exacted. I was satisfied to trust. I felt that he had reached a higher point in this humility than in any pride. I understood afterwards." 
                  A flash of fire gleamed from the eyes watching her so steadfastly, and she heard the half-suppressed respiration distinctly. A powerful contest was going on within the man; a struggle that he might have ended with a word; but he would not anticipate pate, even in feeling. And she understood that she must lay bare her heart before him; that, generous as he would be to confessed error or weakness, he would not only torture himself, but also the one who reserved never so small a part of a confidence. 
                  "Go on," he said, in a curious, indrawn voice. 
                  "He kissed me then. It was the day of our separation." 
                  Her face was bathed in a soft, tremulous crimson, her eyelids drooped, swimming in tears that were not wholly pain or shame, but tinctured with both. 
                  His breath came quick and hard. She did not tremble, but stood awed and still, with the sweetest consciousness of all that he should care so much, and count this a lost joy. 
                  "And then?" 
                  "There came the dread knowledge that I must shut out every hope that had promised to glorify my life. I could keep no little remnant to dream over, as one might a dead love. He told you, doubtless, how letters missed. The swift current of fate hurried me forward, for change of some kind was inevitable. I believed the light that would have made my woman's life glorious, utterly extinguished. What did it matter then if I put myself beyond the reach of such influences. I thought that nothing could kindle a love once burned out. It gave me a desperate sort of courage, and yet, to-night, I hardly recognize myself. It seems as if it had been some wild dream about another woman." 
                  She shivered perceptibly. He took her hands in his, and it seemed cruel not to fold her in his arms; but he wanted her to be strong in her own right a little longer. 
                  "I took up my duty in a blind, helpless way-the first thing that came, never questioning it. I knew I must not fail, and so went on to a partial success. As a woman, I could hardly have accomplished even that in such a position. I will confess, too, that pride was strong." 
                  "And when he came that night?" 
                   
                  "Long before that, love was utterly dead. I had conquered myself, but something was still wanting. And then I was abashed, humiliated, not at sight of him, sudden as it was, but because you were there." 
                  She covered her face with her hands. He drew it down to his shoulder, and kissed confidence into the shrinking lips. 
                  "The new love had begun," he said, in a low, tender tone. "My darling, I understand all the struggle now, from the delicacy that first refused to see me, to the weakness that once appealed so strongly to my generosity. O, Claudia, that night of the dinner I was wild to make you own my power! Some magnetic current floated in with the high tide of my own soul, bewildering me as well. But, my poor, trembling child, how did you think to find your way out of the labyrinth? Did you never fear?" 
                  She clung to him with a sudden impulse. The gesture thrilled him inexpressibly, and he held her closer to the heart that was to beat for her alone all the rest of his mortal life. 
                  "I intended to tell you the truth at the last," she said, brokenly, her voice coming through waves of pathos. "When I found that I could not evade, but was drawn to you by some power stronger than myself, I yielded as far as it was possible. I meant to give you all I could in the brief while that remained. I resolved to make my arrangements for leaving the country in a most quiet manner, and then write an explanation for you. The name of Tresorier being feigned-" 
                  "O, Claudia, you surely did not mean to escape me! Could you, loving as you did? Had you so little faith in me? For that, my darling, knowing me as you must have, when you heard my story, was cruel!" 
                  "Forgive me," she said, humbly. "I don't know what I could have done after that night. I believe I never suffered until then, though all the late years of my life seem full of pain." 
                  "Rose understood me better. She promised to tell me a story before you went away. I know now it was that. She would have redeemed herself nobly. I think she was less afraid of my verdict than you." 
                  "She did not love," Claudia said, simply. 
                  He fully understood the shrinking, sensitive pride of this pure woman. She would have suffered in pitiless seclusion, rather than make one appeal. 
                  "Claudia, I want you to know that I should have searched the whole world through for you. No disguise could have hidden you again. Why, when a man comes to the full bliss of his life, when he tastes a draught that satisfies all the old hunger and thirst that has parched and gnawed his soul, do you suppose he will let it slip by without draining the last precious drop? And I should have known your secret all the while. That sweet consciousness would have impelled me onward." 
                  "And in your sight-" 
                  "My darling, in my eyes you are pure as the angels. No other person's fault could stain you for an instant." 
                  "But my own?" 
                  Her voice was faint, expectant. Her whole frame seemed to relax as she listened for his answer. 
                  "Dear, I do not feel competent to judge you. I can see how circumstances impelled you to the step; how much easier the future looked to you in your dread trial-time, seen in such a guise. Will it suffice you to know that I think you have lost no womanly attribute by the course? that to-night you are pure, and lofty, and sweet, the one woman in all the world for me? And Claude,-for the old name is still dear,-I shall count the hours until I take you into my keeping." 
                  She raised her head a little. She could read the face, although it was dimly shadowed by the dusk. 
                  "What if I fail in your high hopes for me? What if I never achieve anything great, but sink to the level of other happy women, who love and are beloved? For I think now my inspiration is over." 
                   
                  "If I take your life and soul, I have no right to complain. And I want it all, every thought. For a while, even the painting must be put aside. I cannot tolerate any rival. A man's love is selfish and exclusive. A power or emotion strong enough to sway him, rules him like a king, and will be obeyed; therefore, he bends all things in subjection to him. And, knowing what I missed before, I shall long the more passionately for my ideal. Will you be afraid to trust me?" 
                  "No," she answered, softly, glad to be taken into his keeping, glad to be at rest. And having once yielded to the love that was to hallow her future life, she felt herself borne along by the swift current, and merged into the broader ocean of his being. His soul supplied all the needs of hers, kindled and quickened her nature, absorbed her, it is true, as all powerful organizations must, but gave of its richness continually. She would never know any of that grinding poverty of heart, the meagreness of a love combined with mental or moral weakness. No dim misgiving haunted the future; she dared a glimpse of it, and it was perfect. Contrasting it with the desolation of the preceding evening made her shiver. 
                  "What is it?" For now his intuitions were in that refined and electric state which enabled him to distinguish between the slightest thrill of joy or pain that might throb in her pulses. "Have I left anything unsaid? For there must be no mysteries between us." 
                  Should she utter any weak complaints in this great moment of satisfaction? 
                  "What is it?" he asked again, in that peculiar, concentrated tone, that rarely fails to elicit a response. 
                  "Had you less faith in me yesterday than to-day?" 
                  He translated her sensitive pride at a thought. 
                  "Because I did not see you? Claudia, was my commendation of so much import then? Did you trust me so little? I will confess the sudden revelation of Dr. Brevoort amazed me. I went away then because it was no place for me. It may seem singular to you, but I do not think I was conscious of any struggle. By slow degrees the truth penetrated my brain, and adding to it what I knew of your delicacy, your endurance, and self-appreciation, I held then, for the first time, the key to your nature. I understood why you had shunned me, why you had put on a triple armor of coldness to save your woman's soul from any coarse contact with the world, and that you had taken me as but little wiser, or more generous than the rest of mankind. I told you once that no fault of your own ever could estrange me, because I felt your errors would be those of the intellect rather than the heart. After that first evening together, you might have confessed your story to me, and found not merely a friend, but a lover. And yesterday, when I came to see all that was left of Ariel-Claudia, you can hardly know how that child appealed to me. It seems now as if he must have, in some vague way, felt the mystery of his own life. A dream of beauty and love, having so little hold upon the material world that it must needs vanish. Brevoort exonerated you nobly. And feeling that when I next saw you, it must be as a woman, and in the finest relation she can bear to a man, I could not risk a refusal." 
                  "I should not have refused you." 
                  "Yes, you would, Claudia. Think a little. You could not have answered, on an instant, the questions your own soul would have propounded. You would have hesitated, and denied yourself; for self-abnegation is one of your strongest characteristics. And knowing that I could not endure a denial, I chose to wait, and give you time to look the future in the face." 
                  Did he understand her so much better than she understood herself? For she felt now it would have been even thus. Terrified with a sense of womanly humiliation, her first impulse would have led her to shrink away, to hide herself. 
                  "You were generous," she murmured. 
                  "A far-sighted, comprehensive generosity, because I meant to demand so much afterwards;" and Dana laughed. The old, genial, musical sound, betraying the affluence of his soul. 
                  And while the shadows fell around them, while the fragrant air, tinctured with night dews, ebbed and flowed in the starlight silence, they went step by step, over the way now so precious, because in it they had found each other. Words and tones were recalled, mysteries fathomed, coldnesses explained away. She was dearer to him for passing through such fiery waves, and he knew then what manner of soul she had painted in her Joan of Arc. No wonder it had moved a nature strongly marked with subtile intuitions. 
                  But John Brevoort's secret she kept steadfastly. In her soul she pitied him with an infinite sympathy, such as only the noblest of women can experience. Not because she fancied he would be unhappy. She knew that men of his active and dominant temperament rarely suffer continuously, but in quick, sharp, exceptional pangs. Rose's intense and passionate love, her vivid warmth and beauty, would make a glow in his life, where her own affection would have been shadowy and silent. He would have drained her intellect, because its strength fascinated him, but he would rarely have supplied it with nourishing sustenance; not from lack of power or from selfishness, but simply because she would never have demanded it. Rose, less sensitive in this respect, would not hesitate to exact her due. 
                  God, then, had willed wisely for them all. Some of the grandest human souls go to him in their fullest joy, not waiting to be drawn by sorrow. Claudia's was one of these. 
                
                
                   
                  XIII. THE DAWN OF A NEW DAY. 
                  IT is curious how soon the tragic elements of life resolve themselves into an ordinary current when hope or happiness becomes one of the component parts. If it were not that pain is vanquished and forgotten in joy, who could long endure the awful terror of existence? 
                  A week after Ariel's death, they had all reached a point of comparative peace. Rose was well enough to walk about, to exert her own peculiar power and individuality, and the gayety, that was a part of her facile temperament, glittered like a midday sun. Free to love and to express it, she blossomed into royal warmth and richness, and carried John Brevoort along this brilliant current until he ceased to sigh for the haven he had once seen in a vision. 
                  Not that the man was weak of soul, or fatally irresolute. He threw himself into this new life with an energy that transfused every pulse, as he meant it should, for he knew well the danger of half-way measures. The consciousness that Claudia loved and was beloved, added to his strength of purpose. He showed his nobleness in that he never designed to make any flimsy compromises. Much as it would have cost him to part the two, he had been in earnest in his proposal to Claudia. Rose's mention of her desire to go abroad, had settled a plan in his mind, useless, as it proved, but he thought the better of himself for having made it. 
                  Already he had taken a house, and all that could be done without Rose's supervision was being rapidly accomplished. A useful and honorable career opened before him, for his soul was strongly enlisted in his profession. Rose was in a whirl of childish delight. A home of her own, beautified by wealth, as she had dreamed, yet never been able to compass. Soft, brilliant carpets, luxurious chairs and couches, elegant table appointments, and servants to wait upon her, made the future a seductive dream. That Dr. Brevoort might not be prosperous, never once entered into her calculations. Having settled herself to one view of events, she could see no other. 
                  It is one of the intricate questions of metaphysics, how far any soul is expected to go beyond its own light, exceed its natural power. That few of us ever attain the heights religion and virtue mark out for us, is most true. Many people seem to think that a desire, even if it never prove strong enough to bear fruit, in some sort excuses them. Will it in God's sight? Will those weak souls who see, and yet delay continually to act, be any more leniently dealt with than those who see not? 
                  I ought to be able to tell you that Rose was filled with remorse and humiliation. She could feel both keenly for the moment, and in some situations either would have driven her to self-destruction; but when the moment had passed, the mood had gone with it. There was so much hope and buoyancy in her nature, and she always gaged incidents by results rather than motives. A certain native refinement would have led her to prefer death to any state of gross, material existence, and the same thing would have made a life of poverty and hardship just as insupportable. She shrank from everything but what pleased her. Some other person invariably bears the burdens of such souls. They seem to have the rare faculty of taking the sweet and leaving the bitter, while a higher conscience dares not so shift its burdens. And yet they are invariably winsome, with all the charming irresponsibility of children. We are drawn to them. We suffer for them, and yet-love. Some strange mental and moral deficiency makes them what they are, and we can only reconcile ourselves to the fact by remembering that God is the judge, and not we. The things that seem mysterious terious to us now, and utterly refuse to be explained, will be made clearer in another sphere, and we enabled to comprehend them. 
                  If she had been left to fight with solitude and oppression after the death of her child, the full weakness or strength of her soul would have been apparent. But these people never seem to meet with any true test,-are rarely cast upon their own resources. And now she took her future prospects as something that should come to her quite by right. 
                  When the Savior said of those upon whom the tower of Siloam fell, "Think ye they were sinners above all men?" He established a truer status of judgment than comes naturally to our finite minds. That success and prosperity were not always the reward of well-doing; that adversity and suffering were not the marks by which we should know evil. For some virtues surely go to heaven uncrowned, to be ministered unto by angel hands. 
                  And when Rose, full of vivacious delight, her eyes lucent with joy, her cheek and lip in a glow of lovely color, said,- 
                  "How oddly it has all come about, Claudia. Just what we used to wish for at Crofton." Claudia started in surprise. 
                  "What did we wish for?" she asked, slowly, trying to disconnect her mind from a series of puzzling reflections. 
                  "I used to wish for marriage. It shocks Barbara that any young girl should count on such a contingency, as if, after all, it was not a sort of inevitable destiny. Women were made to be married. But those country clowns never touched any chord in my heart. I am afraid if I had taken one of them, some day, when I was utterly wearied out with his coarseness and stupidity, his lack of vital feeling, I should have had a strong temptation to murder him in a quiet way." 
                  "Rose!" 
                  "Ah, you are horrified. Well, I did not do it. After John Brevoort came, I couldn't have married any of them. Not that I was in love with him at first. I had a fancy he would prefer you." 
                   
                  A deep crimson stained Claudia's face. 
                  "I told you I should never be jealous again, but then, Claudia, dear, I was bitterly so. And I always had the consciousness that I should make him happier than you. I think, after all, he is more of my kind." 
                  "You will have the opportunity; and, O, Rose-" 
                  "Exactly;" and Rose's laugh quivered in fragments through the room, like the fluttering wings of birds. "There is an opportunity for a good moral sermon; but, Claudia, don't preach it. I am an inveterate heathen. Of course I love him, and I mean to have a bright, happy life. It will not do him any good to mope about with pale cheeks and heavy eyes, and make myself unpretty as a sort of penance. I shall take all the delight that comes to me, and he will be all my life, just as the baby was. But I can't help thinking that rousing men to higher lives, and straining every nerve perpetually after some unknown good, is a sort of humbug. And I don't know as I want him so much above me. He's just right as he is. He suits me; and where would be the sense of making him dissatisfied with me?" 
                  "You don't understand-" 
                  "No, Claudia, we must have been born radically different. I love you dearly, in my fashion, and I think you noble and generous. But somehow, I can't change myself; and I confess to being satisfied. I believe I haven't any of the longings and aspirations that beset these so-called higher souls. What the world will be a thousand years hence, is a matter of indifference to me. It did well enough before I came into it; it will do well enough after I go out of it. I want my share of happiness, it is true, and now that it has come to me I shall not refuse it. And I am glad that you are to be blest; for after all, Claudia, love is the sweetest thing in life." 
                  Claudia's head drooped a little. 
                  "You see," Rose continued, in her easy, confident tone, "if I had not insisted upon your granting Mr. Dana that interview, the whole course of our lives would have been different. I was wilful and imperious about it. I simply thought, Here was a person who could place a little prosperity in your way, and it would be foolish to miss the opportunity. So I insisted. I achieved from caprice, if you will, what you would have been too proud and too lofty to do. I've been of some use, therefore." 
                  When she touched this chord, Claudia was invariably silent. 
                  The next instant Rose was kneeling at her feet in a burst of passionate tenderness. She kissed the white, cold hand, in her extravagant fashion. 
                  "My darling," she said, "the same blood doesn't flow in our veins. I can't be like you. I have all the warmth, and glow, and indolence of those islands by the sea, forever washed by murmurous' waves, that kiss, and clasp, and melt away, but to come back and spend their whole lives in such idle caressing. But I do love you. You saved my life once, and gave me tender and enduring care, and through me you have come to the great joy of your own existence. Some way we seem mingled together, and I suppose that's right, only we shall never get it out straight; so there's no use puzzling our brains about it. I have the man I wanted, and you have a little fame, and a good deal of love. We can venture to be happy. But one thing I will tell you-I meant Dana should know the story from me before we parted. I had guessed at his secret. Unless his had been a craven soul, he would never have given up the woman he loved. Long ago I imagined the ending." 
                  "Rose!" 
                  "Yes. Don't blush so pitifully, Claudia. I think he would have judged us both mercifully, as he has. And, when our paths diverge, remember me with a little tenderness. The way has been hard for you, dear, but the end is bright." 
                  There was nothing but to take this curious soul in the very manner in which it gave itself. And Claudia, looking up through her tears, prayed to be forgiven if she had failed in any duty, and then and there left the rest with God. 
                   
                  Early one beautiful morning, four people drove away from the cottage in a close carriage: That there was and had been some mystery concerning the Tresoriers, was well surmised by this time; but the few who saw this departure could offer no explanation. By noon that day the furniture had been sent off, and Miss Vanduyne received a note containing a check for three months' rent, but no word that enlightened even her. 
                  At the door of a neat, unpretentious house, Dr. Brevoort handed out his wife. Rose, with her royal beauty, her fervent, extravagant love. The tears shining in her eyes hardly dimmed them, for the sense of separation was pervaded and tempered by a vision that dazzled her. She had desired, at first, to witness Claudia's marriage. 
                  "It is best not," Brevoort said, steadying his tone. "You are not strong-" 
                  "John, do you mean to keep me as an invalid all my life?" interrupted the rosy lips, with a piquant defiance. Fond and caressing as she was, he would have no tameness and insipidity to render love a vapid draught. His patience would now and then be stretched to the utmost verge, never beyond it, for needing love so much, she could not long make herself rock and ice. Some fiery, tropical under-current would sweep down the barrier. Her sweetness would be spiced with a pungency, better for such a nature, that needed now and then a sting to keep it in the spirit of devotion. She won him to smiles, while he resisted her. 
                  "Listen to me, sweet, and don't frown. I think Claudia and Dana would rather go to church quite alone. They are peculiar." 
                  "They shall be indulged then. I can't help wishing Claudia was more like common people." 
                  "But Dana is not a common person. She suits him to the finest fibre of his being." 
                  "John, I have half a mind to turn lofty and good. Would I please you better to be like her?" 
                   
                  "No." His breath came with a quick gasp, and his brow was a shade whiter. "I like roses, red and velvety, and fragrant." 
                  "And Claudia resembles a lily." 
                  John Brevoort studied his wife's face. She would never know the hour of agony and renunciation that had been his, and it was well. 
                  "We will not go, then," she said, slowly, and with a touch of disappointment. 
                  "We will not go, dear," in the low, soft tone with which people sometimes smother a pang. 
                  For himself he could not have dared it. Claudia would know that he was acting up to his noblest impulse in trying to forget what might have been. Once or twice he had seen it in her eyes, like a revelation, and with that he must make himself content. For there are times when it becomes necessary to thrust out a visitant, and bolt and bar beyond a peradventure. 
                  While Rose explored her house with sensations of wild delight, running back now and then to almost strangle her husband with her soft arms, or kiss away his breath in her daring, rapturous manner, the two left alone clasped hands, and glanced into each other's eyes. Claudia trembled with a great awe, as if for the first time she began to realize that she no longer possessed her soul. For now, this face that had mastered her, glowed with a latent splendor of fascination. Through the drooping lids shone out rays of electrical light, that seemed to burn her with their power. She could not feel afraid, for he inspired her with a courage not her own; and yet she would have delayed this rite of possessorship indefinitely, had the power been hers. But she had never urged one objection to the hasty preparations, and the appointed time, so near at hand. It was best for all that the tortuous maze should end in open day as soon as possible. 
                  The carriage paused again. Down in the neighborhood of storied old Trinity, the bustle and stir of life was just beginning. Inside, how cool and calm! The place of all others to hallow a new existence with its heavenly benediction. 
                  They knelt at the chancel-rail; their vows irrevocably said. Then they rose, she faint, and quivering in every nerve. 
                  "Mine," he said, in a low exultant whisper, whose power seemed to throb on the quiet air, as it did in her heart. Their lips met-a touch of fire that was always to warm, but never consume; to vivify an altar, not burn to ashes. 
                  Felix Dana and his wife crossed the threshold of the house that she had once paced with such a faltering step. Ages ago that seemed. The glory of the morning lay warm about them; a summer morning, steeped in beauty. Not a shadow in the sky, not a shadow on their hearts. For she no longer feared. A beauty, born of love, blossomed in her face. If that was a thought too lofty, it was the fault of the high soul, lingering so long in the solitude of mountain tops. But it would never be solitary again. 
                  The same profusion of flowers, as when she had last seen the room, but different in kind. Orange-blossoms, tuberoses, and white heliotrope, with the sad suggestiveness of mignonette, like a strain of minor music dropping from pearly keys. A breakfast-table, in faultless array. 
                  "The realities of life have actually begun with you, Mrs. Dana," her husband said, with his light, bewildering smile, like a far ray from some siren grotto. 
                  He showed his rare wisdom in mingling ordinary events with the love that was at present too powerful for her to endure continuously. He wanted to soothe, not startle; and he knew the abrupt change was too bewildering to be borne in all its completeness. The sudden color, the shadowy, half-averted eyes, the tremulous tones, and rapid pulsation of her heart, moved him with infinite tenderness. A shy, delicate soul, to be accustomed to its keeper's hand by degrees. 
                  In those brief, blissful days, life seemed almost a negation to Claudia. The weary heart and brain came to so delicious a rest that she could not think, only enjoy. Music charmed her with its spell, until every nerve appeared to receive a new impulse. Art opened before her rare stores, and the rich promises of the future thrilled her with perfect satisfaction. The few meagre dreams of the past, fell away like pale ghosts of starlight after the dawn of morning. 
                  Dr. Brevoort and Rose came to them for one visit. Rose wild with delight, and touched by a spice of envy that rendered her all the more brilliant. Felix Dana marvelled at her, and devoted himself with the most brotherly assiduity. What wonderful charm did she possess? He could not fathom it. 
                  John Brevoort gave one long look at Claudia's face, and ground his heel deep into the soft carpet, as if he was crushing the life out of something. He had seen the dawn flutter under his gaze, but this resplendent midday was the rich reward of another. She turned her eyes full upon him as they stood quite alone. 
                  "Don't fear for me," he said, under a throbbing breath. "A man cannot strangle his soul at the first grasp, but there shall be only that left which is needed for her acceptance. And I want to tell you, we have been happy. But I am glad to have you go." 
                  And in all his after life John Brevoort never made another moan. 
                  Two days later Felix Dana and his wife were on the broad ocean. The world was astonished by the announcement of a week-old marriage, and this sudden departure. Varian was a good name; but whether the bride had beauty or wealth, whether the fancy was old or new, furnished material for many a gossip. 
                  What cared they, leaving it all behind! The sky above, with its glowing, golden stars, the rush of waves beneath, murmurous with their eternal diapason, the breezy air, kissing cheek and brow, and the broad night holding in its soft arms dreams that were to blossom royally. Did they question the years, or even the moments? No. They had met with what so few find in this life-content, satisfaction. For them months and years would never be, but an ever-glorious now! The great hope, the great joy of life compassed, there remained no longer a wish to strive; instead, pure, unalloyed enjoyment, as perfect as it ever comes to any. 
                  What they did in those years of rambling matters little. If Claudia forgot her ambition in her love, if her sweetest pictures were her children's faces, who shall dare blame? The world is most silent over happy women. We do not flaunt our sacred joys on the broad highways of life. 
                  John Brevoort and his wife prospered. Genial, hearty, rich in manly attributes, success' and prosperity developed grandeur, where poverty and hardship would have made him cold and narrow. He was proud of his wife's beauty, and never grudged her the honors the world saw fit to bestow. They were hers in abundance, and she delighted in them. Admiration was as sweet incense, and yet she would always have it laid at her feet. A loftier woman could not have held herself more regally above it. Felix Dana was right, when he said she could love but one object; that being her husband, she was satisfied. The rest was mere bagatelle, a flavor to life, a sparkle on the cup. 
                  No children ever came to them. It was a sore punishment to Dr. Brevoort, but Rose was well enough satisfied to be wife and child in one. Any sort of rival would have been insupportable to her. She never knew how he worshipped a picture, Dana's gift, of a spirit that had once been clothed in most unearthly flesh. Did he dream sometimes of the woman whose hand had traced it? If so, I think God forgave him, for He knew how honestly and bravely the man was doing his duty. 
                  The story is done. Exceptional, I grant you. It is with the exceptional events of life that story writers have to deal. When any human soul has lived out a great truth, or a great principle, it has added that much of material to the world. If it has been too weak for destiny, it is not unfrequently held up for a warning. Our ideas of rewards and punishments are narrow-bounded with the life we live; and our sense of justice is impatient. Is it our moral force that decides our affinity for good or evil, or a chain of circumstances, that one act might have made different, that a word or a look could have altered, but look, word, and act came all too late? 
                  It has been so since the beginning. Some souls flash all laws out of being, turn from what we consider the true orbit, and scatter fiery rays far and wide. We try to reduce them to our theories, and fail. We cannot take into account all the minute and specific variations of temperament, organization, education, and some mysterious influence of birth that is never wholly outgrown. And thus we fail. 
                  It is well that an All-wise, All-powerful God is to be the judge. He alone sees the end from the beginning. With Him is justice; with Him is also mercy. 
                
             
         
       
   
