
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Female Skeptic, or, Faith Triumphant .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6426
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE FEMALE SKEPTIC; 
               OR, FAITH TRIUMPHANT. 
             
             
               
                   
                     A woman's faith! Her soul she bows to soul, 
                     Soaring beyond the eagle's wildest flight, 
                     She gives her heart in chains to love's control, 
                     And knows its burning bliss-its gleaming light- 
                     Its gorgeous bloom, rich while all ages roll- 
                     Its star-eyed radiance in the gloom of night! 
                     Oh, soul! oh, spirit! thou to whom she kneels, 
                     She has not drunk thy prophet glance in vain, 
                     She knows by visions where the sense but reels, 
                     By life that maddens in love's thrilling chain, 
                     She knows by all the worshipper e'er feels 
                     That in God's time thy souls shall meet again. 
                  
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER,  
                     160 & 162 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1859, by R. M. DE WITT, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               W. H. TINSON, Stereotyper. 
               GEO. RUSSELL & Co., Printers.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            WHAT Life has taught me, I have written. "What is writ, is writ, would it were worthier." This book is a romance, but it contains more of fact than fiction; the incidents of the child life of the characters are mostly memories; the memories of our childhood are sacred in our riper years. 
            The memories of youth, too, are holy; the college-boy and school-girl opinions of this world, and the inhabitants thereof, I have represented as I have known them, in my acquaintance with developing humanity. The sentimental season of human progress is pictured here somewhat in the ideal. There are many natures only partially developed who will not sympathize in the wild, pure dreams of the perfect humanity. They come to all, however, in a life-time. "How we have loved, and hoped and aspired!" Most of us find our "idols made of clay," and men learn to mock at the wrecks of the beautiful which they once worshipped, and the wild dreams that once gave life its glory. In this men do wrong; the glory of those perished hopes was caught from better regions, and will come back to us, when the discipline of earthly education has taken away the dross of earthly being. 
            There is very little of fiction in the Southern Life represented in this book; the conversations and incidents are such as occurred with southern people; the negro characters are all from life, without the veil of false names. If, at times, the name of the Supreme Being is mentioned with seeming irreverence, in these pages, I have only to say that I have used it as those around me were accustomed to use it when speaking earnestly on subjects that stirred the vital depths of humanity. May the "Our Father" forgive me, if I have taken His name too lightly upon my pen, even in portraying the words of His imperfect children of earth. The heroine and hero of this book are ideal characters; the others are mostly portraits drawn from life. If there is any one character especially unnatural in this book, that character is a portrait from life; if there is any one incident of this book that is especially improbable, that incident is fact. 
            This book is written to show how we are the framers of our own destinies, the materials for the work being given by the All-Father. Some tell us that great souls control circumstances; but circumstances must influence and educate even the strongest souls. "We must work out our salvation (even on earth) with fear and trembling." 
            "Faith without works is dead." 
            This book is written for all who have doubted God when the Tempter has met them alone in the deserts of life. 
            This book is written for all who have doubted God under temptations that wrung the last fibre of the perfect triune nature-the passionate, intellectual and spiritual being. 
            "There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man; but God is faithful, and will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will, with the temptation, also make a way of escape, that ye may be able to bear it." 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I.-MAG IN TROUBLE, 7
                
               II.-THE MORNING BREAKETH, 17
                
               III.-MAG AT SCHOOL, 25
                
               IV.-GRANDMOTHER, 38
                
               V.-EXPERIENCES, 49
                
               VI.-PROGRESSION, 60
                
               VII.-COUSIN MIN, 78
                
               VIII.-OLLA PODRIDA, 87
                
               IX.-HOLIDAY LIFE, 101
                
               X.-REVELATIONS, 113
                
               XI.-LOVE, POETRY AND RELIGION, 125
                
               XII.-LOVE AND PHILOSOPHY, 137
                
               XIII.-CONFESSIONS, 149
                
               XIV.-AMONG THE MOUNTAINS, 161
                
               XV.-PROBLEMS, 175
                
               XVI.-SOCRATES AND XANTIPPE, 188
                
               XVII.-HUNTING, 198
                
               XVIII.-BOATING, 212
                
               XIX.-THE SABBATH, 224
                
               XX.-SCHOOL, 238
                
               XXI.-THE BIRTHDAY, 258
                
                
               XXII.-EBBING TIDES, 258
                
               XXIII.-THE VISITS OF THE TEMPTER, 276
                
               XXIV.-CHANGE OF SCENE-FATE OF A BANDBOX, 303
                
               XXV.-FRONTIER LIFE, 319
                
               XXVI.-CHANGES OF THE MOON, 333
                
               XXVII.-VARIETY THE SPICE OF LIFE, 357
                
               XXVIII.-PLANTATION LIFE, 382
                
               XXIX.-WHAT THE SPIRIT AND THE TEMPTER SAID, 411
                
               XXX.-HOME AT LAST, 431
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The female skeptic, or, Faith triumphant 
             
            THE FEMALE SKEPTIC, OR, FAITH TRIUMPHANT. 
             
               I. MAG IN TROUBLE. 
               "WHAT a grand time we'll have this afternoon! School is out in time for lots of fun." 
               Mag stood on the school-house steps, and as she spoke her eye took a sweeping glance upward, as if she knew the universe was hers, and had only to choose from its infinite resources the joys most delicious to her present mood. She quickly drank the inspiration, then skipped from the door, hopping across the green with a motion like a young robin. 
               She paused a moment by a little specimen of mortality, laden with a bag of marbles, and commenced an original "pas seul" around him, half dancing, half hovering-then, struck by a sudden thought, darted off toward the brook, her hair flying over her eyes. 
               "Come, Josie, let's swing!" she called to a small, blue-eyed beauty, who stood near, and springing to catch the lowest branches of a sycamore shading the stream, she swung herself over the waters on a flying leap. 
               "Ain't it fun, Josie?" 
               Josie thought it was-and as she came up, caught hold of the same branch, and the two, clinging together, made a safe air journey above the waters that fretted over the rocks. As they landed, Mag, the madcap, with a bound clasped the limb above Josie's fingers and swung off again. 
               "You, Mag, you'll push me in!" Josie called in alarm. "My fingers are slipping!" And sure enough, off slipped Josie's fingers, and off went Josie among the rocks into the water, dragging Mag down upon her as she went. 
               "Hillo, Mag, that was splendidly done! Precisely like yourself!" called a little rascal from the bank. "That is what is termed landing into the water." 
               He was a short, broad-shouldered little fellow of fifteen, whose black eyes were perpetually boiling with mischief. 
               "I always knew you were amphibious. Thought you'd visit your cousins the frogs? How that splash must have astonished the innocents! Can't see why you always do consider it your duty to pitch in! You scare their very wits out of 'em!" 
               Mag helped herself demurely out of the water. 
               "It is decidedly a funny exploit, Mag!" Frank concluded, as he turned toward a group of boys. Mag gave her hand to Josie-poor child-who stood dripping like a mermaid-her garments dripping water and her eyes dripping tears. Josie was completely drenched; Mag, by falling upon her, had wet only her feet. 
               "I'll never play with you again, Mag Barclay!" said Josie angrily, as she emerged. 
               Mag put her finger in her mouth to prevent a laugh at the ludicrous appearance of Josie's clinging dress. 
               "I'm sorry about it lots, Josie; I didn't mean to do it," said Mag, as she attempted to wring the water from the dress. 
               "I'm sorry lots, too, but what good does that do? It won't dry my dress," said Josie, pouting. "Just let me alone now, will you? I think you have done enough for once." 
               Mag lifted her eyebrows, shrugged her shoulders, and walked off toward Frank and Alec Ross, her cousins, who were discussing the chances for sport. 
               "It will be a capital time for ball," Frank was saying, in most energetic tones; "and I've a bran-span new one, that will just do the business prime." 
               "No, no, Frank, its too warm to play ball," was the response. "Let's go fishing! I know a grand place over the hills yonder, and the way sucker and trout will bite such a day as this." 
               "Oh, yes! oh, yes! let's go fishing!" eagerly chimed in Mag. "I know where the place is! down by the deep hole where the big rocks shade the water, and the big trees shade the rocks. It's splendid! I'll climb the rocks while you are fishing, if you can't lend me a hook. I reckon I shall find a bird's nest; maybe I'll see a flying squirrel. Won't it be fun!" 
               "I should just think you'd be ashamed, Mag, to be always tagging us boys around!" Frank bolted out for reply. "We never go anywhere, but you think you must go too. You plague us more'n a little. Last time I went hunting you wasted all my powder shooting fish, 'cause you didn't dare shoot up a tree-spoilt my pistol, too, trying to hit flowers-you peppered 'em amazingly; but we don't want you with us always. The first we should know of you, you'd be perched, like a monkey, in the top of a tree, or splashing into the water-it's a way you have of doing-and scaring all the fish. We never could get a single bite with you around. What a tom-boy you are, anyhow, Mag Barclay!" 
               Poor Mag! Poor little Mag! She stopped short in bewildered amazement-stunned-thunderstruck. Frank's harangue astounded her-made her brain reel. It had never occurred to her as among the list of possibilities, that her sports and employments might be separate from her cousin Frank's, and his speech was a perfect apocalypse to her. Her mental eye took its first divining glance into the depths of her own being. Socrates taught that the foundation and essence of all knowledge was self knowledge. The first thorough, true lessons in self-wisdom are frequently stern and painful ones. This was Mag's first lesson, flung at her in rude fashion, by a rough boy-Socrates. "Know thyself, Magdalene Barclay!" was the substance of the lesson, and she was an apt disciple, nor slighted it because it was a distressing one to learn. She lived an age of thought as she stood pondering it, her forefinger again in her mouth and her eye fixed on the toe of her shoe, which was working industriously, but unconsciously, in the sand-the image of abstraction-of woefully puzzled bewilderment. The blood had rushed in a tempest over her neck and face as Frank went on; it quietly subsided, flowing back from her very finger-tips, and a long sigh relieved her heart, as a medley of thought poured through her busy, curious brain. 
               "Now that she thought of it, what a queer little, forlorn human she must be, sure enough. She guessed the rest of the girls didn't play with the boys as she did," and she added, half in spite, "It wasn't because they didn't want to, but they didn't know enough to learn how! And she was a tom-boy? Oh, dear! she was afraid she was, and she couldn't help it. She guessed she looked like a tom-boy." And her eye roved from her stringless shoe to the pantalette that hung in a tattered fringe over it. Her apron was shockingly stained with berries, that she had gathered in it on her way to school. She swept back the tangled masses of hair from her eyes, and took another view. Both shoes were covered with sand and mud, which were forming into plaster on her ankles. "Oh, dear! she reckoned she did look like a tom-boy, there was no denying it; it was a miserable fact she wondered she had never thought of it before. But what could she do about it? How could she help liking to play ball? Couldn't she catch it as well as the best of 'em? and sweep it as far as Frank, himself? Then, too, couldn't she climb trees? and didn't she love to look for squirrels and bird's nests? and how could she help loving to do it? and why not she as well as Frank and Alec? They didn't know half as many bird's nests as she. And why mightn't she climb into the tops of the cherry-trees, and apple-trees, and pear-trees? She knew the way the chip-mucks had found into the tops of the chestnut-trees." 
               And while she was cogitating these mighty questions, she stood pondering the toe of her shoe, which was making wonderful geometrical diagrams in the sand-and she puzzled her queer little brain over many of her life-problems that were terribly hard to solve; and as she puzzled over them, she grew grieved, and choked down a throatful of sobs, and half-strangled herself swallowing tears, while Frank, Alec, and their companions, left her, deep in her mathematical and metaphysical abstraction. Poor Mag! It was the saddest lesson she had ever studied. At last, heaving a long, deep sigh, of unavailing regret, she started for home, with her meditations. 
               "If she mustn't, or couldn't, or shouldn't play with the boys, what on earth could she do with herself? She didn't want to play with the girls all the time, in doll houses, with rag-babies-and the rest of the girls did nothing else; she didn't love to sit and make dolls' frocks and petticoats. Live babies were pretty enough (all except her baby cousin, Harry Fenn-what a little cub he was, to be sure); when she played with babies, she'd have a real live baby of her own; but rag-babies! she didn't like them, and she couldn't like them, and moreover, she wouldn't like them-and oh dear! what was there for her to like? She wished she was a boy, as well as Frank-boys could have just the nicest sort of fun, and go where they pleased. Dear, dear, she wondered why she couldn't have been a boy." 
               In the midst of her reverie, she found herself at home. Pussy met her in the yard, and rubbed her fur against Mag's dress, and looked up wistfully into her dolefully wise face. Mag took her up in her arms, and commenced any quantity of pussy-talk, in cooing, pet-tones, and vented her self-pity on the cat. "Poor pussy! Poor, little, forlorn, friendless pussy-cat! We are so sorry, ain't we, pussy? You and I, and all kittens in trouble, are sorry about it, and the more we are sorry the more it don't do a bit of good!" And so she somewhat relieved herself. 
               Then she threw her bonnet on the grass, seated herself on the cottage door-step, and gazed upon the broad hill beyond the brook, and into the sky beyond the hill. 
               The sweep of green pasture and forest, and the massive ledge of rock, darkling among the green, caught her attention; then a gush of sunshine flooded it with glory, and the beauty entered her soul, and she saw mysteries in the blue, unfathomable sky, and strange forms were flitting among the snowy cloud-piles; and as she looked, the restless bitterness softened into sadness, that crept down into her heart. 
               At last she became weary of it all, and there came a spirit of rebellion against fate, against sorrow and sadness. "She wouldn't fret about it, nor break her heart, either. Who would care if she did, or didn't; and there was no use in it. If her heart ached, nobody but herself was hurt. It didn't hurt Frank when her heart ached, any more than when her finger ached, and it did no one any good, and she wouldn't be such a little goose as to ache all for nothing, and all alone, too." So she roused herself. 
               Two or three cages of canaries hung under the locust-trees in the yard, and there came a gush of bird-music to charm away the overplus of wisdom with which she was almost submerged. The expression of abstraction on her features was not becoming; the light faded out of the merry brown eyes; the dimples were all hidden, that played hide-and-seek around her mouth; and the red lips covered the white teeth with a premature, gloomy pout, that was anything but lovely. Perhaps the birds noticed it, and trilled out their melody to hint that there was a better sort of wisdom for her to learn. 
               Then Mag helped puss to some supper. She had found in a corner of her head, an original invention for feeding cats. She filled a bottle with milk, and, holding it over pussy's head, taught her to catch the stream upon her tongue as it fell. Puss felt interested-was an apt scholar, and soon lapped the showers of drops with marvellous skill. "You are not prejudiced against milk, are you, kitty?" said she, going on with her kitty-talk, and laughing at the grotesque expressions of kitty's countenance in the performance. Part of the stream spilled upon the grass. "You and I are philosophers, ain't we, pussy-cat? We don't cry over spilt milk, that we don't; 'cause why? it don't do a bit of good, and it makes us ache, which is bad, and not comfortable!" 
               Mag had a passion for pets, if not for babies. She petted Uncle Alph's pony; it came up to the fence, and watched puss at her supper; so Mag got some bread and salt and let him eat out of her hand, for which he thanked her with a low whinny. 
               Then a tame crow came hopping up, and looked at puss and the milk-bottle with longing eyes. Mag did not offer him the bottle. 
               "No, no, Tommy; milk isn't good for crows, and you couldn't eat out of this bottle, and you'd know it if you had ever read Mr. sop's fable of the Fox and the Stork; but what a dunce you are, Tommy! you never read that much in all your life!" 
               Tom was a wretched phenomenon; Alec Ross had caught him in the fields, and given him to Mag. Nearly every feather had been torn from him by fate or cruel misfortune, and he was a striking representation of that definition: "Man-an unfeathered biped." Mag bestowed any amount of pity on his forlorn condition. 
               "Don't I pity you, Tom? Don't I sympathize with you? Ain't you a poor Tom in trouble, and ain't I a tom-boy in trouble? Haven't I a fellow-feeling for you, Tom? that I have." And then she flitted off to feed the squirrels, Bunny and Susy, and the rabbits, Billy and Nelly, and at last she was quite herself again. Aunt Lina then called her to set the table for supper, and she ran in. 
                
               "Mag Barclay, what a looking sight you are!" exclaimed Aunt Lina, as she made her appearance; "I should think you were brought up among the heathen. What on earth am I ever to do with such a young one? I declare I'm at my wit's end!" 
               And so was Mag, which was nothing uncommon, either in Mag or her aunt; both survived the catastrophe, as usual. 
               But that day Mag was destined to prove the truth of the old adage, "Sorrows never come singly." As she was taking down the canaries, one little, restless bird contrived to slip a wire of his cage, and pushed himself into freedom. Straightway he fluttered into the locust branches, overhead. It was a daring experiment for his untried wings. How he felt about his bravery, he did not make known, though he semed quite in a flutter, and Mag under the tree was in what might be termed a flutteration. In her excessive sympathy she would have flown immediately after Willy, up among the green leaves, but unfortunately she was not yet endowed with wings. She followed him by means of her hands and feet as soon as possible, but he was too wary for her; she could not find him. Mag commenced shaking the branches, hoping he would be silly enough to fall off into her apron, instead of which he flew off over the house-top, and she was left in a quandary. Not being able to follow him in his flight, she did the next best thing, climbed a ladder and mounted guard upon the cottage roof, and commenced observations, some with her brown eyes, for Willy, some with her red lips concerning him. 
               "Oh! oh! oh! I want a dozen new cages, and I will have them," was her first cry: her next was a gush of tears. She was getting over-excited, and losing her equanimity. 
               "What you want of a dozen new cages beats me," said Aunt Lina, who came out in the midst of the tribulation; "you have only six birds, and one bird can't be in two cages at the same time," which remark contained a profound truth. 
               Mag found out soon that her tears were a worse than useless outlay of capital; they dimmed her eyes so that she could not look for Willy, so she concluded to get cool; she wiped away the mist, and continued her watch upon the house-top till nightfall. 
               Frank and Alec passed her on their way home from fishing. 
               "You are getting mighty high-notions, Mag," called Frank; "you are looking up in the world, I see." 
               Mag did not condescend to reply. 
               "Well, I always knew you were a rising genius," he continued, and Mag very expressively turned her back upon him. 
               "Amazing upish, ain't you? 'Hem-guess you'll come down some, by and by," he added, sotto voce, as he opened the garden gate, and went home. 
               Sport, her dog, came barking and frisking around-in vain-Willy would not come back. Grandma Walton came out and sympathized with her, and the sympathy conquered her; her philosophy broke down under it, entirely, and at last, giving up to grief and disappointment, she went sobbing to bed. 
               Before going to sleep she bethought herself of the great "Our Father," who could help her in all her troubles. Utterly subdued and broken-hearted, she prayed to Him to take care of Willy through the long night, and to help her be good, so that Frank would never call her a tom-boy again. Then she quietly sobbed herself to sleep. 
               Mag was an orphan-an embryo specimen of immortality, sent by a wise and mysterious Providence to develop amid the sunshine and storms of earth. A peculiar soul-as many souls are-destined to search for and find sympathies among the accordant and discordant elements of this sphere of existence; destined to marvel, as all souls do marvel, through childhood, youth and age, concerning the mysteries by which it was surrounded-destined to develop, according to the use made of the talents of mind and body, and the circumstances in which they were to act, either into a noble being-an honor to its Maker, or destined to work out its own destruction, and add another to the list of weak and unfaithful ones, who have permitted themselves to be tempted beyond refuge. 
               A somewhat peculiar soul. There were mingled in her nature elements of fire and passion, also of endurance and strength. Yet these are common to humanity. She was an orphan, living upon the charities of her aunt. 
               Uncle Alph and Aunt Lina Fenn lived in Glenlyn, a pleasant New England village, nestled in a valley, surrounded by half a dozen hills. 
             
             
                
               II. THE MORNING BREAKETH. 
               MAG opened her eyes the next morning to greet the sunrise: a strange pressure was upon her lids, upon her brain, and upon her heart-a dim remembrance of grief. 
               Something weighed down her spirits; it would require an effort to force them to be, as usual, buoyant and elastic. She remembered that once before her heart had been crushed, and she had awoke to the feeling of desolation and bereavement; on that morning she found herself sleeping on her dead mother's bosom. Now, that seemed a terrible dream, as if she had lived in another life, whose shadowy memories visited her. A great gush of pining swept up from her heart. 
               "Oh, oh, oh! how she longed and longed to see her mother once more! Her heart would tear itself out, it was so homesick! Would God never, never let her see her mother again? She would ask him. Grandma Walton had told her to ask God for whatever she wanted, and God would love her better for it." 
               So she rose, folded her hands, and knelt down, and asked "'Our Father who art in heaven,' to please to let her see her mother again just as soon as he could make it right;" and then she asked him to take care of Willy, and make him come back again, and to help her to be good, so that Aunt Lina wouldn't scold, and so that Frank wouldn't call her a tom-boy any more. 
               Then Aunt Lina called. "Come, come, Mag! Hurry up and down, and set the table for breakfast!" 
               So down she ran, feeling better for her prayers. She stopped and played with Harry, the baby, even managed to kiss him, cross as he was, and gave herself credit for her self-denial and sacrifice of taste, and then she made herself busy as a bee, and wonderfully useful, till Grandma Walton, who sat in the corner, smiled so benignantly that Mag wondered what had happened. 
               The birds were singing in their cages. She thought of Willy, and couldn't help looking sorrowfully away over the house, where she last saw him flying-and a great light flashed into her brown eyes as she looked-for there on the roof the wanderer was sitting-little, tired, repentant Willy. She could hardly contain herself, for excitement, her joy was so eager. Her fingers were tremulous as she held out his cage to him, inviting him in her sweetest bird-prattle, to come home; and he, silly little fellow, fluttered gladly down to his prison-home, and never again went roaming. Like many another wanderer, he had grown tired of liberty with its hardships. Free and glorious as were the ways of the world, he could not pay the price of freedom; his nature was undisciplined, had not been cultivated to enjoy the wild, rough road to independence, and he was too great a coward to accomplish the training necessary to fit him for the blessing of liberty. Mag nearly lost her senses with gladness as she greeted him. 
               "Charming, big, nice, old world, out there, isn't it, Willy? Hungry, though, and greedy too!" said she, as he flew eagerly at the seeds in his cage. His bill was stained with green leaves, the forage of his expedition. 
               "They don't feed birdies out there with canary seed, do they? And what is worse than all the rest, nobody loves them, and the world isn't worth much when there is nobody to love, and nothing in particular to eat." 
               "Mag, you, MAG! I say!" called Aunt Lina; "come in and put the breakfast on the table, and behave yourself." 
               Mag obeyed after a sort. 
               "Now don't put the coffee in the cream cup, nor the salt in the sugar bowl, because you've lost seventeen of your senses." 
               Mag made a powerful effort to recall her "seventeen" scattered senses, and almost succeeded. She finished breakfast creditably, and ran to feed the chickens. 
               "Glad to see me, Speckle-toe?" she chirrupped. Her gladness was obliged to bubble over in some fashion. "Have you been a grand, good chick, little Flibbertigibbet? How many eggs are you going to lay to-day?" 
               "Cut-cut-ke-daw-cut," screamed Flibbertigibbet in answer. 
               "Cut-cut-ke-daw-cut? I thought so," sung Mag, as she showered him with corn. 
               "Cuck-a-doodle-doo-oo!" crowed old Top-knot, strutting up after his share. 
               "Yes, yes; I know all about that, old fellow; I learnt it a long time ago. You are getting jealous, I suppose," said she, mocking him. "Great, funny, bouncing world we are in, isn't it, Col. Top-knot? But I'd like to know what business you have eating those bugs and worms? Ugh! Don't you know it hurts them to be eaten alive?" 
               "But they'll get used to that," whistled Top-knot, complacently. 
               "You take it comfortably, old fellow-but what a depraved taste you have; catch me eating worms alive. You'll be sorry for your sins, when your wickedness comes home to you; you'll be eaten yourself, some of these fine days, and I shall be there to see it done." 
               And Mag ran in, mocking the canaries, as she wiped the plates for Aunt Lina. 
               "Mag alive! What a nest of noises you do raise! I just believe you were born crazy!" commented Aunt Lina. 
               "May-be the world went crazy after she was born," suggested grandma, who sat in the corner with Harry, the baby. 
               "Once upon a time!" added Mag, laughing at the conceit. Grandma continued: 
               "You are almost too much of a music-box, Mag. Little girls, you know, should be seen, and not heard. If you are not crazy you are a born genius, certain." 
               Just then Mag stumbled upon Harry, who set up a yell. 
               "I believe the young one will drive me distracted with her genius!" exclaimed Aunt Lina, in a fret, pushing Mag off from Harry. Mag ran out in the yard, thinking intently, "That torment of a baby will drive me distracted if the music don't." She found her bat, and commenced playing ball with Sport, her dog. 
               "Nice old world, though, if it has gone crazy, isn't it, Sport?" said she, as she tossed the ball upon the cottage roof: when it came down with a bound, she swept it with her bat over the garden fence, almost to Dr. Ross' house, at the south of the garden. 
               "There, Sport, off with you! Exercise is good for little dogs, as well as girls. That ball is for you." 
               Frank Ross saw the ball too, and started for it, but Sport reached it first, and brought it back with glistening eyes and teeth. He enjoyed the game amazingly. 
               "It does little dogs good to laugh, especially sometimes; don't you think so, Sport?" she chattered. 
               "And little tom-boys, too," continued Frank, coming up. "You are going to school with me this morning, Mag-that is, you may, if you'll promise to be good-and we'll go 'round by the brook, there'll be time before school." 
               "No, sir! Mr. Frank Ross, I'm not going to school with you any more. You needn't think you're going to call me tom-boy again." 
               "W-h-e-w!" whistled Frank. "Wonder what's in the wind now? I'll call you tom-girl, then. Will that suit?" 
               "No, it won't suit, and you don't suit me at all either," said Mag, the clouds gathering over her face and eyes. 
               "Yes, indeed, you are going to school with me. Why, I'll be as polite to you as-as- 
               The clouds deepened and darkened, the eyes flashed. 
               "Mag, if you'll go with me, I'll be powerful good," said he, softening his tones so that he plead away a part of the pout on her lips, though she saw the comic twinkle of his eye. 
               Frank gained his suit, after making a world of promises. They compromised matters and went to school together by way of the brook. It was a beautiful stream, wandering away on one side of Glenlyn, among the mountains. Mag haunted it like a familiar spirit, babbled with it all manner of nonsense in the summer-time, and in the winter skated over its frozen waters, to run races with the winds and Frank Ross. She greeted the waters now as old friends. 
               "Glad to see us this brave, bright morning," said she, as, at sight of her, they danced onward, sparkling and flashing smiles up in the sunshine. 
               "They are laughing at you, Frank," she added with a merry gush, trying to mock them. "Ain't they beauties? The darlings! I must have a game with them before school." 
               Which was precisely what Frank expected. She commenced splashing rainbows up in the sunshine. 
               "Yes, you'll put the mischief in them, no doubt of that, even if you have to put yourself in, to make it out," said Frank. 
               "That very thing I shall do, Mr. Frank," she rejoined saucily, and slipping off her stockings and shoes, she waded in, watching her bare, white feet, among the pebbles. Frank seated himself, as a matter of course, upon the bank, took his fishing-tackle from his pocket, and put an angle-worm on his hook. Mag stopped and watched the operation, making all sorts of wry faces to see the struggles of the worm. 
               "I say, Frank," said she with intense pity, "see how the poor fellow squirms. How he does ache, don't he?" 
               "I expect he does, Mag, but I can't help him. That was what he was made for. The fish will squirm, too, when he swallows him, hook and all. I just hope a big one will want his breakfast in a hurry this morning." 
               "It's so queer we can't see the pain in him now. I wonder what shape the pain is, Frank, and what use it is, and where it goes." 
                
               "Perhaps into the soul of the wayward girl I now see," said Frank, with an imperturbable look at her, meant to be very expressive; "s'pose there's some use in it, or it wouldn't be, for God made it; and if there was any use in our seeing the pain, he'd make us see it." 
               Mag turned away, waded to the bank, and pulled a flower-cup that was dipping into the water. 
               "Hillo, Mag, how you did hurt that little blue-bell, when you broke its back. Ain't you ashamed of yourself? Don't you see it is bleeding itself to death?" 
               "Pooh, Frank, you know it ain't in pain." She looked wistfully up. 
               "How do I know it? There may be plenty of pains in it of all sorts and sizes. Of course I can't see'em, but how do I know they ain't there, hey? I just don't know, nor you either. It don't make wry faces and cry, as you would if I broke your back so, but how do I know it don't ache, every inch of it? And I've no doubt there was a fairy asleep in that flower, when you pulled it, and you've tipped her out of bed into the water and she's drowned." 
               "No, fairies have wings, and she must have flown away, though I didn't see her-wish I had," said Mag, in grave simplicity. 
               Frank looked up with a stare, to discover if she was quizzing. 
               "What a grand little simpleton you are, Mag!" Frank fished on with intense complacency. 
               "I say, Mag, ain't you afraid I shall fish up a nymph or a mermaid?" he added, hauling up his hook at a nibble. "That was a whopping big bite." 
               "'Hem! you needn't think any nymphs or mermaids are going to bite at your angle-worms. They don't eat such stuff." 
               "How do you know that?" 
               "Grandma says they live down in ocean caves, among the corals, and dance in the silver-mist of the moonshine, and they sleep in shells among the sea-flowers." 
               "With all the oysters, and crabs, and such vermin? Can't say that I approve of the company they keep in their sleeping-rooms. I suppose they eat out the other inhabitants before they go to sleep." 
               "Oh, Frank, what does make you talk so?" 
               "Because I'm such a sensible fellow, I suppose." 
               Mag turned, climbed up the bank, and over the rocks after some flowers hanging above the water. 
               "I love the flowers and the waters, whether there are any fairies or mermaids in them or not," said she, "and what's more, they love me too." 
               "I've not a doubt of that!" ejaculated Frank; for just then, "according to custom," as he said, her foot slipped, and she came plunging into the deepest part of the water. The waves gurgled and laughed around her-caught her in their arms, and drew her fondly into their bosom, and she might have slept there forever, if Frank had not plunged after her and forced her from their ravishing embraces. "That's what I call loving not wisely, but a little too well," thought he as he pulled her ashore. 
               "I've fished you out, Mag, but you're a funny fish. In fact, I can't quite say, this time, whether you're a fish, a fowl, or a frog. I think I'll carry you to Master Socrates, and he may classify you. You're a splendid specimen." 
               "The mermaids wouldn't own me now," she replied, "and I'm in a pretty fix for school! What's to be done with me, Frank?" 
               "Better let me hang you up on one of these trees to dry. Let me see if I can't wring you out." 
               "How Aunt Lina will scold if I go home!" she added, after a few minutes of deep consideration. "I shan't go home. I'll go wet, anyhow; I shall get dry sometime today." 
               So she stood on the banks, and permitted the sun to drink the water from her garments, while the sauciest rays were kissing the drops from her hair. 
               "Why, Mag, you'll evaporate-you'll go up into the clouds," said Frank, as he saw clouds of mist rising from her. 
                
               "I may ride a rainbow if I do," said she, trying to be brave, but succeeding only in getting up a dreary smile. 
               "You'll make one," said Frank. 
               "It will be a forlorn affair, I'm thinking, Frank," said she, monstrously wanting to cry. 
               Frank concluded to pity her forlorn condition. 
               "You'd make a very respectable one, certain," said he. "Come, let's go on to school. You'll be dry as a fish by school-time." 
               "Oh, dear, I hope so!" said Mag, "as dry as two of 'em." 
               "Any how, we'll have a grand time to-morrow after school; you shall go hunting with me. Don't forget it, now." 
               "And will you let me shoot half the time?" asked Mag, her eyes glistening with eagerness. 
               "Yes, if you won't plague me." 
               And with this dubious parcel of comfort, the two odd atoms of humanity trudged on together toward school. But the next day, as we shall see, it fell out that Mag forgot the engagement. 
             
             
                
               III. MAG AT SCHOOL. 
               EVERYBODY agreed that Mag was a queer little soul. Aunt Lina declared daily that "she believed the young one was possessed-it would take a witch to keep track of her." And Uncle Alph gave his opinion of her in more emphatic than elegant language: "That Mag is one of the d-l's own unaccountables!" And Mag thought that perhaps he measured the "Old Boy's" capacities by his own. 
               We would remark that there are many young souls in the world whose inner lives-whose aspirations are in spheres never dreamed of by parents and guardians-which state of affairs is the cause of many of the innumerable heart-aches, misunderstandings, et cetera, peculiar probably to earthly existence, education and development. The discords in Mag's sphere often kept her brain busy solving problems-but the brain was given for action. 
               "Dear, dear, what a world of trouble there is!" said she, as she plodded her way to school with Frank. The bath had cooled off her ecstasies amazingly. 
               "The world is well enough, I'm thinking," answered Frank, "the best I ever remember to have pitched into, if the people in it only knew enough to behave themselves! The folks make all the fuss." 
               The two reached school in due time. 
               As Mag's teacher influenced her development, we must take his portrait for these pages, premising that the portrait is from life. 
               Socrates Wilson was of the Ichabod Crane order of pedagogues. Frank thought he had caught the mantle of Ichabod himself, when that worthy ascended from this lower sphere. He differed, however, from the elder prophet in many things. He was eccentric-but the embodied spirit of laziness; he was immensely philosophical, and quoted Plato and Aristotle, and talked of gods and divinities; and the villagers, in their simplicity, considered his words Delphic oracles, and watched reverentially all his eccentricities as evidences of the divinity within. Were there not marvellous heaps of knowledge stored away beneath those black, bushy locks? They stood out from his head toward every imaginable point of compass, as if perpetually electrified by the understanding beneath! What scintillations of wit and wisdom shot out from the little, twinkling, black eyes, notwithstanding the shaggy, craggy, beetling cliffs of eyebrows, and the narrow ledge of forehead above. 
               Master Socrates was fond of solitary, mystic contemplation-"communion with absolute being, in which thought rejected all determinate thought, and falling back within its own depths, arrived at such oblivion of itself, that consciousness vanished, or seemed to vanish." To him this was ecstasy. Often he dismissed his few disciples to study as peripatetics in the sacred groves of his Academia; and while some, like Mag, were perched in the branches of the trees, conning their lessons in nature and art, and others, like Frank, were angling for mischief and fish in the brook, he dozed away the hours in the schoolroom in mystic contemplation. 
               He was a peripatetic philosopher. He took scientific walks amid the "sacred shades" with his students, and conversed with them on "those things in heaven and earth now dreamt of in philosophy." He was wonderfully learned in botany, geology, zoology, conchology, mineralogy, ornithology, etymology and theology, and the young lovers of wisdom brought him clusters of flowers and rocks, shells and insects, beasts and fishes, for analysis. 
               On especial half-holidays he invited them to his sanctum sanctorum. It was a solitary cottage, a mile from the academy, under the mountain. The solitary cottage contained little besides a solitary room of miniature dimensions, with its philosophical furniture. The bed nearly filled the floor. At the head of the bed stood a cabinet, the upper half of which was filled with books in many languages; the lower half contained all manner of curiosities, of both natural and unnatural history-piles of rocks, of ancient coin, quantities of stuffed bipeds and quadrupeds, and unstuffed reptiles and insects. 
               And the brown rafters were covered with pictures-specimens of his own handicraft, for the master studied practical, as well as ideal aesthetics; he both preached and practised painting. The specimens of the sanctum were done on sheets of foolscap, in mottled water-colors, in a style to have startled the very shades of Raphael and Titian. Well for them that their peaceful ashes were never disturbed by the sight of that rival glory. 
               The crowning attraction of the sanctum was an immense stuffed rattle-snake, reposing serenely by the side of a scarlet spy-glass, just under the ridge-pole. On propitious nights the spy-glass performed its duty-the academicians were made to see stars, and look for the man in the moon, while Master Socrates expounded and expatiated to them concerning things in heaven above and earth beneath, and the waters under the earth. On these occasions his immense proboscis of a nose seemed to peer forward-to penetrate the future-to prognosticate with mysterious acumen its wonderful secrets, while the skirts of his garments trailed their slow length with characteristic gravity in the rear. 
               Mag was at times a special favorite of the master, and then he unfolded to her strange secrets of human nature-especially when he revealed to her pages of heart-history; his conquests among the fair; his power over female hearts, reminded Mag of Caesar's "Veni, vidi, vici"-it was equalled only by the son of Venus himself. 
               At times, though, Mag became an especial nuisance to him, and then there was a warring of elements; but the sun always shone clearer after storms-a beautiful provision of nature. 
               At the age of ten, Mag had been introduced by the master into the primal glories of "la langue Franaise," and now at the age of twelve she was deep in the conjugating mysteries of "Amo" with Frank. She sat next Frank at the desk. He was her right-hand man, and Josie Newton her nearest left-hand neighbor. The desk of the room was of a primitive fashion; it was one continuous desk, running across three sides of the room, and joining at right angles, so as to form two very luxurious corner seats, that seemed to fit to a nicety the angles in the backs of lazy disciples. This corner seat was the cause of many a quarrel between Mag and Frank. On that day, in a fit of willfulness, she claimed it by right, which was, of course, a bad stroke of female policy. She had not become indoctrinated with that prime principle in human nature which teaches that the unfair sex delight to grant, as favors, to female dependence, those attentions which are never bestowed when demanded. As Mag demanded the seat by right, Frank was thereby stirred to oppose her claims; he took the seat by might, and Mag found that "might makes right." They kept up a sort of skirmishing for the seat all the morning; at last, when Frank was called up for recitation, Mag secured it. Poor Mag! 
               Frank's imperturbable face was stamped with an admirable expression of the most profound and unconscious indifference as he returned-he became suddenly inspired with a desperate attack of mathematical devotion, in which he was so absorbed as not even to notice Mag's triumphant glances; and when at last she got entangled in the horrors of a long sum (alas! mathematics were not her forte), and, as usual, appealed to him to extricate her, he merely lifted his eyebrows with a stare of unparalleled astonishment at her presumption-then shrugged his shoulders, making at the same time a very eloquent gesture, by playing ing an inaudible tune on the air with his fingers, while his thumb was reposing on the tip of his nose, revealing volumes-thus teaching the young lady a lesson which all have to learn sooner or later, viz.: that a prize secured at the sacrifice of peace of mind, of ourselves or others, seldom pays the cost of its acquisition. 
               Poor Mag! She was by no manner of means prepared for the contest; she had not calculated her resources; she had no reserved strength for the emergency; she was obliged to surrender after all, and that too on Frank's own terms. 
               And yet, dear little soul, she was infinitely happier when she had acknowledged her defeat, and thrown herself on the mercy of her victor-as was natural-for Frank was boiling over with the manly element, and was as magnanimous a conqueror as he was an uncompromising adversary; he showered her with luminous mathematical explanations; shed upon her the rarest floods of light from his saucy, black eyes, and ended his lesson by offering her the contested seat-appreciating fully the truth of that gospel, "It is more blessed to give than to receive!" 
               Job says, "Man's days are few and full of trouble." Mag found it true all her life-long. Pity that she had not sooner learned the true philosophy of life, to appreciate fully every blessing of the present; unheeding those seeming blessings beyond the reach; knowing that the grand charm-almost the only charm of forbidden fruit is its being forbidden-if once placed within the grasp, it serves as the fruit of Eden served our first mother. Mag proved it in many a life-lesson after this. 
               She directly found herself in new trouble from another quarter on this unfortunate day. 
               We have said that at times she was an especial torment to the master. She was a rebellious little subject when her passions were aroused. The master himself had never proved the truth of Solomon's proverb-"He that ruleth his spirit is better than he that taketh a city. The idea of his accomplishing either exploit was perfectly mythical to him; he could not comprehend it. On one occasion, when he had blamed Mag wrongfully, with insulting severity, and she had answered him with indignant and passionate scorn, she was addressed instanter: 
               "Magdalene Barclay, take your books and leave this school, and don't show your face here again." 
               Mag's eyes blazed; she rose, walked deliberately up before him, made a sweeping courtesy of mocking deference, retired to the door, repeated her salaam, and then walked home to face the fury of her aunt. However, the affair was arranged in a few days, by the students taking sides with Mag. She was on the "sick list" for a short time, and at last returned, as Aunt Lina said, "with no words about it." 
               The spiritus domini came upon Socrates like an inspiration when it came at all, and when the divine afflatus was kindled, he endeavored to atone for all previous remissness of duty, so he used the rod of government enough in one day of the week, to atone for the other six days' rest. 
               But for Mag's next trouble. If there was one thing that she scorned above all others, it was the idea of looking in a book at recitation; she never pirated her lessons in that way; but Josie, her neighbor, considered it lawful to dispose of her lessons in any fashion except by learning them. 
               As they were reciting together that morning, Mag saw Josie slily peeping into the book; she made a quick gesture for her to quit it and put the book away. Josie caught the master's eye at the instant, and her book went with a jerk under the desk. The "spirit" of Socrates, like that of Saul, chanced to be on him-he saw the movements. 
               "Were you girls looking in your books?" thundered he. Josie was speechless. 
               "Come out into the floor, both of you," he commanded. 
               Josie began to cry; Mag denied having looked in the book-in vain-he had seen her eager gesture, and was determined to punish her for the transgression. As prin- 
                  ceps criminis, she was first made to hold out her hand to receive the rod. It was a rosy-looking member after the torture had been inflicted, and the indignant blood was surging rampant with passion through her whole system. Josie might have saved her the punishment by giving the facts of the case, but misery loves company, and so Josie was silent. 
               "Will you look into your book again at recitation?" echoed Jupiter Tonans, in shrill thunder. 
               "I thank you, sir, I have told you that I haven't done it yet," Mag replied, with eyes flashing fiery indignation. 
               "Hold out your hand again!" 
               Mag obeyed-bore the pain again without flinching, or shedding a tear, and then the question was repeated on a shriller key. 
               "Will you look into your book again at recitation, I say?" 
               "Thank you very kindly, indeed, sir; I haven't done it yet." Mag's nostril was quivering with passionate scorn. 
               The question was repeated-so was the answer-so was the torture. Six times the punishment was inflicted, and then Mag's fortitude began to fail. Flesh and blood couldn't bear it. She had been reading in French, "Rien est beau, que le vrai." Truth alone is beautiful. It was a splendid theory to die for truth, but she began to think the practice rather painful, and on this occasion martyrdom wouldn't pay. She couldn't, on the whole, see the use in it. Spite of herself, at last, under the excruciating pain, the tears would come; she struggled against them-bit her lips and tongue, but the muscles would quiver; every nerve in her body was raising an insurrection at the stinging torture. The spirit was willing to die for truth, but the flesh was weak. 
               At last came a slight variation to the question. The master was getting doubtful as to the result, and softened his tones, with a dubious question. 
               "Will you never look into your book while reciting, Mag?" 
                
               Mag bolted out a fierce "No," and was released. 
               Josie had stood by whimpering, and when the master turned to her, she begged off with such pathetic pleading, and with so many promises that "she would never do so any more-no, she never would. Please, sir, only let her go this one time." The master's heart was touched. 
               The blows she received from the birch, "were like angels' visits, few and far between," and gentle, like falling dew. Both returned to their seats meditating on the politics of school, which bear a strong resemblance to the politics of the larger school of life. 
               And the next day Mag was astonished to find herself and Josie again in disgrace, paraded in the middle of the floor, on a triangular stick of fuel for a dunce's seat, as objects of scorn, to all curious beholders. They sat in their humility  la Turque, for an hour, Mag looking unconcerned; Josie, with a variety of expressions on her pretty face-she could not quite decide which would be most becoming in the emergency, and as Mag's impudence on former occasions had won her popularity, she made some faint attempts to assume a little bravery. 
               "Are you not tired of your seat, Mag?" asked the master. 
               "Oh, no, sir!" answered Mag, in a tone meant to say that she possessed inherent dignity enough to grace any seat, and was superior to any disgrace. 
               "Is your seat pleasant, Josie?" 
               "Yes, sir," answered Josie, her eyelids falling. She was sitting on the most acute angle of the triangle. 
               "Well, you may enjoy your seats as long as you please," said the master, graciously. 
               And they stayed after school with the master to enjoy them to their full satisfaction. The master frequently inquired after their peace of mind, and found them tranquilly appreciating Paul's philosophy, "In whatsoever state I find myself, I have learned therewith to be content." But Josie's share of it was exhausted at last, and she was dismissed. She averted her eyes as she passed Mag; she felt that it was a cowardly desertion. 
               And Mag remained there, cross and vexed, feeling a growing contempt for human weakness, and beginning to think that there were some noble qualities of soul in this world, above the recognition of common minds. She began to wonder if she wasn't in the habit of throwing her pearls before swine. 
               The master sat by her, reading geology. Mag grew cross enough to wish she could see him boiled in a volcano, like that one pictured between the leaves. He was tired himself, at last, being not a little puzzled to know how to manage her. 
               "Will you go now, Maggy?" he asked gently. 
               Mag looked up, thunderstruck. A soft answer turneth away wrath, said Solomon; so did a soft question then. 
               "Yes, sir, if you please," she replied, smilingly 
               "Well, good afternoon, then." 
               "Good bye, sir," said she pleasantly, as she tripped away. 
               On the door-steps she found Frank, fretting with impatience, and then her hunting engagement flashed upon her. Language could not express her regret and disappointment. She had beer wasting golden hours and diamond moments, stringing "pearls" of pride in her humility, while sitting on that abominable angle of a stick, to throw before-what? It was too excruciatingly bad-and Frank was a Job's comforter. 
               "If you ain't one stupid, Mag, I wouldn't say it. To sit poked up there for three blessed hours, on that three-cornered nuisance, just to show your spirit! I've heard of dunces, who would cut off their noses to spite their faces, and you are one of 'em, certain! Just take a fellow's advice now, and never be such a fool again! You haven't made one thing by it; and just think of the grand fun we've lost by your being obstinate as forty mules!" 
               Mag had not a word to say-language failed. 
               "And you did the same thing yesterday, taking those whippings. Where was the use of your bearing all that, just because Master Socrates thought you'd lie? You haven't one grain of common sense, Mag, nor an ounce of wisdom. Why, I've got more in my little finger than you have in your whole body, Mag." 
               Mag's ears were tingling with mortification. She wanted to cry, but it was against her principles. Frank saw it. 
               "Never mind now, Mag! better luck next time. You'll never be such a goose again. Come on now. We must march in double quick time to make up for it." 
               They started across the brook, up the mountain. Frank took the gun from its hiding-place. 
               "Grandma tried to raise blue blazes about my taking the gun to school. You know she thinks she must be ruler of all creation." 
               Frank considered his grandmother the especial trial of his life, and delivered long and eloquent lectures on her frailties, little reprobate as he was. 
               "It was no fault of the young 'uns," he said, "when they didn't respect the old' uns. Old 'uns must make themselves respectable, and then the young 'uns would respect 'em, 'cause why? then they couldn't help it," which was famous philosophy. 
               "I say, Mag, wouldn't she make an out-banging captain of Granny-dears, though?" 
               "Grenadiers? What are they?" 
               "Soldiers who wear caps, to be sure, so Mr. Webster says. Hey, Mag! wasn't that smart, some?" 
               "So smart you won't be able to learn of Mr. Socrates much longer, I fear." 
               "By the by, Mag, speaking of soldiers, there's to be a bloody revolution in these United States. The Union is going to be dissolved-negroes to have a universal stampede-all creation is going to be turned topsy-turvy, and the end of it will be that-well, I think I shall come up top of the heap, and be King of America. Father says that Congress behaves like a parcel of school-boys, that need a master to whip 'em into reason; and I'll do that, certain, when I'm king." 
               "Oh, there's a squirrel, Frank!" exclaimed Mag; "let me shoot! You know you said I might, half the time!" 
               "Which half, Mag?" 
               "Oh, Frank, you promised me!" 
               "Yes, if you'd behave; and haven't you behaved with a vengeance? Kept me waiting forever and a day! You may shoot next time; the gun has been loaded a month, and it will kick like forty mules!" 
               Frank shot the squirrel. Mag ran and took it up from the ground, and poured over it a great flood of compassion. 
               "Poor, little, bloody fellow! I'm so sorry for you! Where has his life gone, Frank?" 
               "Where was his life a hundred years ago, Mag?" 
               "Where would our lives be now if our mothers had never lived, or had died before we were born?" 
               "Where was the world, Mag, before it was made? And suppose there never had been a God to make it?" 
               "Oh, dear! it puts my head in a whirl to think of it! It ain't a supposable case." 
               "There are lots of puzzles that get our heads into a snarl when we try to untangle them. Better let 'em alone, and take the world as we find it." 
               "But I can't let them alone. I want to know why my father and mother died, and yours didn't; and why I must live with Uncle Alph, who loves nobody, and hates me, and with Aunt Lina, who does nothing but scold." 
               "Grandma Walton says, 'Because God knew that on the whole it was best for you.'" 
               "I can't believe that, Frank; it can't be best to be orphans, or everybody would be born orphans." 
               "Just as the flowers are orphans!" 
               "I think-and think about it when Aunt Lina is scolding-and think, too, that one of these days I'll run away into the woods, and live with the squirrels, in a cave, to get out of the way." 
                
               "Go to housekeeping with the squirrels and wild cats? Don't do it, Mag! You'll starve! Though you might learn to suck your claws!" 
               "You needn't laugh, Frank, I'm in earnest." 
               "So am I, Mag. On the whole, it's a capital idea-just crooked and queer enough to have crawled out of your brain. And I'll come to visit you when you get settled. You'll tuck me up, in winter, into a bed of leaves, and give me lots of nuts to crack, besides teaching me to suck my paws. There goes one of your family, Mag! Now, fire away!" 
               "Bang!" went the gun, and off scampered the squirrel. Mag shot after him, clapping her hands and laughing. 
               "No go, this time, Mag. You couldn't hit a cow a rod off by your squinting. I'd risk myself at two rods for a ginger-cake." 
               "You see, Frank, the squirrel was so pretty, I didn't want to kill him, so I aimed t'other way! hey, Frank?" 
               Here they reached a cool spring, gushing beneath a ledge of rocks, shaded by large oaks, and threw themselves down to rest. 
               "Well, Miss Sour Grapes, you stay here awhile, till I go over the hill yonder and shoot a bear. I'll be back in half a twinkling." 
               And off he marched, leaving Mag pulling mosses, flowers, ferns, and berries, which she wound in wreaths around her head, neck, and waist, so busied with her meditations that she waked at last from her wanderings and reveries, to find the sun going down and Frank away. She hurried back to the spring, in sudden, wild alarm. She called him, there was no answer, and a terrible fear took possession of her. She called again and again, syllabled his name to every breeze, but echo only answered. An almost mortal agony seized her; she fancied his gun had gone off and killed him, or a snake had bitten him-or-or-her brain was teeming with horrid fancies. And, oh, what an agony of love gushed into her heart for him then-she turned faint with passionate longing to see him, if only once again; she staggered on-and on, till, utterly exhausted by emotion, she lay down on a rock and sobbed till she could sob no longer. Passionate, wayward Mag! At last she bethought herself of the great God who could help her, and there on the rock she knelt down, and told him that "her heart was broken, and she couldn't live if he didn't find Frank for her. Oh, would he please keep him safe and she would promise to be good and grateful all her life." And while she prayed, soothing rest and peace hushed her grieving heart, she remembered her prayer for Willy's return. As she lay, wearied with passion, her beautiful child-faith nestled into her bosom and comforted her. Well for her if, in after years, she had never lost that loving trust in our Father. In the world wilderness, years afterward, she sent forth the dove over desert and billow, and wandered a long, weary journey, before it returned to her with its blessed comfort-the olive branch of faith and peace. 
               As she roused herself, she met Frank. He had been looking for her over hill and dale. Not for an instant had God forgotten either of his children. 
             
             
                
               IV. GRANDMOTHER. 
               THERE was no denying it, Mag was a tom-boy, "the oddest mortal compound that ever breathed," Aunt Lina said. Mag was terribly grieved about it, after Frank had so unceremoniously opened her eyes, and she made desperate efforts to reform with desperate success. God had given her a mind to expand by action. He had also given her a perfect physical nature-restless muscles and nerves, and full pulses-they, too, found life and development in action. She endeavored to make herself very ladylike; but she had propensities that she forgot to control. Sometimes she found herself running races across the tops of the pews in the lecture-room of the academy. She was cured of that propensity by a fall, in which she was knocked breathless and senseless, besides nearly breaking half a dozen ribs on the top of the pew over which she went headlong. Again, she nearly broke her head in attempting to slide down the ice-covered flight of steps, leading to the lecture-room. At an other time she was seized with a fancy for sailing through the air, which feat was accomplished with a pole in her hands as a lever. She was cured of this by taking a leap from a high fence, where her dress caught on the end of a rail. Springing with her full momentum, the other end of the rail acted as a fulcrum, also, and the opposition levers, with their counteracting forces, sent her little body on a grand flight, but it also upset the centres of gravity and motion; she landed upon her ribs and lay breathless till her passion for flying leaps was entirely extinguished. 
               There was a ledge of rocks upon the hillside, near the academy, over which some fine sycamores were growing, on whose branches it was her delight to swing. The cold bath with Josie did not quench her ardor in the least-another lesson was needed to cure her of that passion. 
               "You'll break your obstinate little neck there yet, Mag," said Frank to her one day, as she went flying over the precipice, clinging with her fingers to the end of a limb, "and here's somebody that won't lift a finger to mend it for you." 
               "You'd try to mend it the first thing, Frank; and just do see how nice it swings now!" and off she sailed again. 
               "If you wasn't so everlasting headstrong, I would say your cranium was a little cracked, Mag." 
               "Oh, how funny that speech was, Frank. Didn't it affect your brain some to think it up?" 
               "Don't you see, Mag, that limb is splitting down from the trunk." 
               "But just look at this, Frank," she said, springing with her whole force-and Frank next saw her lying on the rock just above the precipice, with the broken limb above her. He ran to her. 
               "I told you, you'd break your neck, and now you've done it," said he, lifting her in his arms. 
               "No, I'm not hurt," she said, smiling and trying to lift her head from the rock; but as she staggered to her feet, her brain reeled, she turned deathly sick, and Frank laid the paling face upon his shoulder, his mischievous eyes glistening with something besides fun. 
               "Lie down, Mag, you little harum scarum thing. Your head is covered with blood. I guess you'll believe its cracked now." 
               The schoolboys and girls came gathering in crowds. One of the older girls laid the giddy head upon her lap, while Frank ran and brought water in his cap, to bathe the white face and wash off the blood. She tried to raise herself again, but her head felt as if it had been a cannon-ball on her shoulders, it was so heavy; she opened her eyes, but the sunshine looked sickly, and, somehow, the trees above her acted strangely, dancing with all kinds of grotesque manuvres; and the sky, too, was falling, or heaven and earth coming together. She was in tribulation, and so were her schoolmates. At last, a kind neighbor, passing in his buggy, saw the distress, took her in his arms, and drove home with her and gave her into charge of grandma and Aunt Lina. 
               For several days, her existence was very dream-like, and Frank told her, afterward, that "during that time there were more queer crotchets rigadooning in her cracked head than could be stuffed into forty nutshells with the tightest sort of squeezing." 
               Aunt Lina found this a case beyond the reach of fretting; words failed, and, in desperation, she was silent. She gave Mag over to grandma. 
               And such nursing as she received! Mag forever remembered grandmothers as blessed institutions. Grandmother's room was to her a haven of refuge in times of disaster and tribulation that tried the soul. 
               It was a large, airy room, and as Mag was convalescing, she discovered nice little nooks by the windows, shaded by the locusts, where the canaries where singing. At times her heart went bubbling over, and she warbled choruses with the birds, while grandma sat smiling at the music, with an old volume of the Spectator in her lap; and Billy Jack, the cat, enthroned in her best rocking-chair, purred for an accompaniment some old-time story. 
               Grandma Walton had a cultivated mind, and refined tastes, and she entertained Mag during her convalescence with an infinite series of fairy tales, to which Mag listened with intent eagerness. There was a very pointed moral to each story; all reckless, disobedient fairies met with terrible mishaps, disasters, and punishments, while only the careful and obedient received rewards of love and honor. 
               At last Mag was well enough to go out and breathe the fresh air on the hills again, with Frank and Alec. "Was it not grand? And she was cured forever, she thought, of being a tom-boy!" 
                
               "What are you doing now, child?" asked grandma one day, in her soft, pleasant voice, lifting her spectacles over her cap border. 
               Mag was seated on the floor in the corner of the room, in the midst of an incongruous heap of old stockings, boots and india-rubber shoes. She was cutting, tearing, twisting, ravelling and winding on what seemed an interminable thread of mysteries entangled in all-as absorbed in tracing it as if life depended on her work. She drew a long breath and looked up-something was wrong. 
               "Please, grandma, do fix this ball for me. The cover stretches every which way. I can't fix it good out of such an old, twisted boot-leg as this one Uncle Alph gave me. It plagues me more than a little. His foot made it screwshawed and crank-sided I think! so the stitches won't stay. Do look at 'em. I can't make 'em stay. It's awful!" 
               "I know a little girl about twelve years old who plagues me more than a little," answered grandma, in benignant tones. "I should like to know what business it is of yours to be making balls?" 
               "Why, Frank knocked the cover off my old one yesterday, and then I made a mistake and swept it into the brook instead of the garden, and between us both, you see, it got murdered, and then drowned, poor thing; so I'm obliged to have a new one." 
               "There is no end to the troubles you have, is there, child? You are the most unfortunate little girl I know. Let me see what can be done for you." 
               And up got Mag, shaking herself free from the accumulated fragments, as Aphrodite rose and shook herself free from the foam of the sea. 
               "Why, Mag, alive! look at your frock!" exclaimed grandma. "How did you tear that so?" 
               Mag looked down in dubious concern at a big rent in her dress. 
               "You see, grandma, Frank and Alec and I went over Broad Hill after grapes this morning, and I tore that climbing the grape-vines." 
               "But what business had you climbing grape-vines with Frank and Alec?" 
               "Oh, I was obliged to, grandma, 'cause they didn't have any apron, you know, to hold the grapes; and I filled my bonnet too, and Alec and Frank filled their hats brimming full. Aunt Emma and Aunt Lina are going to make lots of jelly out of 'em." 
               "Out of the hats, or your torn frock, Mag?" 
               "I'm going to mend the frock, grandma, just as soon as I've managed the outrages in this ball." 
               "That is no way to do, child. Mend your dress first, and the ball, I have no doubt, will behave admirably. Any sensible ball would have been outraged to see a little girl at work or play with a torn dress. That ought first to be mended." 
               "Oh, dear! It is so tiresome to mend dresses, grandma! And my dresses won't stay mended. As fast as I sew one hole, another one gets torn, and I'm discouraged." 
               "Yes, but do you run this minute and mend it. The ball will persist in being unfixable till the dress is right. I'll try to persuade the ball to do its duty while you are doing yours. Duty before pleasure, always; my little girl must remember that." 
               "Yes, grandma; and your fingers being stronger than mine, that ball cover will be obliged to understand. You shall teach it manners. We shall both behave correctly, with you to help us." 
               Grandma took the ball in her hands, with very soft eyes. 
               "That's the way exactly, I know," said Mag, bounding off to mend the dress before Aunt Lina could catch a glimpse of it. 
               Mag mended the rent, while grandma "persuaded" the ball cover to fit. Mag took it, and went to chatter about duty to the birds and squirrels. She must teach them the lessons she learned. Back she came in great trouble, and threw herself into grandma's lap, sobbing: 
               "Bunny has killed Susy! Grandma, Bunny has killed Susy!" 
               "Bunny killed Susy? Oh, no, Mag! How could he?" 
               "He just broke her neck in the wheel. He was always bad tempered! He did it out of spite! Do come and look! You never saw the like!" 
               Grandma went. Yes, Susy hung dead in the entrance to the wheel-room. The criminal was still in the wheel, and behaving very strangely; he evidently felt conscience smitten, Mag said. 
               "Well, I can't remedy this, Mag. Susy is past all her trouble now; but there is no end to your trouble, is there?" 
               "If there is," said Mag, "I never have seen it yet." 
               "You never will see it in this world, child," said grandma, sadly. "And what you must do with it always is, bear it patiently when you can't cure it." 
               Frank visited her every day after her fall. He came while they were discussing the disaster that afternoon. Grandma gave him the details in her own style. 
               "Susy was a young wife-a foolish one-as most young wives are; and during the honeymoon she did nothing but quarrel with Bunny." 
               "Awful to think of!" groaned Frank. 
               "Instead of becoming meek and obedient, her contrariness seemed to grow upon her-as faults usually do grow when people indulge them. No matter if Bunny was tyrannical; her obstinacy, instead of softening him, made him worse. And now see what has come of it. Bunny has broken her neck." 
               "And if little, high-flying girls-(oh, Mag, I hope you see I made a distracting pun)-if they would be less obstinate and obey their superiors, they would not get their necks broken, or their heads damaged," Frank said pointedly. 
                
               Grandma continued: 
               "If Susy had yielded gently to his whims, she might have coquetted and bewitched his heart away from him without his knowledge. But like all lords of creation, he refused to be driven to terms, and there came serious family difficulties from the most trifling causes. Mag tried to arrange them; but, alas! during her absence they turned belligerent-there came an outbreak-Susy must needs have her paws in Bunny's affairs-must intrude her nose in his business-world"-- 
               "Of cracking nuts!" Mag whispered to Frank. 
               "He set that world into a whirl, on account of it." 
               "And so Susy has found other nuts to crack," finished Frank. 
               "And the moral?" grandma asked. 
               "Boys, girls, and squirrels must mind their own business, and so forth, if they don't they will find the world in a whirl around them, and they'll have nuts to crack that will give them wry faces. Isn't it so, Mag?" Frank asked, as he pinched dimples in her cheeks and lips with his saucy fingers. 
               They went out to order the funeral ceremonies. During the performances, Bunny acted the part of disconsolate widower, with a wistful look in his eye, that was very touching and appropriate. 
               Frank always had said that "Mag was addicted to periodical attacks of philosophy. Thought, in her brain, he supposed, got pressed by the temperature up to boiling point, when the philosophy, like gas, escaped from the safety-valve, which was all correct, it keeping the engine from blowing up, and no danger of damage at all to other people." 
               Mag went into one of these reveries, after the funeral-the philosophy took a biblical, not to say a theological turn. Frank and Mag had learned to be free-thinkers, on Bible topics. They learned their license from Dr. Ross, a professed Universalist; that is to say, Dr. Ross had for a creed, that, "God was infinitely too good to send any created being into endless punishment; moreover, mankind was too good, by far, to be forever damned." A creed which of course gives license to evil by permitting it to wear the raiment of glory. If the tempter ever comes to men arrayed otherwise than as an angel of light, men reject him. Men love evil, only when they deem it good. So many a philosopher has taught. Cousin, the Eclectic, teaches, that all false creeds contain partial truths; men embrace the creeds only for their truth.
                
               Carlyle pronounces Mahomet a prophet, acknowledges him to be the seer he called himself, because he saw one great truth, written in letters of light, on the pages of Nature. In pagan darkness his far-seeing eye read the one truth-there is a God, who has made the universe, and who governs it. Mahomet proclaimed the truth he saw, and in proclaiming it, became what he claimed to be, the apostle of the one God. "The truth in the creed gave Mohammedanism its life," says Carlyle, "its errors are the germs of disease and decay, which, preying upon its vitals, are full surely bringing it down to death. Error is suicidal in all its tendencies. It has mingled disease even amid the God's truth of Christianity." Bryant says, 
                      
                        "Truth crushed to earth will rise again, 
                        The eternal years of God are hers; 
                        While Error, wounded, writhes in pain 
                        And dies amid her worshippers." 
                     
                  
                
               When truth has shaken itself free from error-when the mind has capacities for recognizing it-- 
               But my pen is wandering. Let it return to the memories of childhood. To every heart, "weary long ago," of passionate wandering, childhood's scenes of joy and sorrow are purifying. 
               "There are some things that Adam and Eve never experienced," said Mag, as she came out of her reverie. 
                
               "Lots of 'em," said Frank. "Never buried any squirrels, for instance." 
               "Never had any grandma to comfort 'em, if they did. Eve never had a cousin Frank, as I have; they were never little boys and girls." 
               "Getting into 'no end' of scrapes, and having grandma Barclay after them like the mischief, with doses of 'particular Jesse,' to be taken on the raw skin, without sweetening or poulticing," added Frank. "And they never played four-old-cat in Eden; 'cause why? how could they, when there were only two of them outside of the sarpent?" 
               "And," said Mag, "no grandma to mend their torn balls. Ain't you sorry for 'em, Frank? no boot-legs to make covers for new ones, for they went barefoot. But they had no torn frocks to mend, for they had none to wear-which must have been convenient." 
               "And the lady never had a chance to wear the trowsers." 
               "And they never cut their fingers, nor broke their toes, nor bruised their noses-or if they did, never had a scrap of salve, or a thimbleful of plaster, or a shadow of a grandma to cure their broken heads, or sweeten trouble with candy." 
               "No sir-ee!" said Frank, emphatically. "When they got into trouble they went so deep that all the grandmas in creation couldn't help 'em out." 
               "If they hadn't eaten that apple, Frank, where do you suppose we should be now?" 
               "That's a question, Mag-a real poser. We should never have known our grandmothers, certain, and we should have missed considerable that's worth living for. On the whole, I'm not sorry they eat it; are you?" 
               "But, Frank, ain't it wicked to say so?" 
               "Hem-is it any worse to say it, than think it? And I think it mighty strong all the time. We should have missed considerable if we had never been born. And about that apple eating, too. It's my opinion, that if God had thought it best, on the whole, for them not to have eaten it, he wouldn't have let 'em done it. He could have prevented 'em; he is all-powerful; he knew from before the foundations of the world they would do it, for he is all-knowing. God never made a mistake about it; certain he knew all the time, what ought to be. And all creation is in just the fix that it ought to be, for God fixed it, or permitted it to be fixed, because it ought to be-it was best as it is, in his opinion; and his opinion is wiser than mine. If mine is wrong, why it's a melancholy fact, Mag, that I can't help." 
               "Oh, Frank, you are getting my wits into a perfect snarl Do let's talk about something that won't puzzle my brain so! It's in a whirl." 
               "Grandmas are the most interesting class of people in the world," Frank pronounced with immense gravity. 
               "I know that." 
               "You do, Mag? How do you know it? There are as many as several kinds of people in the world, whom you have never met." 
               "But the people I have met are precisely like those I haven't met, and I'll assure you, that I think grandmas the best of 'em." 
               "Then you think, surely, all mankind were cut out after one pattern? 
               "Why, Frank, everybody judges of what they don't know by what they do know." 
               "Everybody! How do you know what everybody does, you little mouse? If they do it, they make some wonderful mistakes. Do you remember that silly little fellow, the mouse in the meal-chest, that looked out into a large room and lost his senses in astonished admiration at the enormous size of the world? O Mag, you are an ignoramus! You'll be wiser one of these days, pussy, if you'll mind what I say, and behave well. You'll get your wits sharpened, and love people better than your grandmother." 
               "Grandma says experience is the best teacher, and she ought to know." 
                
               "Experience! And you've experienced a grandmother?" 
               "Yes, two of 'em; and so have you, Mr. Frank, and everybody else in this world; besides four great grandmothers, and eight great, great grandmothers, and so on up." 
               "You don't say so, Mag! What an amount of arithmetic you have learned. Master Socrates ought to be proud of you. Just figure out for me, now, how much the grandmothers of Mr. and Mrs. Cain and Abel amounted to." 
               "I say, Frank, please do speak reverently of those Bible people. I know it's wrong to talk about 'em so." 
               "Why, Mag, I never could see where they were one whit better than other folks, especially Cain. Some of the good ones did lots of wicked things." 
               "Let's have a game of ball, Frank. Grandma has just finished me a new one, and my fingers are aching to try it." 
               And so they closed the exercises of the day. 
             
             
                
               V. EXPERIENCES. 
               ON other subjects than the Bible, our young disciples became free-thinkers. Nature had not endowed Frank with overmuch reverence, even for his superiors, and he had too little regard for inferiority and mental weakness, even in his elders. He said that "he despised a coward and a hypocrite in his very soul." Yes; and in that very soul-full of contempt for meanness and littleness-was all honor and worship, manifested in his reckless, headlong, overbearing way, for everything which he considered noble and honorable. 
               It is a sad thing for eager, restless spirits like Frank's, to be thrown into daily contact and companionship with weakness, being, at the same time, commanded to venerate it, as we venerate the beautiful, the good and true. Frank and Mag learned, by such companionship, to take large license while discussing human nature in its glory and shame. If it was wrong, they declared "it was no fault of theirs-they just couldn't help it!" 
               It is a "melancholy fact" that Young Americans, in these days, are in the habit of carrying their liberty of speech into license. They carry their independence of opinion into the discussion of the faults of their parents and guardians; but those parents and guardians give them the example by discussing freely the faults and imperfections of spiritual pastors, and all the "powers that be," in church or state. This condition of things, is, of course, productive of evil as well as good. Liberty is liable to abuse, it becomes license. It is difficult to find the via media-the golden mean-and so men go on, vibrating from one extreme to another of evil and good. Action and reaction being equal, the earth is not thrown from its orbit-philosophy and religion are not swept entirely out of their spheres-and human nature continues, as from its first stages of depravity, a mingling of physical, spiritual and intellectual forces, so interwoven that their life cannot be divided or separated. Men's actions depend upon the force predominating in the times that try their souls. 
               
                  Human nature was a subject on which Frank and Mag indulged themselves in both liberty of thought and speech. Grandma Barclay was the especial theme for Frank's eloquence. Uncle Alph, rather more than Aunt Lina, was Mag's problem. 
               The Sabbath was a day whose arrangements were a discomfort for both; there was nothing blessed in the home institution with them. 
               Grandma Barclay on that day "fulfilled her duty" to Frank. She warned him that "he was a terribly wicked boy, and in great and awful danger of being sent to burn in everlasting fire, with all liars and murderers." Frank often tried to evade this Sunday lesson. Sometimes, in sheer and reckless wantonness, declared he must "try and provoke the patience of the saint-it was well to keep her patience in good practice." Sometimes he did it, being himself provoked to desperation, for he respected neither her judgment nor her religion. 
               One day, after listening to what he called her "sanctimonious tirade about hell-fire," he declared to her that "he hadn't the slightest idea of ever permitting himself to be roasted or grilled alive in any such absurd way." Grandma held up her hands in holy horror. Grandpa interfered, and tried to persuade her not to "fulfill her duty to Frank-she did it with more zeal than knowledge-she was doing the boy harm, for she was hardening his heart." Grandma insisted that if he wasn't warned of his sin and danger, it shouldn't be her fault. She would free the skirts of her garments from his blood." 
               Frank, the reprobate, whispered to Alec, that "the 'garments' mentioned must be grandpa's pants. She had worn them ever since his remembrance. As he had a regard for grandpa, he would try, for his sake, to keep all splotches of his blood from said garments." Frank had more regard for Grandfather Barclay than for any other human being. 
               On Sunday, Mag, too, listened to long lectures on her short comings. There was a sad list of them, and on Sunday, Aunt Lina enlarged zealously on every point, for her reformation. 
               "She was so busy every week-day," she said, "she didn't have time to see to the young 'un. She did believe in her soul, Mag was bound to disgrace everybody that had anything to do with her. She was so headstrong, stubborn, self-willed and obstinate, that an angel would be puzzled in trying to manage her." 
               The good lady was really worried and troubled at the strange specimen Providence had thrown upon her hands. "If Mag hadn't been her own brother's child, she never would have another thing to do with her." In her fussy, storming way, she labored hard for Mag's redemption, and accomplished some harm as well as some good. 
               As the years went on, we are sorry to say, that under all these influences, Mag's spirit grew diseased. 
                      
                        "I hate describing people mad, 
                        For fear of seeming touched myself," 
                     
                   but I must describe the first symptoms of Mag's disease, and trace its development as far as possible. 
               It was the spirit that developed awry. Her physical nature expanded into perfect health and symmetry, in her wanderings over moor and mountain. With Frank Ross' companionship and tuition, her intellectual nature grew strong and free. From Frank she received both the drill and inspiration which give health; but at home her spirit became tainted. It was a proud young spirit, and passionate as proud, and sensitive. It had wonderful capacities for loving and hating, for intense joy and sorrow. In that home-atmosphere it breathed a miasma; instead of rejecting it for poison the spirit absorbed it, and permitted itself to become diseased. 
               As we have intimated, Uncle Alph was by no manner of means, a symmetrical soul. It was his misfortune that he was not-it was also his fault, for we are the "framers of our own destinies." He was one of those unfortunates who seem to be forever too late for good luck. He considered himself an unlucky soul, born for bad luck. Energetic souls know that there is no such thing as luck. "The heart makes its own fate." The brave, earnest heart will control circumstances, and force fate to become propitious. Frank and Mag discussed Uncle Alph's faults and opinions freely, and came to their own conclusions. They decided that the secret of his "bad luck" lay in the fact that "all his forethought came afterwards." 
               Uncle Alph worked hard, but never accomplished anything, because there was no plan to his business. He was always behindhand, always in debt, and always soured against the world in consequence thereof. 
               Besides this, he had never learned to control his temper; his heart was naturally amiable enough. When all went well with him, he was kind and pleasant; but business never went well with him. As he was controlled by circumstances, it was very rarely that he overtook his business arrangements enough to find opportunity to be kind-hearted. He was always chafed, always in a fret, and, alas, vented his spleen on everything around him! Even his horses and cattle suffered torments from his cruelty, and seemed to partake of his temper. This was all wrong, of course. We give it as one of the "melancholy facts" of human life. He brought this soured, fretting temper into the home life. With him there was never any gentleness. He was stern-never gave a loving caress-was never known to speak a playful word to little children-never petted his own baby son-never was known to bestow upon him even a kiss-and seemed ashamed to have it supposed that he could manifest affection toward his wife. There was no home-love in his presence-nothing to develop the beautiful kindliness that makes home a refuge and a heaven. There was a hardening of the heart, instead of an expansion of sweet affections. In this atmosphere Mag's spirit grew morbid. She lived only when she escaped from it. Because of it she pondered many things in her heart, and at times sorrowful eras came in her young life, and her child faith in God became clouded. 
               It was Sunday. The home-atmosphere was black with cloud and storm. Aunt Lina had given one of her most scathing lectures on Mag's evil doing-had enlarged upon her sins of omission and commission; waxed eloquent on her crime of ingratitude to her benefactors, who had taken her an outcast; upbraided her with her orphanage and miserable dependence. The tones of the church bell, pealing through the valley, the call to the worship of the living God, broke in upon the storm. And Mag went up to the house of God, and while God's minister gave the Word of Life to the people, she was racking her very heart-strings with desires for freedom. Her fancy labored with a thousand wild images. Imagination was busy with the old dream of a life alone in the forests. It was her only refuge, the only way of escape. Would to God the ravens would bring her food as they did the prophet; she would be free as the ravens. 
               All that day the hours passed in gloomy desperation, without one sigh of gratitude to the Our Father for the boon of life. When she heard the benediction, it fell on her heart like mockery, and she went home with thought rampant. 
               Aunt Lina received her with renewed maledictions; poured upon her youthful depravity most scorching anathemas themas, and Mag only wondered if the day was not a fit type of the miserable eternity to which Aunt Lina consigned her for her sins. Uncle Alph was in most savage humor. Mag panted to escape the stifling atmosphere; it suffocated her. She took a book, the letters danced before her eyes into grotesque, meaningless syllables. She finally led little Harry out under the locusts, looked up into the clouded heavens, wondered if indeed the everlasting sunshine was above the clouds, and a God beyond the sunshine, whose smile was eternal. She tried to throw off the maddening depression of her spirits, by talking to the birds in their cages. Her Puritan training had taught her that it was wicked to even talk in the bird language on the Sabbath. She was awakened from her bitterly sad employment by a shock like lightning. Uncle Alph had come suddenly upon her, and she was aroused by a savage blow from a switch, a broken grape-vine, that left her hand and arm bleeding, wherever it touched the skin. The blow was accompanied by words as cruel, and tones as fierce. 
               "Get into the house, you young fool! never let me catch you again out playing on Sunday." 
               As she turned she met his eye glaring lightning. He had lost all control of his temper-given himself up to the sway of the spirit. It was the drop in Mag's full cup of desperation. She lifted a fearless eye, and returned his lightning glare, but her tongue was silent. Her lip curled and her nostril dilated in indignant scorn, at the brutal cruelty. She entered the door, the very intensity of her passion kept her calm; she took her bonnet, walked out of the house, and turned her steps toward the mountains. When she was entirely alone, free from the fear of pursuit, thought went mad. She ran to keep pace with her passion-went bounding on, and on, and at last, breathless, utterly exhausted, she threw herself upon the mossy rock at Glenlyn Falls, and gave full sweep to her frantic thought. Her brain went wild; chains of fire seemed to bind her; tongues of flame fired veins and pulses; lightning seemed to be flying ing over bare quivering nerves, thrilling through bone and marrow, the thought swept over her with such intolerable anguish. 
               "No, no, no. There was no God in the universe! It was all a lie; the story of the loving Christ, and the great Our Father." 
               Yet the "great, calm Christ" was watching the child, with his loving eye, as she writhed like a crushed worm in the desert. 
               "Why-why-WHY was she ever born? It was a God of evil, not of good, who ruled the destinies of men and little children, who had forced her to be born without her wish or will; life was worse than a worthless boon-it was an unmitigated curse." 
               And the birds went on singing in the trees, and the winds whispered and dallied among the sporting leaves, and the sunshine broke out of a rift in the cloud, and streamed down upon her; it tried to find an entrance into the quivering heart, but she closed the portals against it. 
               "Why could she not be annihilated? Dead-dead-dead forever?" 
               Then came thoughts of her mother. 
               "Was that all, too, a grand lie-the tale they told her, that her mother was living, up beyond those lowering clouds? Was there no way in which she might reach her? No path up yonder? Could not she herself tear her own spirit out of her own flesh? Or was neither the flesh nor the spirit her own?" 
               Her spirit was tearing madly at its prison-bars. 
               "What if she should throw herself from the rocks, down into the water below? What would come of it? What of the spirit then?" 
               Aye, Mag, what then? 
               She crept to the verge of the precipice, looked down where the waters were boiling over the crags. They danced, and foamed, and shone; her dizzy head grew dizzier with the whirl of waters below, and that in her brain-confused sounds broke upon her senses, a faintness came upon her-it came with a peaceful hush, soft and sweet as balm. A smile stole over her face, as over the face of a baby sleeping in its mother's bosom. She gave a long, sobbing sigh as she closed her eyes to rest. 
                  
                      
                        "Rest more soft and still, than ever nightfall gave, 
                        Our longing hearts shall fill, in the world beyond the grave." 
                     
                  
                
               "Was it her mother's spirit whispering to her? Was God indeed the Our Father? Was he answering her wild, bitter prayer? Was this the death for which her heart was thirsting so wildly? Going to her mother at last?" 
               She looked up to see if there were not angels in the sky, and as she looked, heaven and earth swam before her, in thousands of beautiful colors; then the light faded, her senses forsook her, but a radiant smile of heaven-peace crept up out of her heart and fed upon her pale lips. 
               No, it was not Death who visited her, nor Sleep, the brother of Death. It was a visitor sterner than Sleep, that embalmed her spirit for a season with blessed forgetfulness. When she awoke from that strange slumber, a soft rain was falling. She heard, as in a dream, the waters below singing their lulling music. She thought herself dying then. 
               "The cold waves of Jordan are rolling," she murmured to herself. "The gates of the Beautiful City will soon be in sight." 
               A chill shudder shook her frame. 
               "The way is dim, and I am cold; shall I never reach my mother? never, never, never find the road? How far to Heaven?" 
               "It's a long, long way off yet for you, Mag, I hope. You'll get your feet bruised and torn, if you travel there this road and in such harum-scarum fashion." 
               It was Frank's mischievous voice that answered. She recognized the kindness under the piquancy. And again, he lifted her in his strong arms, as he did when a year before she had fallen upon the rocks. She looked up and smiled. 
               "I thought the angels had come for me, Frank." 
               "You made a splendid blunder at that guess, Mag. Instead of an angel, grandma considers me as one of Nick's own imps. But I intend to minister to you this time, puss. Now tell me what you mean by tearing over the rocks like a wild cat, on Sunday? Shall I take a switch to reform your Sunday ways?" 
               "There'll be no necessity of that, Frank; Uncle Alph has done it already. Look!" And she held up the bleeding hand. 
               "The deuce, he has!" Frank's eyes flashed indignation. "The d--l, a'most! Though I won't swear". 
               "Hush! Frank, hush!" 
               Frank bit his lips. She lifted the long drooping lashes from her cheeks, and looked into his eyes, pleadingly. She was still faint. The pleading look brought a gush into his heart which he swallowed with difficulty. 
               "Frank, please love me a little, for I'm sick now. I'm dying to have somebody love me." 
               Frank kissed the pale, trembling lips. 
               "I thought the angels had come to take me to my mother, and I was so disappointed to wake up here." 
               "I do love you, little fire-bird! I'll prove it, too, when I'm a man, see if I don't! I'll thrash Uncle Alph within an inch of his life. I've always intended to do it for you, on account of all his abominations; I know I'll do it now." 
               "Hush! Frank, please hush! that don't make me happy; I'm sorrier for Uncle Alph than for anybody on earth. He keeps himself perfectly miserable by giving himself up to the evil spirit in him. I can imagine what it is that keeps eternity miserable-spirits are given up entirely to bad passions." 
               "But he has no business, Mag, to do the devil's work here. Let him wait till he gets to his own place. Moreover, I've the faith to believe, that a right good thrashing now, would develop the angelic in him wonderfully; so, you see it would be a mercy to him, Mag, to have it well done. He was badly brought up from the beginning. His mother spared the rod on him, and that was what spoilt the child. A spoilt child makes a spoilt man. Somebody said somewhere once, 'The child is the father to the man.' But you'll catch your death out in this rain! Let's see if you can stand on your feet." 
               Frank helped her climb up to her feet. 
               "How did you come here, Frank?" 
               "On my feet, Mag. Did you run away with the idea that I was an angel and came on wings?" 
               "I'm afraid you're talking wickedly, Frank." 
               "I've no doubt but I am, Miss Propriety, at least, all the over-pious saints, like Grandma Barclay, would say so." 
               "Oh, Frank, please don't, now." 
               "Well, Mag, I saw you rushing along, tearing like mad over the rocks, so I thought I'd come tearing after you." 
               "Oh-oo! Frank." 
               "Just so! I know it, Mag. I wanted to be your companion, and here I am." 
               "Oh, dear Frank!" 
               "Dear Frank! Why, how mighty affectionate you are, Mag! But I think I deserve a boon for my disinterestedness." 
               "You shall have a diamond button when I'm queen; I'll give it to you." 
               "Thank you, ma'am! I'm much obliged to you! As is the intention so is the guilt. I'll give you credit for the guilt-take the will for the deed. But what's to be done with you now? You can't stay out in this rain, and the squirrels ain't fixed for housekeeping yet." 
               "Oh, Frank! What will become of me-whom have I to love, or to whom can I look for that affection which, to a bruised heart, is the one thing needful-I can't love uncle nor aunt." 
                
               "I know all that, Mag. I shall deliver you up to Grandma Walton. I'll see you safe through this scrape certain. There'll be the Old Harry to pay-father may pay him, though, now that I think of it, Uncle Alph will be docile by this time, heartily ashamed of himself, and as quiet as a lamb." 
               "You can't think how queer my head feels, Frank." She was reeling. 
               "It's a queer head, Mag; I'll doctor it for you; I'm going to be a doctor, like my father, anyhow. I'll practise on your case; practice makes perfect, they say. I'll make you perfect by my practice." 
               "I am to be number one of your numerous patients." 
               "Yes, and lots of patience it will take to reduce you to terms." 
               "So Aunt Lina says." 
               They walked slowly homeward. 
               "Mag, what a pity that Grandpa Barclay couldn't make an exchange for Grandma Walton; I'd go in for the swap worse than forty mules. I'd put in two votes every time." Mag laughed. 
               "I shall hold a professional consultation on your case with my father, puss," he said as he left her in grandma's care. 
             
             
                
               VI. PROGRESSION. 
               FRANK held the promised consultation with his father on Mag's case, the result of which was a professional visit from Dr. Ross, her uncle. The patient was with Grandma Walton. The medicine he administered was any amount of teasing on her racing propensities. He declared he intended to take Frank and Mag to the next State fair, they'd beat the States on a foot-race, but Mag would take the premium. He advised Mag to keep in good practice for the occasion, though he decidedly objected to her practising on Sunday, and decreed that he should forbid Frank's "kiting after girls on Sunday," for all future time. 
               All this was said in Dr. Ross' own genial, sunshiny way; he finished his exhortation by telling her that "whenever she was seized with uncontrollable desires to go into the woods and live with squirrels, coons, and such 'varmints,' to let him know it, and he would have a cage fixed for her, up garret in his house, and she, Alec, and Frank might all play 'possum together." Uncle Alph remained in a quiescent state during this visit; Mag was exceedingly polite to him, and abundantly grateful to Uncle Ross, and she promised him that she certainly should come to him, and live with Alec and Frank up garret, when she couldn't think what else to do with herself. 
               Mag went on her life-journey with new courage and hope. 
               The years went on-she developed in the years. They brought her some stern, sad lessons, on which we will not dwell. It always gives us heartaches to linger on scenes of sadness, and we leave them as soon as possible. The saddest lesson that came was found in the death of Grandma Walton. There is no language to describe Mag's emotion as she stood by her death-bed. The great light and glory of her childhood went away when she looked at her grave, and returned to the desolate cottage, entirely alone. All the home charm went away, and was buried in the churchyard. 
               Years rolled on-her life-education advanced with the years. 
               The regime of Socrates was over in the academy. The disease of romance seized him and carried him off at last. It came late in life with him, but it took him powerfully when it did come. 
               One summer day, the report came to all that the master had slipped his bachelor's neck into the sacred noose of matrimony; the deed, moreover, had been done on a Sabbath morning, as he and his "destiny" were walking to church. They met the minister-stopped him under a wide-spreading oak-perhaps they dreamed of sacred Druidic mysteries to be fathomed; and there the irrevocable knot had been tied. Concerning other preliminaries, the winged fame was silent, but it proclaimed that Romance had woven an original garb from her interminable thread, at last, and it was a nine days' miracle in Glenlyn. 
               The news raised a commotion among gossips and children, for report added that the master was about to retire from the halls of the academy, to cultivate the more pleasing pursuits of farming, matrimony, and the muses, and the report was not false. 
               Then there followed, "in longo ordine," a succession of occupants for the pedagogue's chair at Glenlyn, like popes for the pontifical chair, at Rome, and under their sway, Mag and Frank grew in wisdom and wit, if not in favor with mankind. 
               It must be confessed, Mag was not a favorite in those years; she lived in her sort of way, a free, careless life, when she escaped from Uncle Alph and Aunt Lina; but she grew up without one intimate among her schoolmates. Her brown face was not pretty; her ways were not their ways, nor her thoughts their thoughts. Yet it never occurred to her, that there was anything wrong in it all, till one day Aunt Lina, in her own style, gave her a hint like a broadside. 
               Mag's sphere of usefulness at home had increased with her years; she had now arrived at the dignity of assistant washerwoman. It was a Monday morning, washing day, and Mag was stationed in the back piazza, her sleeves rolled up, and her elbows ready for the suds. The canaries were singing in the locusts, and she was keeping time to their music, by pounding the clothes with characteristic spirit. Aunt Lina commenced her lesson in the midst of the racket. 
               "I never did see one other human being just like you, Mag! I do declare you make me ashamed of you, every day of my life! I watched you at meeting yesterday, all alone, by yourself; neither boy nor girl took any more notice of you than if you'd been a baboon. You haven't a friend in the world; everything you say and do is so odd and queer, that nobody knows what to make of you! Why don't you try to behave like Josie Newton? she is so sweet and pretty! I wish you would take pattern after her. She has troops of friends." 
               Mag commenced a sort of a charivari around the pounding barrel, to the most thundering music she could extract from the pounder, at mention of Josie Newton as her model. 
               "Mag, you little wretch, you'll tear that barrel all to pieces. I believe the Old Harry is in you. You've pounded those clothes enough; don't strip them into inch pieces." 
               Mag pitched out the clothes from the boiler, with the broom-stick, wrung them from the suds, put more in boiling, while Aunt Lina went on. 
               "I think it's high time you were mending your manners. What do you suppose will ever become of such a little heathen? You'd better try to make yourself friends-you'll need 'em bad enough one of these days. Better have the good will of a dog than the ill will; everybody is snapping and snarling at you for your impudence." That last remark was a fancy remark of Aunt Lina's, suggested by the adage of the dog, and she also judged other people's habits of snappishness by her own, which is natural for women to do. 
               Mag here again interrupted her remarks, by accomplishing a big blunder, the exploit of pouring the suds over the piazza floor, instead of emptying them into the drain, toward which the barrel was aimed. 
               "What on earth are you up to now, Mag?" screamed Aunt Lina. 
               "I just thought the floor needed washing, aunty." Mag laughed pleasantly, following the barrel as it rolled over and over. "And rolling the barrel is such good exercise, you know." She succeeded in catching it; placed it on end, then seizing little Harry, who was running by, she tossed him in the air, to set him screaming; then lifted him into the empty barrel, till his shouts of crying and laughter effectually stopped Aunt Lina's tirade, which was what Mag wanted. 
               But Mag pondered the lesson-there was some truth in it. She laid these things up in her heart for future reference and use. 
               She believed she was heathenish enough, in all conscience, and so she concluded she would take the advice, and "mend her manners." Aunt Lina seemed to think it a consummation devoutly to be wished, to have troops of friends. Well, she must contrive to beat up some new recruits-she must hunt for the weak points in humanity, and try her success in a siege of hearts. She had a sort of contempt for the Josie Newtons-the fractional souls around her. She and Frank had discussed them all-the whole specimens, and the fragments-the souls in tatters; but it might be well to put them to some use, make them serviceable; sometime or other they might be beneficial. As Aunt Lina said, "She might need 'em one of these days." No harm to grow popular in school. She would turn politician-do a little electioneering, for practice. 
               After the washing she went to school, and meditated on her way. She must "captivate" some friends. Miss Josie might be her first experiment, the path to her affections was so plain. Her weak point, like that of the sex in general, was love of admiration. Alec Ross had any amount of enthusiasm for blue eyes, pouting lips, fairy fingers, exquisite feet and ankles, finely turned neck and shoulders, all the manifold points of the inchoate belle. Mag soon had the two in the full tide of a grand flirtation. The elements of the affaire du cur were all prepared, it was easy to bring them together, the ingredients combined by chemical affinity, and there followed the ferment and foam of a violent school-boy and school-girl love. Delightful affairs they are, too, as every one will testify who will look back upon his own experience. This disease of first love-or "puppy love," as the irreverential call it-takes one, like the measles, and is really dangerous in some of its phases, but is easily cured when skillfully managed. The only danger is where weak-minded friends and guardians treat it too seriously: they bring on the dangerous crises which they wish to avert, by opposing in dead, solemn earnest, what might be frightened away by a little well-timed ridicule, with an occasional sneer appropriately applied. 
               "Love borrows greatly from opinion. Pride, above all things, strengthens the affections." Contempt and ridicule are difficult to swallow, and will cool off the fever of a first love amazingly. Serious opposition makes common fruit forbidden, which is acknowledged to be the sweetest fruit in the universe. The most of forbidden fruit is desirable only because it is forbidden; if once within the grasp, it palls upon the taste. "The course of true love never runs smooth." The rough road over which love travels gives it truthfulness. A smooth road takes away its piquancy and charm, and it dies of inanition. The forbidden fruit, so ardently desired, most frequently becomes a curse when once we clasp it-as much a curse as the fruit of Eden proved to frail, fair Eve. Love, Fame, Gold, Ambition!-beautiful fruits afar off, beyond the grasp. "Distance lends enchantment," but "familiarity breeds contempt" for all.
                
               In this category is placed only the love born of passion and fed by the physical nature, not that born of heaven, nursed by the spirit, fed by the intellectual and moral, yet graced by the charms of the physical. The intellectual, moral and physical combined in perfect proportions, form a perfect earthly nature, which is capable of perfect love. But most of humanity have partial natures; an intellectual nature does not comprehend a physical, passionate love in its depth and strength. A purely physical nature has no conception of intellectual and spiritual fascination-the grace that perfects love, and brings heaven on earth. Alas! there are creatures made in God's image, endowed only with brute passions, who have no faith in the moral power bestowed upon man. God help them! God protect the defenceless near them! But my pen has wandered. 
               Mag took the management of that first love of Alec Ross. She became interested in it, consequently Josie became interested in her, and so she had a friend (!) It was worth the trouble-was not a losing speculation. 
               Mag learned by it to sympathize with every pair of lovers she met. She studied to make herself useful to them-took upon herself an art she learned of the heathen, to fulfill the duties of Eros and Anteros-insinuated herself by degrees into the graces of both "beau" and "belle-monde," and soon was rewarded by being herself appreciated; and she, too, as well as Josie Newton, had troops of friends. 
               There was Nell Brandon, the school poetess, who was fond of moonshine and mystery and romance. Mag became afflicted with the same tastes. Both caught the Byronic fever. The first stages were burning fiercely in the strongest symptoms, as they strolled over mountain and valley, at morn and dewy eve, reciting, in eloquence, kindled to sweet frenzy: 
                      
                        "Oh, night, 
                        And storm, and darkness! ye are wond'rous strong, 
                        Yet lovely in your strength as is the light 
                        Of a dark eye in woman!" 
                     
                   And when the two had Frank Ross to stir up the inspired fire, the charm was complete. 
               Mag found one friend-one whole soul, and not a fragment. When she was at the ripening age of sixteen, a whole soul, at that time a child of twelve crossed the orbit of Mag's existence, and called out the best emotions of her nature. Of May Burton, more anon. 
               As we have said, Mag grew excessively romantic. A school-girl just fledging is the most intolerably romantic of all mortal flesh-most unendurably poetic and pedantic of all breathing things, unless, indeed, it be a college boy. 
               Never does humanity have such perfect admiration of its own powers, such unbounded confidence in the might and glory of its own capacities, as when it stands on the threshold of young manhood, taking its first outlook, preparing for the first rush into the battle of life. It marches forth proudly, treading time to clarion music. And if it can laugh at defeat, and rise with new courage, and dare and do all things valiantly for the truth till the end, that end will be victory, for there is a God who battles for the true and brave! 
               Mag grew alarmingly sentimental with Nell Brandon. Frank told her that they were completely saturated with poetry, and drenched a poor fellow every time he came near. He was in hopes some of it would evaporate. A deal of nonsense would have to be taken out of her yet; but take courage-he had hopes of her. 
                
               Mag returned the compliment. At this time Frank and Alec were in Yale College. Frank boiling over with sophomoric spirit, highly satisfied with his progress in world knowledge, his personal dignity under full sail, and at times with a swell of canvas a little larger than he could well carry. He was immensely confident of his success in the management of human nature, feminine nature especially. He had a sort of impression that the whole world was a garden of Hesperides, blooming in luxuriance, from which he was to gather golden apples to beguile Atalantas by their frail points, and prevent their winning in the race and contest of life. 
               Mag grew so very romantic that she professed herself proud of her humility, inconsistency and indiscretion. Her teacher for the winter-a student from Williams College-became a great admirer of those virtuous attractions. 
               Frank was at home for the short winter vacation. A large party of academicians, including Mr. Young, the teacher, had been employing the noon recesses in building a snow-fort from a fine drift under the hillside, by the frozen brook. On a grand moonlight night the party went out skating on the ice, and Frank found it an occasion to bring all his powers into play, all his tactics and diplomacy to manage affairs to his satisfaction. He felt in the mood of freeing his mind to Mag, that night, on college experiences; wanted to pour out the accumulation of world philosophy that was oppressing him; but circumstances were not favorable. Mr. Young was playing "sweet" to Mag, so that she was unapproachable, and worse than all, Jose Newton was desperately attentive to Frank himself. He grew cross over it all. 
               "I say, Mag, can't you contrive to call them off?" he whispered to her in an energetic aside. "The deuce is in it, if I don't make Alec take charge of his own sweetheart. She's too dulcet for me. I am not fond of that sort of sugar-plums. They always acted on me like emetics. Mag, do call them off!" 
                
               Mag laughed. "Couldn't, possibly, Frank! It's past my genius!" 
               Frank fretted and chafed. Men should control circumstances; not be under their control. These circumstances must be put into shape. 
               "When there's a will there's a way," said he to Mag, "and I'll find the way or shoot myself!" 
               "Don't, Frank!" said Mag. "What could we do with a shot sophomore!" 
               "Do you put on your skates for a race while I attend to Sweetness." 
               He turned and invited Josie to visit the snow-fort. She went, entertaining him by the way with her most elaborate graces. 
               "The winds are saucy to night, Josie," said he. "They've kissed your lips and cheeks so daringly, they've called out all the beauty! And the moonshine is pale by your blushes! You must shield yourself from such arrogance." He lifted the pine branches from the entrance of the fort. Josie giggled and entered. He bowed and touched his hat to her, and Josie simpered and blushed. 
               "The palace of Josephine, queen of hearts!" 
               "You are a great flatterer, Mr. Frank," said Josie with gratified vanity. 
               "I crown you Queen of Beauty!" he went on, pulling an evergreen from the door of the fort. He twisted it in a grotesque fashion around her golden curls, contriving to get the curls and crown both into her eyes. 
               "I beg your pardon! Your charms unnerve and bewilder me, Queen of Beauty-Empress of Hearts!" 
               "I am a queen without subjects, Mr. Frank." 
               "Your subjects shall pay their liege-lady homage here. Your throne is here." And Frank put his hand in the region of his liver, and seated her on a cool, snow-cushioned sofa in the fort; then bowed himself out, contriving to drop the evergreen boughs before the door, so as to leave Josie a prisoner in the palace. 
                
               "What shall be the fate of the queen, whose delight it is to break the hearts of the subjects who adore her?" he asked? 
               "She will throw herself upon their mercy." 
               "Imitating her example, they will have no mercy. My brother Alec, the Ross, is gnawing his heart away for the queen who has trampled upon it. I will deliver you up to his loving kindness, which is most fierce. I see death looking from his eye-whether it is murder for me, or suicide-it must be prevented. To his mercy I will deliver you. He will measure it by your mercy to him." 
               And after this malicious nonsense, Frank left her to dispose of her emotions as best she might, while he proceeded toward Mag, who was fastening her skates-the master by her side. 
               "Mr. Young, a lady wishes to see you in the fort yonder. You have an opportunity of proving your devotion to the fair. Most enviable of mortals, to be called on to succor beauty in distress. The lady has a particular mission for you to accomplish." 
               "But it is against my principles to resign a present known good for one that is future and uncertain." 
               "I believe this case is not optional; there is an urgent necessity requiring your attendance. You'll be obliged to go! I congratulate you, faithful knight. It is your privilege to aid a distressed damsel." 
               Mr. Young very unwillingly departed. 
               "Now, Mag, for a race!" he said, cheerily, as he tried the fastenings of his skates. 
               "But, Frank, what does all your impudence mean?" she asked, as they skated off with a deliberate motion, like birds getting under the sweep of wings. "Haven't you such an article as a conscience in your possession?" 
               "Consciences are of no use, Mag, in polite society-are entirely out of date-the fashion passed long ago." 
               "You have but little reverence for anything human or feminine." 
                
               "Oh, a fellow learns to think that neither mankind nor womankind deserve it." They passed his brother in skating. "Hillo, Alec! Your sweet-heart to the rescue! She is in durance vile; she desires your prayers, that said durance may be as little vile as possible!" He added to Mag: "I say, that remark of mine came so near being a witticism it almost choked me. It just missed being a pun." 
               "Shall I send for a physician? Think there is any danger?" 
               "I shall survive, Mag. If smartness could have killed me, I should have been under ground long ago. As I was saying; wasn't I?" 
               "I believe you were, Frank." 
               "Evil and good are so confoundedly tangled in humanity, that one learns to be unscrupulous in the use of both; taking all possible advantage without trying to untwist or disentangle either." 
               Mag made no reply to this profound proposition. 
               "It's a grand world after all, Mag." 
               "I always said so, Frank." 
               "Look at that moon-look at those stars-look at the diamond sparkles over the silver snow-hills, and you'll swear it." 
               "I declare I won't, Frank." 
               "And here is an individual who intends to enjoy this same old earth." 
               "You'll have some hard work to do in it, Frank." 
               "Yes, I'll do the work-hard work too, Mag; sledgehammer brain work. I've done some tall thinking already; am not afraid of intellectual labor. But I'll have some sport-rare sport-see if I don't! By the by, Mag, what little Hindoo were you patronizing a few minutes ago-that thing standing like a kitten yonder. I intend to fall in love with her. What a morsel she is, anyhow." 
               "That thing is my most very particular friend. Come and I'll introduce you." They whirled up to a little brunette lady, and Mag introduced, 
                
               "My cousin, Frank Ross, Miss May Burton." 
               Frank bestowed his most elegant salutation. 
               "You are looking quite solitary, Miss May," he said with an effort to be agreeable and patronizing. "We would like your company on a sailing excursion. Mag and myself are circulating media to-night. We'll give you a grand slide." 
               The figure looked dubious. 
               "Please come with us, May," said Mag. "You'll not be afraid with me." 
               Frank and Mag took each a hand of the child, and they flew over the ice. 
               "May is a cousin of Ralph Burton's," said Mag. 
               "Then Miss May and I ought to be friends, don't you think so, Ralph being a great friend of mine?" 
               "If we both behave properly, we may possibly be friends," the lady in miniature answered. 
               "It's a gone case with me, Mag," Frank whispered; "I can see with half an eye what I am coming to." 
               "Can you give me any rules for proper behavior? I shall be anxious to behave well in future, to win you for my little friend." 
               "My rules can't suit you, sir. The first one mother gave me, that little girls should be seen and not heard. You don't chance to be a little girl." 
               "No, it's a great pity! Little girls are so much prettier than boys. No doubt my mother wishes I was a girl; but it's too late now-it can't be helped. I have an impression, though, that I've always had a little girl friend like you. Haven't you and I known each other before, sometime? In another life, perhaps. Don't you remember it? You came to me, I think, like a good spirit, in a gush of sunshine one summer day. Don't you travel often with the sunbeams?" 
               "I don't remember it, sir; and if you saw my face you wouldn't ask. Mother calls me her cloud-her shadow; I can't play sunshine, for my face is all darkness." 
               "You have gipsy blood. I knew there was some witchery ery in you. You were the little bird that came and sung to me under my window last spring." 
               "No, sir; I never sing." 
               "What a pity! But I'm sure we've been friends a long time. The winds come to me every day, and tell me such wild, funny stories; and at midnight they whisper the strangest, sweetest nonsense. You come with them sometimes, do you not?" 
               "Never. I'm fast asleep by midnight; and I never whisper in company, or tell stories, or talk nonsense to nice gentlemen." 
               "Perhaps you did it in your dreams." 
               "I am sure I did not. It was not me. I did nothing so very foolish, even in my dreams." 
               "Some good fairy comes and lays her tiny hand on mine when I am about to do wrong, and tells me to stop. Are you not that good little fairy?" 
               "If I came, it was a brownie, not a fairy; and I did not stay long, for I do not remember it, or you." 
               "No, not long, or I should have caught and kept you." 
               "And that would have been wicked. I should have cried, till you had been glad to open the door for me and bid me be-gone home to my mother; you had no use for crying things." 
               "I'm completely annihilated," said Frank, sotto voce, to Mag. 
               They skated round the pond, gossiping talk like moonshine, till May said she must find her cousin Ralph and go home. 
               "You are getting cold, I see, and ought to go home; but Ralph is engaged with Miss Josie Newton, and cannot be spared. Mag and I will see you safe home." 
               "But," said Mag, "Mr. Young engaged to show me some sums in Davies' Bourdon to-night." 
               "Let Mr. Young go to grass!" ejaculated Mr. Frank. 
               "Would you advise him to go now, or wait till spring?" 
               "He may teach you algebra when I've no use for you. You are going with us now." And Mag went. 
                
               Mr. Young went home with her afterward, to explain mathematics. Having seated himself, he first opened a copy of Zanoni, and discussed it; next dissected Rienzi-then took a volume of Burns from his pocket, accompanied by Wordsworth; then a number of Noctes Ambrosian opening to Hogg's transmigration as an African lion, they theorized over the transmigration of souls in general. They skimmed the Waverley poems and romances, with Chivalry and Don Quixote; turned the pages of Carlyle, Emerson, Kingsley, Eclipse of Faith, Lola Montez, and Tennyson's Princess; reading the marked passages on the woman question, with remarks on the woman poet, Browning, in her sphere, and Lola, a star out of orbit; winding up all with, 
                     "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting."
                  
                
               They illustrated this line, by forgetting all other lines, angles and problems in mathematics, to lay a wager who would soonest learn and recite "The Grave," from Montgomery. 
               They studied fifteen minutes in silence, save the tick of the watch. 
               "Done!" said Mag, "I know the whole of it." 
               "Done!" echoed the master; "I know every word. But it is late, and I suppose I must tear myself away; so good night." 
               He took his hat, and stood at the door. 
               "Mr. Young-please give me the work to those sums on the 166th page of the Bourdon, or I shall fail in recitation to-morrow." 
               Mr. Young looked confused, and sat down to an unpalatable dish of mathematics. It would not combine with the poetry and moonshine that had preceded, and had been unsettling his wits. The more he puzzled over the problems, the more they would not be solved, and at last he was obliged to tell Mag he'd bring her the work in the morning, or excuse her for failing, if his senses were lost beyond the reach of mathematics. 
               It is bewildering business for a teacher to read marked passages in the poets, to a pair of brown eyes with long-fringed lashes, that droop sometimes upon the cheek, or lift themselves with a shy glance, like a young fawn; it is deleterious business to mathematics. 
               But the next morning Josie made her appearance with a most woe-begone phiz. Both Mag and the master forgot the algebra to sympathize with her. It was affecting-the blue eyes swollen with tears, which continued their grievous flow. She electrified the school-threw the gloom of her countenance over all, by sitting at her desk the whole of the livelong day, weeping, and flooding sheets of foolscap with sentiment, which she bestowed upon Mag. She bewailed the unfortunate fate of possessing affections to be wounded by those she loved, feelings to be shattered by those who loved her no longer, and a heart so soft and tender that ruthless humanity could make it their sport, piercing and tearing it with a thousand cureless wounds. 
               For three days Josie continued these intermittent exercises, alternately weeping and writing, claiming all Mag's compassion, till the master and school began to think it no parable, the "fountain of tears weeping day and night." At last Mag could endure it no longer; she went to Frank. 
               "For mercy's sake, Frank, do go and comfort that lady of the rueful countenance. You've certainly damaged her heart. She is spoiling all her beauty-pining herself into a green, if not yellow melancholy. It will be charity to her and the public to console her. She is throwing herself and the school into spasms." 
               Frank shrugged his shoulders, made a series of wry faces, and at last did as he was bid; bestirred himself for Josie. 
               The school examinations came off. Mag distinguished herself in the classics and belles-lettres; also by writing a play from the Bible, which was performed on the stage with much success; it brought down the house. 
                
               Frank went into equal ecstasies over May Burton's brown face and curls, her gem of an essay on Sympathy, black silk frock, and the graceful pantalette that fringed her tiny gaiters. He declared he "loved her forty gals already, and it grew a gal every day; he was gone past redemption." 
               And the result of this growing love was, that in Frank's summer vacation there was formed a miraculous bond of cousinship, in the shape of a "secret society" of four-Mag and Frank, May and her cousin Ralph-which society had for its professed object the promotion of goodness-not among the heathen of distant lands, but among its own members. They pirated as its motto, at Frank's suggestion, the far-famed mystic  . ., which he translated,    -Philosophy, the Torment of Life. So anxious were the quartette for the promotion of goodness that they made interesting excursions together among the mountains; pic-nics at Glenlyn Falls; fishing parties on the lake hidden in the heart of the hills. Frank's college comrades were invited often to these excursions; they grew popular among the students; but on these occasions the society doffed the badge of secrecy, and became a public one, where the village belles, Josie Newton and Nell Brandon, displayed their glories. 
               The secret society held its choicest meetings in Dr. Ross' rockaway; it just seated the quaternity. One moonlight ride was remembered by them all till the last, for a covenant, lightly made by all, but strangely kept years afterward. 
               "You have a fault, Mag, that is growing upon you," said Ralph Burton, as the horses were wandering at their own sweet will,-Frank being in a flight of balderdash, which was settling down upon May Burton with such effect, the reins of government had slipped from his hands. 
               "Only one fault at last! I must be getting into a hopeful condition. What will Aunt Lina say?" answered Mag. 
               "Don't flatter yourself you've reached the last one, Ralph; you've only caught the advance-guard; there's an army coming behind. It will be labor thrown away trying to overcome them. I speak from the experience of a lifetime," said Frank. 
               "Perhaps the fault was in your mode of correction. The teacher may have been in the wrong," said May. 
               "Impossible!" ejaculated Frank. 
               "But my one fault now?" asked Mag. 
               "Coquetry!" Ralph responded. 
               "You've discovered it! Yes, Mag is an old sinner. I'll swear to that. She extinguished the master last winter. He was a sparkling youth, but with her the glow and shine waxed dim and dimmer, till the spark vanished in the distance. He taught her to sing, 'Maiden, behold me!' Gave her lessons in poetry and puns. In return, she taught him to skate, snow-ball, slide down hill; yet made it an 'all slide off' at last, poor fellow." 
               "That was a desperate effort at witticism, Frank," said Mag. "Don't you feel exhausted after it? You will, no doubt, win immortality yet by some astonishing tale of fiction. It will be so easy for you to draw on your imagination for facts. All in habit." 
               "It is moved that Frank's faults be laid before the Society." 
               "Laid under the table," suggested Frank. 
               "The motion is unanimously seconded," replied May. "He is accused of being wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason." 
               "And a deal wiser in the estimation of others than in his own estimation," added Frank. 
               His case did require peculiar consideration; being, as he said, an uncommonly influential member of community, it was necessary that his morals should be strictly attended to. He promised that he would study unusual morals, and find the best moral to every incident in life. 
               Mag insisted that his were growing crooked, and would result in certain catastrophe; a warning to all. Frank said he would prevent all terrible disasters by putting his morals into May's care and training-a responsibility which she respectfully begged leave to decline. 
               "To-day is my seventeenth birthday!" exclaimed Mag, changing the subject abruptly. "Where will this night two years find us?" 
               "Rovers and pilgrims on the brave old earth," said Frank, "battling with Fate, if she has the audacity to oppose us, and putting our feet upon her neck, if she dare play us false." 
               Frank's tone rung out with such arrogant energy that little, pure minded May Burton was startled. 
               "Amen!" added Ralph. 
               And Mag remembered the steel glow that shot in Ralph's blue eye, and the smile that closed firmly around the well cut lips as he pronounced the word. 
               "Whatever fate has in store for us, this night two years we four will meet again," Mag said, earnestly. 
               They all repeated together the solemn covenant. 
               "If it be possible, we four will meet again two years from this night, Magdalene Barclay's birth-night anniversary!" 
               The promise was not forgotten. 
             
             
                
               VII. COUSIN MIN. 
               "I HAVE some good news for you, Frank," said Mag, one day, as he made his appearance at Uncle Alph's. 
               Mag was up to her elbows in flour, making biscuits for tea. 
               "Make it music to mine ears, by utterance," responded Frank, with his usual imperturbable face, as he proceeded to fasten her sleeves back on each shoulder with a pin, to keep them from the flour, in which they were whitening. 
               "Bad business arrangement, Mag. You have caught some of Uncle Alph's habits of planning. Your forethought has happened along afterward, this time. Next time be sure to put your apron on, and pin up your sleeves, before you pitch in the flour." 
               "I declare, I intend to do it, Frank. Now walk into the parlor, and I'll introduce you." 
               Mag took her hands out of the flour, held them up out of the way of her dress, in front of her shoulders, escorted him to the parlor, and with a grand flourish presented him to a rare specimen of humanity-a girl of fifteen, with a complexion so exquisitely fresh, that her face was radiant with fair bloom. 
               "Cousin Min Walton, I have the honor of presenting for your distinguished consideration, our cousin Frank Ross, A.B., M.D., LL.D., etc., all in prospectu." 
               Frank bowed, without in the slightest degree discomposing his equanimity, for her "distinguished consideration"-took a sweeping glance at the tout ensemble of her cousinship ship, which glance was, in the highest sense of the term, satisfactory. 
               "Mag has beguiled me here under the promise of good news. If this is the article referred to, I must confess myself under exceeding obligations." 
               Frank's tones were as winning and deferential as his eyes were mischievous. His bow and smile were the most elaborate and captivating that he could compose for the occasion. 
               "Thank you," responded the lady with a blush that drew sparkles from her black eyes; "I'm only afraid the article is not good as it is new." 
               Min was to be Mag's room-mate and class-mate at the next session of the academy. She proved to be a newly discovered treasure; the handsomest, merriest, most unspoilable witch in all Christendom. In many things, she was Mag's opposite. She had a perfectly healthful, buoyant spirit-a spirit that never became morbid, that rejected and repelled disease, and had no sympathy for anything in the form of sickly sentiment. Her nature seemed born of light and sunshine; had a powerful affinity for joy and happiness, sought it continually, and found it in all manner of accordant and discordant elements. When by mischance she was forced to shed tears, she was the first to laugh at her own sorrow; yet she had pure, rich sympathies, that Mag tested in many a way. 
               "It is charming to have a full-grown cousin born suddenly and unxepectedly into one's world," remarked Frank. 
               "And how delightful to stumble suddenly into a new world, inhabited by cousins of all sorts, sizes, and descriptions, with not one of whom one is acquainted, though anxious to love all," Min responded cordially. 
               "Frank and I will do ourselves the pleasure of introducing you to all the lions and lionesses of Glenlyn," said Mag. "Frank will prepare your mind, while I am getting tea." 
               After tea they both undertook to enlighten the lady, as to the character and habits of the people among whom she had fallen, coming at last to Grandma Barclay, "a subject on which my imagination always soars," said Frank. 
               "We shall take an interest in its flight, so you may take a pair of its longest wings," replied Min. 
               "He will borrow fancy's pinions, he scorns fact, when he dilates on Grandma Barclay's perfections," said Mag. 
               "Fancy could never reach the top of grandma's virtues; fact alone can do her justice, as you will see, when you know her. Mag must come and introduce you to-morrow." 
               "You must give me a description to-day, then, so that I may regulate my behavior." 
               Frank cleared his throat very expressively. 
               "Grandma Barclay is a woman fond of authority. It has been a lifelong grief to her, that she was not born a commodore or general, and she has employed her lifetime in the utmost endeavor to remedy that mistake of destiny at her birth, and has assumed the right to wear the distinctive habiliments of man! She has a general oversight of everybody's business-that is to say, keeps her eyes on everybody's pigs and cows; orders everybody's boys and girls, marches them to school on week days and rectifies their morals on Sundays." 
               "She has had the especial charge of Frank's morals and manners, hence their present state of unusual perfection," said Mag. 
               "No wonder that Alec and myself are pattern men. She regulates us to this day, from the time we wash our faces in the morning, till she tucks us into bed at night, when she makes us say our prayers, under penalty of a whipping here, and a hot bed hereafter; all of which may be fun to you, but is worse than the fate of the frogs to us." 
               Min was trying to choke down a tempest of fun into seriousness. 
               "She has developed us according to her own discretion; expanded our organs of reverence for her, by popping corn for us, of a winter's evening, and seasoning them with ghost and witch stories, which gave us unbounded veneration, besides alarming dreams; notwithstanding she warmed the bed for our slumbers with the very warming-pan in which she popped the corn. Also she has been always fruitful of inventions by which she could manifest her interest and affection for us. She grows fond of herbs and flowers that we may have an opportunity of cultivating industry by digging the pretties. She is interested in our health; doses us with pennyroyal, boneset, sage, and hoarhound teas, saying nothing of the love that comes to us with wormwood and gall, pills and powders, which she administers with the rod and quotations from Solomon." 
               "Which are richly merited, without a chance of doubting." 
               "Economy is one of her prime virtues. She has miraculous 'saving' propensities. She is anxious to save souls; she has an equal anxiety for saving old dresses, bonnets, old hats, breeches, waistcoats, armies of old boots, shoes, stockings, piles of old rags, books and newspapers. She has herself an excessive veneration for all things in print, and considers it a mortal sin to waste the most infinitesimal scrap-has used the same fold of paper for a year to carry her dinner to church on Sundays. If she catches us tearing a newspaper, she comes down upon us with the rod, or throws up her two hands and eyelids toward heaven with an expression of holy horror very affecting to behold." 
               "Rest awhile, Frank!" said Mag, imploringly. 
               "Tender-hearted past all belief, is Grandma Barclay to men and mice. Not only to us, but to all afflicted mortality, does she show her loving kindness. At all times of the year is her room ornamented with broken baskets, containing chickens, ducks, turkeys, and geese with broken wings and legs. In winter she fills the corners, cracks and crannies of her big fireplace with half frozen lambs, rolled up in old aprons, whose bleating to her is music beyond that of heavenly spheres. The supper of these lambs is prepared pared and taken in a defunct teapot. Time would fail to mention the families of calves and colts that she has educated; the races of rats and mice that she has matronized, when thrown from their tender nests in the granaries, out upon the cold charities of the pitiless world. New homes she builds for these, out of dilapidated boots and shoes, where she trains them up to unnatural habits of luxury." 
               "You'll do the subject better justice if you'll take breath, Frank," said Mag, offering him a fan. 
               "Don't stop me suddenly, Mag. It will be dangerous. I must wind off by degrees or damage myself." 
               "Wonderfully pious she is-a great terror to evil-doers. She has a passion for proving to them that the way of transgressors is hard. A model of piety she is, and impartial love. To prove her pious spirit, she gave Alec a Bible to make him good-pity it hadn't done it; afterwards when she saw some other copies, done up in superior style, at costly prices, it occurred to her that I too might be benefited by the book-so she purchased. She found herself in a quandary-anxious to manifest her impartial love. To prove that her love for me was equal in price to her love for Alec, she bought of him the Bible she had already presented him, paying him the price paid for Bible number two; then presented me with the first purchase, and bestowed on him the second edition! We never could doubt, after that proof, that the expense of her love for me was equal in impartiality to her love for Alec. Of her other virtues"-- 
               "Yonder comes May Burton," interrupted Mag. And Frank abruptly changed the subject and tone of his remarks. 
               "A shadow approaches," he whispered to Min, as if his mind was burdened with a tremendous secret. "As Byron exclaimed, 'Behold me gathered in a cloud!' Behold me in visions of darkness more bewitching than sunshine-my affections in an awful fix. I've a secret to tell you, Cousin Min. I'm devotedly in love with"-- 
               "May Burton, our cousin, Min Walton," said Mag. 
                
               "Precisely! The first mentioned especially. Providential interposition, to spare my modesty and blushes, the mention of the name." This was sotto voce to Min. 
               "A good evening to bonny, wee cousin May," he said, offering her his hand, with his sunniest smile and kindliest glance. He had a smile and glance of peculiar meaning that he reserved for especial friends and occasions-a wealth of light in it. He lavished both in wanton prodigality on the little girl, to make her love him; and why? 
               "Was ever another mortal so fortunate!" he went on. "Cousin to three graces! three muses! One belle!" nodding expressly to Min, "one poetess," with an inclination to Mag, "and one genius," with a reverential bow to May. 
               "Nine of us! all of the female persuasion!" said May. 
               "Ah, May! If your genius, in its earliest springtime, during the germ of its existence, is equal to calculations like that, what will not be its ability in the autumn, when its blossoms have ripened by cultivation into poetry, logic, philosophy, mathematics, and everything under heaven that is reasonable"-- 
               "Or unreasonable," added May, quietly. 
               "What may not be expected? It is acknowledged that there can be no accounting for the course that the female mind takes"-- 
               "And great puzzles are the ladies to themselves, and to all mankind connected with them." Mag concluded his comment. 
               "Truly, truly! What influences could have developed our Cousin Mag here into a poetess, since 'Poeta nascitur, non fit.'" 
               "'Parturiunt montes, nascitur ridiculus mus,'" said Mag. "The last proverb from Horace applies to your remarks, Frank. I hope you see the point." 
               "Poets are said to have great capacities for suffering," May remarked. 
               "And our Mag takes upon herself infinite pains in cultivating her capacities for suffering." 
                
               "Would you ever suspect her of the guilt of being sentimental, from present appearances?" asked May. 
               "Her resources in that line don't seem to be alarming," Min replied. 
               "Yet I can convict her of publishing poetry more pious than funny," said Frank, "in the 'Yale Literary Magazine'-entitled, 'Let us Pray.' The sentiment had a dash of the warlike-the Amazon development: 
                      
                        "'To conquer is sublime! [That it is.] It is sublime 
                        To send stern Thought as messenger to Will.' 
                     
                   Wonder if it is to be sent from a regiment of cavalry, on horseback; or, being infantry, it trots on afoot! 
                      
                        "'Those heart-chords vibrate music's sweetest chime, 
                        When Mind bids raging Passion-Peace, be still!' 
                        Aye! that high power is god-like-to control 
                        The unchained elements, and Mind's proud sway 
                        In fellow-man! 'tis grand to bid the soul 
                        Heavenward for aye! For this strength let us pray!' 
                     
                   Well! we are happy to hear of the 'music' that takes passion out of the tantrums"-- 
               "Frank takes up more than his share of the conversation," Mag broke in. 
               "Who could control eloquence while under such inspiration? Muses and ministers of grace!" he rattled on. 
               "What cabalistic symbols are those on your breast?" asked Min, pointing to a golden "Skull and Bones" upon his bosom. 
               "This Skull and Bones? There are grave secrets connected with the badge; known only to the initiated Senior Class of Yale. This pin belongs to my brother Alec. It is a solemn subject. To you I can only say that the object of the society is to discuss the ways of men with maidens-the arts of conquering hearts-wooing and winning-the lady members!" 
                
               "Apropos. Josie Newton boasts that she has jilted you, Frank. Alec initiated her!" 
               "I acknowledge the soft impeachment. I have had the honor of suffering for her sweet sake. An inestimable privilege." 
               "The devotion of Mr. Ross to the ladies is proverbial," said May. 
               "Yes, long habit has established the law in my nature-it commenced in youth's earliest prime. When six months of age, I politely drove my mother to sleigh-rides, as her escort." 
               "That was precocious!" ejaculated Min. 
               "You were an aspiring youth," May said demurely. 
               "Aspiring? Yes, at the riper age of three years, I ascended the ladder of fame to the top of the house and took my seat upon the ridge-pole." 
               "Courageous, too!" laughed May. 
               "Courageous! Has any one the audacity to doubt it? At four years of age, I mounted a youthful horse that had never been broken." 
               "Did you break anything ever?" asked May. 
               "Well, you see my neck is not broken, though I don't deny that Josie Newton was the cause of my broken heart-but Mag's poetry, as I was saying, is astonishing." 
               "Who can that personage be, walking with Alec Ross?" Mag interrupted, as she saw, through the window, two young men. "Hasn't that stranger a splendid figure? Erect, and such a haughty gesture; self-reliance in his step. Well, he is proud!" 
               "May Burton, keep your eyes this way. You are not to run crazy after every man with erect, proud shoulders. You are not to see any beauty or manliness outside of the gates. I forgot to tell you what I came for this afternoon, Mag. That broad-shouldered youth is a cousin of mine-not yours-a cadet at West Point, from Huntsville, Alabama. Alec sent me to tell you that they would call after tea, for you to entertain him. It is required of you, as a duty, to introduce duce the southern gentleman to New England belles, and to make him appreciate New England moonshine." 
               "We will do our best, will we not, Min? I'll do my very best to captivate, won't you, May?" 
               "You just take care of your own affairs, Mag, and leave May alone; I'll take charge of her." 
               And Mag did her best to captivate him, coquette that she was, and thereby hangs our tale. She cultivated the arts of modesty and fascination, to the utmost of her genius-innocent as she was-and gathered the fruits of her labors. 
               "What a man soweth, that shall he reap." The rule holds true with woman, also. 
             
             
                
               VIII. OLLA PODRIDA. 
               MAG went to the door to receive her guests. Not till Alec had introduced him, and Frank had engaged his attention with Min, did she have an opportunity of studying Charles Atherton Moore. 
               There was a haughty, firm grace in his carriage, but it was owing partially to his cadet training-partially, probably, to firmness of character which reveals itself in the tread, as well as the compression of the lips. He could not entirely throw off the military; he wore it as he wore the undress, half military frock coat, which was, to tell the truth, wonderfully becoming. Mag scanned him with a quick, keen, piercing glance that hid itself, when observed, beneath her long, drooping lashes. She liked the looks of that royal brow, with its jetty, clustering curls. Truth, too, she fancied the firm curve of the proud lips, that indicated with the swelling throat beneath, a world of passion. She fancied the half Greek, half Roman nose with the passionate dilating of the nostril; she noticed the well-knit, powerful frame, and, with the eye of an artiste, was delighted with the development of muscle in every limb. The physical man was perfect; the intellectual man looked regal; of the moral she could not judge. The clear shining of the keen blue eye seemed as if Nature had been prodigal of good gifts to a favorite son. If the physical and moral natures were to to do wild battle against each other with temptation, there was no indication that passion had yet been conqueror, either in the eye's outlook, or in the dazzling radiance that gleamed in the smile. He seemed to keep his smiles precious, as too rare to be lavished freely. He gave royal treasures only on royal occasions. All these points Mag noted while he was talking with Min and May, and Alec and Frank were making out a programme of picnics, hunting excursions, and sailing parties, for the introduction of Charles Moore to New England belles and New England life. 
               Mag continued her searching observations-it was a habit of hers to study all possible revelations in human faces-the next day when they met him at Dr. Ross', where they called on Grandfather and Grandmother Barclay. Frank enticed the cadet to call with them on his Yankee grandma with his Yankee cousins, assuring him that he would find the entertainment both spicy and racy, and promised him he'd call him off when he'd got enough of the fun. 
               Blind Grandfather Barclay sat leaning his bowed head upon his staff as they entered. Frank addressed him in his cheerful tones: 
               "Bright, sunshiny day, grandfather! How does it find you to-day?" 
               Grandfather lifted his head and a smile came up from his heart, irradiating the wrinkled face with beauty. 
               "It is a bright day, my boy. The presence of Jesus brings to an old man sunshine and light in the darkness." 
               "I've brought you some visitors, grandfather. Here's Mag and a new cousin of ours, Min Walton, whose father you knew." 
               Mag and Min went and shook hands with the patriarch, bidding him good morning. 
               "Then here's Aunt Mary Ross' only son, from Alabama, my cousin, Charlie Moore." 
               "Glad to see you all, children," said grandfather, as he shook hands with Charlie Moore; "glad to see the young, always. When I get home-and I'm almost there-I shall be young again myself, and then I shall see brighter faces than yours. I see them, and you all, with the eye of faith now, you know, but soon faith will be changed to sight. 
                
               "Faith is a great comfort in a world like this, grandfather," said Mag. 
               "It is everything, my child. It would be a ghastly place without faith in a good God, who has forbearance with the sins of good men and bad." 
               "Grandpa is grieving over parish affairs," put in grandma. "Deacon Kimball, last Sunday, opened a book afore the minister's face, right in meeting, and read it all sermon-time, ''cause,' he said, 'he didn't want to hear Taylor's theology,' just as though Dr. Taylor had made a new Bible. I've no use for Deacon Kimball's religion, for I don't believe he has any." 
               "We must be charitable, mother," said grandfather; "the Bible says, 'Judge not, lest ye be judged.'" 
               "But the Bible says 'Ye shall know them by their fruits,' and the deacon was the very man who built up the Universalist church. If it hadn't been for the revengeful, overbearing way he acted toward the Ardens, in that difficulty of the singing-school, they would all have been going to our meeting now. Mr. Arden said they wanted a gospel of peace and love, not of persecution, so they would build a church to suit their wants. I never shall forgive the deacon for that, and he hates Mr. Arden with his whole heart." 
               "But you must forgive him, grandma," said Frank; "the Lord says forgive your enemies, taking it for granted that you forgive your brethren and children." Frank's father, as we have said, was a Universalist, to grandma's continual horror. 
               "But Deacon Kimball hasn't any Christian spirit," said grandma. 
               "He prays every Sunday, long and loud, for the Lord to forgive his enemies," said Mag, "and with special reference to Mr. Arden." 
               "Ah, well," Frank said, wickedly, "don't you understand, Mag? the idea is, that if the Lord forgives him, there will be no occasion for doing it himself." Mag sent a quick glance toward grandpa, which Frank interpreted. 
                
               "When good men do wrong," grandpa answered, "there surely will come a retribution. God will vindicate his ways with men. I believe our church at this day is suffering for the sins of its people toward our old minister, Mr. Parker. It grieves me to the heart to see the meek, venerable, grey-haired old man, sitting in the sanctuary Sabbath after Sabbath-the shepherd turned off in his old age, penniless, by his unworthy, ungrateful flock. The parish never will prosper; the sins of the father will descend in judgment on the children, till there is expiation for that guilt." 
               "Yes," added grandma, "and that's why he sent us in his place such a Godless man as Mr. Brown, who, ignorant of God's righteousness, goes about establishing his own righteousness." 
               "I wouldn't say that of Mr. Brown, mother," grandfather replied. "He's the minister. Don't judge harsh judgments of God's ministers, nor of any one, for the measure ye mete to others will be measured to you again." 
               And Frank took up the thread of the discourse with grandfather. 
               "You tell me, grandfather, the Lord won't bless any people unless they obey him?" 
               "And they must obey implicitly, as Abraham obeyed when he gave up Isaac." 
               "Asking no questions," added grandma. 
               "God gives blessings only on conditions," said Frank. 
               "And obedience is the one great condition. Do you not remember the story of Saul and Agag?" 
               "Yes, yes, grandfather; I remember it, for you taught me the whole of it," said Frank, "how the Lord told Saul to go and smite the Amalekites, to destroy every mother's son of them-not to spare a thing-not so much as a goat, or an ox, or an ass. But Saul took the big-head, and thought he could improve on his orders. To prove to the Lord that he had obeyed him-thinking, maybe, the Lord couldn't find it out-he saved out a lot of the fattest of them to sacrifice. But Samuel found it out, and came down upon him-blowed him sky-high-asked him why under heaven he hadn't obeyed the Lord. 'Why, yes,' said Saul, 'I have obeyed. I destroyed every man, woman, and child of them, and brought Agag, the king, to prove it, and fatlings to sacrifice to the Lord!' And then Samuel let loose his wrath upon him-asked him what he supposed the Lord wanted of his sacrifice; obedience was better than sacrifice-to listen to orders better than the fat of rams. Samuel just then cursed him out-told him that the Lord had done with him forever! So he went straight off, hewed Agag in pieces before Saul's eyes, and then started out and anointed David king in the place of Saul." 
               Grandfather was accustomed to Frank's wild, earnest talk, and loved the boy. 
               "But God promises wonderful blessings to the obedient," said he. 
               "Seems to me, it's the wicked ones who prosper in these days," added grandma. "I can't see the use in it, either." 
               "The Lord knows his own business, mother. Some day we shall see that what puzzles us here, is all right." 
               Here Dr. Ross entered, with his saddlebags on his arm, and Moore inquired of his uncle after the health of the country. He had been leaning, with a sort of careless dignity, against the table, and looked very much more occupied with his own thoughts than with the words of the speakers, though he watched them. And Mag noticed especially the white, rounded, muscular fingers that were beating a tattoo on the table to his meditations. 
               "The country," replied Dr. Ross to his polite query, "altogether too healthy! No place for a physician among these hills. People can't get sick if they try. Everybody here dies of old age, if they die at all. I have been trying for the last six months to kill off a woman with consumption, and can't make it out. She is determined to live in spite of me. Everlasting scold she is, too; wore her lungs out scolding-soon as they rest a little, she gets well." 
               Min laughed at the good doctor's grumbling. 
                
               "How far have you ridden to-day, Uncle Ross?" she asked. 
               "Well, let's see. First I rode over the hills to Greenland to dose a sick baby-had the croup, or cramp, or convulsions; then I took a triangular cut across to Canton-China, you know-man had the gout; then I took a trail for Patagonia-girl in a decline, love-sick; stopped by way of Liberia to see a sick negro. You keep those articles mostly in your country, Moore." 
               Moore smiled. "I believe we do, sir." 
               But grandma concluded here to be shocked, and read her son-in-law a lecture. She put on her low, sanctimonious tones: 
               "Doctor, I don't think it's right for you to exaggerate so. What you said wasn't truth. It teaches children to tell lies." 
               Frank rolled up his eyes as bigs as saucers, and threw them toward Mag and Min in a comical glance. 
               "I believe I did miscall the name of a place or so, mother. I'll try never to do so any more." And he turned to Min and Mag. 
               "You must come and take the rounds with me, to-morrow, girls. I have some splendidly vicious horses. Mag has one in training that she drives for me, occasionally." 
               "Semi-occasionally, you mean, uncle," said Mag. 
               Frank turned to Charlie, and asked in an undertone: 
               "Wouldn't you like to hear grandma awhile on the slavery question? She'll give you something rich, if you are equal to it. Shall I call her out?" 
               "You are one unconscionable sinner, Frank," was the reply. 
               "I say, grandma," he continued, "Charlie and I have been discussing the propriety of Mag's going to Alabama. What do you think of it?" He whispered to Charlie, "I pause for a reply." 
               "Well," said grandma, "maybe it's the best thing she could do. She's going to be a schoolma'am, I suppose. Her aunt and uncle have about concluded she'll never be good for anything, without 'tis keeping school. She may as well do it in Alabama as anywhere. I wonder how she'd get along with the negroes?" 
               "They would be proud of her as a mistress," said Charlie. 
               "Schoolmistress to the negroes!" exclaimed grandma. "Why I thought that was agin the law. Well, she can do it if she wants to, but I've a notion I'd rather stay at home and teach white folks. Did you ever teach the slaves?" she asked of Moore. 
               "Yes, I have done it, but I soon gave it up in despair. My attempts were all at Sunday school, and I learnt some rare lessons besides the ones I taught; you know it is always easier to preach goodness than to practise it." 
               "I wonder what on earth you'd preach to them." 
               "Well, I could not tell all-very proper things, however. I remember one Sunday I got about forty little fellows seated in a circle, and explained to them everything I knew about God; I poured out all my eloquence on the subject; told them that God was never born and would never die; and when I had finished, catechised them to see how much they knew. 'Now,' said I to them, 'can any of you tell me how old God is?' You should have seen the blank, troubled and stupid faces. But I caught the eye of one little fat fellow, about four years of age, and as black as midnight, whose mother had tied him into a window-he knew it all. 'Well, out with it, Snowball,' I said. 'God not so berry old after all, Mas Charl,' said he, 'he pretty tol'able young yet.' I gave the rascal a dime for his answer, and closed school. I concluded I could make myself more useful in some other way, than teaching theology." 
               "The slaves have meetings by themselves, sometimes?" asked grandpa. 
               "Certainly, sir; the custom is, for the whites to have service in the morning, and the servants in the afternoon. If the clergyman has another appointment, some one among them usually takes his place. My father, with one of the oldest servants, has charge of the services regularly together, in the absence of the clergyman. Uncle Gabriel is an eloquent exhorter, and does a great deal of good." 
               "I'd like to know what he'd preach about," said grandma. 
               "I heard him once teach the duty of obedience, in a style that would rival Frank's address a few moments ago. 'Our duty,' he said, 'was to obey God, no matter what his orders were. We were not to stop to think whether we would or could obey. Our duty was to try-that was what God required of us. If God commanded us to jump through a brick wall, we were not to think whether we could get through it, it was no concern of ours, we must try-we must jump at it, and God would see to the rest.'" 
               "It was the best of theology, too," remarked grandfather. 
               Dr. Ross here made a tangent and struck another subject. 
               "It was a bright idea of yours, Charlie, studying military tactics." 
               "Yes, uncle, I think so; I have a taste for army life." 
               "Your Alabama militia have a taste for it. A few years ago, while on a visit there I attended a regimental muster. You southern people do up the warlike with such vengeance, I was interested. The colonel and his staff accomplished the dignity alone-wore the uniform for the regiment; the infantry were dressed -la-mode, rag-tag-and-bobtail; the artillery was composed of poles and split boards, interscattered with a few old muskets; the band consisted of one fiddle, one fife, and one drum; the fife was playing Yankee-doodle, the fiddle performing St. Patrick's-day-in-the-Morning, and the regiment and the drum keeping step to both." 
               Charlie smiled, "Which being translated, means, I suppose, that in Alabama, war is an inspiration and not an art. The Madison Rifle Company of Huntsville have improved the military since then." 
               Grandma picked up the dropped thread of conversation. 
               "It was always a puzzling affair to me, to know how you folks, that never did a useful thing in your lives, can teach your sarvants (we call them by their names, slaves), how to work. There's always washing, and stewing, and baking, and brewing to be done, and I know you can't tell them how to do a thing, unless you can do it yourself." 
               "That is really the trouble in housekeeping, North and South, I believe," said Charlie. "Ladies neglect the useful, to be agreeable." 
               "Then," said grandma, "There's the human nature to manage besides, for slaves are human, and not brutes; if they wasn't it's all the same, for human nature and brute nature are to be managed pretty much alike. Alph Fenn is always saying his horses and cattle act worse than Cain, and everybody but himself knows it is because he acts so like Cain with them." 
               "Canes them," whispered Frank. 
               "He kicks and snarls at every dog and child that comes in his way, and they kick and snarl back again, when they dare. It is so with the slaves, I've no doubt?" 
               "The golden rule was wisdom taught by a divine nature," said grandfather. 
               "When I was schoolmistress I found out one thing; I couldn't teach what I didn't know myself." 
               "It's a great weakness of most minds," said Dr. Ross, "that they are anxious mostly to teach those very things-many people are fond of becoming blind guides." Grandma did not notice his remark. 
               "I learned my scholars reading, writing, and some ciphering. I couldn't teach them the Rule of Three, for the Rule of Two was further than I had been in arithmetic. And for Square Roots-that was against nature to me; I had seen round roots enough, and crooked roots, and twisted, and tangled, and snarled roots, but when they began to branch out on square roots, or q'be roots, or x-y-z roots, I didn't pretend to know one thing about them. Now, how your nice, southern ladies, with their little delicate fingers, can teach their slaves washing, baking, and mending, when they are as ignorant as new-born babies themselves, I don't understand." 
               "I don't understand it myself," said Moore. 
               "Then there's the sin and abuse of slavery, that everybody in these days goes crazy about. It seems to me, now"-- 
               "That the least said on the subject here is soonest mended," said Frank. 
               "There are none so blind to what is right, as them that won't see." 
               "Human nature has the reputation of being perverse," said Charlie. 
               "All the reason and Scripture in creation can't make men believe what they don't want to believe. Now, I think your slavery is a dreadful curse." 
               "Why, grandma, you are preaching Mr. Hobbes' atheistic philosophy in that first proposition of yours. Men believe only what it is their interest to believe," said Frank. "I declare I didn't think you would do so wicked a thing as preach atheism to us children; it might corrupt our morals; it's as bad as telling lies, you know. Now, I believe Mr. Hobbes on that point; for example, when women want to believe that it is their duty to obey their husbands, not talk in meeting, to stay at home and mind their own business, then they'll see and understand the Bible texts that teach those doctrines." 
               "Now, there you are again!" said grandma, "but the nature of things must have become upset sometime. There are women born with men's natures, and some men born half women, and that changes affairs sometimes." 
               "And so then the ladies put on the pants. Well, Eve did turn nature topsy-turvy; but the Bible, you know, was written since that upset, to suit the circumstances, and that says plainly that if women want to learn anything, they must do it of their husbands at home, and there is no provision made for men to nurse the babies while the women do the cavorting." 
               Grandma indignantly took off her spectacles, straightened her cap-border, and sat like a soldier. 
               "The Lord has a use for all sorts of people, or he wouldn't have made them. But you always bring up some scandalous talk, Frank." 
               "I merely agreed with you in your opinions, grandma. Men and women believe only what they desire to believe. Do you suppose that all the bibles in Christendom, or all the laws from Moses down, could convince you, or Uncle Alph, or any other abolitionist, that the Mosaic law, if given by God, made slavery to the Israelites right, sin being a transgression of the law from the time of Eve, down? And do you suppose that all the reason and preaching in the universe about sin lying in the nature of things, could convince a southern fire-eater that the Bible hadn't made slavery right, because the laws of the Israelites provided for it and sanctioned it utterly? because Christ did not forbid it-was entirely non-committal on the subject-and because Paul told servants to obey their masters, even the unkind and froward, for it would be a virtue in them to suffer patiently?" 
               "Well, well," said grandma, "I don't know anything about slavery, and what's more, I don't want to. It seems to me it's like a big cancer; it comes from disease in the blood and heart of things You may doctor it till doomsday, but you'll never cure it-it will be a cancer till the end. I suppose the Lord has a good reason for letting all these things be, though I can't see it. I wish I could." 
               "Don't you think, grandma, the Lord is able to take care of his own business? There are a great many people in this world who are exceedingly anxious, not only to help the Lord in his business, but to tell him also exactly how it ought to be done." 
                
               "I never saw another boy like you, Frank. It is dreadful wicked for you to talk so, just for the sake of hearing yourself talk." 
               "No; sometimes I talk for the sake of hearing my grandmother talk. I think we both talk amazingly well; both unusually sensible and interesting people." 
               Grandma's ruffled spirits began to be mollified. Frank went on: 
               "This America is a free country. As American citizens, we have not only a right to our opinions here, but we have a right to express them. Liberty of thought, and liberty of speech, is America's boast. Even truth ought not to be spoken at all times. When the expressed thought tends to rouse bitter feelings, to do harm without accomplishing any good; when it uselessly excites brother against brother, as in politics and religion, then let thought be silent. I do not love Charlie the less for his being a full-blooded Southron, with the southern prejudices in his very marrow. He does not love me the less for my telling him that I believe slavery to be a terrible curse to our country. If we turn against each other, and hate each other for our opinions, that will not make the wrong right; it deepens the curse, as when Christian men dispute about the letter of the law, till they outrage the spirit, and their own spirits become poisoned with envy and jealousy. Charlie and I will love each other at least. The Man-God said that love was the fulfilling of the law. If we differ as to our thought of right and wrong, we can better reconcile the difference, and work away the evil while loving each other, than if we hate each other. A house divided against itself cannot stand. Union is strength, and peace, and happiness. He shall have my hand and heart with those sentiments, now and forever." 
               "Bravo! bravo! Frank," said Dr. Ross, with a round of applause, in which Charlie, Min and Mag joined him. "I'll send you to Congress, sure as guns! See if I don't." 
                
               "Please, uncle, send me, too. I want to go to Congress!" said Mag. 
               "I've no doubt you'll go, you witch, if you once take the idea into your head. All heaven and earth can't prevent you if once you start!" 
               "You may go with me, Miss Magdalene, when I am Congressman. I'll give you the invitation now," said Charlie Moore. 
               "Thank you, sir! Please don't forget it," said Mag. 
               The conversation bubbled on till the party rose to go. Frank proposed a stroll to Glenlyn Falls, to show Charlie and Min the lions. 
               Mag concluded her mental observations on Charlie thus: 
               "There are traces of precious pride in the curl of those Byronic lips. I cannot understand the language that passion has written around the lineaments of the mouth. He has explored regions of experience of which I cannot dream. He has lived in an unknown land." 
               No, Mag, your home among those hills, little as you think it, has been a sanctuary to you. Perhaps it would be better for you to die there in blissful ignorance of the knowledge which brings sorrow with thought, than gather the fruits of the tree of good and evil. It blossoms abundantly in the great world; but God will order your life in his great wisdom. He will give knowledge and sorrow, if to him it seems right; and you will be guided by your spirit, and by his Spirit, if you seek it, to the experience that he thinks best for you. 
               "There are glorious regions of sunshine in the depths of his eye; but God alone knows what strange passions may yet bring storm and tempest there. Chateaubriand said of Washington: 'There is a virtue in the look of a good man.' There is a virtue in the look of a good man; then all men who are good looking should possess virtue. Charlie Moore should possess uncommon virtue, for he is uncommonly good looking. There are, however, several sides to Monsieur Chateaubriand's proposition. There is virtue in the look of a good man; there must be vice in the look of a bad man, for the thoughts of men continually chisel away upon the features. A bad looking man cannot possess virtue. There are grains of truth in all this. The conclusion is clear as light, if one could only see it. Charles Atherton Moore looks one of nature's noblemen. The seal of royalty seems stamped upon every feature. He will work against nature, if he works out his own ruin." 
               Mag concluded her reverie by helping Aunt Lina make tea when she and Min returned from Glenlyn Falls. 
             
             
                
               IX. HOLIDAY LIFE. 
               ON the next holiday, Min was busy helping Mag, who was maid of all work for Aunt Lina. May Burton was coming to spend the day. Mag made herself as nearly ubiquitous as possible; she made the beds, aired the chambers, and dusted the parlor in double-quick time. Then there followed a chorus, or duet-a mighty beating of eggs and butter, a stirring of sugar and cream, for cakes and custards. 
               "I don't see what can have possessed you, this morning, Mag!" said Aunt Lina, in astonishment at the development of her housekeeping capacities. "Something must be going to happen." 
               "Any number of things, aunty. We are to spend the day in the woods, when May comes." 
               May came alone in her father's buggy, and the first item in the day's programme, was a drive over the hills. The three came back in fine spirits, and as neither Uncle Alph nor the hired man was at home, and Mag did not choose to go to Uncle Ross' for Frank, she unharnessed the horse herself, introducing Min and May to the mysteries of straps and buckles. Off went the gear-Mag and Min both mounted the animal, May led him by the mane, and in this style they escorted him to the pasture for the day. They then kept on through the groves, over the hills, to Glenlyn Falls, gathering flowers and leaves as they went. They chattered all manner of nonsense that the sex usually concoct for such occasions, Mag and Min being most voluble; stumbling upon those marvellous subjects, Love and Friendship, as all girls will-for if any one supposes it possible for three school-girls to talk for an hour without discussing love, friendship, and the gentlemen, that person is in most bewildering ignorance of school-girl nature. Min declared, in her half-jesting way, that she had been once engaged! but alas, alas! the course of true love never did run smooth, and the course her love took was over quicksands and rocks, and then among breakers and whirlpools. 
               "Love and Friendship are very similar people," said May, "very near kindred-cousins if not brothers." 
               "Do you mean your cousin or mine?" asked Mag; and then she fell into a long sentimental reverie, during which she made a garland of oak leaves, that she twisted into Min's hair. 
               "I say, Min, Love is a cruel tyrant. He can absorb every feeling, thought and hope, in a woman's nature. If ever I love, I intend to do it entirely. I shall give my heart 'lavishly, carelessly, utterly.'" And Mag quoted, 
                      
                        "Give, as the morning that flows out of heaven, 
                        Give, as the waves when their channel is riven, 
                        Give as the free air and sunshine are given." 
                     
                  
                
               "You'll never do anything of the sort, Mag Barclay," Min said in answer to the sentimental quotation. You can't pour yourself out in that profuse way, till you find some powerful human being to call you out! I must compliment you; you'll not soon find your equal, and it must be a superior that would bring out your nature." 
               "I shall idealize some mortal and do it, no doubt; it is the fate of women to do that. It will be my fate also, 
                      
                        "'To give as the heart gives whose fetters are breaking, 
                        Life, love, and hope, all my dreams and my waking.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Much good may it do you," said Min, laughing. "To do it, you will be obliged to blind yourself to faults and human weaknesses." 
               "Beautiful Love! Tyrant Love! Could Love reign forever, humanity would become purified, faultless, divine! Glorious, blind Love!" 
               Mag seemed to be going into ecstasies at the bare idea. 
               "Love was keen-sighted when I knew him," Min replied, with a quizzical look. "If he had only been more blinded, it would have saved me a world of tribulation." Mag followed out her mood, till May came to the rescue. 
               "He was blind, but his eyes have been opened. In Eden one day, they were opened by sin, to the knowledge of deformity and sorrow. Poor Love!" 
               "That accounts for the trouble I fell into," said Min, as a comical sparkle danced into her eyes. "My love's eyes were opened one day to my deformity. Did I ever tell you how my hopes were blighted?" 
               "Blighted? Sure enough? Every one of them? Never, Min, never!" 
               "It was an overwhelming experience. And it all happened on account of Love's want of blindness-that is, his sharp-sightedness." 
               "Your remarks are, if not fact, at least founded on fact, they are not entirely fictional?" 
               "Founded on the fact that my nose has been an unfortunate member of my system; small as it is, it has thus far proved the greatest trouble of my life." 
               The unfortunate member of Min's countenance was small, beautifully shaped, inclining to the Roman style. 
               "What little troubles most of yours have been!" 
               "Yes, but this was shocking, what there was of it. Why did nobody ever make love to me? The reason is as plain as the nose on my face." 
               "Nobody at all?" asked May, grievously. 
               "Well, he wan't much of anybody, and it happened, too, on a winter's night, cold as Greenland's icy mountains." 
               "Far off in the dim and distant past, more than a thousand sand years ago," said May, demurely, as if commencing a ghost story. 
               "But I remember my forlorn hope, as distinctly as if it had been yesterday. He was as tall as a steeple-that is, a short steeple, and he had hair of a shade between sunny, sandy and auburn." 
               "Bright red," suggested May. 
               "Exactly; and an eye, or may-be a nose; yes, it was the nose, like a hawk-that is, it turned neither to the right nor left, yet kept not straight on its way, but inclined first to the zenith, then to the nadir." 
               "Aquiline," pronounced Mag. "We shall get the list of his perfections." 
               "And there was not a spark of fire in the room, with the exception of him and myself, and we stood over the frozen ashes, he, with his right elbow leaning on the mantel, I, with my left elbow ditto." 
               "Are you sure there is no mistake about the position of those elbows?" asked May. 
               "I couldn't be any more sure if I was before a jury. He told me, without moving his elbow-I kept my eye upon it-that I was a witch, a sorceress, an enchantress, a great many more such people, too 'numerous to mention,' as the newspapers say; so I took the hint and nearly exhausted myself, to keep up my reputation, and look bewitching, and at last he popped the question!" 
               "Min! Min! You are not in earnest? Did anything else break?" 
               "Day began to break, but there was not much of a crash." 
               "But I don't see the point to the tale yet," said Mag. 
               "No; but the point will be along at the proper time. All my life long I had craved the flattering unction of being thought beautiful. As love is blind, I thought my time had come. So, at last, I ventured to ask this love of mine if he did not then think me a very handsome creature. At my question, he deliberately straightened himself starward, surveyed me with his azure eyes over his hawk nose, as a pussy surveys a delinquent mouse when she holds it in her paws, and told me, No, not he; he didn't think me at all handsome. Imagine my feelings!" 
               "The rock of her last hope was shivered," quoted Mag. 
               "He informed me that my forehead was unique; my hair and eyes respectable, of their kind; my chin passable; my mouth inexpressibly sweet; my complexion like that of a peach ripening. I suppose he meant the peach was not yet ripe, but would be." 
               "A verdant peach." 
               "The insinuation is vile. I could not summon courage to mention my nose; and, oh, he never mentioned it!" 
               "Oh, we never, never!" exclaimed Mag, with an accent of despair, and a clasp of the hands a la Rachel in tragedy. 
               "Love blind! He was Argus-eyed. The very next day I received a little perfumed 'billet' that proved anything but 'doux,' in which he excused himself for having popped the question-recalled said question-and, alas for my budding hopes, all blighted!" 
               "How very high his grapes did hang," said May. 
               "It was a sad satisfaction to know that they were nipped in the bud. What if they had blossomed first? What if I had trusted in the proverbial might of love's blindness, till I found that the scales had fallen from his eyes, by his suing for a divorce and damages?" 
               "Love and friendship are both fractional quantities," said Mag. 
               "Especially when they are broken. Witness Min's sad love," said May. 
               "We do not taste life in its royal fullness till we know the deep meaning of the word friendship," said Mag. 
               "A profound remark, which I might illustrate as luminously as I have illustrated the might of Love's want of blindness. It is a proposition bursting with truth." 
               "The quotation of David and Jonathan is sufficient," Mag replied. "There are loves stronger than death. In them we recognize the divinity in humanity." 
                
               "You are growing so shockingly serious, Mag, you have gone beyond my depth. I never had any experience of the loves of any other life than this, so I don't know, and can't say." 
               "In this life we see friendship, love, and truth are imperfect, never satisfying; love never satisfies. A woman's heart has a thousand delicate yearnings of which a man's strong nature can have no conception." 
               "And vice vers-a woman has not the slightest idea of all the wanderings of man's nature into strange and unfathomable recesses, where woman may never enter; so, at times, lovers the most devoted find the society of their adored most excruciatingly tiresome." 
               "Somebody says: 'There are grains of truth in the wildest fable,'" May added. 
               "It seems to be the fashion for school-girls in these days to dip into the philosophical, and pass it around to their friends," said Min, as gravely as if a profound idea had struck her with astonishment. "Mag, I see a grape-vine that has climbed a tree. It has set a praiseworthy example, suppose we follow it." 
               Mag swung herself up, and found a seat congenial to lofty aspirations. Min also said she had "perched herself into a limbo," while May declared that she never had any ambition to be suspended between heaven and earth. 
               "It's a delightful state of suspense," said Mag; "a vibration amid the beautiful, the mind and spirit in lofty equilibrium." 
               "I'm afraid of this vine while you are rocking so!" exclaimed Min. 
               "One needs faith in climbing trees, Min, I know by experience, just as one needs it in climbing ladders to fame, and so forth. If you have no faith, you'll never attempt to climb; and, if you lose your faith, your head will turn giddy, and, of course, there will come a crash to all your hopes. In all climbing undertakings in this world, your success will depend upon faith." 
                
               "According to your faith be it unto you," said May. "You need the faith Cromwell had, Min; faith in your own energy." 
               "Which, expressed in words, sounds thus: 'Trust in God and keep your powder dry,' Min," added Mag. 
               "Oh!" said Min, in a tone of ineffable satisfaction, "I'll do it-keep every spark of it dry up here-so don't waste any of your brilliant shots on me, there'll be an explosion." 
               Just at this state of affairs, Frank Ross and Charles Moore made their appearance on the scene of action. Frank was malicious enough to enjoy the confusion of the actors, and to make the most of their blushes. 
               "I believe you are fond of natural history, especially ornithology. Let me introduce you to a species of blackbirds that infest our New England woods, Cousin Charlie." 
               Charlie lifted his half-military cap to the specimens. 
               "You are up in a quandary now, Mag," said Frank. 
               "Min and myself form a di-lemma." 
               "Can we relieve you in any manner?" asked Charlie. 
               "No relief necessary. We are equal to any such emergency. There is a charm in the situation. If you would like to try it, I might give up my place to you for a time." 
               "Permit me to share it, and we shall form a tri-lemma." 
               And Charlie ascended while Frank repeated: 
                     "Zaccheus he, a lady to see, did climb a tree."
                  
                
               "We can all testify that Frank has studied his primer faithfully," said Mag, coming down with abound, as Charlie went up, leaving the vines "all in a tremble green." Frank gravely helped Min out of her "limbo;" and, at last, they all started over the hills together, through the pasture, toward the village. 
               "And what heathenish songs have those strange birds sung to you, May?" asked Frank. 
               "Enlightened me wonderfully on the subjects of friendship, love and truth." 
                
               "Agreeing with Byron, of course, that Friendship is a mere fiction of a disordered fancy?" 
               "That was something like the rule they laid down. They made exceptions; the exception proves the rule, you know." 
               "I make at least five hundred exceptions of my dearest friends," Min exclaimed. 
               "Mag has more faith in theoretical than practical friendship. The theory she seems to consider superb," said May. 
               "The idea of disinterested friendship is simply absurd; for instance: Mag now, of herself, is nothing to me, and she knows it; she makes herself useful to me, however; she is the medium by which I have access to what interests me-the ladies who visit her. May is the principal item. Mag is my key to May's society-to Min's regard. No doubt, your esteem for her, is owing entirely to your regard for us, gentlemen." 
               "There really are fragments of truth in your remarks," said Min. 
               "Frank has always had an unhappy propensity for tearing the truth into fragments, whenever, by chance, he approaches it," Mag remarked; "and that, unfortunately, is not as often as could be desired." 
               They came to May's horse, quietly feeding in the pasture. 
               "You pride yourself on your bravery, Frank," said Min. "Do you believe, now, you would dare ride that horse alone?" 
               "Not unless you would promise to hold him for me, and lead him carefully. I might fall; I should be badly scared, I know." 
               "We will lead him, Frank," said Min, starting after the animal with May. By superhuman efforts, Frank overcame his fears and mounted, and they went home, Min leading him-the horse, not Frank, by the mane-May calling back to Mag, "Tableau vivant! Don Quixote, Rosinante and Sancho Panza." 
                
               Mag and Charlie were left to their own entertainment. Mag made the first effort toward a remark to commence acquaintance. 
               "I hope your energies were not entirely fatigued by finding your path through this wilderness." 
               "Wilderness! We considered ourselves rovers through Paradise, searching for a wandering Eve." And our unsophisticated Mag blushed at the gallantry, not being accustomed then to the style. She got safely over the surprise. 
               "Instead of Eve, you met the serpent, and took lessons in the art of beguiling," she replied. 
               "There was no serpent in the paradise I entered, and I am sure the Eve I have found never listens to the voice of the charmer, charm he never so wisely." 
               "How can you know? Perhaps the serpent has hidden himself away in the heart of the Eve of your companionship, and listens continually to his hissing whispers. You may discover him yet, coiled in the charmed places." 
               "If he glances out from beneath those lashes, I shall invite the charm and dare his power. I could dare the Prince of Darkness himself, come he as serpent or arch demon, while those eyes were on me with their spell." 
               "You seem to have met him and learned his language. Are you sure you are not playing the part of the enemy himself, disguised as a friend?" 
               "Do you see any traces of the serpent in my face? Can you read the language he has written there? Knowing me not at all, would you venture on an opinion of me now?" 
               "You are a commingling of light and darkness-a combination of all opposite qualities," Mag said, without astonment. 
               A smile broke over the gentleman's face, which radiated a sudden light. 
               "There is shrewdness in your guess, there is policy in your answer-or tact, rather. May I guess at your nature also?" 
               "I am curious to know your opinion, formed at a glance.' 
                
               "It may change in a week, but you shall have my present verdict. You, too, are a commingling of all opposite elements-olla podrida-a sunshine-storm. Your heart is full of both fire and dew; it is at times hard as adamant, at times soft as a mother's pity. You are both Cressida and Juno. The vein of humor in your system prevents your manifesting reverence. You will never be distinguished for your devout piety; you are incapable of the devotion that never smiles. God gave you that playful humor, you must control it whenever you become a church-member. You may become an angel of light, or"--He paused. 
               "Or a demon of darkness," finished Mag. "You think my faculties are in an inchoate state, and will need careful training. At least, I am conscientious, though wanting in reverence and devotion. If ever I see an object worthy of reverence, mine will not be wanting." 
               "I have no doubt your conscience is your strong point. That is your house of refuge; your reserved corps in danger; your imperial guard. You must keep a watch on constant duty over it." 
               "What wealth of language the military acquire! I thank you for your sincerity. I like it better than the flattery with which you commenced. You dare tell me an unpalatable truth. We shall be friends yet, if you will pursue that path." 
               "You are fond of extracting secrets from human hearts. Take the key to my heart, Miss Barclay, I will give you permission to enter, and dive into all the secrets you can find." 
               "Thank you, again. I might find it a dangerous experiment. I am a coward at times; I should fear committing sacrilege." 
               "You'll find plenty of rubbish in the apartments. I hope you will be kind enough to sweep down the cobwebs on the walls, and kindle a fire on the hearth-stones. The rooms are cold; I know your presence will be genial. You will find some altars and shrines thrown down; a ruthless less hand has done it; you may place incense upon them again, and make them holy." 
               "I might have unhallowed curiosity about those shrines: I am wanting in reverence and devotion." 
               "Your atmosphere would be purifying; would charm away evil. I would guard the entrance so that nothing should harm you." 
               "I should find handwriting on the walls, that neither prophets nor soothsayers could decipher for me; or if a Daniel came, I should hear 'Mene, mene, tekel!'" 
               "Then you doubt me? You refuse to be my guest? Doubt and suspicion are ignoble qualities; but you are more than half right-I have not proved myself worthy. Be assured, I intend to do so, and fit up the apartments for your reception." 
               "Have you a treasury there?" 
               "In some of the secret drawers you will find a few withered rose-buds that I have treasured sacredly, and one curl of golden hair; you would preserve them holy." 
               "Would you allow me to penetrate to the central depths?" 
               "You would find them terribly torn up-the ruins of volcanoes, whose fires have already burnt out in my youth; the ruins are rocky now, and the rocks overrun with briers and brambles, and these full of spiders and hornets!" 
               "Terrible convulsions must have shaken the grounds! You must cultivate them, now that the fires are extinct, and make an Eden of the place," Mag said, laughing. 
               "If I could but find an Eve to help me!" 
               "Eve destroyed her Eden, and it was never redeemed." 
               "Pity, isn't it, Miss Barclay, that I cannot get some one to pour a few affections into those extinct craters? It would warm me into vitality, when I felt the whole heart frozen! They tell me you have a way of reaching and influencing hearts, known to but few of your sex. Where did you acquire the strange knowledge?" 
               "I have learned one way, uncommon to ladies, of reaching hearts, Mr. Moore. I learned it while practising pistol-shooting. Whenever I fail to reach the divinity in man by other means, that will not fail me." 
               "It is a cool-blooded remark, Miss Barclay. You can set the divine free from the human?" 
               "When the human degrades the divine. Are you fond of pistol-shooting?" 
               "I shall be if you will practise with me. Do not aim at my heart; it is sore and wounded already." 
               "We will try the pistols when we get home; and I will promise never to send a ball to your heart till the divinity within has already departed." 
               Charlie Moore saw an arch smile playing hide-and-seek under the long, drooping lashes. If there was meaning to the badinage, it hid itself in the sunshine around the lips that uttered it. They went home and amused themselves for an hour shooting at a mark, while May, Min and Frank discussed the loftiest flights of nonsense in philosophy and human nature. 
               "I am perfectly astonished at you, Mag!" was Aunt Lina's comment, as they all came in at last; "I never did see any one like you! I'd be ashamed to shoot with pistols in that style. Josie Newton never would do it." She turned to Frank. "You and your cousin must take tea with the girls, Frank, they'll be disappointed if you don't. They've been preparing for you." 
               Mag was amazed! "Permit me, Miss Barclay, to inform you that I am astonished!" said she to herself. "I am twice astonished! The astonishment may manifest human weakness in me; also the disinterested benevolence which has produced it, may be a fearful symptom of a disordered mind in Aunt Lina. Events calculated to produce astonishment will happen! We cannot prevent them with our vastest endeavors. Miss Barclay, I announce to you the simple fact, without trying to fathom the cause, for full five minutes I have been immensely astonished!" 
               Frank and Charlie stayed to tea. 
             
             
                
               X. REVELATIONS. 
               THE sentimental season with these specimens of humanity was now in its full glory. It comes to all perfectly developed natures once in a lifetime, and it comes, too, when life is arched with rainbows. 
               The glory fades at last. The dreams and aspirations of youth pale into realities. Our idols lose their charms. Intellectual natures console themselves after the charms of their passion-dreams have flown, by the rush of thought into regions of intellectual intoxication; other natures degenerate, and live by sense-pass life in the daily round of common duties, feeding the senses instead of the heart and intellect. 
               A part of humanity forget their youth, to degenerate into an animal life. A part rise into a life of stern and solitary thought, and look back with a kind of scornful regret upon the disappointed passion-dreams of their youth. Yet those dreams were all heaven-born, and their glory will be renewed in those regions of bliss where light is love, and the nature of humanity is perfected. Men do their best natures wrong when they despise the hopes, loves and aspirations of youth in its glory-time of passion and romance. 
               Mag exerted her powers to make Charlie Moore appreciate New England fascinations in nature and art, in earth and heaven, and he became charmed with New England belles and with New England moonshine. The pic-nics, sailing parties and equestrian excursions came off according to arrangement. 
               Mag brought, for entertainment, all the resources of her genius and cultivation; became romantic, sentimental, philosophic, poetic, and theologic. She "did her best to captivate the cadet," taking infinite pains, however, in all her efforts, to manifest to him a supreme indifference to his regard. She seasoned the most piquant of her graces with the most charming modesty-the most exquisite audacity with the most demure unconsciousness-making herself toward him the most delicious of all forbidden fruit. The result was-- 
               On the evening before his departure, Charlie and Mag, Frank and Min, went on a long, last ramble to the Falls of Glenlyn. Night came upon them, with its moonshine, before they reached home, inspiring their spirits with the double distilled essence of sublimated poetry. 
               We should extract every atom of sweetness in the cup of life, during this phase of development, for there is nothing like it, else in life. It is an insanity, a delirium; but in its freshness and purity it is surpassingly sweet-it is passionately innocent and beautiful. 
               "Strange tales the winds are whispering in the gloaming," said Mag; "how sweetly their voices rise and swell and melt and murmur! What a holy breathing presence descends at nightfall!" 
               Moore paused, lifted his hat, swept back the raven curls from his brow; his eye swept over earth and sky, and lingered in its glance for the beauty to fill his soul. And while he lingered, Frank and Min strolled homeward. 
               He replied at last, making her thought harmonious: 
               "Yes, at twilight faith visits us; we forget our pity for frailty, falsehood and misery. At twilight, when we introspect our being, we find the noonday passions-hot, dusty and weary with care-all sleeping. Scorn, distrust and suspicion-our contempt and compassion for human weakness-all are hushed to repose, soothed by the holy mysterious calm. The spirit of beauty descends-sweeps away the earth-clouds that obscure our vision, and we know that amid the clatter and clashing and clangor of strife, an eager, earnest energy has grown with human growth, and strengthened with human strength, during the morning and noontide which, at nightfall, reigns a divinity. When the solemn twilight has passed into midnight, it reigns omnipotent." 
               "Wild dream-music the waters are bringing us at this dreaming hour," said Mag; and Moore again gave the responsive note: 
               "Yet in the morning the wavelets go lilting on their way, in a chorus of glad, hopeful laughter! At noon they seem weary with the life-rush, and struggle among the breakers. At eventide their melody is of rest. They murmur, as now, their sweet inspiration of love-music, bewildering our very spirits, as it wooes them to join in love's blissful refrain." 
               Here Mag took the alarm. This tone of gallantry, so common in the South, when gentlemen entertain ladies, is rare in New England, and those belles were obliged to ward it off as best their instincts taught them. 
               "Mr. Moore, you will certainly distinguish yourself if you continue to wax sentimental. That was a desperate flight." 
               He smiled, and they strolled on. The stars came out, one by one, in the clear moonlight, and he commenced talking star-music to his listener, while those starry eyes in heaven were sparkling. He directed her eyes to them. 
               "Beautiful are they in their pure homes; but starry eyes on earth, sleeping beneath long, dark lashes, now beguile my heart from heaven itself by their bright witchery." 
               Mag laughed, and clapped her hands in token of applause. 
               "Mr. Moore, are you sure you composed all those pretty things entirely by yourself? And did you study on them long? And did they disturb your slumbers and rob your brain of repose, while they were busy there? To what golden-haired lady did you first rehearse them?" 
               "They were born from the inspiration of the hour, and the presence that is now bewitching me," he replied. 
                
               "Your remarks on star-ology are exceedingly brilliant," said Mag, with a desperate effort at a pun, poor child, for which she must be forgiven. "While you are indulging in reveries so romantic, you may consider it apropos for me to become romantic also, but unless you can teach me, you will be obliged to excuse me." 
               "I am a student, not teacher, fathoming the mysteries of earth, not heaven; you can aid me in my studies." 
               "We will pursue them together," said Mag. "I too am fathoming the things of earth. We shall probably find our lessons mysteries at last." 
               "The veil of mist-ery in your wit so clouds my senses and intellect, so folds itself in fleecy radiance around my heart, that I am conscious of but one lesson in the universe worthy of study. Miss Barclay, men say that Mystery is beautiful. I have seen you, and know it." 
               "Thank you; it is cool and refreshing, to listen to pointed complimentary badinage, when one is sure it is original. And, Mr. Moore, you can continue the exercises, by something still more remarkably piquant, for my entertainment. You are in good practice-just from your flirtation in encampment life-accustomed to these things, and I am in mood for enjoying them in this bewildering moonlight." 
               Charlie took refuge in the pedantic, dear fellow, responding: 
               "Quo-usque tandem abutere me patienti, O Magdalene?" 
               "Was that really original? Let me congratulate you on your success! That comes from your own intellect? from the head rising so royally above those shoulders? reposing so serenely beneath that chapeau? Verily, you deserve 'caput'-al reward or punishment, for an effort so sublime. 'Lilia date plenis manibus.'" 
               Our neophytes being at the pedantic age must be excused. 
               "It came from my heart-that target for your ridicule; my heart, which I have thrown under your feet, that you may amuse yourself with its torture. You have no mercy. It is worse to me than Et tu Brute, but my pain is joy to you." 
               "Poor thing! poo thing!" said Mag, in the tone of grief she would have used to a sick kitten. "Does it ache dreadfully? But it will feel better when it gets through aching. And if it did not, what can't be cured must be endured-poo thing!" 
               Charlie took up the little left hand that rested on his arm, and placed the right hand in place of it. 
               "Have you any sinister motives in your wild ridicule and irony? You are very dextrous with the weapons of wit." 
               Moore's tones were low and grave. There was a world of eloquent reproach in the keen, deep glance he fastened upon hers. He forced her to meet that reproachful look. 
               "When I receive 'left-handed' compliments, if possible, I give them 'right' back again, and I 'manu'-facture my own witticisms. I do not borrow from the descendants of the prophets themselves." 
               "You are indeed merciless. Pleading is useless." 
               "You must plead earnestly-so persuasively that your words cannot be mistaken for sarcasm." 
               Charles Moore again arrested their footsteps to look down upon the lips that were uttering such music. 
               "And, Mr. Moore, you must modulate your tones gracefully; let the silver notes ring clear, but soft, melting, flutelike. I am ready and waiting to hear the pleading." 
               And Moore did commence; he took the ungloved hand that rested so demurely upon his arm, looked down in the moonlight into the eyes whose light had dazzled him, and his faculties became strangely roused. 
               "Witch, syren, enchantress, mocking-fairy-what planet gave you birth?" 
               "It is a fine exordium. Pray go on. Your powers are rising. What will not be the peroration? I see a far-reaching prophet glance that will soon pierce to the innermost recesses of our souls, and revel among the mysteries! Your magnificent manliness is showing its glory. What a woman worships in man, is his superb strength. Man's most attractive qualities are his dazzling frankness, his supreme daring, his overwhelming--Mr. Moore, exhibit your full mettle-I am all attention!" 
               "You see I am patient-changeling, femina semper mutabile!" 
               "The appropriate gesture for the quotation would be thus," and Mag lifted her hands; "also, an exclamation point, thus," and she made a gesture of attention with her forefinger. She had extricated her hand from his clasp, and stood before him, lifting a saucy, daring glance to meet his flashing eye. A host of exclamation and interrogation points radiated from his now blazing eyes, as she went on. She was testing his mettle, but his time would come to put her mettle to the point." 
               "Mocking spirit! Goddess or syren born! You are delicious in your earthly charms! Gorgeous beyond our dreams of what is captivating in woman! Your magic is too potent, too bewitching, too bewildering! It rouses the hot blood in my mortal veins-the fever bounds madly through my pulses-the breath of a wild passion is sweeping through my heart, hot and fierce as the blast of the desert. Be wary, be merciful; it shall come to you, sweet as the fragrance of Araby the Blest. My heart is hot, bright queen of elfin-land, but my brain is cool as dew. Charmer, charming never so wisely, do not tempt me too far! The wild spirit that glows and fades in your eye, as the stars never fade-that gives your lithe form its willowy grace-that tones your voice with its clear, ringing, bird-music; that wild, free, daring spirit is passionately enchanting! Beware! You, too, are mortal!" 
               Her eyelids drooped beneath his gaze; a flush mounted to cheek, and lip, and brow. He waited, and watched its fading. 
               "My"--! Words of passionate endearment gushed to his lips: he forced them back, but they would not be repressed. 
                
               "My Zoe! My life! Henceforth my Eve in this world-Eden!" 
               The music of those low, passion tones, stirred the depths of her being, like a voice of prophecy. The master spirit before her, felt his power, and the spell of a triumphant joy wreathed itself in sweet fascination around those proud arched lips, as he went on. 
               "My Eve! Magdalene Barclay! In the universe there are none but we, to-night! But the night is holy! We are in Eden-our paradise; listen to its soft flowing waters; the goldfish are at play among those sparkling fountains; the wings of angels are rustling among those green, waving trees; there are thornless roses blooming along the pathway; far in the distance stands the Tree of Knowledge: we will leave its poisoned fruit forever untasted. Our hearts are young and pure; we will wreathe them with garlands, buds and blossoms from the Tree of Life, and bid them remain forever unstained. This life is most exceeding sweet, and Life's life is love! My Eve! My Zoe! My Life!" 
               He gently laid his hand upon her brow, and claimed her, as the sons of God might have done when they wooed the daughters of men, because they were fair. 
               Even then she conquered him again, controlled the fire in his pulses by the might of her womanly nature, its weakness. 
               Beneath his glance her lids had fallen. Before those daring fingers had more than caressed the waving hair, soft tear-drops were falling thick and fast, and lay shining like dew at their feet, while her lips quivered with uncontrolled emotion, and the conqueror reined back his fiery passion. The guardian, the protector, gazed down upon those falling tears, a soft glow melted into his passionate eyes, the moon and stars smiled in their far homes, and there was silence. At last he took her passive hand, laid it quietly upon his arm, and they went slowly on their way, a world of emotion, unsubdued, yet holy, lying like restless ocean waves in their souls. 
               Magdalene Barclay had met her master.
                
                
               There is no luxury to a woman's nature so wild, so enchantingly sweet, so surpassingly delicious, as that of being conquered. 
               It is the mystery of her being. The consciousness of strength in woman is not a happy consciousness. The old simile of the oak and the vine is exquisitely truthful. The vine, by its own strength, can never lift itself heavenward. It spends its life, creeping and grovelling upon the earth, till it finds a superior in strength to raise and guide it sunward. If, by mischance, its tendrils wind themselves clingingly around some grovelling thing, it lies degraded in the dust forever. 
               Strength in woman is usually a sad and dangerous gift. A sad and unnatural state of things develops that strength. 
               Woman was not made to live alone. Society is not so constituted as to permit her to do it safely. Eve was made for Adam, out of Adam-a part of his life-his help-mate. It is then fitting and beautiful that she should yield her strength to the guidance of a stronger spirit; it is in the harmony-in the constitution of things. Strength in woman too, is a dangerous gift-the development of evil and sorrow on earth. 
               It should be guarded, for it has its charm. It is like a plant whose fragrance may be sweet with poison-whose harvest may be misery. 
               Magdalene Barclay, in much solitude, had grown strong. Now the womanly nature sprang forth, Minerva-like, from the intellect, in all its panoply and armor, and knelt in grateful homage to the deity who called it forth. 
               For one hour she gave herself up, unconsciously, to the pure bliss of love's young passion-dream. For one hour the emotions of youth in their ripe fullness and luxuriance, went careering, healthful, pure and free, through the soul. Life was young with the dreamers. For one hour, in their hearts, a pean came swelling as if the immortal gods had crowned them with gifts and honors. For one hour earth became heaven to them. 
                
               Taylor, in "The Physical Theory of Another Life," imagines that the soul may yet be clothed with a body capable of bearing a happiness so intense that the life of a thousand years may be concentrated into one hour. The fire of joy on earth exhausts the intellect and spirit inclosed in the earthly frame, and it wearies of its own joy. The immortal life, imprisoned in clay, often ravishes the tenement of flesh. It makes fearful ravage of its prison house, and then itself bears untold tortures. The free, daring spirit, born of heaven and destined for immortality, must be fettered and controlled on earth, as old King Eolus of the myth governed the spirits in his charge, keeping them in prison and in chains, under the weight of mountains, and knowing when to give loose reins-"laxas habenas." 
               Experience is a tyrant teacher. 
               D'Israeli says: "The genealogy of experience is brief, experience is the child of thought, and thought is the child of action. It is when we have acted ourselves and seen others act; it is when we have labored ourselves under the influence of our passions, and seen others laboring; it is when our great hopes have been attained, or have been balked; it is when, after having the human heart revealed to us, we have the first opportunity to think; it is then, if we can think, that the whole truth lights upon us; it is then that the sayings of sages and the warnings of prophets are explained and understood; it is then that we gain experience. He whose courage has been put to the test, who has relied on the love, or suffered by the hate, of woman, who has been deceived by man, and has deceived himself, may have as much knowledge of the world at twenty, as if he had lived a century." 
               "Will you stay with me a few moments at the doorsteps, my whip-poor-will? I have many things to say to you. While the moon and stars are shining so calmly up yonder, let us as calmly talk with destiny. 'There is a divinity that shapes our ends.' Look up into my eyes, bird of night. Let me see full and clear the soul twin to mine, molded in my likeness." 
               But Mag could not raise her eyes-some spell was forcing down the lids. 
               "Your spirit must be all mine! I have taken possession of it for my own forever-it must give itself to me in full control. You must not fear me-you must not doubt me now-you must trust me entirely, my child, for I am worthy." 
               The silver syllabled music from those arched lips fell into her heart of hearts in tremulous harmony. 
               "I know that your finely organized nature has made you conscious, by its subtle instincts, that you are in the presence of your destiny. Do not fear it, Magdalene Barclay. Let us look bravely and hopefully to the future. We who, in our youth, have solved some of the rarest mysteries of the soul in the flesh, should dare to front the future, and work out a destiny more noble than less gifted souls. Yes, you are a gifted being, Magdalene. God never endowed a nobler woman! You have a strong, free spirit; it can bear to learn truth-even painful truths concerning its own nature, for truth's sake alone. Let us understand each other now, Zoe of a new Eden." 
               "Go on, Charles Moore, I am listening." 
               She lifted those timid and trembling lashes now, and in the restless eyes he fathomed eloquent meanings. 
               "God has placed in our care, Magdalene, the materials for our life-work. He has made us the arbiters of our own fate, the framers of our own destiny. The sculptor who chisels his statue from the Parian marble will embody his conceptions with more perfect beauty than he whose material is only the rugged mountain granite. To you belong endowments rare and royal as the Parian marble. You can make your soul of noble symmetry, of exquisite proportions, of divine loveliness. God has appointed this for your lifework, Magdalene Barclay. My Eve must not dare to slight her God-appointed work." 
                
               Again the desire to clasp her to his heart was battled down. He bit his passionate lips to control their longing for hers, that were so tremulous, as he went on. Her lids were quivering with tears-she choked down her emotion. 
               "Go on, Charles Moore, I'm listening." 
               "Let me say yet more than this, because I say it to one who is to be forever dearer to me than my own life. As my Zoe cultivates herself, she will find that there are many flaws in the marble, which may mar the grace of the statue she is forming; it will never be perfect like her ideal. She has great strength of mind and soul, but it is womanly strength, and the charm of her nature is not its strength. Her ideal, her model is a being of grace, of gentleness, of goodness, of most fascinating loveliness, meekness, purity. She must not copy even an Apollo Belvidere; that is not a woman's task. Her model must be a creature less than Minerva, more than Venus, more than even the earthly Madonna." 
               And here the perverse, morbid spirit of Mag rose again to full life. For an hour it had remained dormant, couchant, lulled by the master. It rose from its slumber and took charge of its own again. 
               "And now, Sir Prophet, a page from your fated Future. You are the strong and cunning workman, who dares mark out a bold, high, fearless destiny. You will take the mountain granite, and block out from it an ideal of magnificent proportions, of matchless splendor and strength, under whose bountiful shadow my ideal of grace and beauty may find harmonious shelter. Oh, bold dreamer! What if I do not accept you as master, prophet or high-priest? What if I tell you that I, too, have watched the stars in their courses before this night of revelation-that I, too, have seen visions, and dreamed dreams." 
               "Go on, Magdalene, my heart is listening." 
               She went on, her spirit insane with its morbid pride. 
               "What if I tell you that I have found concealed in my nature, elements of darkness, doubting, and disease of which your far-reaching vision has no conception? What if I tell you that God made me a skeptic-that I doubt human goodness-I doubt myself-I doubt the possibility of anything divine in religion, to redeem humanity. I doubt you, Charles Atherton Moore, while I worship you! What if I tell you that I will never permit the curse of evil in my nature to come upon you! What if I exert my will to free myself from the power of your spirit, which has charmed me, perhaps, with a serpent charm." 
               "Go on Magdalene Barclay, your good angel is listening." 
               "Yes, your soul has made this night delicious to me; but the night will pass, and neither Time nor Eternity will ever bring to us its likeness. But let us not regret its experiences; they have purified and strengthened me, and I bless you. It has been a night of revelation, of apocalyptic vision to me! God grant it may bring unmingled blessings to you! To your innermost soul may it also be, as to mine, a purification and inspiration." 
               A glorious spirit lighted up every lineament of her face, till it blazed in beauty. She took his hand in hers; with a timid, graceful gesture knelt a moment at his feet, touched her lips to the fingers that clasped hers; and when, at last, Charles Moore would have caught her to his heart, and kissed her eyes, and hair, and brow, and lips, she had glided from him. She paused one moment before she passed from his sight, to take a last look of the man made in the image of God, who might have come between her and God, and a prayer gushed from her lips, "May God bless you! May God forever bless you." 
               While the prayer ascended, and the burning blessing was falling from her lips upon his heart, he found himself alone. 
             
             
                
               XI. LOVE, POETRY AND RELIGION. 
               "GATES of Paradise closed against me, and the angel within," said Charles Atherton Moore to himself, as he found himself alone in the enchanting moonlight. "A discomfited hero, knocking for admission, when the golden hinges have swung back in his face! Courage means having heart-means risking a thousand chances for defeat and death, against one chance for life and glory. Motto for a soldier, in all undertakings with men and maidens.-Conquer or die, and die fighting." 
               "By Jupiter! That was a magnificent finale! a splendid piece of acting-if it was Art! The play is by no manner of means finished yet, if my name is Charlie Moore! I'm in for the moves. If that was artifice, if all that modest, seemingly artless, witching innocence is merely elaborate Art!-if she is false at the core, she shall find that she has the devil himself to mate! If she is of true mettle, really pure and noble as she seems, not all the spirits of evil"-- 
               Moore continued his reverie as he walked home to Frank. 
               He saw Mag for a moment the next morning; she was feeding the canaries under the locusts, as he and Frank passed, on their way to the depot. Moore bounded from the buggy as he caught a glimpse of her 
               "Magdalene Barclay, what am I to think of you? What under heaven did you mean last night?" 
               "I meant what I said, Mr. Moore." 
               "May I write to you, now?" 
               "No, sir." It was said sadly. 
                
               "That is wrong in you. But you will remember me, Magdalene?" 
               "Till I die, and forever afterward, if permitted." 
               "And remember, I shall love you until then! But Frank is impatient, and I must force myself away. I would stay to persuade you to write to me, but I cannot. God bless you! God be with you!" 
               He was gone, and she worshipped her ideal of him. 
               And how had she spent the night after those heart revelations? By the time she had reached her room, the nerves that a burning passion had strung to their utmost tension, gave way. She threw herself upon her couch, in perfect abandon, and lay panting for breath, and wishing-mad, silly thing that she was-wishing that she was safe in her grave!-poor, proud child. 
               All night long she lay there, sleepless and tearless, as if burying her face in dust and degradation could crucify and redeem her morbid pride. The trial hour had come to test her life-culture. Disease may lie latent for years in the system, till some new atmosphere reveals its dormant power; then it awakes to life and feeds upon the vitals. The disease of Mag's spirit roused itself to full action. Yes, she had brooded over her orphanage; she had been taught continually that she was unlike her kind; aye, and she felt it in her inmost soul. She considered herself a waif upon a desert ocean-that sweet human love was not for her. She would never curse one so God-like, with the gift of her outcast life; she would never mar her idol with aught so wayward and passion-tainted, as the heart that lay throbbing, as if in its death-throes, in her bosom! Sweet, silly fool! But when did a woman ever know her own heart? When was love ever consistent? What woman could ever account to herself for the vagaries of her own nature? Mag was coquetting, but she never dreamed it. She had persuaded herself that she was giving up a glorious human love! When did a woman ever know herself as a coquette? Mag was self-deceived, when she said to herself, that she would not degrade her prince, by placing as his crown jewel, a gem unworthy the coronet. All this meant that she considered herself a beggared queen; that her royal garments were trailing in the dust; that she longed, herself, to be worshipped. She convinced herself that she had given up his love, when she was merely wooing a deeper adoration. Poor, silly Mag! Yet her ideal love was pure; a pure woman's ideal is a gorgeous thing, and dazzles in its very radiance of purity and sacrifice. Mag spent the livelong night in deceiving herself, and morning found her with a dim eye and convulsed lip; then she crushed down the rebellion of pride and passion, and fettered her chafing spirit; but the heart of the girl of seventeen, had blossomed into full womanhood in a single night. 
               She was a school-girl still, deep in researches of the classics. She had given up Charles Moore! Yet in the pages "de Amicitia" she saw his eyes looking up, and they became in truth, as she had promised him, an inspiration. Given up Charles Moore! Yet while in the Ars Poetica, she found Moore's Melodies a sweeter poetry than aught else in the universe. Her memory lingered on his low passion tones. She whispered the sweetest phrases to her heart again and again, "My Eve, my Zoe;" and again and again her heart responded that it was all music, delicious music! She had given up Charles Moore! Sweet simpleton! His eyes looked up from the pages of old Homer, and when she repeated it to herself, a little mocking, merry spirit, over her right shoulder, burst into 'inextinguishable laughter.' 
               Frank brought her the pages of the wise and good men of ages, and the thought of Charles Moore was associated with all that was good, and great, and eloquent. Carlyle's clarion tones resounded through her soul, but not alone was she when she listened to the strange, inspiring music. She said to herself that she, too, had passed from the "everlasting no" to the "centre of indifference," that the "everlasting yea" was as yet to her unborn-and again, the mocking spirit over her shoulder turned away to laugh at her sublime heroic folly. She learned from Emerson, to "set her habits to a life of solitude, to have her glees and glooms alone, to embrace solitude as a bride-to make her own measure estimate enough, her own praise reward enough for her." Yet was she never alone, and that was the delight of her solitude. Remembered music tones haunted it, remembered smiles shone on her from the pages, remembered glances quivered down into her heart, till its strings thrilled to the vital depths; the thought of him became to her as she had promised him, an inspiration; he had awakened her deep nature. In this Mag was fortunate. Few women ever find the master hand that can reach the deep chords; few souls live the deep lives of which their slumbering faculties are capable. The thought of him became also a purification. For him she kept herself precious; for him she guarded every thought, and word, and action; for him she studied an earnest self-culture, nobler than Goethe's, for she kept herself pure. Goethe made self-culture his God; she made her ideal of Charles Moore her God, and convinced herself that she had given him up! Love is a precious madness! and Mag Barclay was possessed by the wild spirit. It was a part of her life-development, as it is of every woman's, for woman was born for love.
                
               So the months rolled on, and this was her education. 
               Frank walked in upon Min and Mag one afternoon, as they were busy at their drawing. Min was at work upon a marvellous "Castle by the Sea." Mag was trying the effect of light and shadow in strong contrast, on the "Dungeon of Chillon;" the light streaming in a rift through the barred window, upon the "seven pillars of Gothic mold," was quite effective, and Frank tipped his hat to it, with a low obeisance. 
               "I bow to the magic and majesty of genius!" said he; "and, Cousin Min, I have some news for you! great news! astonishing news! news of wonderful victory! Mag has committed immortality!" Frank unrolled a newspaper from his coat-pocket with great display. "If this document doesn't go through the bones and marrow of a cousin of mine at West Point, then his bones and marrow need repairing. This perpetration, for a girl of seventeen, is decidedly good! Just listen!" And Frank read with great unction and fervor-after commenting- 
               "To think Mag would dare commit anything so sentimental as this Farewell! It is alarmingly pious, especially at the close, where piety is most appropriate. The first stanza is lame a little, but she hadn't raised the spirit well; it goes easier after you get into it some; she had to get used to the rhymes, and they cramped her at first. She heads it, 'To my Brother,' as if she ever had so much as the shadow of a brother on the top of this round earth. But we can suppose an article of that sort, say thus, 'To Lieutenant Charles Moore, West Point, my sweetheart.' I have already sent that gentleman a copy, with full explanations, of all the points that were aimed at him." 
               "You have?" exclaimed Mag in indignation. 
               "Yes, little tiger-pussy; I have, and you may help yourself the very best way you think proper." 
               "Yes, sir; that very thing I shall do!" and Mag closed her lips in a very determined fashion. 
               "Fire-birds and wild-cats!" ejaculated Frank. 
               "But please be so accommodating as to enlighten me on the subject," Min said; "I have not discovered the astonishing part yet. Don't tantalize me by keeping me in such distressing ignorance." 
               "You must be in agony, Min! I'll relieve it!" and Frank read- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           FAREWELL. 
                            
                              I bring no bud or leaf from memory's shrine, 
                              Yet would I send some token still to thee, 
                              That when sweet dreams of far-off friends are thine, 
                              A passing thought shall speak to thee of me. 
                               
                              Yes; thou hast been to me a gentle friend, 
                              And I will cherish for thee holy thought; 
                              And many prayers to thy far home will send, 
                              For blessings on thee in thine earthly lot, 
                              Though all that links my name to thee shall be forgot. 
                            
                            
                              I love this low, sad music that now rings 
                              Within my soul-the tones are soft, yet free; 
                              Thou touched, with gentle hand, that soul's deep strings, 
                              They thrill with sweetest gratitude to thee. 
                              And, oh! I love thine earnest, soul-lit gaze- 
                              The full, life-giving strength within that soul- 
                              As weary spirits love the sun's glad rays- 
                              As pining hearts love aye strong hearts control- 
                              As pilgrims love the rest of life's eternal goal. 
                            
                            
                              Our dream-our glorious dream-is over now; 
                              Our life of moments counted long, full years, 
                              For thought's life-giving seal was on thy brow, 
                              And my heart bore its tracery of tears. 
                              Thou hast not waked the demon in my breast, 
                              The coiling tempter sleeping on my heart; 
                              Thou hushed that fevered heart to softest rest- 
                              And when dark dreams from memory's home would start 
                              To rouse the passion fiend, thou bad'st those dreams depart. 
                            
                            
                              "My brother" is a name that angels love; 
                              It softly lingers on the seraph's tongue, 
                              'Mid all the music sung by those above, 
                              No purer name on heavenly air is flung. 
                              
                                 Thou art my brother-and with that sweet word 
                              Thy name is graven on my spirit's shrine; 
                              By me thy voice may never more be heard- 
                              In sunny dreams-a brother's love is mine, 
                              
                                 And when we've passed the grave, that love may be divine,
                               
                              
                                 Till then farewell!
                               
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Well, Mag, what are you going to do about my sending it to Charlie, with notes to show the points? That idea of waiting till you are through the troubles of this life is unique. The last line is emphatic, you see. I told Charlie I was sorry for him, to be obliged to defer his hopes to t'other world. It would take a deal of patience for a fellow to wait, one not being sure of that world, anyhow. What are you going to do about it?" 
               "Never mind; it won't concern you!" 
               "I'll wager my head, Min, that she'll do something astonishing-crucify him, and herself, too-tear herself into inch pieces, and send herself tee-totally used up on the heels of that effusion." 
               "That very thing I'll do; and you may glorify over it." 
               "I'll do it till I'm blue, Mag! And I'll flood Charlie-poor fellow-with love and literature as long as yours is in the market; so don't hurt yourself, pussy!" 
               Frank caressed the dark brown hair with saucy, but soothing fingers, as he stood looking over her drawing. 
               A few weeks after this, he came upon them again, at Glenlyn Falls, where they had strayed. He greeted Min in his own style: 
               "I told you she would do it, Min! Don't she love him with a vengeance? Killed two birds with one stone, so they'll never flutter, but set the whole village in a flutteration, especially such birds as Josie Newton. Mag! Mag! I believe the Old Nick has possessed you, certain; and I'm not alone in my opinion!" 
               "Well, Frank, free your mind once, do-it will do you good; you'll feel better after it." 
               "It is double and twisted immortality this time, Min!" And Frank produced the article. "Here is the affair that has made such havoc among the birds, and set the village gossips, and even the minister, by the ears. Josie and the minister sympathize over it; it put them both into such ecstasies that I thought there might be a necessity of sending for a doctor for Josie. I began to feel uneasy for her health. She said Mr. Brown declared this was the most truthful, yet witty effusion that he ever read-the best he ever saw; a master mind had done it, and Miss Barclay had deserved to have the vanity and nonsense taken out of her long ago. It was a scathing criticism, but it would do her good-she deserved every word of it." 
                
               "That will do for a prelude. Now let us have the thing itself." 
               "Directly, Min. Josie said, too, that Mr. Brown had told her, in confidence, as a great secret, that he had always known that Mag was both insane and a skeptic. It had really troubled him o' nights. He had not mentioned it publicly, for fear of injuring Mag! How could you so disturb his peace of mind, Mag?" 
               "It was only a small piece, Frank, that was disturbed." 
               "Worse and worse. He disliked to have Mag teacher in his Sunday School, on account of her skepticism. Why, Mag, what does it all mean? You've walked over him quite too emphatically sometime." 
               "I haven't one iota of faith in him, and he knows it. That is the solution of the skepticism." 
               "Of course-of course-I understand that. But you see, Mag, you'll have to take Aunt Lina's advice: 'Better get the good will of a dog than the ill will.' You must contrive to pat him on his head a little-feed him with sugarplums, and all that sort of thing-stop his mouth some way, it will never do in the world! And you must set your wits to smooth down all the feathers you have ruffled around town." 
               "Now, Frank, I'm impatient!" said Min. 
               "The document is anonymous-or, rather, it is signed 'Steele,' and it is certainly a cutting affair on the rhyme I read the other day. Mag, you'd better ask him to cut you a rope off the equinoctial line, and go straight and hang yourself on the north pole, as being the nearest pole of this little earth." 
               "Please hush your remarks, and read, Frank," said Min. Frank read the whole article. We give only the part that concerned Magdalene Barclay: 
               "We would advise Magdalene, the authoress of the pathetic 'Farewell,' in last week's paper, not to hang her heart on the willows in that fashion, and not to use so much egotism in her effusions. There are dark corners in every one's life; but people in general are wise enough to keep them and their vanity veiled. Magdalene is no veiled lady. Every son of Adam can read her 'open secrets'-can see, with half an eye, to the centre of her soul. We would entreat her, for her own sake, not to write such sublimated nonsense. We would like coolly to dissect with her the splendid fanfaronade of that 'Farewell,' to her 'brother, and see what stuff it is really made of. Now, Magdalene, let us take the first line: 
                     "'I bring no bud or leaf from memory's shrine.'
                  
                
               "Of course you don't, my dear lady. A 'shrine' is no place for 'buds and leaves.' They grow in gardens and greenhouses, and several other places where nature puts them besides, but never on 'shrines.' However, that is a magnanimous resolve of yours, to 'remember your brother,' 'though all that links your name to his should be forgot!' It means, we suppose, that you intend to be amiable to him, even when he gives you the cold shoulder, and cuts your acquaintance. 
               "You are a good child for that resolve, Magdalene-it shows that you have been rightly brought up. We hope you will stick to that, with all the world, when it frowns on you, or even laughs at you. It is the germ of all Bible religion, and we can fancy that some good grandmother taught it you with her spectacles over her eyes. 
               "We hope it don't mean that you will remember him when you are cross. We think it don't, from the kind things you say of your brother. 
               "We gather one interesting item of information about him-he is a good performer on the violin. Yes, fiddling is an agreeable and praiseworthy accomplishment for young men who can find no other outlet to their genius. But you speak of 'strings' across your 'deep soul,' on which he performs. Well, if you choose to 'string' up your soul as a fiddle for him, no one can possibly have any objections-it is a free country-there is no disputing about tastes here- American citizens have a right to their tastes as well as opinions; but we would advise you, as a friend, not to tell everybody of your tastes about those violin performances. 
               "You put yourself and brother in the category of fast people. What else can this line mean? 
                     "'Our life of moments counted long, full years.'
                   Do you mean that you consider yourself one of Mr. Butler's Flora McFlimsey species, and your brother ahead of the times? And, too, he wears a 'seal upon his brow.' We have read before of a 'beast with a seal upon his forehead.' We wonder if he was troubled with a pressure of ideas-if so, if they were new ones, or only fossil remains-preserved specimenshanded 'down from former generations.' And your heart, too, 'bore the tracery of tears.' Can you enlighten us a little further with regard to that phenomenon? Do you mean to insinuate that you have eyes weeping in your heart day and night, daughter of the people? Or do you merely mean that you have a heart of rock, of the geological formation that abounds in ripple marks? The next lines give us a most astounding piece of information! What possesses you to keep such inhabitants in your bosom? What under heavens do you mean? 
                      
                        "'Thou hast not waked the demon in my breast, 
                        The coiling tempter sleeping on my heart.' 
                     
                   No? Well, it was kind not to wake the old serpent in you! But what about the monster? It is difficult to understand. Do you keep a Cerberus to guard those 'deep places'-the lower regions of your soul-and feed him with 'sops,' to keep him sleeping? Did your brother slip by without waking him, even by his fiddle? Or do you mean that it is a bona fide snake in your stomach? Why, it is dangerous! We don't wonder at your 'fevered heart.' We should expect 'convulsions.' Your brother was a compassionate soul, when he 'bade those dreams depart part' that were about to 'wake the passion fiend' that lay 'coiled upon your heart.' 
               "And, Magdalene, you have boasted that it was your 'glory' that you could 'bear the truth.' It is a woman's boast-men never make such boasts. We would advise you to go and garb yourself in your 'glory,' and 'bear this truth' if it kills you! There are some truths hard to bear when there is a large amount of vanity in the constitution, and that is your case. But put on your strength, and you can bear it! Listen! You are in the habit of perpetrating the most egotistical, unmitigated nonsense! You are holding up your heart for the world to see and shoot at. Of course, you will get it completely riddled, and it will not be the world's fault, but your own. The world is bad enough-though a very good world in its place when properly managed-and you should make the most of it, and the best of it. It laughs at you now-but let those laugh who win. When you have conquered it, you may turn the tables and laugh too," etc., etc. 
               "That is what I call censorious," said Min. 
               "That is what I call very critical! How could you, Mag?" said Frank. 
               "It is most decidedly highflown," said Min. 
               "If it isn't I'm not up to it," said Mag. "But I have no doubt we shall all survive, and the earth will move on in its orbit as heretofore." 
               "Mag," said Frank, "I've a proposition to make. I think you would rival Paine and Voltaire in riddling the psalms and prophets. Suppose you try yourself on the Nineteenth Psalm. Paine considers that the only one worth reading; the rest are too venomously revengeful and human to suit his refined taste. You find it so easy to ridicule the beautiful! Try yourself on that favorite psalm, and get at the 'Common Sense' view of it, in the style of the author of the 'Rights of Man.' It will be popular in this 'Age of Reason.'" 
               "It would be the easiest thing in the world to 'riddle' the most beautiful poem in the world, and to riddle Paine and Voltaire themselves, if one found motive enough for such a pastime. I never could conceive what good they expected to accomplish by ridiculing things sacred to any one. Even if the Bible is a grand lie, no more harm in believing it than in disbelieving it." 
               "And I believe that the education we Puritans receive from the Bible, whether true or false, is the noblest education in religion that humanity is capable of receiving. All that is good and noble in our life-culture may be traced, directly or indirectly, to the influences of the Bible," said Frank, quoting from a letter said to be Franklin's answer to Paine. 
               "I met a Deist the other day, who told me he would swear the Bible was a lie, and the only God for worship was Truth. I told him his ideal God was distant, lofty and cold-a double-faced statue, whose lineaments no one could trace. I could not worship as an ideal even a marble Apollo; and his God to me seemed colder than marble. My ideal was the Man God, even if but the myth Strauss represents him. If the Bible was a lie, yet our natures were so constructed they demanded some God for worship. We each had a right to choose our ideal God. My ideal was like the 'Christ of History'-the 'Great Teacher,' who loved man the more for his temptations and passionate love-longings for purity. No harm could come of my worshipping such an ideal under any circumstances, even if the Bible was as false as it represents its own 'Prince of Darkness.'" 
               Mag was getting tremendously in earnest. 
               "Nature would be false to herself to create demands without providing to satisfy them," responded Frank, "and our consciousness teaches, past all denial, that we hunger for a God whom we must adore for his perfections, and love because he loves us." 
               "Let us go home," said Min. "You are getting too precocious for comfort! What will the world come to if such youngsters as you talk after that fashion?" 
               And they went home. 
             
             
                
               XII. LOVE AND PHILOSOPHY. 
               "THIS is a deliciously stupid world! Let any one deny it who dare!" pronounced Charles Atherton Moore, one summer day, to his comrade, Guy Erwin. The two southern bloods were luxuriating in Encampment life-a deal wiser than cadets usually get to be-luxuriating with almost a miraculous amount of philosophy, cigars, and other arrangements. The speaker's head was thrown back for repose-reminding one of an Apollo putting on steam-his feet elevated to an angle of forty-five degrees from the horizon. 
               Charlie Moore was an uncommon genius, for a cadet; had absorbed an unusual amount of world and book philosophy with his military education, and the philosophy came in gusts, whiffs and puffs, like the smoke from his cigar. To his profound proposition Guy made answer only by humming an old student song that he learnt at the University, before he was so unfortunate as to be elected a member of the Military Academy-"Gaudeamus igitur!" 
               "There is floating in its atmosphere an infinite supply of sublimated transcendentalism, which will addle the brains of fools and philosophers from this day till eternity, and eons of ages thereafter, probably, as it may have done eons of ages in the eternity preceding the present-who knows?" Moore watched the rings of smoke as they slowly rose and suggestively dissolved in air. Erwin sung the University song of Psi Upsilon: 
                      
                        "Oh, maidens fair, with auburn tresses, 
                        Are better far than gems or gold; 
                        And more their love my soul oppresses 
                        Than voice or pen hath ever told." 
                     
                  
                
               "Philosopher and fool," continued Charlie, dissolving into the heroic-he had just been reading Kingsley-"man and maiden; for the damsels of these days, also, dive into the metaphysical; here they all whirl together in a sort of merry-go-round, which they style the 'Search after Truth.'" 
               "Vive, vive, vive l'Amour! Vive la Compagnie!" Erwin replied. "The truth that I've searched for and never found is woman's truth. The one subject on which my faith is wanting is a woman's strength and purity. Whited sepulchres are they all, full of all manner of uncleanness and dead men's bones. And yet the frail beauties! What a goodly outside falsehood hath, as Shakspeare so very appropriately remarks." 
               "I forgive your slander on the sex, Erwin, because you have neither mother nor sister-I have both, thank God." 
               "Sister? No; but I adopted one in Virginia last summer, and must tell you what came of it. Rare creature she was, Charlie; soft, still, blue, liquid eyes, calm as the waters of a lake in shadows; hair softer and sunnier than her eyes; magnificent figure, bust, and so forth. She took compassion on my sisterless condition and offered to fill that vacuum in my pericardium, called me 'Brother Guy,' in soft, arch, lisping tones, and taught me to call her 'Sister Ernestine;' she might have been called Madonna, for she had a face like our dreams of the Virgin Mother." 
               "You are growing pathetic, Guy." 
               "I told you that I rode in the tournament last vacation; I was dolt enough to practise with the lance, night and day, and put Blackhawk in splendid training for the occasion, because she had laughingly hinted that I might win the prize for her-a set of diamonds; she was fond of diamonds. I told her that she was the belle of the States-she should be the queen of the tournament-the sweet, 'White Rose of all the World.'" 
               "Yes." 
               "You should have seen me, Charlie; my devotion, as I knelt for her to fasten my plumes, before I rode into the lists. Ancient chivalry could not compare with my whispered adoration. And then the royal condescension with which she did her part; the ineffable smile that coquetted over her ravishing lips. But she told me with such a woman's glance, that I was such a fool to ride; and I made such a fool answer, Charlie-that her will was my law; she had but to express the slightest wish forbidding me, and her servant would obey. She told me to go on and finish my folly, and I did!" 
               "Of course," whiffed Charlie. 
                
               "I was sure of the diamonds, and so was she; but Black-hawk, in the last trial, deceived me, and I lost. Instead of the diamonds, I was goat enough to lay at her feet the plumes and sash, telling her that I was grieved beyond expression, because they were disgraced." 
               "And the key to all?" 
               "She had called me 'brother' to get the diamonds and play the queen of the tournament. I was sure of the honors, and so was she; but she could not force her heart to forgive me for her disappointment. Hard, wasn't it, Charlie?" 
               "So you curse the sex for that folly?" 
               "Oh, no! She forgave me at last, and I devoted myself to her as a true knight and man; was groomsman at her wedding, because I could not claim that nearer place. Hey, Charlie?" 
               "It did require a spirit of resignation." 
               "Yes. I had found some Utopian ideas in the Bible, which I put in practice, thus: 'Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.' For want of any better philosophy, I tried that, and found it a great success." 
               "Christianity is the most politic religion in the world, especially at times." 
               "But it is unfortunate for fine-looking Christians like you and me, Charlie, that our physical beauty attracts the frailest of the sex. Oh, I have had heavenly knowledge! There are angels of light, members of Christ's church, whom men know to be"-- 
               "Hush! for God's sake, hush, Erwin! I have a mother and sister-you have had a mother-for their sakes spare the sex! You will have faith in them before the end comes. To the pure, all things are pure." 
               "Forgive me, Charlie; the truth should not all be spoken or written. The pure must go on their way, spotless, never dreaming of what we know to be truth. They must, perchance, be thrown out alone into the world, ignorant that at any step they may meet devils clothed in saints' garments, to lure them to perdition. No, I must not offend chaste ears with such truth." 
               "Look for truth with me, Guy; God's truth; not truth in man or woman." 
               "Truth! truth! What is truth?" 
               "Pilate asked that question of the Man-God, and Bacon says it is a significant fact that he did not wait for a reply. The 'Great Teacher' gave silence as his only answer, but Carlyle says Silence is eloquence." 
               The two military philosophers puffed clouds of smoke, to make the question less obscure; but when the graceful cloud-wreaths had rolled slowly away, there was no essential enlightenment to the understanding. 
               "What is Truth?" said Moore, soaring again after the clouds. 
               "Philosophers and magi of all ages have joined in the search for her. One man raises the cry 'Eureka!-eureka!'-'I have found it! I have found Truth!' Yes, he has found her in a vicious circle, and followed her around, treading again and again upon his own footsteps, taking the conclusion he wishes at last, 'vi et armis,' or as my horse Grey Eagle takes the bits in his teeth, and follows the path that he desires. And the rabble watch him in wide-mouthed wonder, and swallow his precious balderdash and adore him as an inspired priest or prophet of Truth." 
               "Go on, Charlie, our search will be encouraging." 
               "So Socrates found Truth. He followed her by the way of self-knowledge, and Plato followed in his footsteps, discoursing luminously on the distinctions of ideas and opinions concerning Truth. The Stoics took the path of self-discipline, the Epicureans of self-luxury, the Idealists of the dictum, 'Cogito ergo sum,' of their master, 'I think, therefore, I am.' Kant made great and wonderful discoveries in the path where the search for Truth led him. Reason could not span Truth! but in the will of man lay the ability of comprehending it; the finite will, by its infinite energy, unfolding until it grasped the infinite, begging the question we desire proved-the infinite capacity of the will!" 
               "Where do you purpose that our search commence?" 
               "Truth has been discovered so often, hiding herself in such strange places, that we are tempted to think her merely a coquettish, double-faced jade, who smiles most bewitchingly upon us when we invite her caresses, until we, deeming that we have won her all our own forever, enchanted with her favors, and worshipping her matchless loveliness, proud as Lucifer, are going forth light-bearers to the world! When lo! we discover that our double-faced mistress, 'on whose love our lavish hearts would spend themselves,' has been smiling constantly with the same bewildering wildering sweetness upon our rivals, inviting them to her ravishing regards, as fondly as ourselves." 
               "Coming to earth again, Charlie, I see form and comeliness in this last tirade. Some of it is within my comprehension. You've been up into the seventh sphere, which I haven't attained yet! But what in the name of the miraculous has taken possession of you? Been crossed in love any way, and taken a dose of philosophy as an antidote? Granting that there is a cause for everything (some except the first cause as causeless, and reason, that if the first cause is causeless, then all things may be causeless, but we will deny that; we will grant that the first cause is causeless, but it is the cause of all other causes), I will venture to inquire the cause of the birth of the philosophic explosion which has just thundered in my ears." 
               Charlie rose, gave a mighty yawn, looked at Erwin with a very expressive and peculiar glance, lighted another cigar, and resumed. "Yes, Guy, denying the hypothesis of human and superhuman existence, the mortality of flesh, and the immortality of the soul, and of the Absolute itself, all of which is beyond proof, and in which we believe, by the workings of a law-the fundamental law of human belief, common sense (vide Reid, Stewart, Brown, Hamilton, and so forth). Denying all this, there seems to exist a most magnificently, charming feminine illusion. I have faith in the existence of the illusion. Paul, the Christian philosopher, says that faith is the evidence of the unknown. I cannot prove the existence of my illusion, but I have faith in it." 
               "Let me feel your pulse, Moore-steady, old boy-steady." 
               "Taking the evidence of the supposed senses, there has dawned upon me a specimen of supposed flesh and blood, a beautiful and attractive illusion, fascinating with other rich, volatile, foam-like, sparkling illusions of humor, wit, poetry, and philosophy-full of that vitality and spirituality, that a supposed female soul may acquire in the course of seventeen supposed years of supposed cultivation on this supposed earthly sphere." 
               "Take my hat, Charlie! Hobbes says, 'Thought is a compound of sensations,' I'll testify it is a perfect conglomeration of sensations." 
               "A concatenation, a linking together; a marriage of hypothetical sensations and perceptions, that waver and glimmer through fearful wildernesses, till the hypothetical soul, whether dormant or rampant, listens wondering at the wild melodies of a life quid est demonstrandum, and is silent amid the mysterious harmonies and sublime discords of a universe whose existence est disputandum-whose proof est desiderandum." 
               "But the question under present consideration." 
               "'Consciousness is a unity.' Ah, if it could but teach me, that my supposed soul, and that sweet illusion of a soul, were unity instead of duality or diversity! What can a supposed reason do in such an emergency? Hobbes says, 'Men set themselves against reason, when reason is against them. If mathematical truths were found contrary to men's interests, their doctrines, if not disputed, would be suppressed,' which perversity in human nature"-- 
               "The question-the question, Charlie! let's have the QUESTION!" 
               "In this question reason is powerless; fancy and imagination may accomplish their supposed work. Sweet illusion, enter, and become to me as no illusion-a bright reality-no dream! Come in, my beautiful! Kneel by my side! Let my fingers caress those brown, waving tresses. Let me look down and answer that proud, shy, witching devotion, gazing up from those deep, radiant eyes. Let me listen again to the folly of those fascinating lips, till my whole being goes insane." 
               "Insane! You are perfectly raving! Let me feel your pulse again. Blister needed on the temples! How is the heart, old fellow? Cupping to relieve the pain there." 
               "On the hypothesis that I was once possessed of reason-that it is not yet dispersed, I affirm, that I am not conscious of being in possession of my heart-whatever may, according to Fichte, be the state of my consciousness in regard to the soul. There seems to be a heart, throbbing like a living earthquake, through this supposed frame-fire as from the central depths feeding on these hypotheses of pulses. Is it her heart? Is it an illusive, manly heart of flesh, or an illusive, female, dreaming heart? It has lava-blood surging in its depths, and her heart seemed burning, till the eye blazed." 
               "Dangerous experiments of exchanging hearts, Charlie! Danger of total annihilation! Come, come! It is a plain love case. Talk in rational language, and free your mind to a friend who knows how to give you sympathy." 
                
               "Yes, Guy, I'm in love! For several months past has your humble servant been devoting his energies to the study of military tactics, planning desperate heart sieges; also stupendous fortifications against the attacks of a powerful enemy-said enemy being already in the camp, or the camp being in the hands of the enemy-having surrendered without discretion, and gone into glorious captivity." 
               "Of course, it is the last angel out of paradise. You'll feel relieved now that you have made confession. I will give you another yarn from my experience to show you my sympathy." 
               Guy commenced pacing backward and forward to collect the materials for his confession from the recesses of his brain, but stumbled over some open volumes that lay in his way. 
               "Mehercule! What do you keep here? Medicine for love, I'll be sworn! Confessions of Augustine, Comte, Kant, Montaigne, Molire, Swedenborg, Koran, Strauss, Bible, Bayne, Kingsley, et cetera! A pretty collection, and so forth! These interesting volumes may claim the paternity of the phenomena I have witnessed, and so on-the heart-tearing balderdash and fanfaronade you have trumpeted to the four winds and my ears. There was nothing new or original in your sentiments?" 
               "Certainly not. Solomon said there was nothing new under the sun, in his day. What could be expected of a fellow now? No doubt he could best counsel me now, though, being acknowledged as the most devoted, of all poets and philosophers, to the interests of the ladies. Like Adam, he gave up heaven for love. Augustine's sentiments also are to the point. 'It is bliss to be loved, even as we love. We desire to find life in that which we love.' Yet, to Augustine also, as to Adam and Solomon, love became a curse." 
               "The experience of all! Skepticism in youth as a disease; love, philosophy and religion turning somerset together, and the life-problem all chaos. You have all the diseases in one mass. Others see the same difficulties and walk over them deliberately-get through the mire safely, too. I shall save my wits on those points, close my eyes, and go through blind, knowing I should blind myself with mud and mire if I were fool enough to open my eyes as you do to the darkness visible. Do you believe in Revelation?" 
                
               "I believe reason to be as much of a revelation as the Bible. Men tell us that reason harmonizes with revelation. But I must confess, my reason has never seen the harmony, or in any way become conscious of it. I believe in revelation because I choose to believe it in spite of reason. It is beyond reason." 
               "I suppose, too, you would have me believe in woman's purity and strength, on the same grounds, 'in spite of reason, because it is beyond reason.'" 
               "You have gone into wild places, Guy, to look for the proof of that." 
               "I have never seen but one woman who, in my opinion, should be genuine, if the genuine article exists." 
               "Explain-I am anxious for your experience." 
               "When Tom Creagh and myself were returning from our wild-goose chase over Texas and Mexico, last winter, we stopped in New Orleans; and on the last night of our stay, procured the entree to a grand masquerade there. Tom, you know, is Byronic-fair skin, features beautiful as a woman-so he disguised himself as a lady, and performed the jealous mistress, while I played devotion to a real Sultana, whom I discovered reverizing by a column in a recess. She was of a rare order of beauty, Charlie-jet black hair, pearly complexion, and blue eyes. I would give half my fortune to know that she was a true woman, such as God made woman, and intended man to keep her." 
               "You would throw your heart and hand in the offer also?" 
               "I did not learn even her name, but her image and spirit haunts me. If there is such a thing as what the dreamers call communion of spirits, I was with her in all her dreams last night." 
               "I have no doubt you disturbed her peace. Is that all?" 
               "That is the whole." 
               "Then tell me what you think of this effusion as emanating from the brain and pen of a girl of eighteen, among the hills of New England. Tell me if a pure, true soul gave birth to these sentiments, or if the 'trail of the serpent' is here also. Tell me if she is the temptress in the form of a seraph." 
               It was a production of Magdalene Barclay's, that Frank Ross had sent Charlie Moore, to convince that gentleman how entirely the lady had given him up! It was entitled- 
                
                   
                  TEN YEARS HENCE-A PROPHETIC RETROSPECT. 
                  "Arama, child of earth! In thy home among the noble and honorable, Chie-ot-ys, the maiden, sends thee greeting: Thy memory has haunted her by land and sea. Thou hast visited her in waking dreams and in night visions. In the silence that has rolled long years between thee and her, thy memory has been with her as a friendly presence, and yet no voice or tone in the land of the living has been breathed to her soul from thee. She knows thee to be honored by the good and wise-she knows that woman's love is thine-that on thy heart reposes one dearer to thee than thine own soul-but now she entreats thee to answer her soul's cry to thee. It is her spirit that is calling to thy spirit-her spirit, weary with its search after thee! Thou, with thy charmed eloquence, and thy brave life-dreams! If thou hast not quaffed the cup of Lethe-if the gulf of oblivion has not rolled between thy soul and her soul-she pleads with thee now to give her Nepenthe-to answer her soul's greeting!
                   
                  "Life to thee hath not been mockery! Thou hast taught her that the brave heart can make the wilderness and the solitary places glad, and the desert to blossom as the rose, for thou hast fought manfully the wild battle of life. Thou hast fulfilled thy God-appointed destiny! 
                  "There are other heroic souls than such as thine. Gaze deep into the unfathomed eyes around, and when the soul kindles ever so dimly in their depths, ask of that soul, What tidings? What of the spirit struggling in the clay? It may be silent in its despair-silent because the sins of the fathers, descending to the third and fourth generations, have fallen in vials of wrath and despair and crushed out all hope. It may be silent to thy questioning, because it has mastered its mighty sorrow-because it has communed with itself, and learned to be still! The God-born soul, whose native home is light, whose atmosphere and element is love, like the loves of the angels, has wandered wearily in its tenement of clay-it has found darkness where it sought light-it has won disease for beauty-it has met loathing for love. With what spirits, ghouls and arch-demons has it not contended, alone and in darkness, struggling away from death, yet longing for the peace of the grave, and conquered sorrow, too, though gasping upon the grave's brink as conqueror! 
                   
                  "The spirit-the free-born spirit, striving upward to the infinite-onward to the eternal! It has hungered for angels' food-it has been fed on scorpions. It has thirsted for the waters of life-it has received vinegar, mingled with gall! 
                  "Of all this the soul, peering from sad, human eyes, is silent to thy questioning. Aye, hero-heart, be silent. The stars have been silent since their choral song of joy at the creation's dawn-forever silent. Heaven is silent, far-off and dim to thy weary eyes; yet in the dim and distant heavens are thy kindred, who watch thy silent tears. In the wilderness, they have been near thee; they will not be forever silent, there shall yet come to thee harmonies deeper than silence; there shall then be neither sorrow nor sighing; and there shall be no more curse! 
                  "Arama, child of earth! God's truth hath dawned in thy soul. Thou didst win her to thy embrace; thou didst not send her an outcast from thee; thou didst not weary of her caresses, and because thou didst not reject her, she has been all to thee. In thy deathly soul-sickness, she has come to thee with healing on her wing. She has given thee beauty for ashes, and the garments of joy for the spirit of heaviness. She has attuned thy nature into unison with the burning harmonies that abound in the universe of the Almighty. The light of the ever-shining stars, the silver and the golden radiance of heaven, are dim by the pure God's light of truth, that has poured itself upon thee. The truth hath given thee strength to conquer-all spirits of evil have knelt at thy feet, or been driven back to their homes in the abyss. Death had been sweet to thee, because of the loved, the beautiful, the eternal, the infinite, beyond the bourne of his sceptre. A perpetual pan has thrilled thy soul, when thou hast sounded to the weary, the sinful, the broken-hearted, and the down-pressed, the trumpet's deep and solemn note, bidding them up and onward, for the God of the lowly in heart, and the Most High God of Battles was one God. 
                  "Arama-child of earth! solitude hath been thy home, but thou hast found companionship with truth. Thou hast thrown thyself a loving child upon her bosom, in full, free, utter abandon; she hath enfolded thee with passionate fervor in her all-clasping arms-hath lifted thee up, lest thou shouldst dash thy foot against a stone. And with her thy spirit hath gone forth, with broad, strong, rejoicing wing, sweeping upon the deserts and the mountain heights, in night and storm and chaos; it hath brooded over the abyss; it hath penetrated silences; it hath held converse with the invisible; it hath searched into the heart of the universe, and the great heart of the universe throbs on forever, and the life of the universal heart is Love. 
                   
                     "ARAMA-CHILD OF EARTH! 
                      
                        "Far away in the primal, radiant spheres, 
                        Where Creation's heart throbbed truth, 
                        In the sinless dawn of eternal years, 
                        Unblighted by guilt, or death, or tears, 
                        Our spirits loved in youth. 
                        Stars blossomed in light-sweet love-music bringing, 
                        Swept onward forever, and fading-no, never! 
                        The path of the spheres with wild music was ringing, 
                        Forever, forever, forever, forever. 
                      
                      
                        "Sin mantled the ages-sin garbed them in pain, 
                        Shame sobbed at the anguish of earth, 
                        Death hung on the life-heart his galling chain, 
                        Life shuddered, for never on earth again, 
                        Would love with pure joy have birth, 
                        Still the stars blossomed light, their love-music bringing, 
                        Went onward forever, rejoicing forever, 
                        The path of the spheres with wild music was ringing, 
                        Forever, forever, on, onward, forever. 
                      
                      
                        "Far away in yon glorious radiant spheres, 
                        Where Creation's heart throbs truth, 
                        In the sinless ages of endless years, 
                        Unblighted by guilt, or death, or tears, 
                        Our souls shall yet love as in youth. 
                        While stars blossom light, their wild music bringing, 
                        Sing onward forever, forever, forever, 
                        The path of the spheres with sweet love-music ringing, 
                        Forever, forever, forever, forever!" 
                      
                     "Well," said Moore, at last, "what do you think?" 
                     Guy smoked in profound silence for some time. 
                     "She evidently supposes that the child of earth-meaning you, probably-has a good share of the angelic in his composition." 
                     "I should like to soothe my soul with that holy unction." 
                     "She worships the angel in you." 
                     "And ignores the devil." 
                     "As we all do in love." 
                      
                     "It being acknowledged that we worship ideals, making them idols." 
                     "Go on, Guy; what do you think of her?" 
                     "She evidently has noble elements; is capable of great womanly sacrifice and devotion; could become what woman ought to become on earth, an angel of purification to such sinners as we." 
                     "It is woman's mission to walk amid pollution without becoming polluted-to purify-to burn out with the fire of sacrifice the evil within us." 
                     "If the evil in that woman ever does triumph over the good!" 
                     "What then?" 
                     "If you ever turn devil to her-she thinks you an angel now, and worships you; but if she ever hates you as she can hate, she would become to you a worse devil than your wildest dreams ever could conceive. It is the noblest, the most nearly perfect of all, who become most thoroughly accursed when wrong has changed their natures. Satan, the prince of the Pit, was a regal spirit in heaven, Milton says." 
                     "She is not yet angel, Guy-a child of earth herself, but incapable of that deep hatred. She is not yet angel-she may develop into one of the noblest. She shall never be tempted beyond refuge! I will shield her from temptation forever. I will guard her with life and sacred honor-so help me God!" 
                     She is God's and not yours, Charles Moore; and through passionate sorrow, and weariness of spirit must the elements in her develop to the angelic. 
                     It was a dream of yours that you would save her-a noble dream-so the young often dream when heaven is near them-and your good angel was triumphant then." 
                   
                
             
             
                
               XIII. CONFESSIONS. 
               "GOOD bye, Charlie, my boy!" said Guy, coming in one day shortly afterward, equipped for travelling. "Good bye, I'm off for Mississippi on furlough!" 
               "The deuce you are! Why, you was off last year. How do you find favor at head quarters in that style?" 
               "Oh, I've come of age, and my guardian is anxious to resign a law-suit into my keeping concerning some lands lying on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad; so you see I'm scot-free for a time, thank the stars!" 
               "But don't go yet, Guy! My father, mother and sis are to be here next week, and I want to introduce you." 
               "Next week? I wish it were possible to stay." 
               "I've promised Lizzy an introduction to you." 
               Guy pondered in solemn, disappointed silence full fifteen minutes, biting his lips. 
               "It is worse than Tantalus and his torments, Charlie. I would give up my fortune-almost-to see her, but the long and short of the matter is, I can't do it. Go I must!" 
               "When will you see her, then? Come to Huntsville after we graduate next summer? But she may be married and gone to the moon by that time. No calculating on the whims of ladies. Do stay, Guy." 
               "It breaks my heart to go, Charlie, but I must do it. I will go home with you next summer though. Good bye! God bless you, Charlie, and take a liking to you, old fellow!" 
               Guy Erwin wrung his hand and was gone-leaving Charlie in a reverie in which he remained for a short age of half an hour. 
               "If he can get a furlough, the Old Nick may take me if I don't do the same. I'll be off to those New England mountains with Lizzy. There is some one I intend to see again, or I'll shoot myself! That matter is settled." 
               And having settled the affair to his satisfaction, he took himself to the interesting occupation of writing poetry-a sure symptom of an affection of the heart, especially in students and school-girls. Mag, as we know, had the symptoms in their worst form, and Charlie reciprocated with all his heart. 
               The employment occupied his attention fully until his parents and sister arrived the next week, when his time and attention both were given to aid Lizzy in playing belle at West Point. 
               He lounged into her apartments at Roe's hotel one day, and found her indulging in the disorder that she might have caught from him-a brown meditation. 
               "What weighty matter is troubling your mind, sis?" he asked. "It is an alarmingly wise look that disfigures your beauty. One might suspect you were cogitating the affairs, of the nation. Don't afflict yourself and the family with politics. Never turn your attention to wisdom, Lizzy; it won't pay. 
               "Prove it, Charlie. Would a chapter from your life prove it?" 
               "I could reason it out for you in faultless logic." 
               "I am not in a logical frame of mind; I should prefer proof from experience; I have been meditating on the wants of human nature in general, and feminine natures in particular-of course judging the wants of human nature in the mass by an individual in the mass-myself." 
               "As ladies always do; they were never known to give a reason for the hope within them-little hope is there for the reason in them." 
               "That speech is decidedly gallant, brother; worthy a southern gentleman." 
               "Ladies are queer commodities anyhow. I've studied them for nearly a quarter of a century, and my study has amounted to pretty much nothing. I am not much better off now from the research than I was fifty years ago." 
               "Providence never intended us to be reasonable beings." 
               "If he did intend it, the intention was never fulfilled. A reasonable being couldn't begin to guess how any one of the race would act under any given set of circumstances." 
               "No; we never go plodding after facts and knowledge by any roundabout way of reason; we scorn the slow process; we take the cross-roads to our conclusions; knowledge is intuitive; we move by inspiration; are guided by pure instinct." 
                
               "Amen-amen-go on, sis." 
               "You of the reasonable gender stray into most woefully false conclusions at times. We go by the light of nature, and never very far from truth. I am thankful I never studied metaphysics." 
               "It would have been your ruin, Lizzy." 
               "In politics and religion you of the masculine genus produce confusion worse confounded by your logic, till we of the intuitive order puzzle our bedazzled wits to discover whether reason itself is not a phantom; we cannot divine whether it is like a living creature, with flesh and bones and veins-with marrow in the bones, blood in the veins, and bloom upon the flesh-or whether it is not like a fleshless, bloodless, lifeless skeleton, that rattles its grim, gaunt limbs with a clattering and chattering of unmeaning sounds; or whether it is like a spectre that visits mortals who would penetrate beyond the ken of mortal vision to punish them for their vain presumption." 
               "Bravo! bravissimo, sis!" 
               "We ladies are fond of creating confusion and chaos in our sphere. We exult in our work, because no one ever dreams of calling us to an account for our misdeeds! The pun was accidental!" Charlie groaned. 
               "Brother, my feminine nature experiences a want. It would now be a sublime episode in my existence if a man would enter my sphere. I am in agony to adore a man. I know I have the faculty, the capacity of adoration in my nature, but it is lying undeveloped for want of an object to call it into life." 
               "You are anxious to live a large, high, broad, deep life-up to all the potential privileges of a woman's nature. You are right." 
               "Do you know, Charlie, a handsome man is ten thousand times handsomer than a handsome woman. I have seen many a handsome man, but never a really wise, noble, adorable man crossed my orbit of existence." 
               "Your atmosphere repels the wise probably. There is no magnetism in your presence to attract men who are men. Is not the fault your own?" 
               "Who taught you to be a Job's comforter, Charlie? I have an intense longing to meet a man in full proportions-a man-not a monkey." 
               "Your tastes are praiseworthy, sis. I am proud of them. It is refreshing to listen to the recital of such feminine aspirations. I marvel much what experiences gave rise to such yearning desires." 
               "If you could but know! Tout le monde, comme une ruption, have showered me with flattery. Gentlemen never consider a lady worthy of other entertainment than recounting to her the list of her perfections. Gallantry is the business and accomplishment of gentlemen with ladies." 
               "You have been persecuted for righteousness' sake, no doubt." 
               "One exhausts all that 'society' can teach in a week. I can prophesy your entertainment for every lady at the next soire. You will convince every one you meet that she is a seraph, to keep yourself in practice. You are the devoted lover of the 'eleven thousand virgins of Cologne,' and each is a bright particular star." 
               "It is a burning pity, sis," said Charlie, laughing, "that Guy Erwin left last week. You two ought to be caged together for a month, to relieve yourselves by a discussion of human frailty. Your sympathies would overflow in showers." 
               "I have no doubt he is a perfectly trained gallant like yourself-says nothing but sweet things to every lady he meets-makes love to Miss A. because she is attractive enough to amuse him; to Miss B. because she expects it; to Miss C. because she craves it-yet is so ugly that no one else will do it, so he magnanimously performs it as an act of Christian charity, and takes credit to himself for comprehending the spirit of the golden rule." 
               "You are severe, sis. Our cadet training is not of that order." 
               "You soldiers cultivate chivalry." 
               "There are numerous flirtations here, I acknowledge, during encampment life, but the greatest reason is, that ladies think all military fair game, and are perfectly unscrupulous as to the degree of their deceptions. Cadets are young, very enthusiastic, and rather verdant. The majority think that they are the champions of honor, and that it would be a disgrace second to none to deceive a lady. I deny your charges in the name of the order." 
               "You all get bravely over that honor after one campaign of flirtations. Not much of it do you see in the army." 
               "You make out life to be one grand masquerade. You agree with Talleyrand, that language was given to conceal thought." 
               "Speaking of masquerades, they are excessively entertaining at times. Mystery runs wild, and the mysterious is the glory of life. I amused myself delightfully in St. Louis and New Orleans, last winter." 
               "Do relate your experience, sis. It must be instructive." 
               A sudden memory came over Lizzy, sending animation into her blue eyes. 
               "I must tell you, Charlie, I met my beau-ideal at a masquerade in New Orleans, last winter. He appeared in the form of a Spanish Cavalier-there was a haughty, slow grace in his motion-and then his voice! There is more soul in the voice than in all else that makes a man. I like your voice, Charlie, it is deep and full, there is energy in it. His voice was rich and low; there was a sad, pleading music in it-a subtle wavering expression to the undertones, that echoed in my soul, haunting it afterward, as if I had heard the music in childhood." 
               "Perhaps it was a prophetic note for the future. If coming events cast their shadows before, why not coming music tones send echoes onward?" 
               "Charlie, have a cigar for the suggestion. I hope it is a prophesy." 
               "Thank you, Lizzy; the cigar is a happy suggestion." 
               "And I'll put you to sleep with a tale. It is a comfort to know a tale that will require a cigar." 
               Charlie lit the cigar, and extended himself upon a sofa. 
               "I played belle in New Orleans till I was sick of the honors of belledom. I say it in all humility, brother. My 'adorers' had flooded me with bouquets in numbers like the locusts in Egypt, till I was tempted to sell them, and send the proceeds to another set of heathen, for whom there might be some hopes of conversion-the uncivilized." 
               "A savage remark, sis-a barbarous cut." 
               "And serenades! I had listened to them till I wished every baboon of the serenaders safe in a menagerie!" 
               "Guard your language, sis. Don't spoil those lips with anything but chaste and refined expressions. I could not kiss them otherwise! But, oh, Guy! Guy Erwin, if thou couldst but listen!" 
               "Well, at this masquerade I had secured a few minutes of solitude in a recess-was watching the mysteries among the masquers-fancying all the hollowness of heart and disease of soul that lay concealed under the splendor and beauty-when the cavalier addressed me: 'Have I the happiness of knowing your name, peri of the Sultan?' I replied, of course, in some customary nonsense. 'A rose by any other name would smell as sweet,' and there followed the usual battery of compliment, from which I shielded myself with as saucy badinage as I could manufacture-measuring, meanwhile, the magnificent proportions of the man. I was wondering what sin, or temptation, or weakness had marred God's image in his soul, when a lady passed us, and whispered passionately in my ear: 'He is a deceiver, lady; at your peril, you listen!' Of course, the Eve in my nature was roused. If the fruit was forbidden, I must gather it, so I accepted his escort for a promenade. He watched the lady, who soon passed us, and her whisper again vibrated on my ear: 'Beware, lady! I warn you, beware! He has the serpent's tongue!' The play became more interesting; it was interwoven with golden mystery. Again she passed us, and I heard the hiss for his ears: 'Do not dare me too far! As you value your life or hers, I tell you, beware!' I began to think the play serious, especially when my cavalier excused himself a moment, addressed her a few energetic sentences, then returned to me with a smile like a sudden gush of sunshine. I had a curiosity to see the lady's face, if it would give a clue to the mystery. I spent the evening with the cavalier, accepted his escort to supper, where all unmask. The lady was there, opposite us and watching us, and the only one of all the assembly who refused to unmask. I was never able to discover the slightest clue concerning them." 
               Charlie laughed at the tale, as if infinitely amused. 
               "Special Providence, sis! Oh, Guy Erwin, if you could but listen! Keep good courage, Lizzy. Your heart will come back to you in safe keeping. If mine would only return to me, I could sympathize with you, for my heart, Lizzy, has been a minus quantity during a round year and a day." 
               Lizzy raised her eyelids in astonishment, and swept back one of the raven curls that obscured her vision. 
               "Well, let us hear the particulars of your history, brother, since we parted last. How have you employed yourself?" 
               "As I just hinted, in the most natural way possible. Firstly, I fell in love, which you assure me is one of the proclivities of my nature; it was accomplished by the laws of gravitation. I have busied myself ever since that event in climbing out, so that I may be able to take a second plunge. It is a ravishing sensation." 
               And Charlie, as usual, smoked himself into a reverie, while Lizzy assumed a most wicked look of skepticism. Her brother caught the look as he glanced up at last. 
               "Procul, procul este, O profana!" he exclaimed. "You cannot enter my sanctum with a face like that." 
               "Pardonnez moi, mon cher frre! I am all reverence. And the lady-Aspasia? Zenobia? Cleopatra? Boadicea? which?" 
               "Neither, Lizzy. Never was another mortal molded after her model." 
               "Ahem!" 
               "Just so, sis!-prodigiously sensible remark of yours-so to the point. As I was saying, she is neither tall nor short, plump nor thin, fair nor dark; she has eyes"-- 
               "I am astonished to learn that last item." 
               "They are of an uncertain color-dark green on ordinary occasions-on extraordinary occasions they flash out to the color of a storm-cloud on which lightning is playing." 
               "No wonder you were extinguished." 
               "She must be nearly at the ripe age of eighteen-has neither father nor mother, sister nor brother; her only earthly fortune consists of our cousin, Frank Ross, student of Yale College, of whom I am distractingly jealous." 
               "Jealous of the cousin, or the college?" 
               "She has an innumerable list of accomplishments and perfections. She can hunt, fish, row boats, play ball, climb trees, drive wild horses, shoot with pistols-also plough! I saw her unyoke a pair of oxen one day for a phenomenon whose cognomen was Uncle Alph. I lost my heart while practising with her at pistol-shooting." 
               "Do you intend to build a wigwam for her? She'll be a curiosity in Huntsville. Perhaps you'll take her into the army first." 
               "I shall bless my stars if I ever persuade her to do either. The little lady has had the good sense, propriety, delicacy, and discretion to discard me, Lizzy." 
               "That was sensible of her-evidently a lady of taste." 
               "I never tasted, sis, she showed such distaste for me." 
               "I don't comprehend you, brother!" ejaculated Lizzy-a look of the most profound astonishment impressing itself upon every lineament of her Juno face. 
               "Understand, I am not afflicted, like yourself, with the want of an object to adore; I find divinities manufactured to suit my most fastidious taste-most adorable earthly deities. My sorrow is, that my ideal does not reciprocate my adoration-a tribulation you have never experienced." 
               Lizzy looked breathless. 
               "How did you console yourself?" 
               "I studied the ancients for one remedy; I philosophized extensively for some months-dipped into theology again-at last I poetized over my misfortunes; the last relieved me. I'll show you some of the productions of the muses." 
               "No doubt they are touching." 
               "But the heathen philosophy I found most suited to my taste. I inverted the order of things, and laid a large foundation of it on Fichte, thus: 'Every joy is granted us but to strengthen us for further exertion. Life is for labor. We frame our fate, yet its management requires only self-culture.' And again: 'For the man of genius there is no education but what he gives himself.' And thus, again: 'Circumstances cannot control a great soul; the soul forms its own circumstances.' Love is but a circumstance of earthly development, which must be controlled-a lesson from which we must extract the utmost secret." 
               "Teach me the secrets, Charlie; a lady never learns them." 
               "But I was speaking of the heathen philosophy. Is not this beautiful? 'God existed first in luminous shadows: in shadows, because being is indeterminate-luminous, because being is light. Originally he existed in a divine slumber-the creative energy was yet asleep.' But a 'luminous shadow' flitted between my soul and this exquisite philosophy, and created chaos, that 'brooded over the abyss' of thought, thus. Grand ideas those heathens originated; that of burning their widows was sublime. I appreciate the original beauty of that divine doctrine; I will teach its harmony to my 'ideal,' when, as Plato teaches, the two wandering halves of our one soul have met and formed unity-one flesh. That unity ought never to be destroyed on earth, and those Hindoos knew it-that dissolved, yet united in flames, the unity should flee to the hereafter." 
               "I am sleepy, Charlie; I'll take the poetry next, if you please." 
                
               "You don't appreciate my efforts, Lizzy." 
               "I am afraid you damaged quite a quantity of very fine paper. I hope your disease has produced no worse damage. But it really would be soothing to my feelings if I could have a more definite description of your belle-ideal. I see there is some foundation for your insanity." 
               "Won't intuition, or pure instinct, or the light of nature aid you in your efforts to discover her attractions?" 
               "Of course, she is your opposite in all things. You have what the poets call eyes of heavenly hue." 
               "Ergo, hers must be tinted from the lower regions. You have decided penetration, sis." 
               "I should infer she was anything but lovely." 
               "Being, as you say, my opposite in all things." 
               "Charles Atherton Moore!" 
               "Sister Lizzy!" 
               "You are incorrigible!" 
               "Go on, Lizzy, you will reason out all her perfections, if you are only sufficiently persevering; you've made a brave attempt." 
               A look of annoyance and sadness began to settle on Lizzy's beautiful features. 
               "Forgive me, sis, and I will endeavor to redeem myself. It is a solemn truth that I have lost my heart-that a charming, piquant, original little mortal, proud as any prince of fallen angels, has won it. I found that strange girl among the mountains of New England. It was a powerful magnet that drew my heart from my possession, spite of all my efforts to retain it; it was a magic witchery about my enchantress. She is not always beautiful, yet at times, the dark, gazelle eyes, and the radiant face, are lighted, by the inspiration of genius, into dazzling loveliness. Her figure is modelled from the statue of Venus-developed in the same proportions of bust, and hand, and foot; not small, but perfectly molded. Art has never tortured nature into miniature deformity in any one of her rounded, perfect limbs. There is a lithesome, swaying grace in every one of her bewitching movements; they are inspiring, but not voluptuous-exquisitely fascinating, but she captivates the intellect more than the senses. She might, if she chose, tempt me to violate every law of the decalogue; yet the highest charm of her witchery is, that it is purifying; her presence, her atmosphere is redolent with innocence and truth. My entire nature goes out to meet hers; my spirit bends with her spirit, when her spirit invites me; her intellect meets my intellect; her physique delights my senses; her soul is my soul; in all its noble and holy aspirations, we are one soul; we harmonize 'like the lovely marriage of sweet sounds.' She is my Eve, if an Eve has been created for me; my Zo, my life-'the large fulfillment of life's longing dreams.'" 
               Charlie paused, and there was a silence. 
               "Thank you, dear Brother Charlie Moore," said Lizzy, at length. "I love you royally for that. It is all like you, and you are like yourself now-my brother, whom I shall adore till I can find a better ideal for worship." 
               Lizzy knelt down by his side, twined her arms around his neck, smoothed away some stray raven curls from his brow with her white, slender fingers, and touched the regal lips with her own. Charlie approved of his sister then. 
               "And now," said she, "I will be good and attentive while you read me the poetry; and I will try hard not to be sleepy." 
               She cushioned herself back in a fauteuil, and fanned away the flies, and called out some artificial zephyrs to play among Charlie's curls, while he threw aside his cigar, and, stretched upon the sofa, made the most impassioned music in the lines, of which they and his voice were capable: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "EVE: A RETROSPECTIVE PROPHECY. 
                            
                              "A form has haunted me for many days, 
                              A sweet face peering dimly, as in dreams, 
                              A glorious vision, fading from the gaze, 
                              Yet fadeless in the heart. I see sunbeams 
                              From waving tresses fall in glancing rays, 
                              And eyes where shadows play in sunny gleams; 
                              Eyes ocean-like, deep, fathomless-the soul's 
                              High daring and illimitable sweep- 
                              All that our being knows, and ne'er controls, 
                              Is sleeping sunless in their shadowy deep, 
                              And life upon a cresting billow rolls, 
                              God's Zo wakens, never more to sleep. 
                            
                            
                              "The sweet, young face is full of solemn thought- 
                              Thought, rare as solemn-holy, too, as rare; 
                              The dark eye seems with strange, sad meaning fraught, 
                              And voiceless eloquence grows radiant there; 
                              Prayer hovers o'er the bright lips, speaking naught; 
                              Perchance the heart is all too full of prayer. 
                               
                              Ah, ne'er do angels keep such hearts from sin, 
                              And o'er such brows their sun-bright glories weave! 
                              The seraphim ne'er bless such hearts to win, 
                              But cherubim with them stern knowledge leave; 
                              Earth's children wear the trace of woe within- 
                              She bears the nature and the name of Eve. 
                            
                            
                              "Our mother Eve to perfect being sprung; 
                              At birth she read life-knowledge full and free; 
                              Sin o'er her being its black mantle flung, 
                              And she was bound with curses dark as we; 
                              Each golden fibre of her soul was wrung, 
                              Till life was but a strange and stern to-be- 
                              A chaos of wild thought, where hell's despair 
                              And heaven's glad blessings mingled into one; 
                              Where all that angels love in light and air, 
                              Was hurled to night that never knew a sun; 
                              And as the life-dawn was so rich and rare, 
                              Death came more bitter when the life was done. 
                            
                            
                              "The child Eve's knowledge is of sin and wrong, 
                              And sorrow taught her how her soul might live 
                              As mother Eve lived ere she felt the throng 
                              Of woes that came with death. She learned to strive, 
                              To struggle for life's freedom-aye, to long 
                              For this, as fevered captives long to rive 
                              Their burning chains; at length, she learned to wear 
                              Her bonds with patience, but her heart grew still; 
                              The heart that throbbed so madly learned to bear- 
                              The pulse that bounded wildly hushed its thrill- 
                              The rich blood surging back, gave strength to dare 
                              All things of earth, and bend them to the will.
                               
                            
                            
                              "Zo of Eden was an unstained rose, 
                              Aglow and tremulous with virgin light; 
                              The quivering dew drops were not wrung by woes- 
                              Not tears that gushed to purify from blight; 
                              No worm or serpent made her leaves unclose 
                              That morning when she blushed in Adam's sight; 
                              Some crawling thing ate to the rose's heart, 
                              And then she sought the dew of healing tears; 
                              But tears of brine or blood will never start, 
                              Nor balm distilled by night for blasting fears, 
                              Will wash the stain, or heal the poisoned smart, 
                              Of sin in human flowers, through Time's long years. 
                            
                            
                              "My Zo is a lily, white and frail, 
                              A budding lily, and the worm is there, 
                              The chill wind, moaning, rocks it in the vale; 
                              It breathes the breath of tempests in the air, 
                              Till the young lily oft grows wan and pale, 
                              And weary, droops, its weight of life to bear; 
                               
                              But soon its leaves are silvered by the sun, 
                              It grateful drinks the fragrance from the dew, 
                              And thus new strength and beauty soon are won; 
                              It lifts its starry gaze to heaven's far blue, 
                              It reads night's mysteries when day is done, 
                              It dreams that man is false, but God is true." 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "How much more have you written there, Charlie?" asked Lizzy, as she came and looked over his shoulder. "That roll of manuscript looks dangerous; I am afraid of it." 
               "Several cantos, sis." 
               "And are they all as theological and metaphysical as that prelude? As transcendental too?" 
               "More so, if possible. They commence at the origin of My Zo, and proceed to portray her earthly destiny, and leave her with her immortal destiny!" 
               "All that, Charlie? What an undertaking!" 
               "What do you think of it, sis?" 
               "Well, love does develop the sympathies astonishingly. I wonder if I shall ever do so, Charlie. Somehow it makes me sleepy now-either the music in the rhyme or your voice. Your voice rings wonderfully musical when it comes to the 'My Zo.' I think you must have made love to her bewitchingly. Did she coquette with you? And did you not love her better for it? And you say writing all that relieved you of the dangerous symptoms, so that love was not painful? But you shall tell me the rest in prose, Charlie. I don't appreciate the poetry, I think. What more about her now?" 
               "You shall see her next week and judge for yourself, Lizzy." 
             
             
                
               XIV. AMONG THE MOUNTAINS. 
               A GOLDEN evening in August. The sun was setting beyond the western mountains; the hush preceding twilight was settling down upon the valley; Glenlyn was nestling to repose. The busy hum of labor had ceased; the farmer was returning from the field; the herds droning home from the pastures on the hills; the village boys at their last game of ball on the green, and the gossiping girls preparing to say good night. The twilight stillness was preparing for dreams in the forests, and the leaves rustling a lullaby with the breezes to the birds carrying home the supper of the birdlings; the baby-birds were twittering good night in their nests, and the crickets chirping the prelude of their night-song to the weary. 
               Mag was sitting solitary upon the grass-plot beneath the locusts, her spirit uttering itself to the evening hush, watching the passers; listlessly amusing herself by tracing the thoughts flitting over the human faces. Alec Ross and Josie Newton strolled by, but Mag was already tired of the commonplace tale she read there; the plot was too plainly developed. 
               She sent a thought after Min and her fortunes. Min had gone home; Min had met her destiny in the form of a young law student; a graduate of Yale; a friend of Frank's, and Min was verging toward woman's fate. 
               Mag smiled as a thought of Mr. Brown, the minister, crossed her mind. 
               "You'll have to manage that Mr. Brown," Frank had said. "This is the way to do it. Do you get Mrs. Brown to give you music lessons. Come down and practise on mother's piano, if I can't persuade her to give it to you. You have a voice of unusual compass, and it is a shame that all the cultivation it gets is at singing-schools, and by mocking the canaries. Father will pay Mrs. Brown, and do you play music with her and the deuce with him; cover him with soft-soap to his eyes; you can do it if you half try; feed him with sugar-plums till he is sick and ready to swallow you. Do it good, and don't let it distract your conscience, you conscientious little soul. You are to do it all in self-defence. It is never going to do for you, that he should call you a skeptic, and that will stop the reverend gentleman's mouth-take my word for it." 
               Mag had obeyed Frank's reverential advice, and was taking the music lessons. She had learned one lesson that was invaluable, and smiled as she sat alone and repeated it to her queen regent. "When by mistake, or accident, or carelessness, Miss Barclay, you have struck discordant notes in the song of life, remember you must strike harmonious chords as soon after as possible, that the harshness and jar of discord may be forgotten in the unusual sweetness of the vibration. You made some mistakes in the Overture; be sure now that the Anthem of Life be correctly performed, and the closing notes shall be a pan of triumph." 
               Mag gave heed to the advice, and commenced an introspection of her own heart with its mysteries. She wandered with memory through strange halls, and gazed on beautiful pictures-searching unconsciously for the unforgotten and beloved-aye, and adored-the one being whom she had given up forever! And one picture haunted her, turn whither she would; it was of a gorgeous moonlight, with a strange gleaming lustre-deep, passionate, reproachful eyes sought and fathomed hers; their light still illumined her heart, though in a year of rolling months she had not known their living spell. She tried at last to turn from the picture, but there was magic in it, and so Mag probed her heart again and again. 
               This habit of introspection is in itself a disease. Morbid souls continually probe themselves; the healthful soul looks out from itself into the world and the world's heart; it finds its life in action, not reverie; it learns itself in quick, earnest, diving glances down to the depths of being; in hours of intense true thought it learns itself and its kind, and then the soul expands by action.
                
               By a powerful effort of the will, Mag averted her eyes from that bright picture; turned it to the wall, and endeavored to convince herself that the royal presence was forgotten; that those deep, earnest eyes, with their wistful, loving reproach, would never haunt her more, because she had broken the spell forever. 
                
               And then she became proud of her strength-exulted in the might of her human will. By its power she had achieved such self-conquest! Strength in itself was glorious. Even the strength of passion was sublime. Let the passions rage proud, wild and free in the human heart; let them do their worst, exert their strength to the uttermost; let the heart of flesh be torn, riven, almost annihilated by the convulsions of the elements. The warfare of the strong passions of earth was a terrible thing-but the one human will could control them-was mightier than legions of passion-fiends. One will could bind the tempests, and force the elements to obey with its calm command of "Peace, be still!" 
               How Mag exulted in her glorious will. She had smiled as, in fancy, she placed her foot upon the writhing passion-fiends. She had conquered herself, nothing human could ever again disturb the placid rest of her soul. Her nature had borne the earthquake shock-the strong, rushing wind had swept its mightiest blast over her-the volcano poured its hot heart into hers, yet she stood strong, unscathed, as one of God's free angels! Poor Mag! 
               To the prophet of God in the wilderness, there came a still small voice that swayed his soul with a power mightier than the earthquake shock, or the rushing tempest. 
               But Mag sat upon the grass-plot under the locusts, and dreamed on. Nature's voices came and talked to nature's child; the winds whispered their dreams with hers, and the murmurs of restless babbling waters mingled with the murmurs of the restless spirit, till her very soul was tremulous with the restless, triumphant emotions; the proud joy quivered along every nerve-this joy was sweeter than rest-this was victory. She had met fate. She had argued with destiny, and dared her to do her worst! Poor Mag! 
               She had decided that her spirit was free, for her will was unconquerable. She had trampled temptation beneath her feet! 
               Oh, Mag! "Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall." "Let him who thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall." 
               And, Mag, what vision is now dawning upon those orbs from amid the hues of the sunset glory? The pupil of your dark eye is dilating with emotion-your nostril is quivering-a pale, restless tremor is awaking upon those love-inspiring lips! What spirit appears before you that has so driven the blood from your cheek and brow? Your every pulse and nerve is palpitating! Where is now your boasted strength-your mighty will? You are striving to rise, but you cannot lift yourself from the greensward. You are battling down your throbbing pulses in vain; the heart, with one convulsive, desperate bound, has leaped to your throat, and is stifling you! Oh, dreamer!-proud, vain dreamer!-dreamer of royal dreams! You have conquered passion! You have conquered fate! You have decided the point with destiny! Oh, woman! True woman! Proudest of your own weakness! Most confident of what first betrays you! You are free! Why do you not use your freedom? Why not rise from your seat in the dust? Trust the might of human will no longer! 
               You have given up human love? Put temptation beneath your feet? 
               Charles Atherton Moore, whom you have given up, is entering the cottage gate, and your passionate human heart is paralyzed. 
               You are conscious of but his presence, which now fills your universe. You are paralyzed because you see his living face. To you it is radiant with princely beauty. The smile wreathing his haughty lip is rare and sweet to you as your dreams of heaven. That powerful frame, so lithe in its elegance, those firm, rounded, muscular limbs, are to you the very symbol of might and strength and manliness, and his voice is to thrill to the innermost recesses of your being with its passionate eloquence. Why do you not rise and give him a modest maiden's calm greeting? Why not look up to answer his earnest, impassioned gaze, and the impassioned joy in the accent of those simple words: 
               "Magdalene Barclay!" 
               You are motionless-breathless-nerveless, Magdalene Barclay, and we are impatient that a foolish maiden has no art to control her foolish heart. 
               Charles Moore is by your side, before you, looking down upon the revelation so plainly written upon that pale face. He is penetrating the hidden depths with those piercing eyes, fathoming secrets in your soul that you have never acknowledged to yourself. His hands are extended to lift you into his presence, for you have found favor with your King, Queen Esther. The royal sceptre is extended to you. And those warm fingers have woven a new life along your nerves. You stand meekly beneath his ardent gaze. You sun yourself in his presence. The warm blood courses again through the pulses, mantling cheek and lip and brow. Passion is bounding again over the senses. Your own rare smile breaks from those sweet lips-kindles those eyes, soft as the antelope's, into their deepest beauty. 
               Now, at last, you answer his earnest greeting: 
               "I am glad to see you, Mr. Moore." 
               The words are simple enough, but they satisfy him to the innermost fibre of his nature. That blood fluttering to your temples speaks eloquently. He exults at his power. 
               "Call me Charlie, little Eve. Repeat the words, I am glad to see you, Charlie." 
               "I am glad to see you, Charlie Moore. I am strangely glad to see you." 
               "Thank you, little siren. Those words from your lips are the richest language earth ever gave me. It is like your truthful simplicity to utter such music. I am glad and proud to see you again-to see your living self. You have come to me many times in dreams, but that was like you, too, like your wild witchery. How my pulse has thrilled as your figure, in its elastic grace, flitted before me and knelt at my side; but you have grown even more beautiful than my dreams of you. Tell me once more that you are glad to see me, Magdalene. Repeat the music." 
               "Why did you come? How did you come? When did you come out among these mountains?" 
               "Repeat, I am glad so see you, Charlie." 
               "How lordly and magnificent you have grown!" 
               "Yes, tell me you are proud of me." 
               "I will give you permission, Lieutenant Charles Atherton Moore, to sit on the door-step yonder, and while I stand before you, you may give an account of yourself, your heart-life, head-life, and social life, since we parted." 
               "My heart-life, when it has been in your possession entirely and devotedly? When, without once examining its truthfulness, you have crushed it, made it your sport and plaything?" 
               "The wickedness has not been taken out of you, even by all the military discipline and training." 
               "Nor by the penances you have made me undergo. Well, finish your work, pronounce some incantation to exorcise the evil spirits, then establish yourself my guardian angel." 
                
               "I decline the office. I never was intended for an earth angel. And what legions of evil spirits your guardian angel must control! He must be a mighty spirit." 
               "Go on, Magdalene. Your eyes are magnificent now. I have been a sad reprobate. But, oh, how you have sinned against me for a long, long year!" 
               "A whole year, during which I have forgotten you, and you have forgotten me. What chance sent you here now?" 
               "I knew you were remembering me. A good spirit came and told me that you could not forget me, cruel as you were; that you were painting my image in your soul almost as faithfully as I was worshipping yours, engraved in mine. So I reported at head-quarters that a little madcap girl, half Minerva and half Venus, out among the Green Mountains, had stolen my heart, and there was a dire necessity that I should come to its rescue before it became a hopeless ruin. It was burning itself to ashes, and my presence was needful to watch the phnix that must rise." 
               "What a catastrophe!" 
               "And I have come to prove to you that I will not be overcome of evil, but I will overcome evil with good. I intend to heap coals of fire upon your head." 
               "I don't doubt it; and how they will burn-spoil my hair entirely." 
               "You are the worst enemy of my peace; and, oh, how I love my enemy! I knew she was hungering, out here in the wilderness, and I intend to feed her"-- 
               "With stones instead of bread. For fish you'll give her scorpions." 
               "She is thirsting for nectar and ambrosia, and I shall feed her with the food of gods." 
               "You'll mingle it with wormwood." 
               "I love the orphan-have found a home for her, and visit her"-- 
               "You will visit her with vengeance, if she ever dares crucify your pride or vanity." 
               "What a spicy bit of human flesh and spirit I have found." 
               "You really think yourself magnanimous. Your vanity needs to be put to the torture. It is an easy virtue for you to feed your enemy when he is a-hungered or athirst, because you know yourself strong, and your enemy weak. What if you yourself were ahungered or athirst, and your enemy tantalizing you with a mighty torture, because you were weak and he was strong? It is not easy to forgive the enemy who exults in the ruin he wantonly flings upon you. Suppose yourself a widow." 
               "Not a supposable case-couldn't begin to do it." 
               "Suppose yourself an orphan-penniless, miserable, forlorn-with a heart gone mad with hunger and thirst for human sympathy-with an intellect famishing on husks, till you know it to be daily degenerating-going toward the bottomless, and dragging with it your moral nature, which, as it descends, gazes upward with an infinite longing for purity and truth. Suppose your enemy comes garbed in strength and beauty, and offers you sweet poison, calling it love-trampling proudly on your weary heart, weary long ago with its mad struggle with temptation-so deathly weary it is almost ready to walk any path of misery down to its terrible end, so that the grave is there!" 
               "What strange words the siren has found." 
               "Would it be easy to overcome evil with good while your heart was writhing under the foot of that enemy?" 
               "Have you ever found such an enemy?" 
               "Never. There are many so tempted, however." 
               "To them I could only say, 'There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man; but God is faithful, and will not suffer you to be tempted above what you are able, but with the temptation will also give strength that you may be able to bear it.'" 
               In a day of bitter temptation Mag heard those words again. 
               "Do you know that doctrine to be true, or do you take the testimony of others? If it is true, we are safe!" 
               "I found it in the Bible, child." 
               "What if that Bible is a glorious lie?" 
               "You are getting on dangerous ground; it will crumble under your feet, and you feet, and you will have no foundation." 
               "So I fear, but I was forced there. I did not go willingly, I only ask a legitimate question. Can you not answer it? I hope you are not as much frightened as our pious clergyman. He is so shocked at the audacity and sacrilege of the question, that he will not tell a miserable questioner whether there are answers to such queries, though I have no doubt there are very satisfactory ones, if one could only find them." 
                
               "I will talk with you as much as you please on all these things to-morrow, or some day. Now I am impatient to introduce you to my sis. Will you go with me and call on her? Aunt Emma says, come and spend the evening." 
               "Where is Frank?" 
               "Doing the devout to Lizzie. But what has that to do with my question? I am shockingly jealous of Frank, anyway." 
               "I am really thankful to hear it." 
               "Will you go with me now? Lizzy is wild to see you." 
               "I'll ask Aunt Lina." 
               "There's a good child. Go and ask her this minute." 
               Mag would not acknowledge to herself that she was delighted to be ordered in this style, and to obey such commands. It was the woman in her nature that longed to be controlled, that loved to acknowledge a superior, and loved to be conquered, even when the will was exerting itself to the utmost against the victor. There was a heavenly luxury in such submission, and for the time Mag abandoned herself to the luxury. 
               They spent the evening at the mansion of Dr. Ross. Frank and Alec extemporized a soire to entertain their Cousin Lizzy with the New England beaux and belles. 
               Josie Newton was there, and almost in despair at Alec's devotion to Lizzy. Frank volunteered his services to comfort her, asking Mag's advice about the propriety of the thing. 
               "Josie is in forty panics! It would be a pious act to relieve her distress. Shall I try to distinguish myself by feeding her with bon-bons, to-night? I intend to do it. May I, Mag? It shall be linked sweetness, long drawn out! You'll let me, Mag?" 
               "Behave yourself, Frank!" 
               "Yeth, ma'am!" And Frank screwed up his countenance into an expression of amiable gravity, and was soon discussing the literary and romantic, expatiating on the glories of travel. 
               Josie had a young lady's taste for all. 
               "I am so anxious to live in Italy," she said. "It would be so nice to dream, as Byron dreamed, under the walls of the Coliseum. It would be so charming to spend a season at Rome." 
               "Or Patagonia, or Hottentot-Land, or the Cannibal Islands, suggested Frank. 
                
               "Oh, when I travel in Europe, as Madame Le Vert does, I am sure my soul will expand to five times its present size," she continued with enthusiasm. 
               "What Madame Le Vert saw was in her soul, not in Europe. Don't go, Josie, if it is to affect your soul in that manner. What could you do with such an enormous appendage. Our insignificant little souls would be in despair. Mine, not being an india-rubber article, could never stretch enough to comprehend it." 
               The lady was utterly oblivious of everything but the dazzling glory of her own remarks. She went on: 
               "It would be so romantic to live in a gondola with a poet." 
               "But I have always understood that poets were not good for food. I, for one, should go in for the 'goodies.' I should want the poet highly seasoned with champagne, oysters, and arrangements, or, in my estimation, the gondola life would be a miserable affair." 
               Frank looked very much concerned at the prospect. 
               "Ah, Mr. Frank, I am afraid you are envious, not being yourself a poet," was Josie's next apropos remark. 
               "But there is such an overflow of the poetic element in you, that it is absolutely inspiring. You will soon make me a poet whether I wish or not, and then look out for a sonnet to those azure eyes, so like the skies-to a golden curl of the fairest girl, or a loose lock from those eye-brows and lashes. The rhyme wouldn't come by inspiration to 'lashes,' but I might find 'flashes' in the dictionary. Look out for the sonnet in the next paper." 
               Josie's spirits rose and fluttered; she blushed and simpered, and Frank afterward told Mag that "he congratulated himself on having spent an evening in cultivating the spirit of self-denial and long-suffering. He had endeavored to make a mortal happy by a spirit of self-sacrifice, truly praiseworthy, and had succeeded in putting her into fits of ecstasies." 
               The village lite amused themselves by arranging tableaux and acting charades. 
               Lizzy Moore appeared as a Sultana, reclining amid a group of village beauties for attendants. It was a lovely picture-the proudly curved lips wreathed in languid scorn-the haughty grace of the drooping lashes-the pearl and coral of the rarely smiling mouth-the limbs breathing repose in the exquisite molding of neck, arms and fingers. Mag saw it all, for she had a seeing eye to discern human loveliness. 
               "We have a request to make of you, Mr. Moore," said she to Charlie, after consulting with the group. 
               "Make it music to mine ears by utterance, Whip-poor-will, it shall be granted to the half of my kingdom." 
               "The ladies propose that the cadet make his appearance in full military dress." 
               Charlie demurred, but at last departed to make his toilet. Presently a message came to Mag. He must see her in the ante-room. 
               "Magdalene, my heart fails me; you will be obliged to give me yours for the occasion-the one I gave you; this one afflicts me with its modesty. Have pity on my burning blushes. You must introduce me to that array of beauty, and support me by the dignity of your presence." It was Mag's turn to demur. 
               "Your audacity here counterbalances your modesty." 
               "I forgive the wicked insinuation, in consideration of the lips that utter it. Nothing but your presence, little mocking-bird, can possibly give me courage to pass the fiery ordeal-that battery of flashing glances. Positively I cannot, shall not, and will not go alone." And Charlie laid her hand upon his arm. 
               "The great Mogul has spoken!" 
               "Eve! Turning rebel! To-morrow I must teach you submission-give you lessons on the sublimity of the doctrine of obedience. You do not yet appreciate the prime doctrine of Jesuitism-obedience to the commands of superior officers. You will be a rare Jesuit when you learn to submit gracefully. I shall give only reasonable commands." 
               "You are offering a premium on disobedience. You make it hard to obey." 
               "Magdalene, will you please introduce me?" 
               "With pleasure, Lieutenant Moore!" 
               They walked in, as Frank expressed it, with "amazing assumacy," and Mag introduced to the lite- 
               "Lieutenant Charles Atherton Moore, of the United States Army-a gentleman who, on account of his audacity, is worthy to be Sultan of the East, or Emperor of all the Russias." 
               "Ladies and gentlemen, the Sultana of the East-the Empress of all the Russias!" responded Charlie. 
                
               They saluted the company with great sang-froid, and Mag turned in an aside to Charlie: 
               "Was that really impromptu?" 
               "I've studied on it a year! It was originally suggested by my present inspiration." 
               Lizzy was watching them with Frank. The two superintended Charlie and Mag with great interest. 
               "I declare I am proud of brother," said Lizzy. "His epaulettes become him splendidly; and the lady is more becoming to him than the epaulettes." 
               "And I am proud of Mag," responded Frank. "She is immensely teased and annoyed just now, but carrying it off bravely. I should like to see her battling with the world once. She doesn't begin to know herself yet. There is a deal of nonsense to be taken out of her, and then she will make a superb woman. Let her be once at bay with mankind, and she would play a high and desperate, if not rash game. I believe she could dare angels and demons!" 
               "I would like to watch those two still further. We must call them out-get them to act Romeo and Juliet! Will she do it?" 
               "She is in a mood for anything now." 
               And Charlie and Mag did perform Romeo and Juliet, with original and extempore variations. 
               Romeo knelt on one knee by her side, and as he fathomed her averted eyes, he whispered: 
                      
                        "I am afraid, 
                        Being in night, all this is but a dream, 
                        Too flattering sweet to be substantial! 
                        How silver sweet sound lovers' tongues by night!" 
                     
                  
                
               Frank and Lizzy applauded the action and expression. 
               "Modesty is a great art in a gentleman," said Lizzy. 
               "The greatest of a lady's accomplishments," responded Frank. "We must change the circumstances for these actors. We do not see such plays every day, and must improve the opportunities. They are star-actors-have both genius and inspiration." 
               He called to Mag. 
               "You must make arrangements with the ladies to-night, to have a pic-nic at Glenlyn Falls for Lizzy's benefit, tomorrow." 
               The pic-nic came off accordingly. Lizzie was intoxicated with nature at Glenlyn. The flowers went crazy with blossoming, and the birds with singing, over the moss-covered rocks in the mountain gorge, through which the waters had run for-how many ages? The waters had worn a huge chasm, so broad and deep, as to puzzle the geologists, before the time of Hugh Miller. The ravine was shaded with gigantic forest trees, and far away, down by the green sward, cool, plashing waters were running; and there, Mag said the weary could sleep and think of heaven; could dream of bathing the fever of hot hearts in the crystal waters of the River of Life, till the pulse of passion went down forever. 
               The village nymphs were all busy; they flitted over the rocks, and darted among the trees, spreading the moss-table. Some concocted lemonades by a spring in the hillside, whilst others placed ice-creams, blanc-mange, and an endless series of cakes, pies, meats and fruits upon the cloth. May Burton busied her little fingers in gathering bouquets of wild flowers and leaves, that blushed, and nodded, and coquetted to each other, as gracefully as the human flowers. Nelly Brandon arranged original poetry for Ralph Burton's unoriginal music, and the rocks echoed back all the music, and the choruses, and the laughter. Then there was a feast of reason and a flow of soul; speeches, toasts and sentiments, from military students, law students, and students of human hearts; and then the groups scattered themselves over the rocks, and down by the waters, and splashed spray, and foam, and rainbows up into heaven's sunshine, and watched the rainbows as they quickly vanished, each one gone forever. 
               "Our by-play is commencing, Lizzy," said Frank, pointing to Mag, who stood upon the precipice, where the waters were pouring over the ledge. "No harm in watching the actors; we shall see only the pantomime." 
               Charlie Moore approached her, and two forms were revealed against the sky-the man made in the image of his Maker-the woman formed from man. They were then but little lower than the angels, and capable of a destiny far nobler, if only true to the divine within them, while learning the God-appointed lesson set them on earth. 
               "Will you go down into the abyss with me, Charles Moore?" she asked, as he came up, glancing into his face with a smile. 
               "Not yet, little Eve. I will live for you a while longer. We have not exhausted life here yet. The present satisfies me now; but if you ruin our Paradise, and are driven from Eden, I will go with you. Death with you will be a thousand-fold dearer than life without you." And he took her hand, as if to go down to the abyss. "You have not yet told me you love me, Magdalene Barclay. Tell me so now. Do not deny it again." 
               "You know I love you!" 
               "God bless you for your frank truthfulness. What do you mean by love, Zo?" 
               "More than many mortals dream-I mean that torture from your hands would be sweeter than the boon of glory from any, or all others upon earth! I mean that if I were doomed to die, and must die by slow torture, the anguish would be bliss if administered by your hand, and you loved me!" 
               "Magdalene Barclay Moore! Soften your language. This passionate bliss is agony; it is too keen. Yours is a strange nature-deep, and high, and noble!" 
               "You tremble to know its depths. There are few mortals who ever know the deep meaning of the word love. Not one of all those radiant creatures of earth, yonder, beneath the trees, and beside those streams, will ever have the slightest conception of its meaning. They will never dream of fathoming its depths. To the most of humanity, love is but a myth. The master-spirit does not come to reveal it." 
                      
                        "'Few-none-find what they love, or could have loved, 
                        Though accident, blind contact, and the strong 
                        Necessity of loving, have removed 
                        Antipathies.'" 
                     
                  
                
               Charles Moore quoted Byron, and Magdalene Barclay added to the quotation: 
                      
                        "'Oh, Love! The mind hath made thee, as it peopled heaven, 
                        Even with its own desiring phantasy." 
                     
                  
                
               "You love me, little Eve-repeat that!" 
               "You know I love you." 
               "You will prove your love for me?" 
               "Yes, by bidding you leave me forever on earth! Love is no habitant of earth! They tell us there is a better world than this, where hope never deceives us, and love never mocks us." 
               "As my love mocks me! Do you remember your words of yesterday? What if the Bible, which teaches of that bright world, is a glorious lie?" 
               Mag looked up wistfully-foolish dreamer! 
               "If you wait till we reach that world before you prove your love for me, yet still tell me you love me; your words are a magnificent lie." 
               A look of inexpressible pain imprinted itself upon every lineament of Mag's face. Poor child! she thought herself in earnest. He read the language of those wistful features. She lifted her eyes very modestly to his-the sad, pleading look touched his heart. 
               "Dear little Mag, forgive me! I do not know what strange, life-philosophy you have learned; but this I know, I am a man, not an angel. My nature demands an earthly love, not a heavenly one. I could find no use even for angelic love at present. God has given us-you and I-physical natures, vital with passion, whose cravings demand to be satisfied with earthly love. You have given me your rare spiritual and intellectual self; but you must give me your beautiful, physical self, also. God made us for each other. Be my wife-my Eve on earth. Do not deny me this joy on earth. Let us make sure of this happiness! If not, and the Bible is a lie, and there is no hereafter, 'what thrice-mocked fools we are!'" 
               Mag turned deathly pale with emotion. 
               "You mean, eat, drink, and be merry, for to-morrow we die." 
               "I mean, 
                      
                        "'Trust no future, howe'er pleasant- 
                        Act-act in the living present.'" 
                     
                  
                
               Mag paused, and said gently, "I believe I can bear no more of this now. You told me, yesterday, you would tell me about that Bible, sometime. Will you do it now?" 
               "Not now-not here. Lizzy and Frank are watching us; we will go to them now, and talk of these things tomorrow, when that pale face looks less sorrowful." 
               One chief source of human sorrow is "the expecting too much of this world and the inhabitants thereof." Mag had a pure woman's too lofty ideal; it came to earth afterward. 
             
             
                
               XV. PROBLEMS. 
               LIEUTENANT CHARLES ATHERTON MOORE, U.S.A., found this wooing an epicurean luxury. He appreciated fully the charm of forbidden fruit; it had a delicious flavor; he did not doubt that he should gather the racy harvest. 
                      
                        "The fruit that will fall without shaking, 
                        Is rather too mellow for me," 
                     
                   he repeated to himself, as he went to invite Mag to a ramble over the mountains. Yes, he should gather the fruit in its rare and spicy ripeness, and garner it in his heart. He was willing to bide his time, but he must recreate his intellect by learning Mag's peculiar culture. He was a studied epicurean; he would not exhaust his pleasures; he would not quaff the cup of life too eagerly; some precious drops might overflow, if he lifted the beaker too hastily to his lips-the dead earth receive the treasure; he must have the goblet in its glorious prime; he would not wait till the foam had subsided and the crystal sparkle fled; not wait till but stale dregs remained; not one drop or bubble should escape from the beaker untasted. God knew he would not poison the draught, if he could; and he added to his reverie, Thank God, he could not, if he would! He must and would drain every atom of bliss in the intoxicating draught-drain it to the lees. 
               And Mag. We have said that she was morbid spiritually, not intellectually or physically. Her sensitive spirit had opened to her many an avenue of suffering, undreamed of by those who had tortured her. Morbid-aye, the disease was hidden, but it lay deep; and woman-like, she fostered it. She fancied she was taking lessons of the Spartan boy, who smiled with the concealed reptile tearing at his vitals. She fancied that the chords of her being, bruised and torn, were vibrating over bleeding and putrefying wounds, mortifications of flesh and spirit. She had been upbraided with her poverty and orphanage-with her pride and ingratitude; when she had listened in tearless silence, they called her heartless, and told her that it would have been better for herself and them if she had never been born. Her heart responded "Amen!" but she was not responsible for the mistake of her birth; she had not asked for being; alas, she could not resign it! 
               Those who tortured her never dreamed of the cureless wounds they inflicted. They were kind-hearted souls-would never have wronged her willingly; but Mag was not of their order; they could not comprehend her; and so, unaccountably and ignorantly to them, their heartless and careless words penetrated to the fountains of her life, and poisoned its waters. 
               "Better if she had never been born! Yes, the boon of life was paltry for good-more than worthless-mighty for evil. Why, why, why had God done it? What was God doing with her? Was there, indeed, as the Bible said, the one God of the universe-the God of love? or were there not, as Nature taught, two equal gods, one of good and one of evil? Or was there no God, but a blind chance?" 
               Alone she wandered in the wilderness of Doubt; taught, as a woman is ever taught to think, by the sorrow in her heart; alone she wrestled with the tempter, when her hours of temptation came. She felt a very Hagar in the desert; and yet, when she would have burst her bonds, and fled even to the deserts for freedom forever, an unseen angel perpetually whispered to her, to "return to her mistress, submit herself to her bondage, and be obedient till the end came." Her brain was pregnant with Ishmael thoughts-wanderers and outcasts, but free. Every man's hand was against them; they, too, were against every man-aye, and against the God and the Man-God of the revealed Word. 
               Lizzy and Frank went with Charlie and Mag over the mountains; and with their usual discrimination and sympathetic insight, kept as far out of their way as possible. It is a valuable accomplishment to seem unconscious of all we know. 
               Mag proceeded in a silent reverie; Charlie broke the silence. 
               "Enlighten me as to the mighty subject on the mind of the philosopher." 
                
               "The woman question, of course, Lieutenant Moore." 
               "And you are pondering the doctrine of obedience. I told you that your principles needed training on that point, and I promised you instruction and encouragement. I am glad to discover, on your part, evidence of a desire for improvement. There is pressing need of it on that subject." 
               "Yes, sir, commence your lesson. Be sure, however, that you have tested its truth. I want truth, not opinion." 
               "Paul's instructions, on that point, are very explicit: 'Let the woman learn in silence, with all subjection. Suffer not a woman to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.'" 
               "Continue your quotation, if you please, and I shall take issue with Paul-if I can," Mag said. 
               "For Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived, sinned.' Sit down, Eve, upon this green knoll, and let me hear you take issue with Paul." 
               "The sentence contains bad logic. Sin is sin, per se-it lies in the motive of action. Eve sinned from a right motive. 'Being deceived,' she believed the serpent, when he promised her, 'Ye shall not surely die; ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.' It is a glorious thing to have all knowledge and life. Eve desired life and knowledge; she believed the serpent; she proved the sincerity of her belief by her act. In the motive lies the guilt. The root of all evil, then, must be traced back beyond the mother of mankind, to the First Cause, who, 'from before the foundation of the world,' predestined sin, and its offspring, misery." 
               "Your premises are wrong, Magdalene, and I shall deny them. Sin is not sin, per se. Sin is a transgression of God's law. Where there is no law, there is no sin. This same Bible, which you have placed a criminal at the bar, teaches that the nations who have not law shall perish without law. God had commanded Eve not to eat of the tree of knowledge, and she, with the free will which He had given her, disobeyed His known law, and so the black curse of sin came upon earth." 
               "But Adam's crime was greater than the crime of Eve. What might not have been the consequences if he had refused to eat? Adam was not even deceived; knowing his full guilt, and its terrible consequences, with the deliberate consent of his free will, he committed the sin. With good to whom? On Eve and her daughters have descended the curse!" said Mag. 
               "Cui bono? -Adam sinned for love's sweet sake. God recognized the grandeur of heaven's own atmosphere of love on earth, when Adam made the sacrifice. Would I not choose a thousand deaths with you, to a paradise without you? The Man-God taught by word and self-sacrifice, 'Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend.' Would you not die for me?" he replied. 
               "That motive, ascribed to Adam, we must think a license of the poets; for, take notice, when called upon by God to account for his act, he was so anxious to palliate his own guilt, that he threw all the blame upon the beloved; and therefore it was, that upon her devoted head fell the greater curse. From Eve down to her latest daughter the curse has descended. Here is another mystery," Mag answered. 
               "Adam but answered God with the simple, honest truth, 'The woman gave me, and I did eat.' God knew it. He could not deceive God. Had he said less, he would not have spoken the whole truth; had he said more, he might have been a deceiver in the eyes of One who knew every thought of his heart," Moore added. 
               "But the great mystery that Christian geologists have failed to solve! Hugh Miller's 'Testimony of the Rocks' has not done it: death came into the world by sin. Eve's curse came by Eve's sin. How came her curse to descend upon the animal creation? How came it into existence-birth and death-ages before she was created? Unless the records-the revelations written upon the hills and in the hearts of the mountains-are all glorious lies, death has been upon the earth since ages and ages before Eden was planted and human love had learned its deep bliss and agony; Can you solve the mystery?" 
               "I can wait God's time, and He himself will solve it, Zo" 
               "But if there is no God?" 
               Charlie looked at her earnestly. 
               "Who or what taught you all this skepticism?" 
               "You have not answered my question; but I will answer yours by saying, it is a soul-sickness that all mortals are liable to take once in a lifetime, in matters of religion as well as friendship. The disease comes in youth, and there should be a remedy adapted to the youthful skeptic. Have I not told you that I doubt you also, and your power over me for good; though I know you can do me evil, I doubt the power of love on earth for good." 
               "'He who has never doubted yet, has never yet believed,'" replied Charlie. "But your soul-physician has been careless. You should have persuaded your shepherd to try inoculation as a preventive." 
               "The poet tells us, that the germs of death lie deep in our natures, so that with our first breath of life we inhale disease and commence dying. Perhaps I have cultivated those baleful plants, because there was intoxication in the odor. I have gathered the poisonous blossoms with rare joy. At least, I have been the fool that 'hath said in his heart, there is no God." 
               "No God! And you ignore that all-powerful argument from design. There are undeniable evidences of design in the universe; therefore there must have been a designer." 
               "If it proves anything, it proves too much. We see all creation groaning and travailing in pain together. We see men endowed with passions powerful for evil. We see sin and iniquity trampling down and crushing out all that is noble. We see the good and pure and noble perishing, and no God saves them when they cry to him for help. We see the wicked flourishing like a green bay-tree. If virtue receives a reward, we do not know it in this world; if vice receives punishment, it is not often upon earth. We see men go down by passion, to worse than brutal degradation, and whole nations sinking to barbarism, instead of rising to purity. Therefore, the argument from design only proves the existence of two equal Gods-one of good, and one of evil!" 
               "You are right. Natural religion proves this, and no more. The one God-the God of Love-saw this, and saw the necessity of a revelation further than this; and, therefore, it was that prophets, priests and kings were commissioned by him to write the Bible, that men might know him as a God of Love." 
               "You believe this?" 
               "To me the argument from design is full of beauty. It must have been a beneficent being who formed this hand of yours-adapted it to so many graceful purposes-tinted it with rosy blood and fair flesh, and gave it its thrilling pulses. As I touch these rounded fingers, and feel the electric chord vibrate to my heart's core, I believe that God designed you for my happiness and blessing. No, Magdalene, do not withdraw your hand. I claim it as my own. Do not avert your eyes from mine; a God of Love gave them their beauty-adapted them, by a wonderful mechanism, to his element of light-for what were light without the seeing eye, or the eye without its medium of light? God fitted them for each other, as he designed, also, that the beautiful spirit looking out of your eye should have power over me, and fill my whole responsive nature with joy-intense joy. God gave us the answering thrill of spirit acting on spirit. God designed our natures for love. God made us for love, and for each other, Magdalene." 
               "You believe the Bible came from God?" 
               "Why should I not? It is a happiness to believe it." 
               "It were a happiness if one could believe it." 
               "What fault do you find with it?" 
               "The woman question for one thing. Eve is the only responsible woman mentioned-the only one who is made accountable for sin. In all the sins of the Samsons and Davids, no fault is found with woman. In Jacob's time, woman's rights were in terrible confusion." 
               Charlie laughed. "And Jacob, poor fellow, poor fellow! Were you not sorry for him, Mag? Serving for Rachel and receiving Leah." 
               "Poor Leah!" said Mag. "Unfortunate, weak-minded Leah!" 
               "Truly, Magdalene, that was a strange arrangement. A woman to marry a man without his knowledge. Could you, in these days, be liberal enough to do it, under any combination of circumstances? Poor Jacob! Men of the present day, husbands of one strong-minded, and, especially, of one weak-minded woman, find the other half unmanageable; what then must have been the condition of the patriarch, who found himself quadrupled or quintupled,-which was it-in spite of himself? Leah commenced presenting him with wives. Rachel followed her example. Jacob was submissive-took the Bilhahs and the Zilpahs, and seemed thankful. Was it right, Mag?" 
               Mag opened her eyes in wide astonishment. Charlie went on. 
               "If sin is sin, per se, your opinion would be a dilemma. God's law made it right to those Israelites, if the Bible is true. Christ's law makes it a sin for the Mormons, if the New Testament is true." 
                
               "You are more daring than I in your discussions, Charlie." 
               "The woman question was in an uncivilized state, in those Bible times, so the free-thinkers say; and they will say it, even if the over-good and careful are shocked. There is no use in ignoring the fact, or shrinking from it. It does not remedy the matter to call these men scoffers and devils because they do it. No use in taking the course that some over-pious clergymen take, of concealing the strong arguments against the Bible, because men love darkness rather than light, and will hear all that can be said against revelation, yet shut their eyes and heart when God's truth is laid before them. Let such men have opportunity to know the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, and take the consequences of their willful blindness." 
               "Have you studied theology, Charlie?" 
               "Read up a little with Dr. Ross, of Huntsville; Schleiermacher; Muller on Original Sin; and once got hold of a little pamphlet of Prof. Shedd's, of Andover, on the same, that was an original thing. Besides these, the standard text-books; Olshausen, Tholuck, Henstenberg, and so on, and so forth, too numerous to mention." 
               "You are a marvel of literary taste!" Mag rose and surveyed him. 
               "Those are my sentiments precisely; and my taste approves entirely of the literary pursuits of a little madcap, skeptical girl, who stands before me now, and dares think that the women of the Bible were not civilized." 
               "Go on, Lieutenant Moore. Your conversation delights me." 
               "She has dared question the propriety of calling King David a model of virtue, who took the lovely ewe-lamb of Uriah, the Bathsheba from her bath, to make her the mother of that model of wisdom-King Solomon-who, in turn, inherited his father's penchant for fair ladies, and also-if we may judge him by his Song of Songs to the daughters of Pharaoh-he loved those who were 'black but comely,' and not wisely, but too well." 
               "Charles Atherton Moore, you are committing sacrilege!" 
               "Not in your estimation, little Eve, if you believe the Bible a glorious lie! You dare question its inspiration, and I admire your daring. You see no gallantry or righteousness in the conduct of Lot when he tried to appease the passions of the mob, who were clamoring for the blood of his angel visitants, by offering them his two daughters as a precious ragout. It was before the days of chivalry-before the times when Virginius, in the Roman Forum, plunged the dagger into the heart of his daughter to save her." 
               "I am past all astonishment!" 
               "I thought so! There is many a sinner whom I have met, who does not scruple to express the same opinions concerning the customs of God's chosen people. You remember that Levite who gave his wife to the sons of Belial, and when he found her dead upon the threshold the next morning, cut her into twelve parts, and sent her to the twelve tribes, calling for vengeance! Time would fail to notice Abraham's policy in preserving his wife, who, by the way, was his sister, to marry whom in these days would be sin, a law having since been passed, forbidding a man to marry his sister. I am grateful that you are not my sister, for I cannot marry Lizzy now." 
               "Toward what does all this tend? I do not see the point, and I feel unsafe while listening." 
               "Not if you deny the Bible. No need of mentioning to you those items of marriage, Cain and Abel, with their sisters-you are probably skeptical on the unity of the races, with Nott, Gliddon, et id omne genus. And the right and wrong of marrying at all, is merely a myth, but for the Bible. No other authority recognized, I believe, for establishing the institution of marriage; no account ever given of its origin, but that one of Adam and Eve, in Eden, said to have been sanctioned and blessed by God. You doubt the Bible-doubt marriage; put off ours to a hereafter, of which we have no knowledge, but for the Bible, and that tells us that marriage is only an earthly institution; for in heaven there is neither marrying nor giving in marriage! Oh, Magdalene!" 
               "Go on, Lieutenant Moore; you surely have not finished yet." 
               "You doubt the Bible; have questioned God's justice, wisdom and mercy. You have wondered why the curse fell upon the children of Ham, who committed no sin. We of the South believe that curse to be the curse of slavery-given as a curse, not a blessing." 
               "And we of the icy North laugh at the idea as absurd." 
                
               "Let those laugh who win. If it be a truth, a laugh cannot make it false; that Canaan should be a servant of servants to his brethren. We, of the South believe it, perhaps because it is our interest to do so; to us it is a strong proof of the truth of the Bible; a fulfillment of Noah's prophecy, or curse. Let those laugh who win, so that they do not lose love by it! 
               "You have questioned the justice and propriety of Abraham's marriage with Hagar, and his right to send her out with his child Ishmael, into the desert to perish, because Sarah in her passion of jealousy turned against the slave she had given him as his wife. You question the fitting and beautiful, in the angel's command to the deserted, desolate Hagar, before this: 'Hagar, Sarah's maid' not Abraham's wife, 'return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hands.' We of the South believe, that God's command made slavery and polygamy both, right to Abraham. You wonder why it was permitted that every man's hand should be against Ishmael, and his hand against every man. You wonder why the Israelites were God's chosen people-why, after they were chosen, and God had done wonderful miracles for their deliverance from bondage, he permitted them either to fall into barbarism, or the ten and a half tribes to be lost from the face of the earth; why he permitted the remnant of his chosen people to become a hissing, a by-word, and a reproach among all nations, for you know an omnipotent God might have prevented it. You wonder why He delivered them from slavery, yet made it right by the laws He gave, that they should have bondmen, called in those laws their money. You wonder why, GOD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and then poured upon him those tremendous curses, the ten plagues, and at last, overthrew him and his army in the Red Sea. Yet for all this, where are now the chosen people, and why-why-why?" 
               "Yes, why, Charles Atherton Moore? Do you believe the Bible to be the revelation of God?" 
               "Look at that butterfly, Zo; how its gold-dusted wings glitter in the sunshine! A few days ago it was a brown earth-worm, and wove itself a prison; at last, weary of its solitude, the chrysalis burst its bonds, and soared away toward heaven, and freedom." 
               "You are one magnificent man! I wish you were my brother!" 
                
               "Oh, no! After all, a marriage ceremony does not constitute marriage, and we are already one. You are now my wife; God, therefore, predestined it, from before the foundations of the world!" 
               "Do you believe the Bible to be God's word?" 
               "You are like the chrysalis of which we were speaking; you have woven your own prison, and called it Doubting Castle. I will help you burst your bonds, and we will go together to freedom." 
               "I am free. God gave me freedom-if there is a God!" 
               "Then, little butterfly, I must entice you to come down and light upon my hand. You will come of your own free will?" 
               "Yes, when I come at all-I shall come no nearer in this world." 
               "You cannot tear yourself from me. We are already one." 
               "Do you believe the Bible to be inspired of God?" 
               "Whether I believe it or not, you believe it. You believe in revelation, in defiance of reason. You believe the Bible to contain infinite truth, which the finite reason, although itself a revelation from God, can never compass. It is selfishness that doubts-our miserable selfishness that wrestles with doubt, and makes us struggle so madly after light. Pain and sorrow have taught you to think. When you are happy, you will no longer doubt. When you will trust me, and permit me to make your happiness, you will trust God also. Pain and sorrow have their uses; they expand our natures-give them their deepest life. They teach us of hell, too. We know the elements of the bottomless pit, when we feel the steaming misery stifling us. We often doubt man-doubt our own power to escape from influences that are dragging us down. We doubt God; but in this world we do not doubt the power of evil. We know we have the tempter in our hearts. But we do believe in God, whether we will or not; we shall believe to the endless ages of eternity, in spite of ourselves. You, little Mag, with your utmost effort, after your Puritan education, in this Christian land, cannot escape from the influences that force you, by your conscience, to believe in God and his holy Bible." 
               "Thank you, Charlie; you speak with a point. Why do you believe in the Bible?" 
                
               "For many, many reasons, you persevering little persecutor; always firstly, because I desire to do it." 
               "Not as the lost spirits who believe and tremble." 
               "The Bible accounts for many otherwise unaccountable facts in the history of nations. It accounts for the origin of sacrifices and circumcision, among the chosen people; absurd customs, but for their Bible history. I believe it on account of the known fulfillment of numerous prophecies, all of which I have not time to mention. In Nineveh has recently been discovered a monument to Jonah-the Jews, a by-word and reproach among all nations-the followers of Mahomet, the unconquerable sons of the desert, children of Ishmael, their hands against every man, and every man's hand against them. And slavery is one of the strong arguments to convince me that the Bible is the revelation of the one God. No other theory can account for the degradation of the African race, but that they are the accursed descendants of Ham. The testimony of other historians, slight as it is, confirms the testimony of Moses, as that of Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus-and I believe it!-shall I go on?" 
               "Go on, Lizzy and Frank will return presently." 
               "No history but the Bible accounts for the division of time into the six days and the Sabbath. This division has been found among all nations-to be accounted for only as the Book accounts for it-God commanded it. The holy institution of marriage, found among all nations, to be accounted for only as the Book accounts for it, God instituted it in Eden. I believe the Bible to be given by the inspiration of God, because no philosophy or religion in the ages since Moses has given a system of morality so pure as that of the Decalogue-or a morality not contained in the law said first to have been written on tables of stone. I believe in the unity of races. I believe all languages to have sprung from one language-that of Adam and Eve-because all languages have been discovered to contain the same roots. And I believe that Adam and Eve were the first parents of mankind. I believe that all that is glorious and sublime in the philosophies and religions of the East sprung from one source-the worship taught the children of men when the sons of God visited them, and angels communed with mortals." 
               "Those eastern religions have noble germs of thought." 
               "The minds must have been noble that framed the thoughts, and the language to express their sublimity. Those in Confucius-the marriage of the perfect and imperfect-of heaven and earth-of the two souls that form one man-one of which has the faculty of feeling-(the woman?) and the other the faculty of knowing"-- 
               "The man." 
               "And 'by humility the man will be raised up!' Those Chinese have derived glorious truths from some inspired source. Then the Persian Zendavesta, with its worship of Ormudz and Ahiram-light and darkness-Gods of good and evil-of whose power and beauty the sun and fire were the fittest types or emblems. The wonderful Trinities, common to all religions-as of India, Persia, of Egypt-and the wonderful resemblance of all their theories of the origin of the universe, to the Hebrew account of the darkness brooding over the abyss at the dawn of creation. I believe these religions all to have originated from the religion taught Adam by the God of Love." 
               "I see Lizzy and Frank. Please go on without delay." 
               "For woman's sake, above all other reasons, I believe in the Bible. Not that in the Old Testament she was ever treated as an accountable being-she was not. Even Esther, Queen of Ahasuerus, acted solely under the command of her cousin Mordecai. Not by any common persuasion could she be induced to risk herself to save her people-not until Mordecai assured her that she would certainly die with her people, did she dare attempt their rescue. Then came her pitiful wail, 'If I perish, I perish!' Then the whole nation must fast and pray for her. With womanly tears and trembling, that in you, Magdalene, would be considered cowardly, she ventured at last into her king's presence, and her nation was saved. Esther and Ruth are the model women of the Bible; the only ones who are said to manifest noble strength of character. Their magnanimity will not compare with characters of modern history, as the Joan of Arc-the Charlotte Corday-or even the Josephine of France. Yet for woman's sake I believe in the Bible. Only where Christian religion is honored is woman honored as man's mate and equal-as you are my mate, my equal, and my destiny." 
               "If I perish, I perish! Shall I ever know the deep meaning of those words?" 
               "If you do not, you will never know the deep sublimity of life, or the large development that God intended for your soul. Be true to your pure woman's nobility; be true to yourself when your hour comes for saying, 'If I perish, I perish,' and God will preserve you!" 
               That hour came to Mag, and Charles Moore was with her. 
               "You speak strangely." 
               "It is my hour of inspiration. My better nature with all its powers is in full action. Not often in a lifetime shall I find an occasion or an inspiration to rouse my faculties. The one I love has called out the divinity within me. The time may come when I too shall be tempted beyond refuge. You could be my tempter. You must not tempt me too far. I have a most perfect physical nature." 
               "I will pray for you always, Charlie. Your perfection of passion will teach you rare lessons." 
               "Passion will teach you rare things also, child of earth. You too will pass through the ordeal-the burning, fiery furnace-but, like Nebuchadnezzar, you will discover in the flames a form like the Son of God, who will preserve you unscathed." 
               "Like Nebuchadnezzar, I may descend to the earth and learn all the meaning of degradation and humility, while feeding on dust and ashes." 
               "Like the swan in the fable, you may stay in degradation with an inferior race till your wings reveal themselves; then knowing yourself of a royal line you will soar away to life and freedom." 
               "Alas-alas! like the eagle of the fable, if of the royal lineage who sweep the air, and gaze undazzled into the eye of the sun, to drink in its light and beauty, it may be that grovelling with the earth-born shall so take the strength from the eagle's wing, that it must perish on the earth that found and degraded its pinion." 
               Frank and Lizzy were listening to this peroration. 
               "You are getting quite flighty, Mag," said Frank. "Don't soar so near the sun as to scorch your wings; the consequences would be disastrous in the extreme. Take warning from that little fellow in the myth, who melted his waxen wings and splashed into the sea. You remember your old propensities in that line." 
               "Frank and Lizzy look as if they had been breathing exhilarating gas," said Charlie to Mag, in a tone of admiration. 
               "Yes, Frank is certainly in one of his moods," responded Mag. "He has something to say, and he will be obliged to say it or die. And, Charlie, you and I shall be obliged to listen while he delivers himself, so we may prepare for it." 
               But Frank may have another chapter for what he has to offer in the line of experiences. 
             
             
               XVI. SOCRATES AND XANTIPPE. 
               "THE mountain air agrees with you, sis," said Charlie, surveying them. "What in the name of all that is ravishing, have you two been doing with each other? Your eye is apocalyptic, and Frank seems fairly boiling with exuberance! Out with it, Frank. We are able to bear it. We are prepared for anything." 
               "I have not a doubt of it. You are looking through exuberant eyes. The ravishment is reflected from within you. Lizzy and myself, like any two common-place mortals under natural circumstances, have been imbibing philosophy." 
               "Fresh from the fountain-head," added Lizzy, "from Socrates and Xantippe." 
               "I converted Lizzy into a 'lion'-ess, and took her out to see the 'lions' of Glenlyn-thought there might be reciprocated attractions. I took her first to our quondam Master Socrates, for a dose of his philosophy." 
               "And having witnessed the lives of Socrates and Xantippe, I shall forever be able to appreciate the 'beautiful;' the lives of Socrates and Xantippe, of Athens," said Lizzy. 
               "Go on, Frank," said Mag, "you will be obliged to relieve yourself, so don't stop for any preliminary burst of modesty. It is an age since I have visited Lyn-Glen, and have a curiosity to know the state of the kingdom, since the honors of philosophy and matrimony have been divided." 
               "With due deference, and respectful consideration, I touch my hat to reply," said Frank in his own grotesque style. "The sanctum has expanded since the reign of the loves in Lyn-Glen. The one room of yore, which you remember, still performs the part of parlor and bed-room, as well as cabinet, and an extra room has been added, which combines the offices of sitting-room, dining-room and nursery." 
               "That is a lovely rivulet behind the cottage," exclaimed Lizzy; "and how beautifully that old chestnut-tree buries the house in shadows!" 
               "And then the chestnut-burs, rolling down the big chimney, upon the parlor floor, form unique scientific ornaments to a philosophic establishment," added Frank. 
               "We are not in the slightest degree astonished yet, Frank," said Mag, "and we are anxiously expecting every moment a burst of something astonishing." 
               "How the expectations of the wicked will be cut off!" said Frank. 
               "Do try to get the flood of description started, Frank. It will burst the barriers presently. Be patient, Charlie!" 
               "There is a marvellous garden opposite the cottage, full of culinary, botanical and floral miracles," said Lizzy. 
               "That's the way, sis-go on!" 
               "Any items of information yet, Frank?" asked Mag. 
               "That garden is loaded with beans, corn, roses, peas, pinks, and mourning brides, potatoes, geraniums and sunflowers, cabbages, marigolds and cucumbers, oleanders, melons, verbenas, fox-glove and 'pusley,' orange-trees, pig-weeds, phlox and asparagus, in the most enchanting profusion." 
               "The useful and agreeable mingled in the most convenient manner possible," added Lizzy. 
               "A perfect Eden," said Charlie. 
               "The walls of the Eden were composed of dilapidated sticks," said Lizzy, "and the gates of Paradise were able to support their gravity only by being propped up with boards which, alas! were in a rickety state themselves, not able to keep out the tempter." 
               "And in the first phenomenon which we witnessed, he was tempted to try the entrance in a form of a very interesting pig. Yes, the pig seemed ambitious-had ideas of the better state of existence within the walls of Eden. He seemed anxious to improve his own condition, which is always praiseworthy in pigs and men! How much more admiration Lizzy and I had for that pig, as we saw him squeezing away, at the hiatus in the fence, till he plumped himself through, with a jerk that shook the foundations with trembling, than if we had found him rolling in mud, in the lazy luxury of untempted contentment! As Mr. Thomas Carlyle says, if we have but the 'discerning eye,' rare lessons may be read in the 'open secrets' of the pages of nature. Invaluable lessons may be learned of a pig." 
               "A grizzly calf stood solemnly by, watching that pig," said Lizzy, "and, looking so devoutly ugly, that I could hardly resist the monstrous inclination which seized me, to strike him on account of his blessed ugliness!" 
               "Lizzy! Lizzy! Human depravity! As if the calf could be blamed for its ugliness!" exclaimed Frank. "Moreover, what right had you to lug in that calf before I had finished moralizing over my pig?" 
               "Well, get your pig off the stage as soon as possible, for I have something else to say." 
               "I told you, Charlie, that they had been in regions of bliss." 
               "Hurry on, Frank, and trot out the philosopher," said Charlie. 
               "One thing at a time. You cannot swallow the pig, calf and philosopher together. Just be patient and easy, 'good friends, sweet friends.'" 
               "Shakspeare! as I live!" whispered Mag, emphatically. 
               "First, the moral to the pig. Of the pig in mud we learn the blessing of a contented mind. If the mud is very deep, and you can't get out"-- 
               "Who-I?" ejaculated Lizzy. 
               "I was speaking of the pig, but if the situation suits your circumstances, by all means appropriate it. As I was saying, if you are in the mud all over, and can't get out, then learn from the pig resignation-don't squeal-work along easily-the more you flounce and flounder and make a fuss about it, the deeper in the mud you'll get; and don't presume to suppose that any fellow, feeling for you, will ever help you out, until you are able to help yourself out, when every fellow will manifest the most interested feeling for you." 
               "Encore! encore!" whistled Charlie. 
               "I knew he was inspired," said Mag. 
               "Of the pig entering that Paradise, we learn a higher moral then even this-of the pursuit of high purposes under difficulties. There can be no calculation of the wonderful amount that can be accomplished by persevering effort, nor the unexpected help that will spur us on in great emergencies cies. That pig was solving a problem seemingly beyond his capacities, involved, to all human appearances, in inextricable trouble and mystery, yet had not learned resignation. Although the pupil of a stoic philosopher, he had not imbibed of his master the stoic philosophy. Being in a tight place, instead of bearing his afflictions with the fortitude of Socrates, he squealed as if all bedlam had been at his heels." 
               "His peculiar lamentations touched Frank's human sympathies," said Lizzy, "and he advanced bravely to the rescue. Inspired to valor by the music, and knowing that affliction is the common lot of pigs and mortals, Frank valiantly seized a board, and advanced to the storming of the breach." 
               "He hit the pig a sudden and forcible whack from behind, which gave him tremendous impetus; he shot through into the garden, dumb-founded at the unexpected help-filled with amazement at his success, and quivering in a paralysis of astonishment, like Sir Isaac Newton, who was paralyzed with speechless emotion at his almost unhoped-for success, when he found himself solving the great secrets of the laws of gravitation which keep the planets in their orbits!" 
               "Yes, Frank." 
               "The moral of this pig: for success in any great undertaking of life, we need a mighty hope before our eyes-a garden of Eden, whose entrance must lure us onward. When even such a hope is not sufficient to excite the lagging energies, then we must have the stern spur of necessity from behind, to drive us within the walls. Only in this manner are brave deeds accomplished by great souls." 
               "A successful effort, Frank." 
               "Now we will trot out the philosopher, Charlie, if you are ready. He trotted out himself, on hearing the pig's shrieks of agony. All the powers of the place were called out at one and the same time, Xantippe in the van, with a little ragged, dirty urchin on either side, clinging, like the dew of Hermon, to the skirts of her garments. As she advanced, she screamed to Socrates at the barn, in a key a few tones higher than that of the pig, 'Socrates, why in creation don't you drive that pig out of the garden?" 
               "And Frank swallowed the implied rebuke, without a grimace," said Lizzy. "But imagine his feelings, having just accomplished the feat of driving him in!" 
               "Socrates strode onward in a cool, philosophic gait, to invite out the pig I had let into the garden. Xantippe endeavored to quicken his steps by her exhortations, in vain. 'Such abominable laziness and shiftlessness,' said she, 'is enough to drive a saint mad! Summer and winter, morning, noon, and night, year in and year out, I've been entreating you to mend that blessed pigsty! I might as well talk to the dead-a cat could accomplish more farming in a month than you will get done in a century! There the garden fence hangs at loose ends, and there it will hang till doomsday, if I don't mend it; you'll never bestir yourself to do it! I must vibrate every day, and all day long, from the house to the garden, to keep the establishment from going to rack and ruin, and then I can't do it! I'm tired of it! I'm worn out! As for my racing my flesh off my bones, for a life long, to keep house, garden, cows, pigs, chickens, goslins and children together, I'll just tell you now I'm not going to do it any longer! I'll never lift another finger!'" 
               "You are gifted, Frank! The tone and accent are perfect!" 
               "Gifted! A phrenologist told me once that I had a great versatility of talent, besides large capacities; and as I have had the measles, whooping-cough, scarlet-fever, and been in love-as I can swallow at one draught any amount of abuse, without winking, besides champagne, oysters, sandwiches, ice creams, with all manner of peppers and spices-as, also, I am fond of boating, love-making, and swimming in high water generally, and especially fond of all kinds of sharp-shooting-why, I agree with that phrenologist! But to return to the pig: Lizzy, there, helped him out of the garden in a different style to my helping him in; and while I was listening to the speech of Xantippe, and taking notes, the philosopher thanked her for her benevolence, in behalf of himself and pig." 
               "Did you admire the philosopher, Lizzy?" 
               "Describe him, Frank, he is beyond my powers." 
               "The philosopher was himself an interesting individual. He wore a palm-leaf hat, whose palmiest days had long since departed; it was fastened with a string of twine, brown with venerable age, and the fringed edges hung with grace over his black, shaggy mane; the hat turned up behind and down before, to shade his countenance from the sun; his black eyes twinkled with their pristine lustre beneath the brows; his slow length, with its rafters of shoulders, was enveloped in what had formerly been a linen coat; the sleeves were out at the elbows, and the elbows out at the sleeves; the roof of its back was rent, and the collar, in despair of ever making a stand in the world, had collapsed; his vest was minus; the wrecked patches of his pants flapped like banners around the staff-legs, and fell in folds around his bare feet. Like his namesake of Athens, he walks the world unshod." 
               "We entered the home of philosophy," said Lizzy. 
               "The cabinet's glory was unchanged; the 'specimens' all in their wonted places, and living specimens of miniature philosophers, with black eyes like their father, were hanging to their mamma. Lizzy immortalized herself on babytalk with them." 
               "The little cherubs!" said Lizzy. 
               "And then their mother handed them over to their illustrious sire, with a Xantippic, whose eloquence took my breath, while Lizzy sat unmoved. Just take care of your tormenting young ones, Socrates, a little while. Amaze yourself by becoming useful! You've done nothing for a week but lie in the barn, in an ecstasy of contemplation. Take the brats awhile; dinner has to be invented somewhere on the premises, and you have no idea where the discovery can be made.'" 
               "And the philosopher?" 
               "Replied very solemnly-dedicating his remarks half to her and half to us. 'We ought to feed the intellect and spirit rather than the body. Let the soul expand fully, and it will become unconscious of the inferior wants of the flesh. When our hungerings and thirstings are entirely intellectual and spiritual, we shall forget the lesser famishings of the body, in the infinite gratification of feeding soul and mind. Let the flesh perish; the sooner we become all mind, the better.'" 
               "Sublimity sublimated!" 
               "And Xantippe answered, 'Yes, but you'll sing another song, on a different key, when you get starved out. I'll let you try it yet. You'll not quote philosophy at the mention of dinner then. I intend to cultivate the poetic and romantic, as we did before we met the bliss of marriage. How sweetly we talked of love and philosophy in a cottage in those days, as if we were to live on air! How fondly we read Tasso, and dreamed of 'Jerusalem Delivered!' you'll find yours delivered to confusion, and pray to be delivered from it into the New Jerusalem, when you are obliged to do your own washing, baking and ironing, with only the help of your little brats yonder.' Malicious, wasn't it, to make him sole owner of the progeny? 'Baby will help you!' she went on, 'he will boil your treatises on philosophy, with his stockings, for dinner; he will plunge the kitten in the flour barrel, if you have one, and stir him up with a spoon; he will mix batter cakes, seasoned with pepper and sugar, in his shoes; and you may have ecstasies of mysticism over it all!' Mrs. Socrates bounced out of the room with a flourish like a benediction." 
               "Yes." 
               "Lizzy restored the equilibrium by taking Ichabod junior upon her lap, and commencing a series of original remarks to him." 
               "And then," said Lizzy, "we listened to a discussion of the woman question, that you would have appreciated, Charlie. The female mind, he said, was not adapted to the pursuit of philosophic truth. Mrs. Wilson had no idea of stoicism-he supposed all women were restless, fretful and fidgety-all born with strange ideas about love and felicity-real life never fulfilled a woman's dreams. Women for that reason ought to inure themselves to expect disappointments, and bear them with composure-it was the discipline of life. Women ought not to fret and fume if things went wrong; nor try to comb the hair of their unfortunate victims with pokers, in wrath and vengeance." 
               "Amen! A philosophic truth!" said Frank, enthusiastically. 
               "Care, he said, should pass through the mind as lightly as the winds through the leaves. To a free spirit, content with the contemplation of the divine, what was hunger, or cold, or pain?" 
               "Query! What?" asked Frank. 
               "If the mind received thorough discipline it would be so elevated it would not be conscious of want or sorrow." 
               "Let us strive to reach that elevation!" said Frank. 
               "He brought the question home to us, by entreating us to remember his words when we were married. Never, never until then could we realize the strength of their truth-then we should find disappointment-but console ourselves-our afflictions would be mutual-as broad as they were long; both parties would surely find mutual disappointment in each other. The stoic philosophy alone would be powerful then." 
                
               "We were anxious to warn you and Mag, Charlie, before you came to the irrevocable, so we hurried away to rehearse the lesson while it was fresh." 
               "Thank you," said Charlie, with sublime composure. And they started for home. 
               "When Mag and I distinguish ourselves, as no doubt we shall," said Frank, "it will be owing to the invaluable lessons ground in our youthful minds by Socrates." 
               "With his attainments he ought to be president of a university." 
               "So his friends say," Frank replied, "and thought that if he only had a little more electricity, it would redeem him; and that was tried upon him last summer; he was struck by lightning one day without deriving any perceptible benefit, and his friends have given it up, that even electricity could not save him." 
               As the party came down the mountains, and crossed the bridge, they saw before them blind Grandfather Barclay, pioneered by two little beauties of four years old-Jenny Hale and Etta Fanshaw. Jenny was chattering to him like a magpie; Etta watching carefully for all the sticks and stones over which he might stumble. The village children were the especial guardians of Grandfather Barclay. 
               Suddenly the three stopped under the large oak on the village Green. Etta was sobbing woefully, and Jenny flying around her in great excitement, striking Etta upon her shoulders with all her baby energy. 
               "There is the evil of original sin!" said Charlie. "Is there any remedy for it in this case?" 
               But Mag and Lizzy had both flown to the rescue. 
               "What is it, Etta? What is the matter, Jenny?" asked Mag. 
               Etta looked up in their faces with her large, black, pleading eyes brimming with tears; the bright red lips could hardly choke down her sobs to lisp the unspeakable grief-poor, suffering baby. 
               "Oh, Miss Mag, there's a bee got down my back, and its going to kill me. I know it is!" 
               The imploring look was irresistible. 
               "It is stinging me to death, Miss Mag!" 
               Lizzy stripped the dress from the dimpled shoulders; Mag crushed the bee in her fingers, while Jenny looked on in brave eagerness at the operation. 
               "I guess he won't sting you any more, Etta," she said. "I pounded him good!" Jenny looked vastly satisfied with her efforts. 
               Lizzy and Mag went into a metaphysical discussion of Etta's pain, as they led her home-not quite deciding whether it was located at the end of the nerve where the bee performed his scientific work, or whether it was in the end of the nerve at the brain; they wrapped themselves into the mystery of a man's having pain in his arm, when he had no arm; and Mag, of course, wondered how, by Eve's sin, pain came upon bees and reptiles, and wondered if Eve ever got stung before she saw the serpent in Eden, and sinned. 
               Meanwhile Frank and Charlie piloted grandfather home. 
               As they entered the yard they discovered Grandma Barclay, clothed in her usual authority, laying down the law to little Harry Fenn, who, like grandma, had imbibed the notion that he was born to rule. All the domestic feathered creation-chickens, goslings and turkeys-belonged to grandma's dominions; Harry had invaded her premption rights. The little autocrat was making powerful efforts to annihilate all the goslings. He lifted one lordly litle bare foot to place it with the most energetic momentum, and with the most careful precision, exactly upon the centre of their backs; his mouth and teeth being screwed together like a vice in the intense interest of the occupation; as one poor wretch fluttered away with a shriek of mortal fear, he lifted the other foot to crush the next screaming biped. The despot, like another Nero, was enjoying the misery of his subjects, but grandma came upon him like Nemesis, and when the party came up was giving Master Harry a tremendous spanking, while he fought her with might and main, resisting her authority to the last. 
               "If you ever dare touch one of my goslings again, you little scamp," said she, "I'll spank you within an inch of your life!" She picked up two little crippled fellows, while Harry ran home bawling at the top of his lungs. Grandma was righteously indignant. 
               "If that rascal aint born to be hung, I wouldn't say it! If Alph Fenn can't bring up his boys better than he's bringing up that one, he had better not have any boys." 
               "Original sin again," thought Mag. "How came Harry by his depravity?" 
               Grandma nursed her crippled goslings in a basket of cotton ton; Charlie and Mag discussed original sin, and Lizzy and Frank entertained grandfather and the children. 
               Alec Ross came in at last and challenged Lizzy to a game of chess, and they seated themselves in a recess of the bay window. 
               "I am right superstitious about chess, Cousin Alec," said Lizzy. "I have a sort of presentiment that my destiny is in someway connected with it. I am anxious to play a skillful game. Do you believe in presentiments?" 
               "Do you study it for a game of destiny?" asked Alec. "Well, it is like the game of destiny-there is but very little chance about it; the losers are those who do not study the moves closely." 
               "And in destiny, as in chess, we cannot play alone; our moves must depend upon the moves of our partners," said Lizzy. 
               Mag stood in the door, twirling her bonnet on her finger by one string, as she meditated the propriety of starting for home. 
               "We are the arbiters of our own destiny," said Charlie to her. "In the game we play we shall both win; there shall be no such thing as losing." 
               To which speech Mag responded only by a graceful courtesy; but Frank, who was listening to the gallantry, made reply with characteristic expression: 
               "Q. E. D.-which must be demonstrated. I know Mag of old. You have on hand a crazy game to play with her. I give you fair warning in fair season; advise you to insure yourself against damages; she looks secure, soft, careless, amiable-the tiger-pussy. You have never yet seen the claws under the soft touch of her paw. She is a splendid creature though, if ever you do tame her. I hope you'll do your best for the sake of the world." 
               Mag made another demure courtesy. 
               "Be assured I will do my best, Frank," said Charlie, gathering a half-opened rose-bud, and placing it in her hair, as she lingered on the step. He looked down upon her earnestly. 
               "Will you let me come and give you a lesson to-morrow?" 
               She turned at the gate. 
               "I must help Aunt Lina to-morrow; so you could not be useful." 
               "It must be endured," said Charlie, disappointed. "Shake hands to comfort me!" Charlie held one hand on the gate to stay her departure, and offered the other hand. "Good bye, little siren." 
               She answered only by a merry laugh-turned through the back gate, and bounded homeward alone, through the garden. 
             
             
               XVII. HUNTING. 
               CHARLIE and Frank, with horses, dogs and guns, were off before sunrise the next morning among the southern hills of the Green Mountains-their spirits rioting with rugged nature. Charlie had been rehearsing a part of his conversation with Mag-concluding with the sublime observation: 
               "Out of chaos every man must grind his own faith." 
               "It is a luxury," Frank blurted out, "to pour out all manner of abominations that are running rampant in one's brain, without being in danger of stultifying into more intense stupidity, some fool who has not the slightest glimmer of one's meaning, and therefore consigns one to the bottomless pit with holy horror, yet praying with great unction and fervor that one's sins, by contact, may not stain his own spotless garments." 
               And they rode on in silence-or whistling to their dogs. Charlie at last broke forth again: 
               "Given, in the mill of thought, all the religions and philosophies of all ages, all the experience of all men of all nations, to find something to rely upon, as man is tossed from birth to death, upon the little billow of life-something to assure man that the wave will not at last"-- 
               "Pitch him into the fire!" suggested Frank. 
               "Yes-the question of ages-regenerated in every new, thinking soul. If there is a God, what is He doing with us here? If religion is not merely a mask for concealing and carrying on all manner of corrupt devices-as it manifests itself beyond the sanctuary of hills like these, and, no doubt, even here; then-what? why? wherefore?" 
               "Even in travelling the broad road to destruction that I am travelling," said Frank, "the company of these pious hypocrites is so deathly irksome and tedious to me, that I am tempted to leave the broad road, and cut out a private path to the abyss, toward which we are all going-a private road set round with hedges and thorns, where one's folly may play the wild, and never a stupid fool harmed thereby-as they would not be, if they could be taught to mind their own business, and forbear treading on the toes of other fools, their companions." 
               "The very conception of religion-of adoration-the consciousness in our souls, that we must approve, honor, aye, worship what seems noble, proves the probability of the existence of perfection somewhere in the universe, to satisfy those longings and tendencies of our natures-or nature has contradicted herself and created a vacuum in the human soul. We do know that we thirst for holiness, purity and perfection in our better moments, as strangers in desolation thirst for love in their sickening weariness. The analogy of nature teaches the probability that there exists some created or Uncreated Perfection to satisfy those yearnings. As Descartes has it: 'The conception of a God, proves the existence of a God.'" 
               "Man cannot prove annihilation. Not an atom of matter has ever been annihilated-the analogy is then that spirit cannot be destroyed. The strong probability stands that man has an immortal soul-an article which it is absolutely impossible to dispose of. The myth of those gods tiring of their immortality, and begging of Zeus the boon of death, shows one curious phase of human thought." 
               "If Mirabeau was mistaken at last, and found death an awakening instead of an eternal sleep!" 
               "And if my father is mistaken in supposing the hereafter means heaven alone! There are many chances at least against the supposition. Natural religion teaches of a hell. We cannot fathom our own being, without knowing the power of evil. One thing I fully believe, 'The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked.' The analogy of nature teaches of hell as much as heaven." 
               "The strong argument for universal salvation, from those who pretend to accept the Bible, is drawn from Christ's teachings. His command to man is, 'Forgive your enemies!
                   
                  Love your enemies! Do good to those that hate you! OVERCOME EVIL WITH GOOD.' If men are made God-like by doing this-and no one will deny that it ennobles man-that it is the spirit's most perfect discipline-then the God, like whom they become, forgives unconditionally also-which is a paradox, since Christ has died. If Christ died to save men from sin on earth, his death was an entire failure. If God forgives unconditionally, as Christ teaches men to do, then the crucifixion and bloody sweat, and the 'My God why hast thou forsaken me!' was a wretched, miserable, worse than useless mockery to both man and the Man-God. If those men who suppose there is no hell are mistaken! It is at best merely a supposition. If there is a deep meaning to those other words of Christ-'Unless ye repent, ye shall all likewise PERISH!'-then what?" Charlie rode on in silence, and then added, "This immortal soul is a stupendous gift-if indeed we are endowed with it. We cannot lay it aside at our will. It may become a terrible curse from which we can never free ourselves. The human heart in its mortal life knows sublime depths, both of suffering and bliss"-- 
               Frank interrupted Charlie, with a grotesque turn to the thought, in his own style. 
               "Curious affairs these hearts are, anyway; they have such unmanageable tricks of aching. I keep mine in tolerable order, but it plays the deuce with me at times, spite of my training. It gets beyond my control, especially when a certain little feminine shadow approaches within magnetic distance. By the by, Charlie, you will have Old Nick's own game to play with Mag, I'll give you warning again, right now." 
               "Then I shall teach her heart that trick of aching." 
               "No doubt of that, though she has a wayward fancy for torturing it herself. A long, crooked road she is going to lead you, before you win her, pliant as she seems." 
               "Then I shall teach that heart wild lessons." 
               "I don't doubt it. She has, I say, a queer crotchet of teaching it ugly lessons herself. You are now holding the establishment in a sort of death-gripe, from which she is struggling with might and main to free herself. She will do it, too, if you are not wiser than the serpent." 
               "She will not free herself. Her heart is here, fastened in chains to mine." 
               "She will break the chains, and punish it for its present submission-thinking, too, sweet little soul, that she is acting for your benefit entirely. She has the odd idea that her heart is covered with thorns, and must be an uncomfortable piece of furniture in your breast, and it will be her duty to keep it out of your way. She will discipline the thing. She believes love is only a discipline and development, anyway. She will freeze her heart to ice for you." 
               "And mine is hot enough to melt an iceberg." 
               "She will change it to adamant, then." 
               "By all that is holy, I will break it! But even then she will find it back in the central depths, some day-a fragment of flesh, again, full of torture." 
               "And she will herself trample it into its element of dust, and bid it lie there and ache on." 
               "Then, I will come and lift it from the dust-will breathe new life into it. I will teach her that it is not a single affair, but a double organ, beating and throbbing-thrilling the whole system with life-the blood in the pulses fresh and free, too." 
               "And bounding on at a two forty pace, and when the heart becomes a tyrant, you will set it to bleeding inwardly, to reduce the tone-drip, drip, drip, tears of brine and blood." 
               "If the heart of flesh in its mortality has such fearful depths of mortification and torture, what must be the capacities of the immortal soul, which, in its infinite depths of torture can never lay down its immortality! We are inconsistent wretches, Frank." 
               "Yes; Mag is no more wayward and inconsistent in the management of her heart, than we in the management of our souls. Political economy would teach us to prepare for the worst supposable case, and not risk the chances." 
               "As Byron has it, Frank, 'Indisputably, the firm believers in the Gospel have a great advantage over all others, for this simple reason, that if true, they will have their reward hereafter; and if there be no hereafter, they can be but with the infidel in his eternal sleep, having had the assistance of an exalted hope through life, without subsequent disappointment, since (at the worst for them), "out of nothing, nothing can arise," not even sorrow.'" 
               "But Byron never said a truer thing, Charlie, than when he said 'a man's creed did not depend upon himself. Who can say I will believe this-and least of all this which he least can comprehend?'" 
                
               The two rode on in silence till they reached the top of the hill; there they paused to listen to what Nature taught. The sun was purpling the mists upon the hills, and pouring its morning glory down into the long sweep of valleys where the villages lay smiling, and graceful cloud-drapery, unfolding in rainbow tints, spread away over the winding waters of the Connecticut. They turned again into the forests. 
               "Suffering is a sublime teacher," said Charlie, at last. "Can you tell me what it has taught Magdalene Barclay?" 
               "Many things that she will unlearn before the end comes. Now she looks upon life from a wrong stand-point, and sees it through false media. She has never known the meaning of the word home, or home-love. I stand to her, I verily believe, in the place of both. She has found her social life in books, and her companionship with her own heart." 
               "You have molded and educated her, Frank." 
               "God forbid, for I have offered her poison; there was the antidote within herself, if it has not harmed her. Whether there is innate principle to reject poison, whether the mind has native principle enough to control circumstances, or whether principle is merely the result of circumstances, is a problem. Thus far, if Mag has imbibed poison, its effects have not appeared. She is becoming liberal in opinion-a free-thinker. She would have become that without me, and thought become more morbid than now." 
               "How so?" 
               "At Uncle Alph's she lives two lives-a double life-one in which she forgets entirely her true, better self, and studies human weaknesses. In self-defence, she learned to humor human frailties, to make among discords a retreat or shelter from injury; now she is tempted to make them her pastime; she is tempted to try to rise by them; she studies them to gain power, as when a young cadet presents himself who gratifies her tastes. Sometimes she throws off the outer self-she gives up her whole self to the study, in momentary, passionate forgetfulness. She intensifies life and love, for like Goethe, she would learn all that love can teach. With the whole strength of a pure, passionate nature, she buries herself in the passing life, to learn all that life may teach." 
               "It teaches what a woman ought never to know!" 
               "She will never pass the bounds! In solitude, she forces away every thought that can harass her, considering ing happiness as a duty, to be cultivated with health. In her daily life she hears bitter upbraiding; to forget and drown this, she intoxicates herself with books, as men intoxicate themselves with wine or opium, to forget a curse in their home-life. She is obliged to read strong books at times, to forget passionate thought, which, if indulged, would drive her mad." 
               "We are young, Frank. Men of experience have told me, that if they gave themselves up to the power of memories in their accursed former life, the memories would be Erinnys, scourging them to insanity. And, forgetfulness was to them an art, studied for self-preservation. But go on, Frank-define Miss Mag's position." 
               "She has little reverence for anything human; God knows she has had little enough occasion. A noble human love would redeem that defect; she could learn adoration, and it would call out a new nature in her, and redeem her. Get her to worship you, Charlie; force her to trust in you, be true to her yourself, and you will be her salvation. Just now she is so insanely proud of her humility, that if she adores you, nothing short of a miracle will induce her to accept you. But we must leave our horses if we go up that ledge." 
               "That is the flight the bird takes," thought Charlie, as they dismounted after this unique disquisition. All day long, as they were bagging their game, his head was busy laying a cunning snare for caging a bird of paradise. 
               It was late in the afternoon when they returned. Within a mile of the village, they discovered Lizzy and Mag seated upon a jutting crag that overhung the road-side. They reined up their horses in front of the maidens, halted, and saluted them, bowing to the manes of their horses. 
               "Whence and whither thy wanderings, silver footed Thetis?" was Charlie's address to Mag. And the lady replied: 
               "From a visit to Socrates the sage, homeward." 
               "We have become disciples of philosophy," said Lizzy. "Can you not afford us another lecture to-day, Cousin Frank? I know you did not exhaust yourself yesterday." 
               "Don't mention the subject to him, Lizzy," remonstrated Mag. "If you give him half an opportunity, he will bewilder our wits and his own for the next hour." 
               "Don't throw down the glove in that fashion, Mag," said Frank. 
                
               "Charming idea! I should like a speech from Frank above all things. Mr. Ross is called upon for a speech." 
               "Ross, you are called for," added Charlie. 
               "Mr. Ross! Mr. Ross! Mr. Ross!" and the ladies clapped their pretty hands. 
               Frank doffed his cap, without changing a muscle of his imperturbable face, bowed as gracefully as circumstances would permit, swept his fingers through the short clustering curls, and commenced: 
               "Ladies and gentleman-Overpowered with the sense of the distinguished honor so suddenly conferred upon me, you will make all due allowance for my modest blushes, while I request you to name the subject on which you would be enlightened." 
               "The ladies," said Charlie. 
               "Socrates of Athens," answered Lizzy. 
               With another bow, in which his horse joined, he commenced with slow emphasis. Like a river whose barriers were not removed. 
               "In this great nineteenth century, it has become somewhat the fashion, for ladies of the ambitious stamp to consider themselves an unappreciated class. Their rights and wrongs have been harped upon, rung in so many changes, that even in a change of key, the melody has become woefully monotonous; the thread of the song (or argument) has been so harshly fingered, that the interwoven theme is quite threadbare; yet here, before this enlightened and highly interesting audience (applause), we have the daring to venture another variation of the tiresome theme played by unskilled fingers on a harp ('of a thousand strings,' put in Charlie, sotto voce,) whose chords are time worn and out of tune! (Immense applause-cries of hear, hear.) 
               "Out of unfathomable depths of sorrow-aye, and of sin-at times of torture that has changed the glorious nature of woman, as she was created by God, into a nature like that of man or fiend, the world's repeated cry has been wrung-What is truth? 
               "Women have questioned God and their own souls. And when to them as to Pilate there came but 'silence as a benediction,' they too have gone mad and babbled of woman's rights and woman's wrongs, till there have arisen many Babels, followed by confusion of tongues, and confusion worse confounded, amid which babblings are mingled many truths with most monstrous error. (Cries of hear, hear.) 
                
               "We give, then, as a proposition: There is much of unappreciated merit in the lives of mortals. Of this unappreciated class, Xantippe of Athens has a most powerful claim upon our sympathies. She herself, no doubt, would demand it as her right if, like her sisters of the present age, her celebrated tongue could now break its once unaccustomed silence, and speak with its ancient energy concerning the wrongs of woman. (Applause-cries of bravo! bravo!) 
               "There is much unappreciated merit in humanity. Socrates himself taught that if a divinity were to dwell among men as man, he would meet only scorn, contempt, persecution, and, perchance, crucifixion. 
               "With our human eyes, eagerly searching for the divine in the human, we cannot recognize it when manifested before us; we too, like those of old, entertain angels unawares. It needs a hero's eye to know a hero; it may need an angel's heart to know an angel. We claim if there was anything heroic, or divine, or gracefully woman-like and human in the character of Xantippe of Athens, it had no opportunity for growth or culture, or even of appreciation in her life with Socrates the Philosopher. (Silent applause.) 
               "Woman's name has often been immortalized by its connection with its poet or hero-lover. Dante gave immortality to Beatrice; Petrarch to Laura; Tasso to Leonora; Burns to his Highland Mary; Socrates to Xantippe-but he endowed her with an immortality of infamy. Her name has come down to us through the ages a byword, a scoff, a reproach to the very name of woman. 
               "Xantippe, no doubt, had her virtues; had she been but the wife of a common man, endowed with some wealth, some common business talent, and but little philosophy; a man who, unlike Socrates, would have gratified her simple, feminine tastes, her innocent womanly vanities, she would probably have lived happy, amiable and beloved, and gone at last to an honored grave; her virtues appreciated, her faults unnoticed, or consigned with her virtues to a peaceful and blessed oblivion. 
               "There is a marvellous sympathy in the human breast for a lofty soul when persecuted for righteousness' sake, and for this, Socrates, the philosopher, became Socrates, the heromartyr. 'To be weak is miserable,' says Milton, the great poet of England; and Carlyle, of England, yields his gracious assent to the proposition, and reiterates: 'It is a terrible thing to be weaker than our task.' Xantippe, then, demands of us that 'terrible' pity, for she in all her life-work found herself, not only like Dickens of our day, subjected to the horrors of 'incompatibility of sentiment,' but weaker than her task.
                
               "Philosophy is a glorious thing. Plato tells us of the divine wisdom of Socrates. Splendid theories he had concerning God, or the gods-wonderful hypotheses of man, his origin and destiny. He was rich in the lore of human weaknesses; for, measuring his own heart, he held the gauge for all human frailty. With his celebrated dictum of 'know thyself,' he laid his foundation for human knowledge, but concerning the woman question, Socrates was most unblissfully ignorant. He made it the amusement and study of his life, to search for and draw out human vanity from its lurking-places in human hearts; his life-aim was to expose the frail reasoning of other men to the mockery of the public. Utterly ignorant he professed to be of truth, but with an overwhelming desire to know her. He sounded the knowledge of other men by his subtle skill with weapons of logic-convinced them how shallow and unreliable were all their opinions, and exposed their vain weakness of understanding with his pitiless syllogisms; and for this it was that vain men hated him; for this he paid his price also-a death of ignominy, which, for truth's sake, was changed to glory. 
               "The philo-sophia in human nature is a great love. Goethe made self-culture his deity-so did Socrates; he disciplined himself to wary and cunning habits of thought, but the German was the more successful philosopher. Goethe studied poetic grace, refinement, polish; he became familiar with the secrets of human hearts, by dissecting them while breathing passion; he put them to slow torture, that he might discover by the various phases of agony and joy how fearfully and wonderfully they were made. Goethe was another Solomon-unfortunately for him and the ladies, under a different regime of morals. Socrates was a lover of manly intellect, not of womanly or manly grace. He trailed sophistical opinions over the hunting-ground of intellect to their secret labyrinths, with wonderful skill. As Ariadne guided the blind footsteps of Theseus through the Labyrinth by her subtle thread, so then he guided forth the blind vanity of human knowledge, concealed in the labyrinths of human intellects, by his subtle thread of argument! As Theseus abandoned Ariadne-that beautiful specimen of frailty, whose name is woman (groans, cries of Shakspeare)-to the cruel mercies of the winds, waves and desolate rocks of Naxos, so Socrates, having exposed the frailties of human reason in other men, abandoned them to mockery and scorn, on that heart of rock-the world; and so, also, having betrayed forth her weakness to the knowledge of the world by his cruel mercy, he abandoned that frailty, whose woman's name was Xantippe. (Applause and groans). 
               "It was the fault, it was also the misfortune, of Socrates, the heathen philosopher, that he was ignorant of the woman question; it was not only his fault and misfortune, but also those of the times. Never, after the fall in Eden, until Christianity was born on earth, did woman take her place at man's side as his equal. Profoundly skilled as were the philosophers of Greece and Rome in knowledge of men and art, they were as profoundly ignorant on the questions of woman's rights. Plato, in his 'Republic,' places woman as man's inferior, but superior to a brute, because she may become the mother of heroes; and in the very glory time of Greece and Rome, she was treated accordingly. Aspasia's self was but the exception to this rule-the exception which but proves the rule. Aspasia's self, the friend of Socrates, the honored wife of Pericles, who beguiled the very hearts of men by the fascinating grace of her intellect-Aspasia, charming by her very frailty, for weakness, frailty and dependence is woman's most powerful charm-Aspasia's self was but one exception to this sad truth. 
               "Alcibiades, the princely lover of Socrates, took Hypparete, of the noblest blood of Athens, from the Archon, carried her in his arms by force, when, as an outraged wife, she appealed to the judges against him, claiming a divorce for the honor of her womanhood. No doubt, he conquered her and won her love again by the charm of his magnificent manliness; for woman does worship power in man supremely. Man now may conquer woman as his slave, when he tempers his proud strength with delicate, loving flattery. (Hisses-groans). 
               "Socrates, unlike Alcibiades, was not of the princely order; never did he fascinate Xantippe by glorious, manly perfections. Not for any physical grace did her heart go out to meet him in love. Not for mental endowments could she adore him-she had not the hero soul to recognize the hero; and not for any winning household ways; not for his domestic virtues-his mind was beyond these paltry things. What were they to Socrates the philosopher of Athens?" 
               "Or of Glenlyn?" interrupted Lizzy. "Describe the Athenian, Frank." 
               "We can picture the man as historians describe him. To a shrivelled diminutive figure, with bare feet and shabby garments, add the charm of a satyr-like face, with rolling, protruding eyes, a broad, flat, upturned nose, with expanded nostrils. His days were spent in strolling barefoot around the streets of Athens; his mind superior to any thought of dress or physical deformity; his prime business to provoke to controversy all men, on all subjects in heaven and earth then dreampt of in philosophy; and when the sultry noontide had hushed the tide of discussion, he left the feast of reason, to luxuriate in solemn contemplation beneath the trees in the suburbs of Athens." 
               "Please describe Xantippe, Frank," said Lizzy. 
               "Imagination alone can picture her. Her frailty was feminine frailty; her heart, no doubt, was filled with all feminine longings for the beautiful. Her lord sought fellowship with intellectual and divine beauty, leaving his household to the supervision of those unwelcome inmates-poverty and care." 
               Mag was growing restless and naughty under the inspiration of Frank's eloquence. He went on with the discourse: 
               "Xantippe had, no doubt, a woman's cravings for the beautiful"-- 
               "Silks, laces and jewels!" said Mag, sotto voce.
                
               "The true and the good," Frank continued. 
               "Sweetmeats, bonbons, oysters, sandwiches," continued Mag. 
               "Ladies and gentleman, my discourse being beyond your comprehension, I see it tires your mental energies." 
               "Go on, Frank-we are miracles of patience." 
               "Athens, in the day of Xantippe was the queen-city of elegance, luxury and refinement-the empire home of the arts, sciences and muses (applause, groans, hear, hear). But Socrates, the friend of Pericles and Aspasia, never gratified his wife Xantippe in her deep thirst for the beautiful. In self-defence and desperation, she turned against her lord-the wandering half of her own soul. Upon him she poured entreaties, reproaches, benedictions and maledictions tions, in vain! Alas! for womanly weakness when battling against manly intellectual strength! It only deepened the curse already upon her, and hastened her ruin and infamy! Had Socrates known the Man-God, he would not only have recognized the divinity in man, but he would have discovered the divinity in woman also. Had Xantippe sat at the feet of Christ, and learned of him to be meek and lowly in heart, she might have found her good, beautiful and true in the Christian command-'Let the wife see that she reverence her husband.' 
               "Ladies and gentleman, I thus take the liberty of closing my remarks." 
               The discourse closed with applause that startled the horses. 
               "Do you call your speech an inspiration, or an improvisation, Frank?" asked Mag. 
               "My genius is all the result of labor long continued, and of the severest kind. I commenced that speech in my earliest youth, and it is the result of years of investigation and intense thought." 
               "Cousin Frank, you are a model youth," said Lizzy. 
               "A model of absurdity!" said Mag. 
               "Thank you, ladies. I return to each the compliment you have given. We find it absolutely impossible to rend ourselves from such fascinating society, and it is time we were going home; Lizzy, you may ride behind me, home to supper. I am famously hungry, and so is Charlie. We have eaten to-day nothing to speak of, but live birds, whose feathers were beautiful to look upon but hard of digestion-not mentioning the squirrels, whose fur was uncomfortable for the season. With birds and squirrels together, there's a commotion in my appetite. So, Lizzy, please hurry!" 
               "I used to ride behind Charlie to the 'Old Field School' on the plantation, before we went to Huntsville." 
               "Old Field School?" said Mag; "I always thought there was something extraordinary in Charlie's education." 
               "Charlie practised elocution there; we all studied aloud at the top of our lungs, so that we might be able to hear ourselves think." 
               "There you learned your wonderful concentration of thought, Mr. Moore?" 
               "The last time Charlie was at home he was buried in theology, till we all concluded that the son of the family was about to take orders. The decision was, that he was aiming at the chaplaincy of the army. His education has been really various," said Lizzy. 
               "Do you know your horse will carry double, Frank?" asked Lizzy. 
               "We can tell by trying. He will find it difficult to disturb the equilibrium of two such weighty people, when once settled on a course of action." 
               The horse reared and plunged, as Lizzy sprang up behind Frank, but finding himself unable to unseat his riders, gave up the attempt in docile despair. 
               "You will frighten the natives, sis, if you go through the village in that fashion," Charlie commented. 
               "Confound the natives!" was Frank's reverential response. "We are the leaders of fashion in Glenlyn." 
               "Look out for your gun, Frank!" called Charlie, as Lizzy's dress became entangled in the trigger-the gun resting on the toe of Frank's boot. 
               "All right! Now, Miss Mag, will you ride?" he asked, as they rode off. "I must see you home, you know." 
               "I must excuse myself, Charlie." 
               And this was precisely what Charlie wanted; not that he objected to Mag's riding behind him, but he preferred some other entertainment just then. He had a wicked experiment in his head, and he was in haste to try it. He rode after Frank, and said emphatically: 
               "Look out, Frank, for my horse, when it comes plunging down the road, catch it, and let sis ride it home; the saddle will not trouble her, she is accustomed to ride any kind of saddle. Don't be alarmed when you hear my gun; I have no idea of letting a lady's dress be caught upon it; I shall not carry mine loaded, you understand." 
               "I understand," said Frank, as he rode around the brow of the hill, out of sight. Frank was slightly mistaken in his cunning understanding, for once in his life. 
               Charlie waited a moment, till they were out of his way, then galloped out of Mag's sight after Frank. A few instants passed, and Mag heard the report of his gun, then she saw his horse, riderless, dashing up the road. 
               A wild terror seized her; she sprang from the rock, bounded down the ledge, down the road, and saw Charlie Moore lying motionless on the ground; his gun and cadet cap by his side; his black curls in disorder, covered with the dust in which they were falling; his arm thrown over his face! In an instant she was kneeling by the motionless figure. 
               "Charlie Moore! Charlie!" There was inexpressible anguish in her low cry; but there was neither motion nor response, nor sign of life. 
               "God help me! God help me!" The lips were ghastly pale; the fingers trembled as she tried to tear open his vest to find a death-wound-they refused to do her bidding. 
               "Dead! dead! dead! God help me to die!" 
               And Mag lay senseless upon his breast. 
               It was Charlie's turn to be frightened. 
               "God forgive me!" he ejaculated in bitter remorse. He wound his arms tenderly around her, folded her to his heart, smoothed back the dishevelled tresses from the pale brow; kissed them softly-reverently; touched his lips to that marble brow; sealed the closed lids with his fervent lips, and then his lips found those other pale lips that had uttered such sweet music-music that would echo in his soul forever; those fascinating, silent, beautiful lips. He fed upon them; drew long, impassioned draughts of lightning bliss from their unstained purity, and at last he woke her to life in his all-clasping embraces. Human nature could not resist the temptation. Was she not all his own, for time and for eternity? 
               "Where am I?" she asked, bewildered, as she unclosed the languid eyes, the mists clearing away from their depths. 
               "At home-on my heart, darling!" he whispered. 
               It was heaven for her there. Why could she not remain? 
               "I would risk my hopes of heaven to keep you here one hour, my beautiful!" 
               Life came back with a rich bound, as she comprehended all. Why did she struggle away from the heart and the arms where she longed to be folded forever? She tore herself with all her strength from his passionate clasp, and fled homeward like a frightened fawn. Charlie collected his scattered senses, passions, and soul, and deliberated solemnly: 
               "Taking all things into consideration, I approve of the dnoment of the performance. The experiment was valuable, and I cannot find an iota of true repentance in my heart. The finale was the perfection of earthly experiences riences. The lady manifested a commendable discretion; it was the ring of true metal." 
               But a little taunting imp whispered to him: 
               "How do you know but the discretion itself was a pretty piece of feminine policy? a little prudish acting? A woman will always be discreet with a man whose opinion she values." 
               And Charlie replied to the tormenting spirit: 
               "She will never waste treasure by being indiscreet with a man she despises, or one for whom she has no regard." 
               Charlie gathered himself together, picked up his gun and went home, whistling again as he went- 
                      
                        "The fruit that will fall without shaking 
                        Is rather too mellow for me!" 
                     
                  
                
               His forbidden fruit was getting to look like a fine cluster of grapes, hanging just beyond his reach, but just near enough to tantalize him, as they tantalized the fox who pronounced them sour. 
               "How will the next chapter of the programme open? There will be some repentance, and a confession of faith, perhaps." 
               He met Frank as he entered his uncle's mansion. 
               "What success in hunting," asked Frank. 
               "The deer took fright-the bird took wing." 
               "Of course. Do you give up the game?" 
               "Not for the universe!" 
             
             
               XVIII. BOATING. 
               "IS your heart in your mouth, Mag?" asked Frank, as he went after supper to persuade her to come and sing with Lizzy at the Ross mansion. Charlie went to invite her, and returned a little dismayed with the report from Aunt Lina, that "Mag was sick-had come home half dead a little while before-she was on the lounge, and refused to see Mr. Moore or any one else this evening." 
                
               "Come, come, Mag; you and Charlie are not going to quarrel. Spit it out and behave yourself. Charlie, poor fellow, is in the parlor dying to see you, and you are going to see him too!" 
               Frank picked Mag up, and forced her into the presence. Charlie met her with a grave look of sorrowful concern. 
               "Am I not to be forgiven?" 
               "Of course," was the passive reply; but there came no smile to the pale lips. Frank walked out after Uncle Alph. 
               "Magdalene, if a mother, by some horrible blunder, had killed her beautiful first-born, she could not repent it more sorrowfully than I regret having wounded you! I would kill myself a thousand times, and tear my heart from its throne before I would permit it even in thought to harm a hair of your head." 
               "It was a cruel device, Lieutenant Moore!" 
               "But may I not be forgiven? If not, the punishment will be more cruel than the device." 
               "Certainly you are forgiven." But there was no smile. 
               "Will you prove that you have forgiven me by going to Uncle Ross'?" 
               "If Aunt Lina will give me permission!" Mag was really exhausted with emotion. Strong spiritual life affects the nerves of the physical nature. Charlie saw her listlessness. 
               "All correct," said he to himself, as she went out. "I find no fault with her. If she had done otherwise it might have spoilt the charm." He whistled an opera air, with original variations, till she returned, continuing his sage reflections: "I am sorry to be obliged to wound her, but it is decidedly the richest event of nearly a quarter of a century of experience. The price I paid was not too high. I would repeat the experiment under similar circumstances, for such is human nature, and such is life!" 
               Lizzy and Frank were especially brilliant in their performances during the evening, whether musical or otherwise; Lizzy distinguished herself on the piano. Mag, poor child, was obliged to exert all her powers to forget herself; she threw her whole soul into song, to force it out of herself, consequently her eyes looked inspiration, and Charlie watched those eyes-meanwhile being very busy talking with Aunt Emma, on some very solemn subject. As he stood leaning at the entrance of an open door, Frank was intensely struck with the devout expression of his face and figure, and wickedly called the attention of the company. 
               "Tableau vivant!" he called, with the accent of a play manager. "A glad son maketh a wise father." There was a laugh. Frank took a position in an opposite door, and continued the Programme. "Companion picture! A pretty son maketh a tickled mother!" and screwing up his face and eyebrows into an intense expression of grim concentration, and giving his shoulders a hitch sidewise, Aunt Emma declared that he looked so preciously sweet she believed she was proud of him. 
               Charlie went home with Mag, and Frank remarked to Lizzy on the occasion, as a private and confidential fact, that "the stupidest business on earth was managing a love affair for people who could not manage themselves; for his part he agreed with Socrates in his opinion of Xantippe, expressed in that celebrated speech of his before the Athenians; or he was not sure but it was Demosthenes, or, may be, Anthony, in his address to Cleopatra over the body of Csar; some of the wise ones at least, who said-or ought to have said, if they did not say it-that the most unaccountable of all unaccountable flesh was a female! the most disunderstandable of all disunderstandable things was a woman! the most non-come-at-able of all non-come-at-able articles in flesh was a female woman! Present company always excepted!" 
               The next day the party of four went on a boating excursion. 
               It was on a lovely lake, among the mountains, where every morning the silver petalled water-lilies unclosed to show their golden hearts to the sun. 
                      
                        "Once more upon the waters! Yet once more! 
                        And the waves bound beneath us, as a steed 
                        That knows its rider!" 
                     
                   exclaimed Mag, with a glad, rich emphasis, all her own. The sight of heaven and earth, air, sky and water in their beauty was a daily miracle that intoxicated her with gladness, spite of herself, and her spirits would run wild. She took the oars with Frank, forgot Charlie, and gave herself up to the rich joy of her perfect physical development; she exulted in the free play of swelling muscles, the bound of the pulses, the thrill of the nerves-in all the exercise of the powers of flesh and blood-her physical nature was a grand gift of God. She valued it; worshipped physical strength and beauty; cultivated them as God intended she should, with all the other 'talents' committed to her care, and her physical health added glorious strength to her mental and moral nature. 
               They rowed up through the current, lined with lilies on each side, which Lizzie gathered as they passed, keeping time with the dip of their oars. 
               "You are a grand little soul, taken altogether, Mag, and you are coming on splendidly with your rowing! This is absolutely delicious! I shall certainly take you with me to see those Cambridge boys win the next regatta race of us Yalensians. You must see what magnificent rowing can be done! Those Cambridge fellows keep the perfection of time with the dipping of oars. It is all art, skill, training! They beat us Yale boys by their superior discipline, for our boats were vastly superior to theirs. They tried us in our boats after winning in their own, and came out so far ahead that we scarcely knew ourselves."
                     Yale came out ahead once in 1859.
                  
                
               "Now for the moral, Frank; don't miss that." 
               "Genius without labor, will accomplish nothing. Genius with discipline and training, can accomplish everything. Study, skill, tact, are the levers of Archimedes, that can move the world. Those are my sentiments, after ages of experience." 
               They rowed up the stream, across the lake, under the shade of trees, and at last rested upon their oars. 
               It was a glorious thing to stand up and feel physical strength, to inhale freedom in the fresh air, to bare the brow to the gaze of the sun, as though they were his children, to feel the thrill of earth and heaven, for it was heaven to know that true human hearts were together, throbbing their warm, rich love-beat. 
               At last, when the senses were sated with the very excess of loveliness, they landed. Lizzy and Frank strolled into the woods, and Charlie challenged Mag to a trial of skill with the oars. They rowed into the centre of the lake, stopped and permitted the boat to rock upon the waves while they listened to the lullaby of the waters, and the music in their hearts. 
               "Why do you not take flight with your sisters the birds in the trees yonder? How can you fold your restless wings here, Magdalene?" 
                
               "My sisters, the skylarks, finished their songs long ago, and have permitted me to come to you." 
               "Brown and bonny mocking-bird, strayed from your warm passion-home into this cold region, from the sunny South. You must return home to your own climate and kindred with me. You must come to your home with me there." 
               "New England is my home." Mag's dark eye dilated as its glance swept over the expanse of water, forest and sky. "Are the heavens of your home holier or purer than these? Have you lovelier flowers, or clearer waters, or hills more glorious than these 'everlasting hills'-these granite-browed mountains of New England?" 
               "Yes, yes, little mocking-bird; in the woods of Alabama you will never pine for the beautiful; there are mountains as glorious, fountains as clear, skies as pure, and hearts as holy, and warm, and true, to welcome you home again." 
               "Lucifer! Son of the morning!" 
               "Arama-child of earth!" 
               "I have no home! Your home will never, never, never be mine on earth-never on earth!" 
               The boat rocked gently under the smiling sky; the waters murmured on, lulling the passion of the restless hearts. Charlie looked silently and reproachfully into the eloquent face; its muscles and nerves were tremulous, the lips quivering, and large, beaded drops gathering in the eyes. She averted her face from his gaze-leaned over the boat's side, and the tears floated off with the bright bubbles over the water. A grave smile broke over Charlie's lips, full of soft pity, as a mother's over her sick, wayward child. 
               "You are a proud creature, Mag. There has a terrible wrong made its home in your nature, which is cankering its brightness. You must give me the key to your heart; I claim it as my right. I must, as your soul physician regulate its disease." 
               "I deny your right to interfere with me, my heart, or my sins. You have no claim on me, and I have no claim on you." 
               "I claim my right as your cousin." 
               Mag looked up; a quizzical smile dawning through the tear-drops. 
               "Yes, strange piece of human perversity. We are cousins, I can prove it by Euclid." 
               "Go on; you will enlighten benighted minds." 
               "Own cousins-darling cousins-I am Frank's cousin- you are Frank's cousin. Euclid says, 'Things equal to the same thing are equal to each other. We are cousins. It is a mathematical demonstration, clear as light." 
               "All light! Suppose Frank and I to be one." 
               "Absurd! I could not even suppose it." 
               "Frank is a son of his Alma Mater, Yale-ergo, I am a son of Yale, for we are one. Can you prove anything else as luminously, Cousin Charlie?" 
               "I can prove that you are proud and vain." 
               "By Euclid, cousin?" 
               "Then you acknowledge the cousinship?" 
               "How can I possibly fail to perceive it after such demonstration? Go on with your proof." 
               "You are proud, for you value your own opinions more highly than the opinions of all the sons of men." 
               "The sons of men tell me that my reason is a revelation from God to me, for my own use; and the only reason in the universe on which he intended I should rely. I am proud, you say, because, as Emerson phrases it, my own measure is estimate enough; my own praise is reward enough for me." 
               "Jere Clemens, my townsman, says: 'I have, long since learned to bear both praise and censure, even from the virtuous and enlightened, with as much indifference as is consistent with a just pride of character; when either comes from other sources it is never remembered.'" 
               "And there is none righteous; no, not one. I have never found the good man, whose opinions could in the least, avail me; it is my misfortune, as well as my fault, that I cannot trust my kind, and find no human goodness to reverence." 
               "You have a high ideal of perfection, and men do not approach it; you condemn them for their failures, but not as you condemn yourself. You do condemn yourself with a judgment as inexorable as death, you have no mercy on yourself." 
               "But I do not judge my kind; I do try most earnestly to love them." 
               "You are too proud to judge the faults of others; you look down upon them with a kind of weary pity, and spite of yourself, you are filled with utter contempt for the pigmy aims, the paltry vanity and petty selfishness you see." 
               "You judge my heart by your own. You have taken for your standard Christ's command of Be ye perfect." 
                
               "You know, too, that humility is the cardinal virtue of the wise." 
               "One of the greatest arts taught by Christianity." 
               "One taught by Socrates, four hundred years before the Christian era. You fear that if humility is in you at all, it is potentially, not actually, and you are cultivating it to the verge of insanity." 
               "Go on, the demonstration is superb, if one could but see the proof." 
               "And you are vain; for little as you value the opinions of all other men, you are anxious for my approval. You shrink from exposing your faults to my gaze. It gives you mortal pangs when I experiment upon your heart disease." 
               "You really think I have an affection of the heart, that you can experiment upon? You have the presumption?" 
               "The vanity, yes. You need love; your nature demands it-a part of your nature is dying for it-becoming shadowy and dream-like, instead of a perfect womanly nature, and I offer you the love you need, I entreat you to accept it-a love worthy of you-royal enough to satisfy even your royal nature. You have no right to famish your spirit, or fetter it. You have no right to deny it the boon of life." 
               "I acknowledge the faith in you, that a neophyte needs for her hierophant. Your argument is almost omnipotent. Your appeal is entirely to my selfishness." 
               "I have an argument that to you is mightier still-you see I am patient under your pitiless sarcasm and irony-I look beneath the words, into the diseased heart; I know you have learned the deep meaning of those words of the Man-God. It is more blessed to give than to receive. Give yourself to me utterly, Magdalene Barclay. You will never regret the gift." 
               "You speak of the Man-God as your familiar friend; will you teach me to have faith in him also?" 
               "Magdalene!" 
               Mag looked up into his face with a bright, rare smile. 
               "You are a noble man, Charles Moore. Your friendship is the boon I most crave on earth; but I puzzled my brain the other day with your argument from design, to prove the existence of God, ignoring its truth-noting Bacon's method, through Hobbes, Locke, Hume, and their kind, to atheism-tracing Kant through Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, and their kind, to absolutism-and Des Cartes, through Malebranche, Spinoza, and their kind, to fatalism." 
               "You did? you daring soul." 
               "I did, and then left the arguments on the existence of God for those on the existence of the Man-God whom you quote, and have arrived at Strauss and his myths." 
               "Do they disturb you?" 
               "No, it would require a miraculous faith, to believe that there were separate myths enough to account for all Christ's miracles, or to believe that John the Evangelist was what Strauss pronounced him, a willful liar and impostor. Neander made me doubt more than Strauss." 
               "Go on-go on-go on!" 
               "Don't make grimaces, it spoils your beauty, cousin, and I believe you pride yourself on your looks." 
               "Yes." 
               "If, as Neander says, Christ's disciples, who lived with him, listened to his wonderful eloquence, and drank of his life for a year, if they could not comprehend his spirit, or understand his mission with the miraculous aid he gave, is it possible for men to know the life and spirit of Christ? To the very last they were deceived. To the last they could not understand that his kingdom was a spiritual kingdom, that heaven was to be in their hearts. To the last they thought his kingdom to be of this world; and De Quincey, who says that the early Christians manufactured the history of Christ in Josephus, excuses Judas for betraying him, saying, that Judas knew that the prince had miraculous power, and thought that when driven to self-defence, he would use it, not only to save himself, but his nation, and would then establish his throne among his people." 
               "Yes." 
               "My experience of men is limited. I have never known a consistent Christian minister or man, who would not have been as consistent and noble without his religion. I do know self-righteous and vain-glorious Christian professors." 
               "And you may know that business men become church members, because it is good business policy, and you may know that vile men do it to conceal their vileness, and vile women wear religion as a mask for iniquity, or to save an endangered reputation." 
               "You frighten me, Charlie." 
                
               "You were severe, Magdalene." 
               "I say it in all sorrow and humility. I say it to my cousin, who is not a professed Christian; if he were, I would watch my words, fearing he might feel it his duty, for Christ's sake, to injure me by calling me a skeptic. If I knew one human being who had learned of Christ to be self-denying and forgiving, one who had learned the deep meaning of humility, and the deep meaning of those words: Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good, under wrongs that wring the last fibre of nature, and under temptations like those of the Man-God in the wilderness, then I could believe that Christianity was no farce, but the gift of God to a sin-stricken world." 
               "You will yet solve the problem by your own life." 
               "Do you believe that men ever have solved the problem by their lives?" 
               "Do you doubt it?" 
               "How can I help doubting, when we see, for one example out of many, contests in the theological world, like that of Parks of Andover, and Hodges of Princeton, carried to such lengths that the world say the men hate each other?" 
               "The world probably say wrong." 
               "Such a contest, carried to such lengths, by such men, even if but logomachy, as we believe, is a scandal, and makes us reprobates outside the sanctuary, doubt Christ their master. You tell me of those contests in Alabama among the Baptists and other denominations, the Theodosia Ernests and Theophilus Waltons, with accompaniments of newspaper squibs, and vituperation in pamphlets, carried to such an extent, that the world blushes for a religion that appears in such guise. All history is full of such Christianity, such battles for the letter of the law of Christ, till the spirit becomes the spirit of the Prince of Darkness, which says: Now abideth Love, Faith, Form, and the greatest of these is Form." 
               "But believe it, Mag, there is a true spirit that sorrows with a great indignation, when men so give themselves up to the false spirit. Many a man has learned of Christ that secret of humility. What can you say of Augustine, of Loyola, of Xavier, before the time of Protestant Luther and Calvin? What of the martyrs?" 
               "And what do you say of the Hindoo devotees, and all the enthusiasts who have said it was a blessed thing to die for country-those like Regulus and Curtius for Rome, and Charlotte Corday for France, and the thousands in history that time would fail to mention?" 
               "At least, I will say, it proves a divinity in humanity. Go on, Mag, let me see all the disorder in your nature. This is your disease; this is what suffering has taught you, Together, you and I will search for the remedy. Even if the disorder we see in this world must continue through all eternity; yet if we can be together in the mingled good and evil, the love we cherish for each other shall bring us bliss, pure and fresh, and sweet, and we will still build heaven in our hearts." 
               "And do you suppose the heaven the Bible tells us of has undergone change since it was heaven? How came those holy beings in heaven, where no sin is, to conceive the idea of sin and rebellion at the time when Satan was first chained to the bottomless pit? Were they in a state of trial and probation then in heaven? Is heaven still a state of probation to men and angels, or has it changed since the angels fell?" 
               "There, my child, you have asked questions enough for one day. Of the Bible I will say now, it is the only standard of religion and morality that we have; the only guide to purity and holiness. We must take this or nothing. Reason and nature may be guides to the cultivated few; to the masses they would be blind leaders of the blind; the simple faith in the God of Love, revealed in the Bible, is suited to the deepest wants of the masses, and will be their salvation. I will tell you on next Sunday what I think of all these things; but now you will be very good and listen to my words." 
               "'  ." 
               "Greek! You will annihilate me, Mag!" 
               "You can revenge yourself by murdering me in Hebrew." 
               "We will avoid the pedantic, and talk love-sweet English and American love-more ravishing in the Saxon tongue than even in your 'pure Attic dialect, with its lovely marriage of sweet sounds.'" 
               "And love with you is one of the luxuries of life." 
               "The one luxury of life-the luxury of heaven, you know; and you have made yourself bewitchingly lovely to me; you have wound yourself around the very fibres of my existence; your life is my life; yet you dishonor me by telling me that you will not prove your love for me until we reach heaven. I tell you in the words of God himself-the Man-God-'the kingdom of heaven is within us;' our heaven is around us now." 
               Mag's heart throbbed wildly. 
               "My young eagle! Prometheus was bound to a barren rock with adamantine chains, and a hungry vulture tearing at his vitals, because he dared confer a blessing upon mortals contrary to the will of Zeus. Happy God! happy in the consciousness that he was unjustly afflicted because he dared do right. Do not flatter yourself that you are in any way following his example; do not become your own vulture, to learn the power of the spirit to subdue flesh; do not commit such ghastly suicide. Let me save you from that living death. Like Prometheus, you shall breathe the fire of your life into the clay of mine till we both become immortal." 
               "Frank and Lizzy are calling us, Charlie!" 
               "If your spirit is in the dust, mine will lift it up to redemption; when mine goes down to regions of night and darkness, you shall descend as my saviour and redeemer, and bring light into gloom." 
               "They are calling us, Cousin Charlie!" 
               "Yes, Magdalene Barclay, the voices of Nature herself are calling. Why do you not answer the call? My heart has stopped its beat to listen for your words." 
               Magdalene Barclay's soul was speechless-for there was no language to interpret her thought. The voices of nature answered their own call. In silence the two received the apocalypse. 
               The little boat rocked softly upon the waters, with its freight of human happiness-the two immortal souls with their earth dreams. The spirits of nature gathered around them, smiled upon them, and then went upon their destined way. Millions and millions of busy spirits went smiling to their work; they floated among the forest trees, tinting their garments with green, and adding gems of ruby, topaz and pearl; they poured fresh streams of life into the veins of the old, oaks; they embraced the white-robed blossoms, and added pearls and silver crowns as if for a bridal. The crimson blossoms flushed deeper as they passed, and scarlet creepers clung with a fonder clasp around the brown, gnarled trunks, and blushed as they filled the chalices with new nectar and ambrosia as for a feast-day among gods; soft lipped flowers lifted modest eyes to drink the azure from the sky; the sun kissed their dewy lids; sweet star flowers of earth that had answered the nightly gaze of the stars in heaven, and dreamed smilingly of their love by day; they saw those human blossoms, lovelier and costlier than all earth beside, for their life was immortality. The spirits of nature gathered around the children of earth, and enfolded them with passionate fervor in their all-clasping embraces. From the mountain streams and the lake's bosom the spirits of nature gathered to them, and sweet laughter echoed to the passion-breathing hearts. 
               From the sky, on the silver wings of sunbeams, in garments of azure, they gathered around; while sailing away on golden and crimson clouds were myriads upon myriads of happy spirits, their pinions glittering, and the echoes of their songs filled the souls of the earthly dreamers of royal dreams; it was the song, too, of the morning stars; the music of the distant spheres-"There is a God! God's universe is beautiful! The great heart of the universe throbs on forever, and the life of the universal heart is love!" 
               Love! Strange, beautiful love-that caused the Son of God to leave his home in the bosom of the Father-to leave that companionship with angels to atone in woe, solitude, temptation in the wilderness, and death upon the cross, for a world's ruin. Strange, holy love, that can sanctify sin, guilt and crime itself, and give one ray of heaven to pollution! Who may know the agony of longing with which the Son looked up for love into the Father's face, when, in the darkness of his utter desolation, his mighty heart was broken, and the wild, wailing cry rent earth and heaven with its agony-"My God! my God! why hast Thou forsaken me?" 
               The Father, out of his own love for his children of earth, permitted that sacrifice of love by the only begotten Son of heaven; he then commanded the thunders to speak, the graves to open, and the dead to rise, and testify that Love was ruler in earth as in heaven! 
               The man made in the image of God repeated to the woman, made out of man, the solemn words: 
               "Love! glorious Love! bowing with reverential joy, we receive thy benediction. Hope! soft-eyed, radiant Hope, we receive thy blessing! And Faith!-thy dark eye lifted upward-from thee we receive the coronation robes, the sceptre and the crown. With Faith we work out our immortal destiny!" 
             
             
                
               XIX. THE SABBATH. 
               "THE great thoughts, the great joys, and the great sorrows of life stand out like pyramids." 
               It was a glorious morning in nature's harvest time; one of those perfect days when all earth and heaven are full of worship, and immortal spirits feel God. 
               One of God's perfect days, one in which existence itself was bliss; when all the wild cravings of human hearts were still, sleeping, and the heart satisfied in gathering the golden grain of life's harvest time. One of God's perfect days, when the soul bows itself in humility, in loving content and grateful adoration, for its very fullness of blessing. Nature was wearing her garments of rejoicing, and her royal treasure-house was open. Not a frown clouded her smile in heaven, to remind the heavy-laden of their forgotten weariness; or to foreshadow in the future, the new pangs-the doom of the yet to be broken-hearted, in which, drop by drop, the earth life, in untold anguish, would ooze itself away. 
               One of God's perfect days, in which soul-weary dreamers send the crushed spirit to introspect the broken hearts, where so many, many wild dreams are hushed to silence forever-hearts where hopes so surpassing sweet have been crushed into early graves. Softly treading over the graves of their darlings, there, they smile as the memory of their radiant young beauty flushes before them, and they search carefully, hearts filled with the graves of wrecked, blighted, and buried hopes, and smile again, because they know there cannot be found room for even one other sepulchre; and while they smile, sunshine from a far region of thrones pours its brightness on the hallowed places, and voices whisper, that hope is immortal, and cannot rest in graves forever. It will rise from degradation with spotless, replumed pinions, purified from its mortification, unpolluted and forever free, will find its home by the rivers of the waters of life, where the tree of life bears twelve manner of fruits, whose leaves are for the healing of nations. 
               A perfect Sabbath day was breaking over the hills and valleys of New England, into the hearts and homes of the descendants of the Puritans. The Sabbath bells broke the silence, and upon the stillness their solemn call went forth for Puritan worshippers, to come up to the house of God, and many a worshipper answered the call. 
               Grey-haired men and women, with their venerable bowed forms, went slowly up; worshippers of the living God; robust yeomanry went up, worshippers of mammon, and the young went up, noble youths and graceful maidens, worshippers of the creature, instead of the Creator; and sunnyeyed, innocent children went up, with only the unblossomed germs of depravity in their unpolluted souls, of whom the Divine Man said, "Of such is the kingdom of heaven." All went up to worship in the sanctuary of the Most High God. 
               In Glenlyn, Grandfather Barclay went slowly up the aisles, leaning upon his staff, and with his heart's worship, he lifted his blind eyes vainly upward toward the throne. 
               And Grandmother Barclay went up with him; she took her place by his side, and lifted her spectacles to look where her heart was, in the eyes of her fellow-men.
                
               Josie Newton and her kind went up the broad aisles also, amid the flutter of silks, and the spread of crinoline, like banners waving on Sabbath breezes, and furling the folds of their garments; even there, in the sanctuary, they opened a battery of flashing glances to win conquest and worship; and "gentry" came, saw, and were conquered by the metallic charms, invincible in a siege of hearts. There in the House of God, the belles did not scruple to wring those hearts, in all their changes, and fasten captives of the susceptible to the train of their triumphal chariots. And for conquests like these to win worship, they flushed their cheeks into blushes of carmine, blooded their lips into exquisite love-pouts, by the perfection of art, paled their lily-white complexions into many a sea-shell tint, where corals and rubies combined in fascinating confusion with roses and lilies. These, as they took their places in the house of worship, deposited their hearts on the fitting shrines, where they, too, were worshippers. 
               Socrates Wilson dragged his slow length up the aisle, and seated his worshipful dignity, also-his philosophy not having yet been emancipated from its devotion to self-knowledge, and not yet having attained the world-philosophy of Shakspeare's Wolsey: "Love thyself last; cherish those hearts that hate thee." His wife, Xantippe, with her jewels, like those of Cornelia, crept into her place at his side, and, woman-like, her heart was with her jewels. Where the treasure is, there the heart is worshipping. 
               Magdalene Barclay went up also-up to her place by the organ, among those who were to sing praises, and May Burton, as was her custom, glided into the seat by her side. On this wonderful Sabbath, Mag gazed up into the joy of heaven, and saw new tints in the celestial radiance, and alas! was conscious of another mysterious presence in her heart, than the one whom she was called to worship, and her soul was troubled with the very fullness of its content. 
               For down among the congregation, by the side of Lizzy Moore and Frank Ross, was Charles Atherton Moore, whom she worshipped. He, the professed adorer of the Divine, whether incarnated in loveliness like that of Magdalene Barclay, with her physical, intellectual and moral growth, or whether manifest in any of its earthly attributes of long-suffering, humility and love; or whether overshadowing human hearts with mysterious stillness, the holy, breathing presence, the unutterable, illimitable, unfathomable Idea, named the Infinite God.
                
               It was the Communion Sabbath. 
               The aged pastor, over whose wrongs Grandfather Barclay had so grieved, had gone to his rest and reward at last; perhaps in that better land he was pouring out love and blessing upon his unworthy flock, with Christ's prayer: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." Mr. Brown, his successor, was absent-gone to search a new field of labor among minds of a higher order-fitted to appreciate the poetry of his thought. On that day, Father McLean, the blind pastor of a neighboring church, was to officiate in dispensing the Word of Life. 
               As the tones of the bell ceased to vibrate, the blind patriarch went slowly up into the desk, guided by, and leaning on the arm of his son. 
               A hush fell upon the worshippers as he entered; every heart was hushed, and tears blinded many eyes, as they are blinding mine, for my pen is plagiarizing from memory, and not from the Blind Preacher of William Wirt. 
                
               His face was one a Raphael might have studied, as his embodied conception of a prophet. The sad, solemn, loving look, the impress of untold thought and sorrow, the seal of power to subdue strong human passions. Eighty years had crowned him, yet his voice was full, with a tremulous eloquence that awed every heart-he, too, spoke as one "having authority." Men felt that in the experience of fiery thought that tries men's souls, he knew whereof he spoke. Many a lip quivered; many a heart swelled with purifying tears at his words. 
               Grandfather Barclay, who sat leaning his head upon his staff, felt the presence as he passed; he lifted his sightless eyes with an unconscious, and alas, vain effort, to look once more into the face of the long beloved, but he bowed himself again. With the eye of faith he saw him, and looked forward to another greeting in their home. "There shall be no more curse, and they shall see God's face, and his name shall be in their foreheads, and there shall be no night there, and they need no candle nor light of the sun, for the Lord God giveth them light, and they shall reign forever and ever." 
               The pastor bowed reverently his tall venerable form, in the presence of the Most High; the morning invocation winged its way up to the throne, there was a hush for the blessing to descend. The morning hymn was repeated with strange, solemn cadence by those hallowed lips; the tones of the organ swelled, vibrated, and died away, floating heavenward, and there was silence. 
               It was the Communion Sabbath. Leaning for support on the desk, the pastor repeated, with his deep, tremulous thrill, the Evangel of the angels to the shepherds of Bethlehem, who watched their flocks by night. "Fear not, for behold I bring unto you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the City of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." 
               The story of Jesus was repeated as it has been repeated, and will be repeated by sad human lips, countless millions of times to sad human hearts, until his second coming in the clouds of heaven. 
               He told the story of Jesus-not alone, he said, the ambassador from the courts of heaven, not an angel sent to represent that glory to the fallen sons of men, to care for its interests and demand its dues, but Jesus Christ the Lord, Jesus Emanuel, the only begotten Son of God.
                
                
               He said, those men must be mistaken, who represented God as one between whom and the human soul there was only a mutual attraction, for man then would not have rebelled, would have needed no at-one-ment, being already at one with God, man then would not require grace, for an upright nature would be inclined to truth, reason would have the supremacy over revelation, for it would be the direct voice of truth, while revelation may have been corrupted, or but speak obscurely when clothed in human words. 
               There was then a necessity for a Saviour to a disobedient and rebellious race. God the Father saw the necessity, and stretched forth his hand to save his people. He sent as his mediator, not Christ the man alone, for what new knowledge could man unfold to his fellow-man of the mysteries of a heaven he had never known? How could man be an ambassador for a king and kingdom, of whose laws and thoughts he was as ignorant as his fellow man? The minister from the Courts of Heaven must have full knowledge of the interests he came to represent, and a finite man could not comprehend or unfold the thought of an Infinite God. Not even an angel did the Father send as his minister to earth, for angels had fallen in heaven, and on earth had loved the daughters of men, because they were fair; God the Father sent, as his mediator, an Infinite Being, God, the only begotten Son, the Prince of Peace, to redeem his fallen world from the curse of sin, the disobedience of his law.
                
               He portrayed Jesus-Strauss of Germany had pronounced the story of Jesus a fabrication, and his miracles but myths. Strauss had called Luke the Evangelist a false historian, and on one point of history, Olshauser was not able to refute him; but a Roman coin just discovered, had, as by a special providence, proved Luke's dates perfectly accurate. Strauss had worked himself into the belief that John the Beloved knew Jesus as an impostor, and was therefore a willful liar. Unhappy Strauss. The life of Jesus Christ our Lord was a matter of history, so well authenticated, and so universally believed by men, that all history bears date from the year of the birth of that Redeemer. 
               The Evangelists did not describe Jesus, but his contemporaries had done it. Publius Lutulus, Governor of Judea, described him to Csar, Emperor at Rome, and Napoleon found the description in the public records at Rome. Jesus, "a man of surpassing beauty, excelling the children of men; a man of sad, solemn presence; none had seen him smile, but many had seen him weep; in speaking, modest and wise; in admonishing, courteous; in reproving, terrible; by the Gentiles accepted as a great prophet of great truth, for he had cured all manner of disease, and raised the dead, but by his own disciples called the Son of God." 
               He portrayed the matchless humility of Jesus. Philosophers, in their furthest conceptions, had never been able to dream of such humility. The Prince of Heaven had descended from his eternal throne, had given up the adoration of cherubim and seraphim, had given up all the heavensweet bliss of the Father's unutterable, infinite love, had come down to the stable at Bethlehem, been for degradation born of a virgin-or as that daring theist, Theodore Parker, expressed it, he became the bastard baby of a Hebrew girl-he had been cradled in a manger, that the lowliest born of earth might know, that he with them had tasted every dreg in the deepest cup of human infamy and ignominy. 
               He portrayed the love of the Christ for sinners, the seraphic sweetness of his glance, filled with its far unfathomable light, that he shed in dewy pity upon the tempted and broken hearted, the thief on the cross, and the Magdalene beneath it. His tones of persuasive eloquence were calling continually to the down-pressed, "Come unto me, all ye that are weary and heavy-laden, and I will give you rest." Had he not been weary, as man was never weary before? He had wandered in the wilderness, tempted of devils, he had received from men hatred and cursing that revealed the demons within them, and then his human heart had sickened in inexpressible longing for his lost love in heaven. Those who had never known the passionate rapture and agony of human love, could never dream of its bliss. None but he who had lost a heaven, could conceive the faintest idea of His anguish of pining for that lost love and life in heaven. Jesus was human, he had known the darkest, strongest, wildest, deepest temptations that humanity could know, and now he would pour into bleeding, tempted human hearts, the balm of his Infinite pity and love. The weary and sin-sick, should go to the Man-God in their great sorrow, without fear. Fear not, he would give them good tidings of great joy. 
               Was there a parent or lover whose heart was aching to see in the soul of some beloved one, God's image becoming defaced and degraded by sin, becoming daily more and more blotted, till the horror of blackness was settling down on its original beauty? Let such come to Jesus in their agony of supplication for the redemption of that lost beauty from heaven. Jesus died for those whose souls were marred by sin; not the righteous, but sinners he came to save.
                
               Was there some child of genius, wayward and misguided perhaps, struggling with blight, crushed by want-his whole being suffocating with a never-gratified thirst for its native element, the beautiful-till in the extremity of sorrow he had doubted whether a God ruled the destinies of the world? Was there such an erring and tempted child of genius, forced to herd with the ignoble, denied all communion with the good, and all interlife with the true, till he had become blind, and deaf, and dumb to the proof of God's existence, God's purity, God's truth, and God's love? Let that sinblighted child come to Christ. He, too, had prayed for escape from woe and temptation. "If it be possible, let this cup pass from me!" He, too, had doubted God in his hour of agony. "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" 
               Was there some soul of far-grasping range of intellect, some soul whose vision, reaching out in advance of the ages, looked down in weary sorrow upon the pitiful contests fretting the masses as they were borne, upheld and guided by an over-ruling Providence, upon the advancing waves of progress? Was there some man, like a Galileo, imprisoned for having discovered truth; a Columbus, in the power of ignorance and lust, that would build dungeons of ignorance for the times and nations, and call men blasphemers who would open the doors to let in light and knowledge? Was there a Socrates, martyred by the passions of an ignorance mighty in evil? Let such men now come to Jesus of Nazareth. He, too, had lived in the desert solitude of thought, ages beyond the ken of disciple, prophet, priest or king. He had been scourged, buffeted, mocked, spit upon, sweat drops of blood, been crowned with thorns, and crucified for truth. He had brought to those whose seething passions poured curses upon him, light, knowledge, freedom and joy. Let such men come to Jesus; he would give them good tidings; they should, like him, find death the portals of freedom-the gates of immortal truth! It hath not entered into the heart of man to conceive the gifts laid up by the Father for his children-all knowledge, and honor and joy! 
                
               Then the tremulous cadences quivered into each heart, as he gave the earnest appeal for all to come to Jesus and learn those sublime secrets of humility and forgiveness, by which the image of God might be restored to their souls; to come and learn of Jesus to be meek and lowly in heart. 
               The bread was given-with a hush like a suppressed sob upon each heart, "the body of Christ broken for sinners"-and the wine was poured, "the blood of Christ shed for sin." 
               Mag had doubted this God and this Christ, and her heart grew hot as she listened. Charles Moore's brow had paled at the prophet-like cadences of the majestic old man. 
               The last hymn arose, the benediction hovered over the bowed heads and hearts. 
               Grandfather Barclay arose and leaned his tall form again upon his staff. As Mag saw his helpless, patient look of subdued eagerness, the tears gushed from some sealed fountain, and cooled the hot fever in her heart. He waited patiently to grasp, for the last time before eternity, the hand of the adored blind pastor. 
               He came at last, trusting his own helpless hand to the guidance of his son. The two hands met then through that thick darkness; the long, friendly clasp was given, kind, tremulous words of greeting and blessing were exchanged, and then the fathers of Israel were guided on their way to meet no more on earth-to rest awhile in earthly homes before their journey to the better country where thought is all light. 
               "Were those words truth to you, Cousin Charlie?" asked Mag, as they strolled slowly homeward. She looked up with a wistful earnestness into his face, as though life or death lay in his reply. He caught the look and answered it only with a smile. 
               "If that is truth, the Christ will indeed satisfy all the wants of our nature. Do you believe that story of the Nazarene?" 
               "I believe!" 
               "And I believe. I will believe! Lord help mine unbelief!" Mag said, fervently. 
               "And what more than this do you believe, Cousin Charlie? You promised to tell me to-day." 
               There was something touching and wistful in her subdued tones, yet something so arch and winning in their sweetness, that just then Charles Moore had no heart or head to 
                  believe in anything but human grace. His only reply was a look of undisguised love. 
               "You promised me your creed to-day. Do you not remember?" 
               Charlie remembered-much more than that promise. He recalled his soul-permitted his glance to sweep earth and sky; he lifted the black, clustering curls as he stopped, bared his brow and heart to the gaze of heaven, and his neophyte. 
               "What do you believe, Charlie Moore?" 
               A sudden smile wreathed his lip, as he drank in the beauty of earth: 
                      
                        "The brave old earth is glorious-God made it what we see; 
                        Life, Love and Death all wrestling; I know this could not be 
                        Unless it ought to be! 
                        God's smile gleams on unchanging, o'er ruin, sin and pain, 
                        O'er graves where bloom and beauty have changed to dust again; 
                        Life reigns with Love immortal, and Death shall be-in vain!" 
                     
                  
                
               Mag looked up to catch his tone of fervor. 
               "Death shall be no more forever! Do you believe it?" said Mag. 
               "I believe we shall live forever and forever, and STILL FOREVER!" 
               "You and I, Charlie?" 
               "And I believe it will be a glorious thing to learn with you, Mag, all that God intended we should learn in his universe. The first lessons of love and knowledge we will learn on this brave old earth; we will learn all it can teach us of joy before we go to that marriage in the hereafter. We will be rovers and wanderers together, you and I, Mag. We will visit those lands of the Orient, where the Man-God accomplished his mission; we have been there often in dreams; we will shake the dust from our tired feet in Palestine, the land of pilgrims, and when the dust of worldly selfishness is stifling the divine within us, and the hot blast of worldly passion would make my heart a desert, we will lie down for rest by the rivers of Babylon, and your voice shall be my music, your fingers shall soothe the fever in my temples. We will find the ruins of Eden, and build another Eden more thrillingly sweet than Eden ever could have been before ruin entered it. We shall walk among ruins in all our life wanderings. Earth is strewn with ruins; we shall find them in human hearts. We will permit no ruin to desecrate our own hearts; in other hearts we will hallow the ruins-the devastations of sin-we will pour into them balm from Gilead, and bring to them garments of joy"-- 
               He stopped-a look of intense pain in Mag's dark eye arrested him-a look of wonder at his infatuated earthdreams. He answered the look in softened, reproachful tones. 
               "Magdalene Barclay! do you yet cherish the mad idea that having once tasted the love I lavish upon you, for which your heart is fainting, the world will be endurable to you without it? Do you remember what you have heard to-day? 'They who have never known the heaven of love can never conceive the unutterable thirst and famishing of the soul for its wild bliss!'" 
               "Oh, Charles Moore, you torture me!" 
               "Do not cherish such delusive madness, my sweet little siren!" 
               Mag struggled to force down her heart, that was rising in rebellion at her insane denial of its rights. She said, sadly: 
               "Tell me more of the God in whom you believe." 
               Charlie answered her with a strange, rare smile that fluttered down into her heart, almost subduing it. 
               "I believe him to be an Omniscient God. He fore-knew all things. The Bible tells us that from before the foundations of the world he predestinated his Son to die for the sins of the world, and I believe it. I believe him to be an Omnipotent God. He had the power to prevent the entrance of sin. His omnipotence was able to create a being with a free will, and make that being accountable for its acts. I believe God has done this. Where the accountability lies in the being thus created, or where the will is located-whether, as the theologians say, in the 'arbitrium' or the 'underlying arbitrium'-I know not, nor does any other human being know, nor will any other human being ever know, till Omniscience reveals it! I believe, I say, that God has used his omnipotence, has given man a free will, and made him accountable for his own fate. 
                  Why God has done this, I do not know. Why God predestinated sin, I do not know, not being omniscient; but I believe the God of the universe to be a God of infinite wisdom and of infinite love. I believe he has done it for good. I believe sin to be a great evil, but, because a God of love predestinated it, I believe a greater good is to result from it. The universe, with all its sin and sorrow, is as it ought to be. There has been no mistake in any of its arrangements, for it was founded by an omnipresent, omnipotent, omniscient God of love." 
               "Frank used to teach me that, years ago," said Mag, "when we were children and puzzling over the mysteries of pain and sorrow. Can you solve any of those mysteries for me now, Cousin Charlie?" 
               "In the eyes of the All-Father, the children of earth are but little lower than the angels, and destined for a life far nobler. To fit them for their destiny, they were endowed with their threefold or triune nature-the physical, intellectual and moral, so perfectly blended, it is impossible to draw a line between their interlife. The spiritual and intellectual give that lofty beauty to the physical which reveals the divine in humanity; it is the crowning charm in your beauty, the grace in you which I most love and worship; it plays over your lips, hovers in your eyes, breathes in your form"-- 
               "Charles Moore!" 
               There was real anguish in those eyes then. 
               "With its garb of clay and flesh, the divine spirit took the taint of sin-the synonym of misery. But by sorrow-by stern wrestling with temptation and conquering the tempter within, by the strong struggle after the divine-the immortal within man is disciplined for its high destiny. Those endowed with the most perfect physical development must have the fiercest struggle with passion. You and I, who have cultivated the physical into perfect health, who rejoice in the play of muscle and the throb of pulses, must be wary, lest, in unguarded moments, the earthly passion may rise and force the divine to a base servitude; if so, heaven help us! for the image of God in our souls will become dim! The physical should become servant to the divine, should obey the intellectual and moral, or it will be out of harmony with truth, and the atmosphere of the good will bring it torture, and heaven itself become hell. I believe in hell, Magdalene Barclay-earth would become hell to me, if you turned devil; and so would heaven itself-but you are to be my guardian angel!" 
               "Cousin Charlie!" 
               "Magdalene Barclay! you are a perfect woman," he said, with a grave smile. "You are believing all this that I am telling you, not because there is reason in it, but because I tell you that I believe it. Your pure woman's instincts also force you to believe it all." 
               "To what conclusion does that remark tend?" 
               "That, not only do I need you to perfect my nature and my life, but you need me in your life-discipline. You are strong, that I know, but stronger in your emotional than your intellectual nature. 'What man loves in woman is her affection, not her intellect.' You are strong, and strong souls find a deep life in the solitude of lofty thought; but the tempter will come to you in solitude; he came to the Man-God in the wilderness; he will turn that strong emotional nature of yours to a wild work of havoc; and woman as you are, you cannot fly into world-action for refuge and forgetfulness, as men do. You must stay alone in the desert of your heart, with your tempter. There are those who stay for years in those deserts, never tasting the sublime bliss and agony of love; if they conquer the tempter, angels come and minister to them, and they hold high companionship-they find communion with the infinite, the Eternal!" 
               "But the tempter may drive men to madness." 
               "Yes, Magdalene Barclay, and if you dare trust yourself in the world wilderness alone, you will tempt demons around you; you need not hope that a providence will work miracles to save you, if you tempt him by such rashness. The world is no place for a woman alone; if you knew it as I know it, you would not blame me for saying I would be tempted to put a dagger into your heart rather than trust your innocence and ignorance unprotected to its mercy! Alone, a legion of tempters will be upon your path, like sleuth hounds; your grace, your beauty, your fascination, more bewitching from the intellectual charm around it, and especially your orphanage and desolation, will invite devils in the form of men to tempt you beyond refuge; and then a thousand agonies will cry out from within you, a thousand devils will batter at your heart calling out for me and the lost love I once gave you!" 
               Mag shuddered from head to foot. 
               "You are drawing a horrible picture of the world!" 
               "It is not overdrawn. Would to God it were! I know the world, Magdalene, as a woman can never know it till she has lost her womanliness. Let me save you with my love-you cannot afford to lose it!" 
                
               Heaven and earth seemed to be reeling beneath Mag's feet. 
               "Must I ever lose it, Charlie?" 
               "You must take it on my terms-they are true and honorable." 
               "Charlie," said Mag, after a pause, "you must leave me here now; if ever I am rich in friends and fortune, I promise to come to you of my own free will, and give myself to you 'lavishly, carelessly, utterly.'" 
               "I want you as you are, my darling!" 
               For a long, long time there was silence between the two young hearts. 
               "Will you give yourself to me, Magdalene?" 
               "I cannot-I cannot-I cannot! Some spirit, whose mandate I cannot disobey, forbids me to accept your compassion!" 
               "Compassion!" There was intense bitterness in the tone. "You are, indeed, a perfect skeptic. You do indeed doubt man and God. Yet in your heart of hearts you are a firm believer. You are listening to the tempter now. It is your evil angel who commands." 
               "And you are my good angel, that I know, Charlie. You are even now becoming my redeemer-you have given me strength, you have purified me! May God bless you for it, if, indeed, there is a God. I could almost believe it, since you exist!" 
               "Let me shield you from all temptation then! Look at the desolation of your soul without me-look at my desolation without you; you will be my worst tempter if you bid me leave you. God knows I love you! For you I could persecute heaven with prayers so earnest and fervent that they could not be resisted!" 
               "You will pray for me, Charlie. If you see me walking the path of misery down to its bitter end, you will pray for me? You will not desert me entirely when you leave me? You will not forget me, Cousin Charlie?" 
               "If you reject me now, Mag, I shall make no promises to shield you. I shall say you are an unreasonable coquette. I am true and noble now. I offer you the best part of my nature. If you persist in your present course you will turn temptress to me, and then I may turn tempter to you." 
               There was a passionate, almost fierce energy in his words and glance that brought back Mag's senses; but it brought out a free daring spirit. Mag never knew fear-better for her if she had known it; danger had a charm for her; a daring spirit in all her after life came at her call in any emergency, making her calm, self-possessed, even buoyant in danger; it roused her energies to action-and action is life-the spirit seemed to court danger-to bound forward, to meet and brave it. There was danger in her position then, for through her perversity Charles Moore was losing, with his patience, all control of his powerful passions. She would not be conquered then. She looked up into his face with an arch, bright smile; nay, unclasped the corded nerves of his fingers, and caressed them with her own. 
               "Charlie, I love you-you know I love you. When you go to Alabama you shall be my cousin. I will love you better than all the earth beside. More than this I shall not promise you. You shall write to me if you will, and do me the good I need. Should you degrade the noble in you, the sin will be yours, not mine-if ever I yield to temptation the sin will be mine, not yours. We shall not be tempted above what we are able-if we fall we must take the consequences. I give you warning, I shall not be responsible for any sins of yours. If there is a God he never made me responsible for any sins but my own with you." 
               "Well, good bye, little siren! I leave in the morning, and cannot see you again-never again on earth. And if I should chance to take the road to destruction, instead of the one to the better land where you are going, that love of yours, and the marriage in the hereafter, will be only a foolish day dream." 
               "I shall follow you to ruin, Charlie, if you persist in going." 
               "Then I shall certainly start. If the way to destruction is the way to win you, I shall walk in it!" 
               "Then you will promise not to forget me?" 
               "I will remember that among the hills of New England is a beautiful, perverse coquette, too proud to accept happiness from one who would give his life for her. She makes an idol of her pride-and God will not suffer idols. When her pride is crushed, her heart may be broken-it will be her own fault. Good bye, little, selfish Mag-determined to ruin another heart with your own. But, good bye!" 
             
             
                
               XX. SCHOOL. 
               FRANK walked in upon Mag the day after Charlie's departure, looking sulky as a bear. He was in all sorts of humor. 
               "What is it, Frank?" asked Mag. 
               "I'm cross! I'm mad as thunder! I wish all creation was one everlasting rag! I'd strip it into inch pieces, make it into whip-cords, and whip some of the nonsense out of you!" 
               "You don't say so! A young fellow from college, too! You wouldn't, Frank! You know you wouldn't!" 
               "I wish this little sneaking earth was a foot-ball, I'd kick it-or burst-till it collapsed and let off the gas!" 
               "Sure enough, Frank!" 
               "I wish all creation was one insignificant puppy-instead of a combination of puppies-I'd worry it till it would bark with a vim, instead of whining and snarling!" 
               "And so-o-o!" said Mag, with a whimper. 
               "If the universe was one big feline cat, I would pull its tail till it squalled worse than bedlam! I'm venomous!" 
               "Don't do it, Frank!" Mag put her finger in a corner of her eye. 
               "For your sake, Mag, I won't!" 
               "Thank you!" 
               "Mag, for a cousin of mine, you mean to be a right, clever, little somebody, but you've missed it certain! I love you worse than forty dogs, but you are a fool!" 
               "You don't say so, Frank!" 
               "And I'd work for you worse than forty mules!" 
               "Mercy on us!" 
               "But you've been, and gone, and done it!" 
               "Yes." 
               "With malice prepense, without cause or provocation, committed murder and suicide in the first degree, besides general ruination to the family on all sides. Charlie told me that you had 'kicked' him, 'sacked' him. Yankic, you have 'mittened' him, sent him marching-for forever and a day!" 
               "I declare, I never!" 
               "You've done it, sure as shooting! Do you take him for such a spooney as to be fooled by your whims? You have mistaken your man, certain. If you calculate on doing it you are calculating without your host. There is plenty of iron in Charlie Moore, and you have come to it now. You are playing a losing game. You'll 'see the stars' before you ever see him again." 
               "I have seen them frequently, and was not frightened." 
               "You'll see them in the daytime, soon." 
               "Sufficient unto the day is the darkness and the shining thereof." 
               "And what destiny do you propose for yourself now?" 
               "I am to be promoted to the dignity of school ma'am, in about two weeks, you know, in which sphere I shall, no doubt, work out my appointed destiny." 
               "You are ambitious!" 
               "I shall do with my might all that my hands, heart and head find to do. I shall do my best in everything." 
               "I think you have tried yourself, for a week or so." 
               "Angels can do no better than their best-are responsible for no more." 
               "Work out your own destruction, Mag!" 
               "Or salvation?" 
               "It will be a draw-game, at your best." 
               "No chance about it; I intend to win. When do you start for the lakes and life?" 
               "In just a month; and I intend to see life too! Don't know what Prex Woolsey will say. I shall have to fix up a great excuse for the Faculty; father will help me out, though. He believes in the expansion of body as well as mind, being a physician of bodies instead of souls. He thinks a boy ought to grow. Senior year is half play, anyhow. But oh, Mag, Mag, Mag, I could have forgiven you anything but this. The way I love Charlie!" 
               And she thought of it with a sort of sinking at the heart, after Frank left her. Charlie had gone-gone-gone-and it was now beyond her power to recall him. Was he in earnest when he told her she would never see him again on earth? He had not faculties for absorbing sunshine, but some glorious light seemed to have departed from her world. Last week that world had been radiant with rainbows; it had been full of glorious beauty-was it his presence that had tinted earth and sky for her? Their loveliness had certainly departed. He was not her strength, but some strange energy was dying in her heart; a dull, hopeless feeling was paralyzing her; the faces around her looked like those from the City of the Demons, of whom she had read, "the faces of men pained within." Only yesterday, and Nature had worn bridal garments; only yesterday, and every heart seemed "wrapped in Elysium." Now the very winds seemed soughing with languor, sobbing to the leaves with whom yesterday they had coquetted in their ecstasies, when the leaves had fluttered back their soft, laughing joy. A light had gone out in Mag's heart. She wandered miles and miles away, to forget in the racing of her blood that she was growing desperately soul-weary. She racked heart and brain to find stimulus for action-it would never do to let her empty heart, like the empty mill-stone, grind itself away. 
               One pleasant autumn morning, she found herself ordained in the pedagogue's chair, at Academia, the successor of Socrates and those other Ichabods whose glory had departed. More than this, to aid her in supporting her dignity in the trying emergency, Min and May had become her pupils. They gave her the new title of "Miss Barclay," with becoming decorum, reverence and gravity, and she aided them up the hill of science with wonderful expedition considering the circumstances, which were a little alarming, Min being "engaged" to the profession of the law, also being devoted to the frequent study of new law documents that arrived by every post, and the answering of which required much consideration. 
               She had one pupil who was so unmanageable, that she was forced to expel him, but the more he was expelled, the more he would not leave. Her dog Sport insisted upon taking a graduating course; he had a cunning trick of opening the door himself and walking into school, making all manner of affectionate pleadings to her for pardon, at all manner of unseasonable times, especially at devotions, for Mag had astonished all Glenlyn, and especially Mr. Brown, by conducting devotions in school herself; so, to relieve her, at last Min and May claimed Sport as their pupil, and took the responsibility of teaching him grace in manners and morals, as well as the arts of conversation and literature. Under May's tuition he commenced the study of English and German, together, in Woodbury's and Sander's English and German Primer. Min criticised his course, insisting that he made far more rapid progress in Deutsch conversation than in English. May informed her that "the pictures in the primer showed vast investigating energies and wonderful research into the adapting powers of the human mind, in those distinguished authors. The "pictures" were intended as short "cuts" to knowledge, yet they were calculated to confuse the intellect of a little fellow like Sport, who was learning the two languages at one and the same time; therefore, when she became literary, she intended to suggest to Messrs. Woodbury and Sanders the propriety of publishing the next edition of their wonderful Primer without "pictures;" their meaning was too funny for thorough improvement-at least, her pupil caused her to Sport with the "ideas" continually. 
               Mag's school became popular; the academy flourished. 
               "Your pupil Sport, is bound to disgrace his teachers," said Frank to the three, as they were walking home late, one afternoon. 
               "We consider that a villainous slander," May Burton replied; "Sport's morals and manners are admirable, the result of high cultivation, deep study of letters, besides his daily association with highly gifted minds, which last is the acme of education in this world." 
               "Or any other," said Frank. "I admire his pursuits, now, May Burton." 
               "Ah, ah, I see! Well the best regulated minds are liable to mistake. I must suggest a rectification!" And "in an instant" as Frank rehearsed it to her afterward, "May was chasing Sport, who was furiously chasing a flock of 'young 'uns,' who were chasing Grandma Barclay's flock of ducks and geese, who were laboring under the mistaken impression, that it was to be their happy destiny to roost in a Garden of Paradise during life-a common mistake of unfeathered ducks and geese-also some pigs, of which, in the course of events, they got safely dispossessed." 
               Frank, Min and Mag, watched May and the picture with interest. 
               "An invaluable moral can be discovered by the clear-eyed," said Frank, pointing to little Harry Fenn, who brought up the pursuit in the rear, with a long, hopelessly lazy trot after a turkey-gobbler. "Pursuing an object in life from a sense of duty, without the remotest expectation of overtaking it! Faith is the ingredient wanting for success. Faith would inspire energy, and Harry could captivate that gobbler!" 
               When all the young 'uns, ducks, geese and turkeys, had trotted out of sight, and grandma had smoothed her ruffled feathers, May and Sport returned refreshed and happy. 
               Frank strolled into the schoolroom the next morning, to fulfill the duties of examining committee. "It was a matter of conscience with him," he said, "to see that the teacher did not impose upon the public." 
               The school had resolved itself into a committee of the whole, with Mag as chairman (!) and Min and May leaders, in a discussion of the story of Joseph and his brethren. Mag was painting in word pictures, the boy-dreamer, with his inspired Hebrew eyes, his wild grief when torn from home, and his father's love, and that serpent sting in his anguish, his brothers' hatred. She painted his life in slavery, the sobbing of his great agony of longing, his dreams of home, and the beautiful little baby-brother who had slept there in his arms. She told how his sorrow and solitude had ripened into strength at last, how fierce temptation and fiery wrong had developed in him a wisdom beyond that of the serpent, because, amid all, he had preserved his soul pure. She told them how he had wondered by day and by night, why, why, WHY God had blighted his youth, why God poured upon him such degradation, made him worse than orphaned, a stranger and a slave. 
                  What was God doing with him? for God was with him. She told, too, how love was given even him at last; he became a prince instead of a slave, and then his brothers who had hated him, came to him as suppliants. She described how he forgave them for blasting his youth, his youth that never could return to him, and loved them with his olden, deep, yearning, boyhood's love. She described the storm that was convulsing his soul, beneath the calm words that asked, "Is your father well, the old man of whom you spake?" and his fervent blessing over his beautiful boy brother; "God be gracious to thee, my son!" And when nature had endured to the utmost, how he made haste to reach his chamber, that the tempest might weep itself away. And again, when his agony of love mastered him at last, he drove out his attendants, and threw himself into his brothers' arms, sobbing, "I am Joseph. Doth my father yet live? Be not grieved or angry with yourselves, for God sent me hither to save your lives by a great deliverance. It was not you that sent me hither, but God." Mag painted the patriarch, too, refusing to be comforted for his lost idol, the son of Rachel, whose loveliness had won such wild worship of his youth-his rending his garments, his clothing himself in sackcloth, and sitting in dust, saying, "I will go down into my grave mourning." Mag went on: "And when years and years had passed, when famine and sorrow had done their work, when he, too, had wondered, as all men do wonder, what God was doing with him, and when the end would be, his sons came and told him, that Joseph was yet alive, and prince and governor over all Egypt. 'His heart fainted, and he believed them not.' Joseph came up from the dead, as a prince to gladden his father's aged eyes! But at last the spirit of Jacob revived from the shock of intense joy, and he was satisfied. Was ever mortal before satisfied with blessing? 'It is enough-it is enough, Joseph, my son, is yet alive. I will go and see him before I die.' When he had clasped Rachel's first-born in his arms, when he had wept on Joseph's neck, life had full fruition, the harvest was gathered. 'Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, my son!' 
               "Oh, what love God had planted in human hearts! God had done it all. God was in all history. God permitted the earth to be enriched by the tears of men, and the blood of nations, that from such lavished treasures a better harvest of men and nations might arise. God was in all history. God with us. Never for one moment had he forsaken his children of earth-'the very hairs of their head were all numbered-not a sparrow fell to the ground without him.'" 
               "Do you really believe all that?" asked Frank of Mag, when they were alone after school. 
               "I try to believe it, Frank, because there is nothing else to believe on earth. Disbelief of all things, is uncomfortable, you know. I preach mostly to convince myself; as they say Pascal wrote his 'Evidences of Christianity.'" 
               "Exactly." 
               "I am working on a forlorn hope, you understand. Life is a failure, anyway, unless this saves it. Neither harm nor risk in trying it. Impossible to lose by it." 
                
               "All the village are in convulsions of astonishment at your course." 
               "It will do them good. They need something to talk about, and they might find worse gossip." 
               "Well, well. You are more than half right; you may win something, and you can't lose. You've headed Mr. Brown on skepticism." 
               "But I have a careful game to play with him; he wants me to join the church. He flatters my pious efforts, says the church are much pleased with my devotion in school. I'm obliged for their good opinion." 
               "Of course." 
               "I told him, simply, that I was not prepared to join the church-gave him no reason, he not being trustworthy-he must not have it in his power again to injure me, by calling me a skeptic. A female skeptic is a monster in the eyes of the world, fit only for perdition." 
               "Why not do it to improve your business?" 
               "I happen to have a conscience that forbids." 
               "Your conscience has always been a troublesome article, it makes you argue in a circle." 
               "Well, I will not join the church, because I do not choose to put myself into fellowship with vanity, alias Mr. Brown-with senseless bigotry, alias Deacon Kimball-or self-righteousness, alias Deacon Carter-those men who allowed Father Parker's dishonor." 
               "Judge not!-judge not!" 
               "I am not yet prepared to take a false oath on the creed. 'I believe in God the Father, etc.' I do not know whether I believe or not; my belief itself remains to be demonstrated." 
               "You are like Thomas, who would not believe, till he had seen the wounds with his own eyes, and put his fingers in the prints of the nails." 
               "One thing I fully believe; I must work out my own salvation." 
               "There is common sense in that creed. That is mine." 
               "Work it out with fear and trembling." 
               "I may disagree with you there. Fear and trembling are not useful commodities 'in a world like this.' (What a sneer Longfellow put into those words: 'Fear not in a world like this.') Much might be said on both sides; my motto is, 'Possunt quia posse videntur,' or as James Martineau turns it, 'Qui possunt, posse videntur;" 
                
               "Change the creed to this, Frank, 'Faith without works is dead.' If you cannot get the faith, make sure of the works. 'Do God's will, and you shall know of the doctrine,' unless the Bible is a lie." 
               "Go ahead, Mag, you'll work out something! No doubt about that! Whether it is your salvation or destruction, Time will tell." 
               "Or Eternity, if there is one." 
               "I wish I had more admiration for the work you have done, on Charlie's account. If that is a specimen, I think the result doubtful." 
               "I intend to be a model of meekness and humility." 
               "Well, 'vivamus dum vivimus.' We fellows are off for the lakes in western New York, next week, hunting!" 
               May Burton interrupted them-she came and addressed Mag in her own demure, quaint style: 
               "Miss Barclay, my parents and guardians being about to retire from home on a visit for a week, petition that you will favor them by becoming the 'united head of their family,' during their absence. 'Yours very respectfully,' being installed housekeeper pro tem." 
               "Of what numerical magnitudes are the dimensions of the family, with the 'united head?'" asked Frank, in her style. 
               "The 'united head' counts one; sis counts two." 
               "Sis counts two? She is a multiplied quantity!" 
               "The least common multiple! Please go, Miss Barclay; I want you so much." 
               "The 'united head' will not be divided in sentiment," said Mag, trying to improve the nonsense in the English language. "I'll go, if Aunt Lina permits." 
               "And will be constituted the greatest common divisor of all the responsibilities of the household," continued Frank. 
               "Association is education!" said Mag. 
               "Witness Sport's wonderful progress," added May. 
               "How astonishingly school associations and intercourse with mathematical ladies do brighten Frank's mathematical ideas and manners!" 
               The "united head" with its "associated ideas" walked homeward, with their books, to the "bosom of the family." 
               Housekeeping and school duties went on in Utopian fashion that week. May set the table for tea, also set "sis" to gather bouquets for the table, while the sun set in the west. Mag was particularly fond of the "good," and gratified her taste by gathering ripe, yellow peaches from the garden, removing their blooming complexions, and laying the melting pulps, frosted with sugar and cream, into dishes, while the biscuits were ripening in the oven, and the tea-kettle getting up opposition music to the canaries. And when the "goodies" had gone the way they ought always to go, the cloth was removed, and Mag's dignity also, or rather postponed into the family rocking-chair; and the school studies, especially Latin, progressed in a zigzag sort of fashion, thus: 
               May seated on a footstool, reclining her arm upon the teacher's lap; her eyes on Cicero-reading. 
               "'Nemo femina magna sine aliquo afflatu divino unquam fuit,' which being freely translated reads: 'No magnificent woman was ever without some divine inspiration;' the true meaning of which proposition is somewhat ambiguous-the interpretation depending upon the accented word. If unquam is emphatic, the meaning is obvious, 'Great ladies who are divinities remain forever divine.'" 
               "The meaning is clear to those who appreciate the sublimity of absurd things." 
               May went on with the lesson. 
               "Undoubtedly that was Cicero's thought, for if aliquo receives the accent, a portion of the eloquence as well as truth is lost; thus, 'A great woman has somewhat of the divine in her nature,' with a very perceptible sneer in the emphatic 'somewhat'-'not much.'" 
               "Ergo, magna pars veri latet," quoted Mag; "though your exposition of the paragraph is luminous-even brilliant." 
               "Yes," commented May, gravely, "truth has a bad habit of hiding itself; but one reason is obvious-its proportions are so gigantic that small and weak minds are obliged to separate it into infinitesimal doses for digestion! and unfortunately the overwhelming majority of humanity are possessed of only that style of mind." 
               "Quoniam difficile est Yankic et proprie communia dicere," quoted Mag again. 
               "Because it is especially difficult, in the Yankee tongue, to make common truths proper ones-the grammar of the language forbidding truth to be at the same time common and proper-fitted for the masses and also for the 'aristos.'" 
                
               "Nothing so sweet as nonsense, which never aims at truth, little May- 
                      
                        "Carissima, te amo! 
                        Anim amoris, 
                        Dilecta, te adoro! 
                        Avis, soror noctis!" 
                     
                  
                
               "Mag, do put your Pegasus into curb-bits, or you will be thrown!" exclaimed May. "Miss Barclay, I intended to have said-excuse my shock of forgetfulness! Was that original-mistakes and all? or was it from Lieutenant Moore?" 
               But just here their studies were interrupted by the entrance of Frank and Min, with a brace of pigeons and a gun. They had divided the spoil, but presented it, with their compliments, to the family. 
               "But, Frank," said Min, "what on earth can they do with the things? Do you intend the birds to be eaten-feathers and all?" 
               "It is entirely a matter of taste, Min. If you are fond of feathers, by all means eat them. No one can have the slightest objection." 
               "Can you dress pigeons, Miss Barclay?" asked Min. 
               "I can try." 
               "Can you dress pigeons, May?" 
               "Perhaps." 
               "I can undress them, if that will answer your purposes," said Frank. "Will you prefer the feathers taken off or arranged on?" 
               "We do usually unfeather pigeons for pies," said May. "If you desire it, however, we can make one for you, Frank, seasoned with plumes." 
               "I won't put you to that trouble now, May-wait a few years." 
               "We will make a division of labor," said Min; "Frank and I will dissect the birds, if Mag and May will make the pies." 
               "A precious phenomenon you will make anatomizing those birds!" exclaimed Frank, taking out a pocket spyglass and walking around Min to take a view.
                
               Min had dressed herself for church on the coming Sabbath. The dress was of silk, of the most gorgeous purple tints, made with a double skirt, and bright scarlet trimmings; over the dress was fastened a school apron of white Swiss muslin, very full, and knotted on either side with heavy scarlet ribbons. The colors harmonized with the exquisite bloom of her complexion, and the black, dancing eyes. Her hair was thrown back from the prominent brow in coquettish curls. 
               Frank commenced taking notes, as he surveyed her. 
               "Hat of the size of a fragment of a pocket-handkerchief, and it will need a telescope of the highest magnifying powers, in the voyage of a traveller circumambulating that immense globe-(Query, cone? Reply-Doubted the existence of an apex) to discover that part of the territory where the hat is worn or concealed." 
               "I shall be ready to dissect those subjects in half an instant," said Min, flitting off to change her dress, while Frank commenced stripping the bipeds with alarming energy; he tore the feathers off in clouds, while Mag and May superintended. 
               "Imagine Adam dissecting pigeons for his spouse." said Frank. 
               "Imagine Eve in a stew of a pie with them," said Mag. 
               Frank looked up to see Min metamorphosed; she having donned a pretty calico morning dress for the pigeon-work. 
               "Never try to fancy Madam Eve taking off her 'store clothes,' to dress birds; 'cause why, she didn't wear 'em, being 'nature unadorned.'" 
               "And," said Mag, "what a stupid time Adam and Eve had, sitting down to dinner every day, with only the 'united head' and no family." 
               "And using one rock for a chair, and another rock for a table," added Min, "and eating stew-pie with their fingers." 
               "Min, what did they do with their teeth?" asked Frank. 
               "And the pies made without flour," said Min. 
               "With peaches and cream for dessert," Mag added. 
               "And strawberries and pineapples, dry so. Adam and Eve were unfortunately minus the dishes to raise the cream; and it wouldn't pay to turn milk-maids. I'd have been too lazy to have chased the cows if I'd been Adam, and Eve had no dairy to make butter and things. But May, you look as if the conversation was getting too strong for your principles; mine may be a little awry; you must straighten them for me..... What do you suppose Adam and his lady love found to talk about, alone there in Eden, week in and week out? They had no little boy and girl scrapes to be funny over; and love-making, after an hour or so, is the most insipid business in creation. I know, for I've tried it..... Never met two ladies in my life-present company always excepted-who did not exhaust themselves in less than two days..... And Eve, you know, wasn't cultivated or accomplished; she never played the piano, poor woman, because Adam, poor man, couldn't invent one for her..... She hadn't read up on the poets. Unfortunately for Eve, Massey, the Brownings, and Longfellow, and all that fry, hadn't writ books, and Eve couldn't read if they had!.... How much Adam and Eve did miss in not having waited till these days to be born! Pity it hadn't occurred to them to do so! Our advantages are so much superior! What a fortunate thing for us that she ate that apple! If she hadn't done it the modern improvements would have been where the world was before it was created!..... And the sublime thought, born of sin, and its progeny, sorrow, woe, and anguish, would never have taught us that though we have deeper knowledge of misery than the innocents of Eden, we have also a far deeper experience of bliss!" 
               "Go on, Frank; don't forget your pigeons in your philosophy." 
               "On the whole, it is my private opinion, expressed here before this enlightened audience, that we are capable of a much deeper and more exalted happiness than Adam and Eve ever dreamed of in Eden before they ate the apple.... And ergo, I would rather be myself, Frank Ross, as I am, and risk the chances of the hereafter, than have been my own first ancestors..... Also, I believe Adam loved Eve a hundred fold more in the sorrow that came upon them after he fell, than before he stumbled on the idea; and she returned his devotion with a hundred-and-fifty fold more fervor!... To sum up the argument, I think their wrong was a very right thing, taking all things into consideration, and, especially, as the Bible says that God predestinated the fall from before the foundation of the earth!" 
               "You must be sure to come and dine with us to-morrow, Frank," said May Burton; "we shall want your taste on our pie." 
               "Thank you, May Burton; my heart will be with you, wherever my bodily presence may be." 
               The pie progressed toward its destiny the next day, Saturday, in a manner characteristic of its creators. May invented yeast for the crust, and the three together deposited sited the entire stew into a mammoth pot, their appetites being expansive as well as their imaginations, and the pottage was placed over the stove to germinate. 
               Just as this was accomplished, the autumn woods and streams, the sunshine and the breezes, called to them with all manner of enticing voices, to come out and commune with Mother Nature. So they left the pie and the fire beneath it in charge of "Sis," selfish souls, put on their sunbonnets, and went out to answer the call. They visited the homes of the waters, garlanded themselves with crimson, green and golden autumn leaves, and scarlet berries, talked of midnight and morning, of moonshine and music, of death and life, and duty and devotion. 
               "The hero-soul should go home from the march and battle of life at sunset," said Mag, "under waving clouds of crimson banners, and a sky flushed golden for victory." 
               "The remark bears a decidedly military character," said May; "you have been taking lessons from the army of late." 
               They bethought themselves of the post-office at last, and journeyed thitherward, but met Frank with the "documents." 
               Min's letter consisted of some dozen enormous pages, closely written. Curious, how people in love do pour out ideas." 
               "It looks ominous to see love-letters written on foolscap," said May. 
               Min was engaged in the abstract study of law. 
               "They will lay aside the foolscap when they reach the sober realities," said Frank. But Min was oblivious. 
               Having at length reached the "Yours devotedly, R. Hudson Ely," on the twelfth page, Min looked up with an expression of ineffable resignation. "How do you find yourself, Min?" asked Mag. 
               "She is quite miserable, she thanks you," said Frank; "suffering under an attack of rheumatism on the brain, which, coming in contact with all the other isms, has produced a shock to the vital system extending to the regions of the heart; even a shower-bath could not cool her off, she is so hot-headed and oblivious. Cupping would not relieve her, on account of the abstract law lately gone into operation in her heart, which will counteract the general law of the system. It is an aggravated case, to be remedied only by the order of heaven's first law to woman-matrimony in a tremendous dose!" 
                
               "That wasn't quite as funny as I expected, Frank, though it was funny some," Min answered; "I am trying to blush with all my might." 
               "Min," said Frank, "please loan me that love-letter. I've a use for it. I want it for a pattern love-letter. I must write one soon. Is the question put in business fashion?" 
               "Very." 
               "Does he give the items?" 
               "Every one of them. Speaks of his industrious habits; gives the amount of every dollar he ever earned in his lifetime." 
               "Yes." 
               "Ninety-nine dollars and some odd cents." 
               "Pity he had not filled the figures with a round hundred!" 
               "He was sorry about that himself. He earned that amount as a schoolmaster in the Academy near his father's!" 
               "I hope he will be forgiven for it!" 
               "He thinks the full hundred might be made out, if he counts in what his father has paid him for picking up apples at a cent a bushel; he thinks he contributed nearly a hundred bushels towards making cider before he fitted for college. Having succeeded in earning so much toward a competency, he feels encouraged to think he may earn more." 
               "Is the letter affectionate? Must I do so too?" 
               "Very affectionate. If ever he earns a fortune he proposes to divide with me; more than this, he says he will give me the biggest half-though I am in consternation about that-it is outside of my arithmetic, which says the two halves of a thing are exactly of the same size. But I think we shall be able to make that right. He promises to divide with me in that way, if we come to the last crust of bread, and the last blanket!" 
               "It is a magnanimous offer!" 
               "I think so, and I intend to answer his letter immediately, and tell him that I'll do it!" 
               "When I copy that letter, May, will you imitate Min's praiseworthy example?" 
               "My correspondence, if ever I open one, will not be an imitation. If the fates will spice tart replies for me I shall try to make them original." 
               "Heigho!" exclaimed Frank. "I am ennuied! I wish I could originate a foolish or silly remark for variety! I am afraid it will be utterly impossible, however, having lived so long without ever having accomplished the feat!" 
                
               "Sis," who saw them coming, ran out in great tribulation to meet them. 
               "She had watched the fire all day," she said, "and kept the pigeons boiling, and they were boiled all off the bones, and the crust was so light it had risen out of the pot, and she couldn't keep it in till she squeezed it in with the cover, and then the cover wouldn't stay on till she fastened it on with a brick!" 
               "You are a perfect little martyr, sis," exclaimed the three in a breath, catching her and half devouring her with kisses. 
               "It was outrageously selfish in us to leave you so long," said May, with a real sorrowful sting of conscience. 
               "We must change ourselves into three fairies, to give you the three things you wish for most," said Mag. 
               "The table is ready for dinner, but it is nearly night, and I think we will call it supper this time," sis responded. 
               The pigeons were delicious even in chaos, and Frank discovered a moral in the crust, being, as all declared, a young man of unusual morals.
                
               "It was the duty of all kinds of crust, in the inchoate state, to keep under cover and let the pot boil. After being fitted for the duties of a higher station, it was time for the under crust to emerge and take the more responsible station of upper crust in society." 
               When Frank departed that night he bade his cousins all a "good bye," for he was to be off for the lakes before he could see them on Monday morning. 
               "Good bye, Mag! good bye, Min! good bye, little May Burton! Very pleasant have you all been unto me, and my love for you is wonderful, passing the love of women!" 
               And so he went away from them. 
             
             
                
               XXI. THE BIRTHDAY. 
               THE weeks rolled away heavily to Mag, for Frank was gone, and she received no message or tidings of, or from Charles Moore. It required all her energy to rouse herself from the stupor and paralysis that was settling down upon her, with the hope deferred that maketh the heart sick. She was roused from that stupor by a shock that vibrated along her nerves as thunder never vibrated. 
               A "still, small voice"-a whisper-went shuddering around the village of Glenlyn late in the autumn. Men gathered together in groups, and talked with horror written on their faces and glowing in their eyes; village girls whispered together with pale, trembling lips; and mothers-three mothers went frantic with agony-and all mothers gathered to them and wept with them in their unavailing tears of untold anguish. 
               Three mothers; one was the mother of Porter Raymond-and his father wept with her; one was the mother of Mark Walton-and "he was the only son of his mother and she was a widow;" and one was the mother of Frank Ross. God help all mothers who are sorrowing with such sorrow! 
               The mother of Mark Walton had received a letter from a stranger near Long Lake, in Western New York, saying that three young hunters had left their traps and valises at his house, by the lakes, had gone out on a deer hunt of several days, near Clear Pond; that their dogs had returned at last without them, and they themselves had never returned. At length the neighbors had searched the forests and lakes for them, but found only a cap and glove thrown upon the shore, supposed to belong to the missing hunters. The neighbors had also taken the liberty of breaking open the valises, in one of which was found a letter written by Mark Walton to his mother, which they forwarded with the most heart-rending tidings. 
                
               And it was all the tidings that ever reached Glenlyn of the fate of the young, the noble, the beautiful, and brave. 
               Alec Ross and the father of Porter Raymond went out to those lakes to look for their lost treasures. 
               For miles and miles before they reached Long Lake, on the frontiers of New York, they found the people expecting, and relays of horses in waiting for the friends of the lost hunters. At such a calamity the great heart of humanity was stirred; strangers wept for the sorrow of fathers, and mothers, and brothers; sisters shuddered at the untimely fate of the young; the forests were searched again and again; the lakes were dragged; all that energy, or sympathy, or love, could devise was done, but never again did there come tidings of those lost ones, to the aching hearts, from the unknown land whither the hunters had gone. 
               And at last, when the last hope had of itself quivered its last agony, and the horror had settled down upon human hearts, there came the throbbing of a funeral bell over the valleys of Glenlyn, to tell men that hope was dead. 
               The knell came into the mansion of the Rosses, and Alec Ross threw himself in speechless anguish into the dust; the father sat with convulsed lip and brow, and gave sway to the grief that was frosting his temples; and the mother sobbed in frantic sorrow and woe, like Rachel, refusing to be comforted; David's cry of desolation tore itself in madness from her bleeding heart; Jacob's lamentation swept her soul, "'I will go down to my grave sorrowing!' 'My son, my son! Would to God! Would to God, I had died for thee.'" 
               And Mag Barclay was lying prostrate upon her chamber floor, when the tolling bell stopped her heart. Not one tear had yet visited her eye. She laughed in bitter mockery: "If there was a God, he was mocking her, and she could mock him back again. Yet a strange echo was ringing through her soul-it was from a book-a book that some men call holy-said it had been a revelation from a God(!) to man." She smiled in bitter scorn and mockery, but still the echo ran along her nerves. "The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you.... I am distressed for thee my brother Jonathan-very pleasant hast thou been unto me, thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women." 
                
               The days and weeks, and months rolled on; no human anguish, and no human hope could stop their flight. Time speeds over the wrecks of thrones, and religions, and hearts with tireless wing, bearing all hopes, and all despair to the bourne whence no traveller returns. The months rolled on, and hearts became accustomed to their cureless woe. 
               The months rolled on; they brought at last, Mag Barclay's birthnight anniversary. There was a covenant made years before between four young hearts: "If it be possible, we will meet on the night of the second anniversary of Magdalene Barclay's birthday." 
               On that anniversary night, the heart of Frank Ross was at rest from all its daring earth-dreams; the brave, restless spirit, freed from its glorious tenement of clay, was wandering-where-in the universe of the Eternal? God knows where. Did Frank Ross remember the covenant meeting with those he so loved on earth? 
               On that birthnight anniversary, Ralph Burton, who had also been a rover, and a dreamer of royal dreams, lay upon his pillow. Consumption was preying on his vitals; he had come home at last to die; his heart also, with its wealth of pure and earnest aspirations, was tolling its last faint beat upon the pulses. A smile played over his pale lips, as he murmured fond words; years before, he had murmured those words when a little child in his mother's arms. Years had passed since he had seen that mother, but he was going to sleep now, and when he waked, her arms would be around him again, and their home would be once more together, beyond the grave. The soft light was fading in the blue eye, the sunny clustering locks were damp with the death-dew on the temples, and the spirit at last fluttered free from the flesh that had chafed, and worn, and fretted it in its mortal pain. 
               Was it not possible, that the spirits of Frank Ross and Ralph Burton, redeemed their covenant? 
               The long, long night passed, and two other spirits, yet in the flesh, were bending over the beautiful marble features, now smiling in their last placid slumber; trembling fingers wove together fresh green leaves and pure white rosebuds, and placed the wreaths upon the bosom of Ralph Burton, to wither with his earth-dreams in his early grave. The young and manly, whose hearts were yet flushing high in their strength and glory, bore him to the churchyard; they laid him gently and lovingly down, chanted over him their solemn requiem, and left him there.
                
               The green turf, and the summer blossoms, are now springing upon his bosom, and soft winds whisper over him in his dreamless rest; but to the grave of Frank Ross, neither the springing grass, nor the summer blossoms, nor the autumn breezes come-but winds on the restless sea, and solemn surges, with the ocean echo of eternity, are forever chanting his requiem to the hearts that loved-that still love him so wildly. 
               Among the valleys of New England, a white marble cross is rising; a symbol is sculptured upon it, whose interpretation is, "Jesus Hominum Salvator." 
               For years Magdalene Barclay was accustomed to say, that if nothing else lay beneath that marble, she knew of a human heart trampled into that grave, and a weight heavier than marble was dragging the heart down-down-down to a bottomless abyss. When other years had rolled away, another marble scroll was placed within the iron inclosure, on which was sculptured these words: "Very pleasant hast thou been to me, my brother; thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of woman." 
               
                   
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 "My heart is in the coffin there with Csar."
                               
                            
                            
                              I. 
                              Night has come down, and not one star is gleaming, 
                              No star which brings me the Divine One's thought, 
                              The breathing winds are rich with holy dreaming, 
                              They murmur blessings from the unforgot. 
                              I know the night is holy, for I'm weeping, 
                              Life-gushing tears flow at some music strain, 
                              A strange sweet song the wild night winds are sweeping, 
                              And I weep with them to their low refrain. 
                            
                            
                              II. 
                              Their gushing wail is heavy now with sobbing, 
                              They come from graves where marble lips are still, 
                              To hush the woe now in my pulses throbbing, 
                              To breathe of hearts that never more will thrill. 
                              I ne'er again shall smooth thy raven tresses, 
                              Ne'er lift the glorious locks from thy broad brow, 
                              Upon thy heavy lids a cold hand presses, 
                              The cruel, hungry grave hath won thee now. 
                            
                            
                            
                              III. 
                              Night has come down, her sable garments trailing, 
                              Thick horror shrouds my weary, weary soul, 
                              My being's depths echo a bitter wailing, 
                              And silences their stern gloom o'er me roll. 
                              Wilt thou not love me still? We were twin-hearted- 
                              Should ne'er have torn those restless hearts in twain, 
                              When met we were not weary, but when parted, 
                              Do not our souls cry out to meet again? 
                            
                            
                              IV. 
                              Alas, alas! I'm wearied out with weeping, 
                              Such life-wrung tears gush with night's music strain, 
                              My spirit goes forth on the wild winds sweeping, 
                              Oh, brother, take me to thy heart again; 
                              And give me balmy rest until the morning, 
                              Rest soft and still, rest sweet as thou hast won. 
                              God took thee, darling, for a high adorning, 
                              He gave, and now hath claimed thee for his own. 
                            
                            
                              V. 
                              Hope, love and joy, are but a fabled story- 
                              The night hath settled all my soul within, 
                              Prostrate in dust and ashes my youth's glory, 
                              Blighted and marred, and stained by tears and sin. 
                              But we shall sleep the sleep that knows no waking, 
                              When we've fulfilled God's time of rolling years, 
                              Then love's bright golden links shall ne'er be breaking, 
                              And there shall be no night, nor life-wrung tears. 
                            
                           
                              MAGDALENE.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               When the winter was gone, and the time for the singing of birds had come, Mag sent the lines to Charles Moore, and waited for his reply with an unutterable longing that possessed her very soul. 
             
             
                
               XXII. EBBING TIDES. 
                
                   
                     
                        "There is a tide in the affairs of men, which, taken at its flood, leads on to fortune."-
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "And there's a tide in the affairs of women, too, which, taken at its ebb, leads-God knows where."-
                      
                     BYRON. 
                   
                
               IT was a summer holiday; Mag was waiting for the mail. She had received one letter from Charlie Moore-a lament for Frank-and now was hoping to receive another. Sweet fool! Her youth and energy had repelled sorrow, and more than one blow was needed to crush her strong spirit. As she waited and watched, her pulses palpitated with an unsteady throb; the minutes dragged on into hours; the hours droned into ages, and her heart fluttered, and stopped, and the pulses struggled, and throbbed on, and when the longed-for music of the mail train reached her ear at last, her heart bounded to her throat with a convulsive leap that choked her. 
               "Down! down, insane simpleton! Have you gone mad, entirely? Do you really find yourself at this stage of your existence in love, past redemption? For shame, Miss Mag Barclay!" she said to herself, as she put on her sunbonnet, and started across the meadow to the post-office. "Miss Barclay, I agree with Uncle Alph. You are becoming to me one of Old Nick's own unaccountables! Really, I supposed I had some slight accquaintance with you, but just now you are the one personage on earth of whom I know precisely nothing. If some benevolent soul would but make your acquaintance and give me an introduction, it would be a deed of unbounded charity to you and me, both!" 
               And Mag seated herself and Miss Barclay both, at the foot of a tree, to let Miss Barclay's heart subside. 
               "Just get through aching, if you please, and conduct yourself with the unbounded sense of propriety required of a respectable female heart, at your age, and then we can proceed on our way." 
                
               Just then our acquaintances, Jenny Hale and Etta Fanshaw, two precious morsels of humanity, came tearing toward her out of breath, with their innocent wits in a perfect puzzle over the mysteries of human depravity, and the other mysteries they had found on the old mysterious earth. Their eyes were full of it, their faces radiated unspeakable concern over it. They were certainly in trouble again-it is the fate of mortals, especially little girls. The trouble and mystery came in the form of a little, half-dead, more than half-naked chicken, with a broken wing. Jenny was panting with excitement, and hardly able to breathe, on account of her excessive indignation. 
               "Oh-cousin-Miss-Mag-Barclay-only-just-do see-what-hateful-Harry-Fenn-has-been-doing-to-this-chicky!" 
               "He's the wickedest boy I ever did see!" exclaimed Etta. "And where do you s'pose he got his badness?" 
               Mag didn't know; she had wondered herself. 
               "Such a nice old hen, too!" Etta went on; "and all her chickies out in the yard, so good, and Harry would throw stones at 'em, and he broke this one's wings-just see!" And Etta poked her little fingers among the broken bones, till the chicken set up a squall. 
               "Careful, careful, Etta," said Jenny; "you'll hurt 'im." 
               "And then Harry went and buried him alive, all but his head, in the sand, 'cause he was 'fraid if Grandma Barclay could catch him, she'd spank him; and he ought to be skinned," said Etta. 
               "Yes," Jenny went on, "and we heard 'im peepin', and cryin', and cryin'-poor chicky! see how dreadfully all his feathers look!" 
               "And how bad the poor old hen did feel too! Such a good old hen! Why, I guess she lays two or three of the biggest sort of eggs every day! She cried about it awfully. Grandma thinks lots of that old hen. I don't believe she'll ever want to lay another egg!" 
               "Well," said Mag, "will you let me take care of him, while you go to the post-office, and get a letter for me?" 
               "Yes. A letter for you?" 
               "Two of them, if you can." 
               "We'll get a whole lot of 'em if you'll fix his wing." 
               "And Miss Mag, we just want you to whip Harry Fenn; you can, you know, 'cause you are school-ma'am," said Etta. 
                
               Off they flew again. Mag tore a strip from her torn handkerchief, screwed the broken wing into shape, and bound it up, continuing some running mental remarks to Miss Barclay, meanwhile. "I just wonder what is the destination of all creation, from this little ugly spider crawling up my hand-I wonder, by the by, why I hate it, and why it seems ugly-to this forlorn chicken with its broken wing, and my forlorner self with my broken, or crazed heart. I am not sure but I have lost every atom of it. If I have one, it certainly has been trodden on, and it aches; and it would do some malicious part of my nature good, to step on some one else's heart, for mine is just tired of aching alone; it is becoming decidedly stupid business. Dear, dear! Am I one of the vestiges of creation, or an illustration of the development theory? Would I not be valuable testimony of the rocks? I do feel a curious sort of sensation in my pericardium; something there is undergoing a hardening process; perhaps it is only ossification, perhaps worse. On the whole, I wish Frank was here. The world is audaciously stupid without him. Frank helped me out of mysteries. The ministers, good souls, advise me not to interfere with things beyond knowledge-it will do harm, and no good; their advice comes years and years too late; the mischief was done, it seems to me, a thousand years ago. I wonder if I am that old, and where the former life chanced." And then a great gush of feeling, desperate, reckless feeling, came choking up. "It was right shabby in Frank to desert me so! It was a miserably foolish thing in him to go off and die, leaving me alone in this great-horrible!"-She went half mad in her longing, as many and many another has done, and wondered why Frank, in his glorious prime, must go into the unknown, when there were others longing for death, even in his grimmest horrors, to whom he refused to come. If there was a God-and she supposed there might be one-not knowing, she would say-if there was a God, what was he doing with them all?" 
               Etta and Jenny came back, bearing each a letter in her dainty fingers. 
               "But you can't think! Captain Kimball was so awful stingy!" said Jenny. "We told him you wanted six letters, and he wouldn't let us have but two." 
               "But he said he guessed you wouldn't care much," added Etta, "for this one was big enough for six. Ain't it a big one?" 
                
               "Thank you, that will do. Here is your chicky to carry to grandma." And then Mag looked up into the glorious beauty of earth and heaven, at the letter in her hand from Charles Moore, and her reeling senses returned; and she sent up a fervent prayer for forgiveness, to the unknown God, because she had committed sacrilege-had mocked him! She thanked him with a gush of happiness, that in the midst of judgment he had remembered mercy. Charles Moore was left to her still. Yes, she had several idols upon earth yet. God had not taken them all, though he had said he would not permit idols. 
               Strange! She believed in God when he gave her some fair and lovely blessing; but his greatest blessings come sometimes in the guise of pain-when the nature needs to be cleansed from pride and purified from passion. She thanked God for her letter. We can be wonderfully full of faith and piety when we are in the bliss that follows relief from pain And then she read the document. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "VALHERMOSA SPRINGS, ALA., Aug. 16.
                            
                           "MY DARLING COUSIN: This relationship of ours is becoming a most charming and entertaining affair. I was dissatisfied with it at first. As Fanny Fern so appropriately puns, I was 'Oll-of-a-Twist, asking for more.' But it is satisfying me at last, and I am concluding that you were wiser than I, when you cooled my burning love, my fiery passion, in that prudent fashion of yours. You were wise, Mag-wise as a serpent, and harmless as a dove. The spice of coquetry in you, cousin, but added to the piquancy of the entertainment. A full-blown coquette is my detestation, but the buds in your nature were exquisitely beautiful. There was the fragrance of innocence in the atmosphere, in which purity's self seemed to expand. There is magnanimity in you, strangely mingled with that graceful coquetry, and you will be glad to know that I have given you up at last. And now I appreciate with you the beauty of our cousinship; it is so accommodating in its relations; has so much expansiveness; it means so much, and so little! With a cousin, thought itself is fetterless-there can be so much license in thought, word and action. I only regret that for a time our intercourse, even as cousins, must be interrupted-as I leave soon for the Old World! Why could I not have had you as a companion? As my cousin you cannot go, unless you'll adopt the romantic, and go as 
                              page to Palestine-which will do to dream of only, in a world like this!
                            
                           "Yes, it is better to remain only cousins than to be parted as engaged lovers; then we should have been under restraint. I am jealous by nature-for 'love is full of jealousy,' and 'jealousy is cruel as the grave.' You are jealous also by nature-and, Mag, I'll swear I believe we loved madly when we stood upon those cliffs together, and rocked ourselves in elysium on the billows of that little lake! It is all over now-we will not regret it-I cannot; I shall never forget, in Paradise or Hades, that I have wound my arms around you-when you fainted on my bosom I drew life up from your heart, through those delicious lips, that will thrill to all eternity! Eternity will not be to us what it would have been, had we never met, and loved, and parted. 
                           "But earth must yield me what bliss it can-you know I have a susceptible nature; this physical perfection of mine is a tempter, you know; had we parted as lovers instead of cousins, I should, no doubt, have deprived myself of rich experiences. I should have tortured myself for every smile you bestowed on another, and in duty should have placed a guard over my heart to ward off shafts from all other bewitching eyes, gleaming smiles, and love-engendering dimples, not your own; and it is a very luxury to my nature to bask in the light of a lovely woman's smile. Once I did dream (it was a foolish dream) that a beautiful girl-all that incorporate humanity could be, or demand-would give herself to me, would lavish upon me all her golden smiles and jewelled love glances; I would have been miserly of those treasures, would have guarded them with life, and fortune, and sacred honor! That girl denied me the coveted gem, and I am comforting myself with other soothing, womanly affections. I have lulled the pain in my heart with music tones ravishingly sweet; sunned its gloom in smiles that were passionately lovely; and the new wounds in my heart, by the very anguish of their bliss, have obliterated those olden pangs. Yes, you were right; I shall have richer experience of what woman can give me, with you as my cousin. I shall not lose you; I could not bear that even yet; you shall be my best friend until---You shall be my confidante; I will bare my heart to you in all its phases; of it you shall learn what man thinks of woman, and you may learn some lessons of woman herself, that you have never yet studied. In return, you may give me the history of your soul's progress. There may be strange developments before the end comes, and you will be mine in the better world, where you have promised yourself to me. It will not mar that heavenly marriage, if my physical nature here is at sometime married to another, and until then you shall be, as now, my darling cousin.
                            
                           "AUG. 17.-I was called from you yesterday by an engagement with one of my new charmers. I must describe Cora Lanier to you, Mag; but no, her glorious, languishing, dark eyes are indescribable. She is not like you-her form is full, rounded to voluptuousness. She is a true Southerner; a creature born of light and sunshine, genius and passion. Her only fault-if it is a fault-is her dazzling frankness. At times when the velvet eyes look up so softly, the lips make confessions that are startling; one's passions tingle, one's nature is hurried into temptation. I must guard myself; my manhood must protect her-protect the sweet, soft weakness of her passionate womanhood. We rode together down to the far-famed cave of Ittachooma-or 'Broken Arrow.' We went together to Cupid's Grotto for inspiration; and then wandered alone to Mount Rigi, with our passion-stricken souls, and looked off upon Huntsville in the distance. Nature was in her propitious mood; we exulted in her glory here. The land of the South-our home-the home of love and passion; we were true children of this beautiful land, and ours was a royal heritage! 
                           "But I find it difficult to 'confess,' even to you, Mag. You shall know me-all my passion-all my strength-all my weakness. God knows I loved you! 
                           "We roved on together, and our eyes wandered together over the mountains of Valhermosa-the Switzerland of Alabama-the 'Vale of the Beautiful.' We gazed away upon the savannahs of green, studded with pearly cotton-blossoms and waving corn, with its golden bloom; and soft zephyrs breathed passionate perfume upon our senses, till the little hand that was nestling so near my heart, trembled as my prisoner; it sought my clasp so lovingly, I could not refuse it shelter. The eyes languished up to mine; the head rested itself upon my heart; my bewildered arms clasped her; I drank a thousand kisses from those lips, and they were all returned! I went mad with passion-and then upon my knees entreated her to leave me, for heaven and earth were rocking beneath me! Thank God-for me-Lizzie and Guy Erwin came. 
                            
                           "I must leave this place, or lose my honor. 
                           "AUG. 20.-Cora left for Marion two days since. Language has no power to express my thoughts. But I leave this subject now and forever.
                            
                           "AUG. 22.-My senses are in equilibrium again. The company here is delightful-parents and Sis-and, according to the signs of the times, a brother-in-law in prospect. I am in a state of resignation. I have told you of my friend, Guy Erwin, as I have made confession to him of you. 
                           "I have been amusing myself by comparing and contrasting the styles of northern and southern belledom. You know I have something of a northern education, and have the vanity to consider myself a connoisseur of belles universally. A southern lady has an air as if born to command; she exacts homage, takes it as her right, and chivalry is the element of a southern gentleman. The queenliness of a southern lady is somewhat the result of our peculiar institution. Accustomed to the service of servants who almost lose their own identity in their reverence for their mistresses, the lady unconsciously exacts homage and service from inferiors-for we consider our servants an inferior race-never destined in slavery to be a white man's equal. And North and South, you know, we exact service of servants, white or black. We do not associate with them as our peers. 
                           "Sometimes I think the chivalry of southern society is owing to a Waverley education. One never meets a trained belle here who is not perfectly familiar with every character of those romances, from Rebecca the Jewess down to Meg Merrilies; from Flora McIvor or Di Vernon to Jeannie Deans. I have never met the luxurious grace, the air of royalty in a northern lady, the deference received as a right, which is native to the South. 
                           "A northern lady treats her servant more as an equal, but with less of love. We consider servants as an inferior race-intended by God as our servants. We love them-not as equals, but as part of our families, for whom we must care, or as children who have never learned to think, who never will learn to think for themselves. But we think the inferior race of America to be almost infinitely superior to the barbarous tribes of Africa. As a whole, the South would be deadly opposed to the reopening of that African slave trade. 
                           "It may be that in God's time-not man's time (we believe a God over-rules the destinies of men) in God's time the Christianized races in America may be the means of redeeming those brutal hordes of Africa from their barbarism; and the beautiful savannahs of Soudan flourish into cultivation, civilization, and Christianity, by the instrumentality of Slavery in America. Noble men in this country have dreamed that dream, and sacrificed much for it. Dr. Ross, the pro-slavery champion of Huntsville and the South, gave up a princely fortune for the emancipation of his servants. The well-known Chief Justice Taney, of the U. S. Supreme Court, has done the same. Who shall dare sit in judgment on the consciences of men like these? Perhaps the servants thus freed were like the Israelites freed from Egyptian bondage-not prepared for the hardships of freedom. They rebelled against their deliverers, and cried out to return to the slavery and flesh-pots of Egypt again, even though the God of the Hebrews had wrought wonders for their deliverance, and was working daily miracles for their salvation. But my sweet cousin must pardon my wandering pen. I did not intend that my dissertation on types of development in belledom should become a discussion of southern institutions. You may have these opinions as those born to a conservative southern man. 
                           "AUG. 23.-It is night, Cousin Mag. I have left a brilliant company in the parlors, all discussing that theme most interesting to gods and men-LOVE, in its eternal variations. 'Belles passes' were moralizing it; belles musical were performing it over the piano, with accompaniments of soft glances and sweet human tones of song. Lizzy and Guy took it in the form of a game of chess. They played deep, too-a rare game-if I can judge of the signs of the times. He has staked his heart and hand against hers on the game; she has accepted the wager. Sis was a little excited and made some reckless moves, exposing her queen needlessly. She will be easily check-mated. Guy was excited but cool. He intends to win, and to claim the stakes. If he does, he captures two queens. No hope for Sis, losing or winning; her case is desperate, I see. She has my sympathy. 
                           "My partner in the universal theme was an intellectual lady from Huntsville. We discussed love in a course of philosophy as recklessly as Guy and Lizzy risked it. 
                           "AUG. 24.-Guy won the game. I envied him, Mag. You recollect I lost in my game of hearts. I shall perfect myself in the art of winning, before I risk another failure. I am an assiduous student, and I find it a fascinating art, to watch the effects of a reproachful gaze, a soft look, a glance of proud but 'melting tenderness.' Hearts are rare things in this world, cousin; most of them are of the elastic kind, cannot be injured by any pressure. Action and reaction being equal, they rebound-expand when the pressure is removed. However, I know two or three ladies who possess hearts-the genuine article. 
                           "My partner of last night is a true woman; there is a world of emotion in her restless, blue eye; the soul that radiates through must have passed through the ordeal of thought and suffering. Intellectual beauty is dearly bought; its price is burning thought and soul-torture; a woman exchanges for it the sunny freshness of youth and its delicate bloom. I did not study her glory by moonlight, as I did your charms, Mag, when they burst upon me like an apocalypse. Do you remember that moonlight? She was reclining on an ottoman at my feet, by the 'light of a chandelier,' where I could look down upon the satin brown hair, and into the deep, thoughtful eyes. 
                           "'Love must be immortal,' she said, 'because it is one of the elements of our being-a part of the soul itself-and if the soul lives forever, then the love must live forever with it.' 
                           "'Your creed is a sweet delusion,' I replied. 'Love is a passion-its elements are earthly; it is only selfish; because it is a passion of earth, it must die on earth.' 
                           "'I cannot, and will not believe it. We are made in the image of God. God is love-even sin has not obliterated the image of God entirely. If one spirit ever has truly loved another, its love became a part of its life and being, and that spirit, whether embodied or disembodied, is loving still, and will love forever.' 
                           "'You do not know love,' I replied. 'It is utterly selfish. Let us analyze it! What is my love for you? In your eyes I see dawning some holy emotion, as pity, gentleness; in your face their garb is lovely-they imprint themselves upon your perfect features in forms of winning beauty. I love that dove-like sweetness-the beauty is grateful to my senses; but carry them to their extremes, too much submission, too much gentleness palls upon the taste-the charm becomes insipid. I would give much to win your love. If you gave it too freely, or unasked, it would lose its value, and you would lose with it my respect. Love is sweetest when it is forbidden; a woman should be careful not to give even love too freely when asked; it soon cloys upon the taste, and is changed to contempt. My wife must never let me know that she loves me too fondly." 
                           "'You have skepticism in your nature,' she said, laughing. 'You would say that love is merely an intoxication to which all humanity are liable-have a natural tendency or proclivity in youth.' 
                           "A married belle, Dora Talbot, who stood by, listening, answered: 
                           "'Yes; and to prevent dangerous results, we should take the disease by a process like inoculation, then all precautions can be taken against dangerous consequences. The operation to be performed by 
                                  
                                    "'Love's arrow, when tipped with a jewel,
                                     
                                    And shot from a silver string.' 
                                 
                              
                            
                           "'Pride, too, may awaken love,' I added. 'I love its haughty grace upon your brow. There is a restless spirit awakened in my nature that would mount and mate with its daring; our two spirits harmonize into beauty; but, Anna Mortimer, if you do not curb that glorious pride, it becomes unlovely, because unwomanly; your spirit would repel mine. What man loves in a woman is her womanliness; when that changes, there comes loathing instead of love.' 
                           "'You are a skillful sophist,' she said. 'You can almost make the worse seem the better reason, because there is some truth in your logic. I am thankful that though there is magnificent reasoning in this world, much of it contains but little truth. Sad to think that no reasoning contains entire truth.' 
                           "'But you are convinced,' I insisted, 'that love is earthly, must change, must die? When your society ceases to please me-when you have exhausted your charms, and I am sated with even your regal beauty, then love must die; when your wit ceases to rouse me, and your music tones can no longer beguile me to the lethargy of royal dreams, then love departs-for I do not love you-it is myself in you-my pleasure to which you minister. Your intellect now intoxicates mine; your soul wins my soul to celestial flights; but I shall weary of it soon, as you are already weary of my theme-so, love is not immortal-it dies on earth.' 
                           "'Do you believe love to be so paltry a thing?' she asked. 
                            
                           "'What is love to you?' I asked. 
                           "'Love's ideal is divine. Acting upon perfect media, love is perfect. But in our imperfect natures love is imperfect. The heavenly is beyond our ken; but I believe that our imperfect loves on earth becoome perfection in heaven.' 
                           "Is that your creed, Mag? Something like that you taught me once. Death is to be our marriage, you say. When shall we be ready for the consummation? But I have not exhausted the lessons of earth yet, and we shall have eternity to learn what that love teaches. We can wait a little longer; you have promised yourself to me then; do not forget your promise. Be assured I shall remember it. Good night, Cousin Mag. 
                           "AUG. 25.-I have discovered what a responsibility it is to have a sister so bewitched as to be entirely unmanageable. Lizzy and Guy have gone perfectly insane. They have played out their game with high-handed vengeance. I must give you the particulars in full. 
                           "They walked up to father this morning-Sis wearing her very demurest face-and petitioned: 
                           "'Please, papa, may we go and be married to-day? I want to be married so much! You can't guess, papa! Please may I do it?' 
                           "'Yes, yes, Puss-you may go and be hanged if you wish!' 
                           "'Thank you, sir! I prefer being married.' 
                           "'So that your husband will want to be hanged?' 
                           "'In the noose matrimonial? Yes, papa!' 
                           "'I believe you are possessed, Puss!' 
                           "'Yes; Major Erwin has possession now. He won the title deeds on that game of chess, you know. You'll give up your claim won't you, please? I'll promise to be so good.' 
                           "'Yes, yes; I'll give him a quit-claim deed. Now be off and behave yourself.' 
                           "'Thank you! You are certainly the most amiable papa that I ever had, and I'm the best daughter that you ever owned!' 
                           "Guy and Sis went off laughing. After dinner they started to Somerville for a ride. Just before they entered the carriage, Sis proceeded to our lady mother. 
                           "'Good bye, mamma. Guy and I are going off to be married now. Papa says we may. You'll give your consent, won't you?' 
                            
                           "'Most certainly, my dear child!' answered mother, laughing. 'After maneuvering for two years to dispose of you, without success, I embrace the first opportunity with delight, to see you safely married, and off my hands.' 
                           "'I am so grateful! We can go straight along and do it, Guy.' 
                           "'Have done with your nonsense, Lizzy! Major Erwin, don't let that mad-cap run away with your senses; she has lost her own.' 
                           "'She has stolen mine; and I intend to take her before a magistrate this very day and make her give up the lost goods.' 
                           "'You'll go and see it done, won't you, Charlie?' Guy asked. 
                           "'You are both beside yourselves,' was my reply. 
                           "'Yes, I believe we are; at least I am beside myself,' said Guy, as he looked down upon Lizzy. 'Am I not, Pussy? We are one, you know-the links of the chain shall be fastened to day.' 
                           "'Guy, if it was any other man than yourself, I should order coffee and pistols for two, in the morning.' 
                           "'For three, you mean, brother,' Sis put in; 'you know I shall be obliged to breakfast with Guy.' 
                           "'I'll be responsible for you, Pussy,' said Guy; 'recollect you are but half of me. You'll go, of course, Moore.' 
                           "'Yes; I'll go to keep you out of mischief. You need some cool-headed person like myself to take care of you. Anna Mortimer will like to ride.' 
                           "We all went together. Col. White and Addie Mortimer accompanied us. I didn't fancy the joke, but couldn't suppose them to be serious. After riding a few miles, we concluded we had humored the matter sufficiently; told Guy so, and turned our horses to drive back. Here came the knot in the thread. Guy declared it was no joke at all-they were in solemn earnest. Then followed a council of war-expostulations-threats. I told Erwin he would be obliged to answer for it to me. He told me I should have a shot at him as soon as I pleased, declaring that he was bound to do it before he died. Lizzy was headstrong, and declared: 'I should shoot her instead of Guy, for it was her fault. She intended to be married any way, and she dared me to get cross about it, and spoil all mother's comfort by shooting Guy, breaking her heart, and ruining the peace of the family generally. She hoped Guy would be a better son to her father, than to do any such nonsensical thing as to either shoot me, or stand up to be shot at.' To cut the matter short, Mag, the witch carried her point; we all drove to Somerville, and they were married. 
                           "When the deed was done past redemption, Lizzy came to her senses; or they took another turn. She burst into tears, and sobbed as though we had all forced her into marriage against her will. I begin to think that the female mind is the most astonishing work of creation, Mag. 
                           "'Great heavens!' said Sis, 'what have we done?' 
                           "It would have been ridiculous, if the child hadn't seemed in so much trouble about it. I wanted to whip her for being naughty, but gave her over to Guy. 
                           "'Too late for that now, Sis,' said I, 'what's done can't be helped-what can't be cured must be endured.' 
                           "'Now, brother, you know you ought not to have let me do it! What will Guy think of me?' 
                           "'I don't know, Sis; not very well, I'm afraid. He'll think you were entirely wanting in judgment and discretion.' 
                           "She sobbed bitterly, and the rest of us commenced laughing. 
                           "'Here is a pretty piece of business on your hands, brother Guy,' said I to him; 'you have taken her for better or worse, and she seems to feel no better, but very much worse at present.' 
                           "Guy looked funny over it. 
                           "What will you think of me, Guy?' said Lizzy, with a sob. 
                           "'I'll think as well as I can of you, Puss, if you'll behave yourself in future. It was a little foolish in you, but it can't be helped, and I'll forgive you, and we'll all shake hands upon it, if you won't cry any more.' 
                           "All the world at Valhermosa was in wonder when we drove back, to know what had happened to detain us. As we alighted, there was a crowd on the piazza to whom Col. White introduced Major Guy Erwin and Lady. Guy received the buzz of wonderment and congratulation with gracious dignity, and made way through the crowd to escort his lady to her father, while the brother-in-law of Prof. Giers, the proprietor at Valhermosa, went out to order a volley of guns, to spread the report as far as possible. 
                           "'There; I've done it, father!' said Lizzie; the tears not yet gone from her eyes. She was trembling, too. 
                            
                           "'The devil, you have!' There was a thunder-cloud on his brow that overshadowed his eyes. 
                           "'If we have done wrong, sir, the fault is entirely mine,' said Erwin; 'and you see how irresistible my temptation has been. My excuse is before you-it is too lovely for my strength.' 
                           "'We couldn't help it, father, we couldn't, indeed! and we'll promise never to do so again, if you'll forgive us this one time; and Guy'll be the best boy you've got, father, for Charlie don't know how to make me obey any way, and Guy understands all about it.' 
                           "'Were you a party to this piece of business?' asked father of me. 
                           "'I have forgiven them, sir,' I answered. 'Sis told me, long ago, that she had a great and ardent longing to see a man, and as she declared this one to be the only one she ever did see, I thought it best for her to secure him as soon as possible, for you know, sir, if she had waited, he would have found her out, and she would have lost him.' 
                           "'That's the way the wind blows! There's some truth in it, I believe. Puss, you wicked rascal, go and comfort your mother; I presume she is in hysterics.' 
                           "'I will, if you'll kiss me, father;' and she put up her mouth. 'And now, father, please shake hands with Guy; he's a grand fellow. Isn't he, Charlie?' Guy smiled, and offered his hand-father smiled, and offered his-Sis smiled and ran off to comfort mother-and so the trouble ended. 
                           "It is late at night. You see I have posted you on the news while it is fresh in my mind. 
                           "AUG. 28.-Emerson was right, Mag. We soon exhaust all that 'society' can teach. I am terribly ennuied, and am to leave here to-morrow. Please direct your answer to Lizzy, at Huntsville; she will forward it to me. Where shall I receive it? God knows! Perhaps in Europe, Asia, Africa, the mountains of South America-perhaps upon the islands of the ocean. To the lessons that earth can teach! Shall I ever learn another as well as the one you taught me? Emerson says love is a development. When we have learned our lesson, we leave it and advance; if the object that taught the lesson be not of our kind-if we progress beyond it-we need not regret our education. What will you have become when we meet again? I tremble to think. Your grace, your beauty, your genius, your solitude, your friendlessness, will lead you into-what? God knows! I shudder for you, Mag, but you would not let me save you; and I shall never again-never again ask you on earth!
                            
                           "AUG. 29.-I hope the theme of love has had for me its last variation here. Shall I report what it had to interest me to-night? Mrs. Talbot and Anna Mortimer discussed it with me. 
                           "'Love-making to some men is a business, not a luxury,' said Mrs. Talbot-'a business done in broad daylight, where a blush would be out of place; a lady could not show off her appreciation of the fitting and beautiful. Just imagine a man asking the question in a cool, business manner: "Do you think, Miss --, that you could like me well enough to marry?" May all good spirits defend us from being driven to such extremities as to outrage romance and poetry, by being obliged to accept that style of proposal. The true answer then should be: "Yes, sir, I do want badly to be married and settled off, and as this seems to be the last chance, sir, I am much obliged for it, and thank you kindly!"' 
                           "'What hour do you prefer for the love-luxury?' I asked Anna. 
                           "'Oh, all hours may be appropriate,' she replied. 'Each hour can have its own peculiar charm. "Variety is the spice," etc. The different styles of charmers demand different hours. A poetic lover would enchant most by moonlight-the intellectual suits the morning, when thought is freshest.' 
                           "'Physical beauty would choose a midnight hour, or perchance a dreamy afternoon, but then the surroundings should be mountains, with zephyrs that could bewitch the senses.'" 
                           "'What hour do you love best?' asked Anna. 
                           "'Moonlight,' I replied, 'with the lull of distant waters. No. Morning, or midnoon, for each hour should be sweeter than the last; my enchantress inspires all hours, till the spirit of Life, which battled with the spirit of Death, from the birth hour of the soul, reigns conqueror, because life is love, and love mightier than death. In moments of existence, ages upon ages of delight sweep in solemn waves over the soul, and roll away amid the eternal unforgotten. Man feels the majesty of his strength, the divinity of his manliness, when woman's heart, trembling with a great joy, yields its weakness up in reposing faith. In such an hour, man knows that life is not the almost unmitigated curse the atheist makes it, but a glorious boon from the All-Father, who made heaven and earth, both homes for love.' 
                           "My darling cousin, I can write no more. When I can save you, come to me. May God bless you forever! 
                           
                              "Yours in the hereafter, 
                              "CHAS. ATHERTON MOORE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Mag threw herself upon the greensward with a low, shuddering sob. Passion swept down the barriers of morbid pride, and she saw herself in her selfish deformity. She battled down the surging billows bravely, she would not be overwhelmed. Suddenly she bethought herself of Lizzy's letter. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Dear Mag," it ran, "Charlie left for Huntsville, yesterday, to prepare for a journey to the ends of Christendom-so he said. 
                           "He left this letter for you, telling me to add a postscript, but the letter is overgrown, and my postscript shall be in a separate envelope. I suppose he has told you how naughty I have been; but I could not help it, it was so romantic. Only think, Guy and I have been devotedly in love for a whole year without knowing it, or knowing each other's names! It was so romantic too, to take it in a game of chess; I always had a passion for chess, and no wonder. It is revealed to me why, now. Taken all together, it is so romantic, I can hardly contain myself! It ought to make a book, and Charlie says if I am anxious, he will write one and publish me, or he will give you the items and you can do it. When you do write a book, be sure and make me the heroine. I intend to behave admirably for the rest of my life, so that the dnouement shall be very graceful. Guy tells me that the romance is all over now, that we have seen the very last of it; that he is going to take me to the backwoods of Mississippi, to his plantation, put me in a log house and give me nothing in particular to eat. 
                           "I tell him that 'Love in a cottage,' was always my ideal-the cottage to be embowered in roses, jasmins and honeysuckles-with gardens full of fountains and statues, and the cottage parlors carpeted with velvet, and hung with pictures and bird-cages, and all that style of thing. But he tells me that Mississippi log-houses have mud floors; that I shall be all the bird in the cage, though there will be plenty of mocking-birds in the woods; that much as he regrets it, he shall be obliged to starve me, till he builds the other cottage, and I make the roses and honeysuckles grow. The worst of it is, Mag, he means what he says; so when you write your book, you need mention only the fancy facts, like the mocking-birds, and life with nature. We shall rival Socrates and Xantippe, of Glenlyn. I tell Guy we shall starve together, 'it will be as broad as it is long,' as Socrates told us. In truth, Mag, I am so sick of society, with its heartlessness and soullessness, that I think 'primitive nature' must be ennobling with such companionship as that of Guy Erwin. 
                           "I don't know what to think of Charlie; he acts strangely. He has been flirting with every married lady he meets and is to all appearances perfectly devoted to Miss Mortimer, one of the most intellectual, accomplished, fastidious, beautiful ladies of Huntsville, grand-daughter of ex-Gov. B. I send you a copy of some poetry he published to her, in the 'Huntsville Independent.' I am sure I do not know what to think of it, do you? 
                           "I have not forgotten our visit with you; I cannot realize that Cousin Frank is gone! It does not seem possible! But there are some subjects for which there is no language to express emotion! Let us be silent, for God has done it. Kingsley says somewhere: 'I believe the Judge of all the earth will do right, and what's right can't be wrong, nor cruel either, else it would not be like Him who loved us to the death.' 
                           "We wanted you and Frank to complete our happiness after we left you, at Lake George, Montreal, Nahant, Newport, Niagara, and down the Mississippi, (what an ugly word to write, and your letters must be directed to me, there). I shall hope to have you a visitor in our home, even before we get the jasmins in full blossom. Mais, adieu ma chre! Toujours votre amie, 
                           
                              "LIZZY ERWIN."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Mag next read the poetry of Charles Atherton Moore. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "TO ANNA OF HUNTSVILLE. 
                            
                              "The sunshine and shadows are playing, 
                              The winds whisper love on the lea, 
                              Soft eyes softer hearts are betraying, 
                              My heart has gone roving to thee; 
                               
                              The world would seduce with its smiling, 
                              False ones to enchant would seem gay, 
                              My heart heeds no other beguiling- 
                              Thy smile charms the rover to-day. 
                            
                            
                              "Philosophy's self will grow weary, 
                              If love sickens aye in the breast, 
                              If the soul-chambers always are dreary, 
                              If the sorrowful never find rest. 
                              And many a warm heart is breaking, 
                              While smiles cover over the pain, 
                              But they tell me when hearts get through aching, 
                              Forsooth, they feel better again. 
                            
                            
                              "And we have late learned from Dame Nature, 
                              That all anguish for which there's no cure, 
                              Every mortal, aye, im-mortal creature, 
                              Must 'nolens' or 'volens' endure. 
                              And 'tis truth, if indeed there is any 
                              Truth taught in necessity's school, 
                              Its wisdom looks somewhat uncanny, 
                              Its comfort 'decidedly cool.' 
                            
                            
                              "Soft eyes should relinquish their weeping, 
                              And smile out in glory again, 
                              Though chill thoughts and chill dreams come creeping, 
                              Till life itself shivers in pain. 
                              So lady, while spring buds are swelling, 
                              And spring birds career with glad wing, 
                              'Twill be folly to think of rebelling 
                              For the lost ones that come not with spring. 
                            
                            
                              "With smiles all the world we'll go wooing, 
                              You repel, but ne'er win friends with tears,
                               
                              The world should ne'er know the undoing, 
                              That has ravished the fond hopes of years. 
                              And thy rare smile will charm like the flushing, 
                              When sunset hues crimson the west, 
                              And fountains long sealed will be gushing, 
                              To freshen a world-weary breast. 
                            
                            
                              "Well, one magic dream is now over, 
                              The deep fountains once more are sealed, 
                              My heart is a light, careless rover, 
                              Learning all that the world has revealed; 
                              Too hardened, too wary by culture, 
                              To despise the world's teachings to-day, 
                              And too wise to become its own vulture, 
                              And tear out its vitals for prey. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "But often when moonbeams are weaving, 
                              Their gold-mist through soft waving trees, 
                              When lovers their fond dreams are breathing, 
                              And music floats wild on the breeze; 
                              Or when sunbeams with shadows are playing, 
                              When winds whisper love on the lea, 
                              And soft eyes, softer hearts ere betraying, 
                              My heart shall go roving to thee." 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               And now the battling tide rushed in and overwhelmed her-the black billows swept into her deepest soul. 
               She had devoured those words, with her hand pressed tight upon her heart; she felt there a serpent sting, keen as death, cruel as the grave. The serpent Jealousy lifted his uncouth head, slowly uncoiled himself, and wound his trail upon her vitals. She would have crushed the foul thing, but he was wild with life-she would have soothed him with drugs-in vain. She lay struggling with her torture upon the grass, and the bright, calm sun shone down upon her with his smiling mockery-his great, dazzling mockery. 
             
             
               XXIII. THE VISITS OF THE TEMPTER. 
               LOVE and Jealousy were holding high council. 
               "The great hope of youth has perished," said one voice in the council chamber. "Youth's maiden hope, youth's maiden love, noble and pure as the loves of angels-so pure, no dream of passion was permitted to blemish its white innocence. Charles Atherton Moore knew she had kept her spirit spotless for him, knew she rejected his passion dream, only because she would not dishonor love's bright ideal. He has wronged her, disdained her great pure love, by the unhallowed thoughts burning in his strange epistle; he has marred the gift she bestowed-he has polluted her first love-he has dishonored his own, in throwing such passion upon her heart. Shall she henceforth forth preserve spotless, what he has flung forth? He has blackened the heart she gave him-it is worthless now to her-down to dust it may go-he has trampled upon it-the world may trample upon it-the great, foul world." 
               As she listened to the voice, the sobbing of a mighty woe struggled forth. 
               "The first hope of youth is dead-she is burying the dead thing there in her heart," the voice went on-"silently she is laying it in the ashes; her grief is that of a mother over her first born, when she smooths away the silken sunny tresses of her darling, kisses the pale, smiling marble lips, closes the sweet, loving eyes, into which she may look no more forever, straightens the rounded, dimpled hands-the little clasping fingers, that will never cling to her lips again. Oh, God! she buries the dead thing in its lifeless loveliness, down in her heart, and puts it from her sight forever-forever-FOREVER! Her love is too pure for earth; born in celestial regions, the elements of earth have tortured it to its death-anguish, and it has fled home, where love is passionless and pure." 
               And another voice answered: 
               "The love she rejected was a pure offering-such as God gave man in his glory-the noblest born of earth-full of sacrifice-the rich gift of an earnest manhood-an unstained offering laid upon the altar, and she has dishonored it, by dreaming of selfishness and passion. Her self-love and mad pride have marred his sacrifice-her selfish pride demanded a deeper homage, a slavish worship, and she has received the reward. That insane pride would torture him to the end; she must drink the cup of its humiliation to the dregs, before she can know peace; or she will give the being she adores, curses in the place of love-blessings." 
               The voices maddened her; she could listen no longer; she must forget; she rose and walked toward the forests; the birds went on with their songs; the leaves whispered to her as of old; she was oblivious of all things but the grave yawning in her heart-the serpent gnawing at her vitals. She kept on-on-passed the falls-the crags where she had dared him to the abyss; recklessly bounding over them now, for what cared she whether she was dashed into-what? where? She climbed the mountains, found herself beyond them, on the shore of the lake-that lake-unmoored the little boat, and pushed off upon the lake's bosom-not now with him, but "alone upon the waters." No, the spirits of nature were with her. 
               And nature was true to her wayward child. 
               Often and often had she thrown herself upon the earth's broad bosom, and felt the joy of a child coming home to its mother-her only mother, "sweet, mother Nature!" Thou wilt purify us from earthly stain, from sin and fierce passion. "Ave sanctissima. Ora pro nobis." She chased down the madness on the winds, bared heart and brow to the gaze of nature's God-the eternal, all-wise God-took the heart, broken at last, crushed out of all semblance of womanliness-took its senseless fragments, whose every atom of flesh and blood had quivered in frantic pain-gave it back to the Creator as a worse than useless thing! But the intellect! That might find food and companionship with the noble and gifted of the ages; that should find life in the solitary places; that should make them blossom as the rose. 
               She was no longer weary. The waters rocked her little boat with a murmured lullaby, and she gave herself up to dreams. 
               Self-deceived still-for when did mortal ever learn all the deep things of his own nature. The tempter came to her in her visions, and she listened. 
               He came with the strange, sweet voices of the waves, as if calling from their beautiful homes. The low, rippling laughter was music to her loveless heart; a spirit within her rose eagerly to hear their thrilling call. 
               "Come down to us, heart-weary wanderer! Come, wild dreamer! We will clasp you in our arms, oh, so lovingly, and 
                      
                        'Rest more sweet and still than ever nightfall gave, 
                        Your longing heart shall fill in the world beyond the grave.' 
                     
                   Come home! home to your father's embrace-home to your mother's love." And another soft, familiar cry echoed far away on her bewildered senses: "Come home, Mag! come home! I am waiting for you!" 
               Was it Frank? Where was he? Where in all the universe of the eternal? 
               How many an aching heart has asked that question of God and the soul, concerning loved ones! How many have gone mad with the doubt, as Mag did, at thought of Frank's destiny. The Scribes and Pharisees had damned him-sent him away, without a hope of mercy, as a reprobate. He had "given no conclusive evidences of piety." Even the charitable only "hoped he had gone to a good country, poor fellow! they were sorry for him." 
               And Mag had laughed in very bitterness at what she heard. "She hoped to go to the 'sphere' that he inhabited, especially if the over-pious, like Mr. Brown and Grandma Barclay, were to be the sole inhabitants of that 'better land.'" 
               She fortified herself with the belief learned from Parks, that when good men gave God attributes that shocked the noblest attributes of man's nature, those men must have mistaken God. 
               She believed in a hell, from what she saw of hypocrisy, bigotry, and self-righteousness among the Pharisees. She believed that those who permitted such evil to expand in their natures, would progress to a most terrible destiny, for it seemed in the nature of things. And when she saw earthly lust-the liar, the hypocrite, the libertine-putting on the garb of the saint on earth, she believed that such would find the purity of heaven itself, a burning hell. 
               Again and again the wild, sweet call vibrated along her senses: "Come home, Mag! I am waiting for you! I, who love you! Oh, come home to me, Mag! Oh, come home!" 
               She gazed down into the bright depths of the waves; she listened to the low call, as to the voice of an angel, and a smile wreathed her lip, answering the smile in the heart of the white water-lilies; she watched the sunbeams as they kissed the silver lips of the flowers; the pearly pebbles gleaming up from their couch down in the waters, and an unutterable longing filled her soul to lie down in the embrace of the friendly waves, and sleep with the gems and blossoms forever. 
               The same familiar voice echoed to her again from the winds of heaven, whispering eager, loving words, breathing the earnest cry: 
               "Come away to freedom! Your nature is becoming polluted by its life with the ignoble! Unfetter your spirit! Tear loose your heart from its chains! Come up to freedom! The heaven within you is growing black with passion! The divine within you is suffocating! No love binds you to earth now! Come home, where love, and knowledge, and joy are as intense as heaven is beautiful and free! Come home to freedom!" 
                
               The tones swept away in a sweet, wooing sigh, on which her very life seemed gushing. But her spirit, rising, answered: 
               "No! no! no! It is not you, Frank! It is the tempter who has come to me with your voice. I will not be a dastard, in my fear of meeting earthly sorrow and pain. No earthly misery can make a coward of the brave! 'What, die for terror of a lonely life?' die for terror of long years of loveless solitude? die for fear of men or demons on earth? Never! What earth has to teach of grim want, or woe, or degradation, that will I dare learn! what love, or hatred, or despair can teach, that also dare I learn! I will not slight the lessons. If there is a God he will protect his own. If evil must be triumphant-if I must wrap my soul in curses as a garment, I will go down to the abyss smiling.
                  
                     If we must die-die game.-AARON BURR.
                   Tears are as weak and senseless as they are unavailing." 
               And Mag did go on her way smiling, and no tears watered her heart for long, long years. She smiled even then as she breathed the infidel's prayer: "Oh, God, if there be a God, help me to the hereafter, if there be a hereafter!" 
               The restless spirit was aroused, it could no longer endure repose upon the waters. Again she stirred the blood stagnating in her pulses, and chased down the madness upon the winds. 
               Then the forests spoke to the child of nature-spoke in their grand loveliness, from the beetling rocks and dark-browed mountains: 
               "Are there not other mountains, and valleys, and oceans; and beyond the oceans the lands of your glory-dreams? And you are emancipated at length, the last link is severed that binds you to your race-lover and friend have forsaken you-you too shall be a rover-you shall find out mysterious secrets from your kind-human hearts shall yield their mysteries to you-secrets that women seldom learn; you too shall traverse strange countries, and see strange nations. Are you not at bay with the world-with man-with God? The world shall yield up its treasures to you; you shall find homes beyond the seas; your foot shall tread the lands of the Orient-the hills of Judea-the valleys of the land of pilgrims; your brow shall cool its fever in the dews of Hermon; your locks may whiten in Araby, toward the last bourne of the traveller; but cross, crescent and crown shall pass before you; the God of Mohammedan, Pagan and Christian-the one God of the universe, if he exists, shall guide you, as with a pillar of fire, through the terrible night-you shall walk through fire by his burning light, unto the fiery end." 
               Rest must follow passion. Exhaustion follows the wild strife of spirit in flesh. Well for mortals that action and reaction are equal-that nature works by wise laws for spirit and flesh. 
               Mag had a life-problem to solve; she had studied on it often before-how to work out a noble woman's destiny. She had hoped for human love as a stimulus to her work; now she must solve the problem alone and loveless, for lover and friend had deserted her. 
               In her nights and days of sorrow, when she had tried to intoxicate herself into forgetfulness of the unkind words that in her home-life were eating, like vipers at her heart, she had written much. In her desk was a MS. on Skepticism. All the doubt of man and God that pain had taught her, she had written in a book, thinking that at some future time it should be published, and dedicated to all the young, whom sorrow had led astray from God. Her heart yearned for those who had learned that terrible doubt, because of their earth-anguish, and she longed to find God for them. The wise, and good, and noble would not do it for her, but she would trace all her own wretched wanderings to find God for those who were tempted in their youth to wander from him, and she would dedicate her book to them, with a great yearning love. God knew she loved them. Now was the time to finish her work. If there was a God, he would help her-he would direct her paths, for he had promised it faithfully in his Holy Word. 
               Softer feelings came, sweet, soothing feelings, a gush of her olden child-faith, as when she had knelt and prayed to Our Father that Frank should be given back to her, because she could not live without him. Once more, with a rush of tenderness, she knelt there in the forests, and asked God for Christ's sake, to direct her in all things-in ALL things. She poured out her very soul in pleading, that he would help her in her now loveless orphanage, to work out a noble woman's destiny; to aid her on her book-she would stake her faith upon it. If he existed, would he reveal himself by helping her to her life-work thus far, that one little book. 
               For one short week, that faith in God sustained Magdalene Barclay, and then by a strange experience which maddened her-a strange experience which is a true experience, and that is why it is recorded in these pages, and which she herself may relate in her own mad way hereafter-by a strange experience which, young as she was, influenced all her future development-and perhaps that was why God permitted it-her faith was shattered again. 
               As she rose from her knees, she heard a voice: 
               "Magdalene Barclay! Magdalene Barclay!" 
               It was not Frank. Would God it were! She looked up and met Min's radiant eyes. 
               "We have looked through every valley, hill and glen, and into every cave, tree, and bush of Glenlyn to discover where the fairies had led you." 
               The blood was careering even yet so wildly in her veins, it could not stop to mantle her cheeks with blushes at the ardent gaze of Min's companion, Richard Hudson Ely. She managed to greet them cordially, and Min in her own style whispered with a bright look: 
               "We have come to secure you and May Burton as bridesmaids. It is all settled at last, for the sixteenth of October-three months. You are to go with us to-day to Brother Everett's in Hartford; give a vacation for a week, to help me prepare the preparations!" 
               "You poor child!" said Mag. 
               "But where has May Burton spirited Alec? She directed the search for you, like a wise individual who knows all your ways-being persevering in the pursuit of knowledge under difficulties; also in the pursuit of knowlege venders." 
               "How shall I be able to manage Min, Miss Barclay?" asked Mr. Ely. "You have had her under tuition, and may give me some useful hints. She has employed herself to-day in lecturing me on my duties. One would conclude that duty had been the only study of her life-time. Is that what you have taught her?" 
               "Duty is a very enormous affair in the eyes of the initiated, Mr. Ely," responded Mag. "It is often an item of immense expense to the conscience." 
               "And it requires great care, prudence, forethought and afterthought to know it thoroughly," said Min. "How is it to be supposed that an innocent young man like Mr. Hudson Ely, should be posted on the necessities? I have only been fulfilling my duty by enlightening him." 
               "'Angels and ministers of grace'-et cetera!" quoth Ely. 
               "Yes," responded Mag. 
               "He says he has given me his heart to preserve. It was a thoughtful thing in him, as we end all love affairs by going to housekeeping, and studying the mysteries of preserves and pickles. I am very fond of all 'goodies' in that line." 
               "Min insists upon keeping my heart in a pickle. It is getting dreadfully soured already." 
               "It is in an excellent state of preservation. I keep it in spirits, hoping it won't ferment too much for table-use. Here is a wild rose-bud that you may preserve for me." And Min fastened it in his button-hole. 
               "And altogether she keeps me in a complete stew." 
               "There is a necessity that he should know what to expect in the future. Besides these love-pickles to pay for, I have tried to enlighten him on the shoe-bills he will have to foot, the glove-bills to handle. He pays his addresses to me very generously now, offering more than half his last crust and blanket. I am afraid he will put on another face when he pays for other dresses. You know I shall want to make myself attractive to him always. I think I am exquisitely pretty now, and if he furnishes me with a sufficient quantity of silks, satins, moire-antiques, and that style of thing, I think I can manage to win his admiration for a long time yet. And then, besides, I have promised to take particular pains with his buttons, and all the holes in the elbows of his sleeves." 
               "Isn't she a person of alarming forethought?" asked Ely. 
               "Let me tell you a secret," Min went on. "The stupidest business that two people ever entered upon is an 'engagement.' Never become 'engaged,' Mag. It will do to be 'engaging.' Getting in love is nice! ever so pretty! one is interested in the progress of affairs; one is in such funny suspense all the time, watching whether the bird can be caught or not; but when it once perches on one's finger, the interest is over; one has no particular use for it; one can say sweet things a short time-chirrup to it; but then one feels like sitting down in a corner with one's thumb in one's mouth, to look at it! If it would only try to fly away, it might be amusing to prevent it; but if it won't fly, why one must out of duty try to amuse it, and it isn't very amusing after all, nor very easily amused; and then one feels like opening the window for it, and saying in Uncle Toby fashion, 'Go, little bird, this world is big enough for both of us.' Moreover, I think that yonder bird in the tree is very beautiful; I wonder if I could not coo him down to my finger and let you go free." 
               "Isn't she amusing? When I get her entirely I shall shut her up to look at. Between you and I, Miss Barclay, she is a witch; but she isn't wise, and that is why she is so very charming. Min, I have a great favor to implore of you-never grow wise." 
               "Never!" said Min, with determination. 
               "It will be a sufficient cause for divorce, if you ever do." 
               "H'm!" said Mag, "that is very pretty to talk about, but it takes people of the most unbounded discretion to 'do' nonsense with a charm. Nonsense is the most superfine sense, and needs the most careful management." 
               "The highest wisdom." 
               "There sit Alec and May Burton," exclaimed Min, "hammering out rocks as usual. No doubt, he has a pocketful; what a wise head she keeps on her little shoulders! I am so thankful that I shall never have all her 'talents' to answer for! Mine will all develop into housekeeping. You will, of course, give me the key to your bank. I know that I have 'talents' for ruining a man equal to any lady you could find in the Union. If that remark resembles a pun, Mag, it was not intended-purely accidental, I'll assure you." 
               They left Alec and May Burton to study geology, walked home, and entered the parlor. 
               "Please, Min, run out and talk to Aunt Lina, and let me take charge of Mr. Ely while you are gone." Min laughed. 
               "Which being interpreted, means, 'Go and coax Aunt Lina to get a new frock for you to be bridesmaid.'" 
               Mr.Ely commenced turning the leaves of some books on the table. 
               "Min tells me you are particularly interested in southern literature. I see you have 'Bernard Lile' and 'Mustang Gray.' Anything from Huntsville is interesting." 
               Mag "stood fire" marvellously under the circumstances, for the shot tore to the vitals, and burnt there, as fire never burnt. 
               "What do you think of Mr. Clemens, the statesman-author?" 
               "There are chapters in his books," answered Mag, "that inspire one like martial music-like the echoes of solitary bugle-notes among mountains-but the books sadden me; I only read them when tempted to yield to the evil passions that try to force all souls downward. One infers that Mr. Clemens believes in total depravity-degradation past redemption. A woman feels unsafe after reading him, as if men gave themselves utterly to the evil in their natures, and became worse than brutes-devils upon earth. This I believe to be too true often upon earth, but dwelling upon the thought tends to give one a hopeless emotion. I must work out my destiny alone in this world, and am anxious to meet men in it, instead of demons. Mr. Clemens assures me I shall have both to encounter, and the latter must be foiled." 
               "He shows the saddest side of a great truth, as all history proves." 
               "I turn from his teachings to those of Paul, the philosopher, who knew all the demoniac that a Nero and Agrippina could teach, with a feeling of relief. Paul tells us 'Whatsoever things are true, honest, just, pure, lovely and of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.'" 
               Mag added thoughtfully, after a silence: 
               "Yes, it is a purification to think of the good, the true, and the beautiful. The Man-God taught as no one else ever taught, a glorious truth, that our thought is our education in purity. Purity of thought is purity of life." 
               Min returned from her mission to Aunt Lina. 
               "The 'powers' are propitious, Mag; you shall have a new frock. Aunt Lina says she is thankful to learn that I intend to ruin my 'bo,' and you may do your best to help me; and she does hope you will succeed in catching some foolish fellow before you get much worse. It must be some one that don't know you too well. She is in splendid humor. 
               "Weddings always do put ladies in good humor." 
               "Now for the paraphernalia," Min went on. 
               "High-heeled shoes," suggested Mr. Ely. 
               "Mag and I can dispense with your help on these arrangements. It is settled that Alec shall attend to Mag and May. He has a conspiracy for securing May, by putting Mag in charge of that young artist, Mason Rivers, his last partner in a Jonathan and David friendship. He will paint you if you will only look sweet. I intend to sit for a Venus myself-you shall be Psyche." 
                
               "There is trouble, Min! The ordination of our new minister, Mr. Latham, comes off on the sixteenth, and I am on the programme for music. I know the professor will not excuse me. What can be done?" 
               "Alec shall make the arrangements tally, and you need not go ahead of the music, either. That is all settled," said Min. 
               And so it was; yet from the week of experience at Everett Walton's, Mag returned with the life-problem, and her faith again in a very unsettled condition. There was a wrecked faith, mad pride, mad love and mad jealousy warring within her, and with it all, she said some very wild things, and did some very reckless ones, as many another girl has done, when insane with such passions, without growing either in goodness, purity, or womanliness. 
               Busy she kept herself, and that was well; she needed employment to keep down the rebellion that was now making sport of her faith, in that wild riot of passions. Night after night, when she knelt by her couch, trying to renew that sweet gush of olden child-faith-it had been wonderfully sweet, as it came to her in the wilderness-tempting fiends came mocking her with the old cry, "There is no God! There is no God!" She remembered that she had knelt down and thanked God for the blessing of that letter from Charles Atherton Moore. The demons mocked her for that. She had asked God to direct her footsteps, and he had led her to the brink of the pit. And now the demons were around her, mocking her in her solitude; dark, grim, and ghastly, they seemed floating around her in weird dances, pointing their shadowy, frightful fingers at the serpents writhing in her heart, and mingling their pealing laughter with the hissing of the serpents. Those were long, passionate, prayerless nights. Well for her that the day was busy. 
               The sixteenth of October came at last-a golden autumn day; Nature exultant in robes of purple and crimson. 
               Mag and May Burton attended the minister's ordination. When the last anthem was over, and their voices could be excused from the choir, they left the church to arrange bridal bouquets, and then rode off to Min's home. They passed over a mountain road which ran through rugged gorges. Mag's escort was the artist, Mason Rivers, and they admired the beauty for their mutual entertainment. They came to a cascade down a glen by the road-side; both alighted to let their souls go rioting with loveliness, Mag threw off her hat-her brow was hot, her temples burning; she bathed them in the cool waters, and threw back the brown tresses. As she bent over the stream, dabbling her fingers in the drops, and wishing her blood would ooze itself away, the young artist gathered a wild vine, and wreathed it gallantly around her brow. 
               "I crown thee Ophelia-the perfect woman." 
               A glance of bitter pain darted up from Mag's eyes, as she replied: 
               "Ophelia, who died broken-hearted, because of the very perfection of her womanliness." 
               "The coronal shall be for Josephine, empress of hearts." And he fastened it among the brown tresses. 
               "Josephine who died broken-hearted, because of the very perfection of her woman's magnanimity and devotion." 
               "Who died when her woman's mission was accomplished. She was ministering angel to the last-she laid her heart upon the altar to be consumed by slow fire; she coined every drop of its blood into blessings on her country, her lord and emperor." 
               "Is it the only destiny of a perfect woman, to make vain sacrifices?" 
               "A woman's power lies in patient love and sacrifice; her mission is to purify-to walk with unspotted garments amid guilt and passion, to win and conquer by the might of her devotion. Had Lady Byron been a Josephine, had she given her lord love instead of demanding it, given it patiently even in wrong, lavished it with forgiveness and meekness, she might have redeemed Byron. Josephine forgave Beauharnais, wrongs deeper than any that Lady Byron had to forgive. The dissipated husband did his worst to soil his wife's spotless name, when he claimed a divorce from her, yet when, three years afterward, he asked to be forgiven, then Josephine forgave and loved him. Had Lady Byron been capable of conceiving such magnanimity, what might not Byron himself have become? His actions proved that he had noble impulses. But few women dream of the power and purification that lies in the meek and loving sacrifice of a strong spirit." 
               "But there are some natures so strong from birth, that soft, loving womanliness can never become developed in them." 
               "Yes, women destitute of hearts-a hideous and dangerous gerous progeny-creatures with womanly forms and masculine natures. Human nature sickens at the thought of them." 
               "Margaret Fuller was a being to reverence." 
               "Margaret Fuller had a large heart-hers was a noble, intellectual, masculine nature. She was not a woman for a strong man to love as man loves woman; she found as her mate a pure feminine nature in masculine form." 
               Mag changed the discourse suddenly. 
               "Mr. Rivers, I have always had a distracting proclivity for breaking my neck. Suppose you help me now to accomplish the feat." 
               "Never! Death is not for such as you! You are to accomplish the destiny of Josephine first." 
               "Well," said Mag, dreamily, "it is but a little time at longest-the end will full sure come at last; only a cowardly madness would shorten it-would leap out of the present, even to my hereafter, with"-- 
               Her heart whispered the name: "Charles Atherton Moore." 
               "Mr. Rivers, I had a pleasant dream once of becoming perfect. It is a sad thing to know now that it was only a dream." 
               "We ought to live to do good-if we do good we shall be good." 
               "Is that the highest aim in living-to do good?" 
               "Certainly, what higher? Why, there is a world to save." 
               "I am afraid it will be beyond your power to save it." There was a bitter sneer but half concealed in Mag's response. 
               "Christ's command to his disciples was, 'be ye also perfect.' And oh, Mr. Rivers, how few of those who are so eager to reform the world, think to commence the work in their own hearts. I would not trust a minister of God, or one of God's so-called people, one instant sooner for their so-called Christianity. I know men who are really flattering themselves that they are doing God service, and 'saving the world,' because they profess to live to do good. I know these men are doing most cruel wrong. If they would only take for their standard Christ's command, 'be ye perfect,' they would neither violate their neighbor's rights nor their own nobility." Mag shuddered as she added: "Henceforth, I shall trust neither man nor God, for both have failed me. I shall trust myself first, and God AFTER self!" 
               "Where did you study theology, Miss Barclay?" 
               "Somewhat of the young ministers who have been preaching as candidates since Mr. Brown concluded to take a higher sphere." 
               "What lessons did you learn from them?" 
               "Much that made me sorrowful for the world they have gone to save, they were so innocent of all knowledge of the world's wants, as well as the wants of their own natures." 
               "Do you ever read Parker, Martineau, Channing, Carlyle, Emerson, Newman, and the liberal minded?" 
               "Not long ago I asked a star-member of the senior class, at Andover Theological School, if he ever read Carlyle or Emerson. He replied, 'No, indeed; it was against his principles to read infidel works.' I asked him how he knew they were infidel, if he never read them? He replied that he had seen one or two religious reviews that called them so, and none of the ministers ever read them." 
               "Tell it not in Gath, lest the uncircumcised triumph." 
               "Emerson, he supposed, was a 'light, fancy writer'-I use his own words-and he only read the thinkers of the age!" 
               "Publish it not in the streets of Askelon! Of course you are jesting!" 
               "I wish it were only a jest! I should have more hope for the world he is trying to save. Ik Marvel was one of his favorite authors; also he was reading De Quincey." 
               "They would not harm him." 
               "Another member of that same senior class told me in confidence, as if it were a dangerous secret that he was unfolding, 'he supposed there was a great deal of skepticism in Germany; indeed, that an intimate friend of his was thinking of studying up on German infidelity, so that he might be prepared to answer it BEFORE it reached America!'" 
               "Such men as Professors Parks, Shedd and Phelps must be proud of their disciples." 
               "These men were going forth, anxious to save the world! One of them told me that ministers would serve God and man best by explaining the simple truths of the Bible. I confessed to him I had found them beyond my comprehension"-- 
               "And he failed to explain them to your comprehension." 
                
               "'Men would serve God best by leaving skepticism to take care of itself, with the fools who believed there was no God,' he said." 
               "A physician then should only study the common disorders that afflict humanity, leaving uncommon disorders to take the chances-though skepticism is now a very common disease, as I chance to know." 
               "One graduate of Andover believed it common-told me that in his opinion Prof. Parks himself was a skeptic, only he was too politic to own it. That young man acknowledged, however, for his own part, that he preached good things to his people, he hoped they would practise them-it was none of their business whether he practised his own preaching or not!" 
               "He was frank! Are you in earnest, Miss Barclay?" 
               "I mean exactly what I say. Three popular theological students, who had gone out to save the world, had that much knowledge of the way in which it ought to be done. I could not help pitying the unfortunate world that was depending upon their help for its salvation. But the subject sickens me; it is too hopeless." 
               "You are talking in quite a masculine fashion." 
               "Don't tell me so. I shall endeavor to become a perfect Josephine-all gentleness, grace, submission, sacrifice, fascination, womanliness." 
               "I could never love you otherwise, at least. A woman who plays the masculine is a repulsive object." 
               "She must never be a wooer; never bold, daring, saucy?" 
               "Never, if I am to be won." 
               "Now, most adorable sir," thought Mag, "it will be very amusing to me to try you on that! No harm in making myself repulsive. It is my private opinion that the future Mrs. Rivers-she is in existence somewhere even now-is a very masculine woman, and capable of 'wearing the-unmentionables,' as Frank says." And a great gush of something choked her at thought of Frank. 
               And in the course of time and conversation they reached Min's home-a large country mansion-and were received by Min, Hudson Ely and friends. The doomed pair seemed approaching the inevitable with commendable resignation-even serenity. 
               The event of the evening came off at last, amid a crowd of the lite from miles and miles around. 
                
               After all it is a solemn thing for two young souls to stand before the man of God, and hear the words: "In the presence of God, his holy angels, and these witnesses, I pronounce you husband and wife, and what God hath joined together let not man put asunder." 
               There must be many joined together who are not joined of God. 
               After the hush, all begin to breathe again; belles begin to laugh and simper; grave, elderly gentlemen begin to discuss politics; and grave, elderly ladies discuss scandal; the literary cluster in groups and discuss books and men, and students discuss women. 
               Amid all, the merry move as vitalizing elements; and thus moved Min, and Mag Barclay, and May Burton, as the bright particular stars of the evening. Min's merry humor subdued into a genial glow, May's quaint wit darting keen-pointed, and Mag's wild spirits rising into a reckless storm; being mad with unrest from the new experience that had poisoned her faith. 
               She stood the centre of a group, trying her powers at one and the same time, on a theologian, a middle-aged statesman, and our friend Mason Rivers-all of whom were bandying flattery, as wise men always do with women. 
               "Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them," quoth the statesman. "Your sympathies are with the last, Miss Barclay." 
               "Vide Shakspeare, left hand page. Do you remember the precise chapter and verse, Dr. Barker?" 
               Dr. Barker smiled, and replied with another quotation: 
                     "Once on a time, old Johnny Bull flew in a rage of fury."
                  
                
               "The point to that last remark is so keen it goes through bone and marrow, and comes out on the reverse side. What an insight one has of human nature, when a wise man shows such penetration with his weapons of wit." 
               "One needs to use nonsense in self-defence, when dealing with a sarcastic coquette." 
               "Was the last arrow pointed at her? By the by, as a benevolent physician of souls, could he not give her some rules for managing mankind? She was trying to post herself, and he, a statesman, having learned all the secrets of wire-pulling, could give her invaluable information." 
                
               "He never would give her one item of information; she was too wise already-a dangerous person anyhow-a female Talleyrand!" 
               "Any creature under heaven but Talleyrand. The rule of contraries was the only rule she found practicable. As far as she was able to judge-which was not far, on account of youth and inexperience-the rule, if reduced to a science, would be the perfection of policy. Never believe a man's sentiments to be other than the opposite of those he expresses-that is, if a man really is sufficiently advanced in the development theory, from monkeydom, to be sure that he has an opinion of his own. Would he please be good and enlighten her a little on the world policy, of which she was so dangerously ignorant?" 
               "Ladies had no business with world-knowledge-it was dangerous-a bad world-and knowledge of evil was not good for ladies-they should be shielded from it. Where ignorance was bliss, etc." 
               "But she was aiming for the Presidency. The country was getting in a desperate condition; somebody ought to reform affairs, and she had been lately impressed with the sublime ignorance of mankind; she was preparing for an emergency; was more than anxious to obtain power over men." 
               "He did not doubt it!" 
               "By the by, she felt appreciated in those five words of his; usually whenever she wished to make her remarks incomprehensible, she spoke the naked truth, and found it the most impenetrable of all disguises. He had understood her-penetrated her mask." 
               "She must wear armor if she dare be so severe." 
               "Yes, she wore scale-armor, and came off unscathed, even when carrying the war into the heart of the enemy's camp. But sometimes she found that in dealing with fools, other weapons than reason, wit, or intellect were necessary; for herself, she never used pistols except in sport, but once." 
               "Would she enlighten him?" 
               "Certainly; with every possible item of information in her power, hoping to benefit him; she had no objection to being useful; it was her profession to impart knowledge to all who wished for what she had to give. Emerson had taught her to 'show frankly as a saint would do, all her experience, methods, tools, and means, to learn higher secrets of her own nature.' She had an experience which she would reveal to him for a consideration." 
               "What on earth was she living for? What did she want now?" 
               "Money, money, money-the root of all evil; there were radicals of all manner of evils in her personality, and now what she wanted was to transplant some of the root of evil into her purse." 
               "When there was a will there was a way." 
               "Yes, and she had made astonishing exertions to find the way." 
               "He was curious to know some of them." 
               "Well, for one, she had written a book." 
               "But that did not astonish him. Had she published it?" 
               "Not she, for reasons too numerous to mention. It went overboard without meeting even the eye of a publisher-the MS. lost, and 'thereby hung a tale' which could not interest a statesman, as the book was not written on politics." 
               "But it would interest him; he was more interested than she could dream." 
               "Then she should certainly unfold the tale to him only when she made him her 'father confessor;' it should be at a private confessional, and she should charge the father the fee, instead of paying for the confession." 
               "Only name her price for the secret." 
               "She was engaged then; she would do so at a convenient season." And taking the arm of Mason Rivers, she smiled back "Au revoir" to Dr. Barker. Mindful of Mason Rivers' sentiments concerning the strong-minded, she endeavored to repel him by some very "strong" advances. They returned to the statesman at last. 
               "Do you not think us an admirable couple?" she asked him, leaning gracefully upon the arm of the artist. 
               "The 'tout ensemble' is perfect," he replied. "White arm, with delicate festoons of drapery knotted with green leaves, rounded neck and elegant bust; head with a coronal of brown braids, interwoven with white chenille, dimpled mouth, deep, dark eyes, full of a strange, piercing, mocking, sardonic light. What do those eyes mean? parted lips, also with a sardonic smile that hovers around the pearls. Explain it." 
               "I have been persuading this young man to have the ceremony performed immediately. I tell him there is no time like the present. He is modest and bashful, poor fellow, and afraid to face the music. Can you relieve him?" 
               "I would advise him to fear the consequences. He could never manage you." 
               "I shall never require it of him; I shall always take the responsibility of managing myself and him, too. You are authorized to tie the knot; please do it in a hurry, I am impatient!" 
               He commenced the marriage ceremony. 
               Now, if any one thinks that a man like Mason Rivers, who is perfectly sound in theory on the woman question, will not outrage his theory by practice, under temptation, particularly when the temptation is a specimen of strongminded female flesh and blood, placed so near his heart as to set every nerve delirious; why such a one does not comprehend the weakness of masculine flesh and blood. 
               The question was propounded: "Wilt thou take this woman?" etc. 
               "I will," was the grave response. 
               "And wilt thou take this man?" etc. 
               "That I will!" responded Mag. 
               "Then, by the authority vested in me, I pronounce you"-- 
               "Man and woman," said Mag. 
               "Husband and wife," continued Dr. Barker. "And now that you have married in haste, you may repent at leisure. I am fully authorized to do this sort of work, and it is binding, if you say so." 
               "Well, I hope you feel submissive," said Mag to the half. "You will remember that as I have done the business, it will be your duty to obey, not mine." 
               "He seems perfectly submissive," said the statesman. 
               "And now we must go and congratulate ourselves on our happy union. I will electioneer for the felicitations." 
               And they took a meteoric orbit through the rooms. 
               "It is considered bad taste for a young-married couple to be too attentive," said Mag; "I see those belles are eating out their hearts for envy of me. I shall be magnanimous, and permit you to bestow any amount of sweetness upon them without being jealous." 
               Mag returned to Dr. Barker. 
               "Are you ready for the confessional?" he asked. 
               "Waiting and anxious for the fee." 
                
               "You shall have carte blanche." 
               "I want your vote for the Presidency." 
               "I will vote for you every time, and my wife will do it also." 
               "The idea is here; those people in Congress quarrel like a set of untrained school-boys, who have not been sufficiently whipped; and the more they quarrel, the worse affairs get; and it is getting to be a burning pity that some good schoolmaster like Louis Napoleon will not take their case in hand, with a rod of iron. Do you suppose Douglas can do it? Emperor, you know." 
               "There is method in your madness." 
               "What the consequences will be no one can foretell, but something ought to bring people to their senses. I chance to know three members of the last State Legislature, and not one of the three was able to write a line, without misspelling some of the words. If those three men ever comprehended the meaning of the word politics, they learned it after the session of the legislature, and it is my opinion that it was a long way past their comprehension then. And thirteen members of the last Legislature of Texas were 'men of mark'-that is, could neither read nor write-could give their signatures only by using their mark." 
               "There are gleams of truth in your insanity. Out of two hundred and thirty-four members of our State Legislature, two hundred were mere voting members, mere cyphers, otherwise. Can I do anything else for you-help you on your book?" 
               "You can help me solve the life-problem." 
               "State it, if you please." 
               "Given-a woman nearly twenty, with a sound mind in a sound body-some call her talents genius, and some insanity-to work out a successful destiny alone." 
               "It cannot be done, unless she can write a book." 
               "That is a cruel truth; I must solve the problem by writing the book. You shall help me." 
               "I will help you with head and heart. God never intended that woman should work alone." 
               "Then his intentions are woefully frustrated on earth. What kind of a book must I write?" 
               "Write just what life has taught you! Never undertake to write what you do not know, you will confuse your own ideas, and the ideas of every one who tries to read you, otherwise. What was the subject of the one that was shattered?" 
                
               "Skepticism-I had gone into that slough, and knew it thoroughly; my book was written to sympathize with others in the Despond." 
               "Give me the particulars of that book wreck." 
               "It is a cruel subject, but you must have it." 
               Mag hesitated, and finally continued in her hap-hazard way. 
               "I was ashamed of my presumption in writing it, as I am ashamed to own my sin to my confessor now-and only do it for the fee. I never hinted to my nearest friend that I had written it, did not choose to permit my friends to know of any failure of mine. By the by, writing a book is a good style of education, it teaches one to think. I was obliged to read up on the documents, as well as talk, to be able to write on skepticism." 
               "I will put a pin in there: Useful item for schools-Pupils write books." 
               "Having learned that absolutely I was obliged to work out the life-problem alone, I went about it; taking those Bible-promises for my help-you remember them all, 'In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He will direct thy paths,' 'Ask and ye shall receive,' 'Not a sparrow falls to the ground without Him, and even the hairs of your head are all numbered.' God has promised to be Father to the fatherless, and if that means any one, it means me. Well, I appropriated all those promises-thinking that if the Bible on Faith meant anything, it meant precisely what it said. If we have faith like a grain of mustard-seed, it should remove mountains into the sea. I would test that faith. I would do God's will. Dr. Bushnell says, that when in our life-destiny, the Natural is not sufficient for our need, the Supernatural will come to the rescue. I believed, too, that 'Faith without works was dead.' There was no other way left me to believe in God, but to test those promises, and I did it, or rather I am doing it still, for if I fail entirely, my faith goes to the bottomless-all is lost! Hope for this world, and for that which is to come-and I have a grand interest laid up in that Hereafter, and do not wish to lose it-great love laid up there-father, mother, Frank. And when I am first a bride, it will be in the better country, you know." 
               "How do I know?" 
               "Take my word for it." 
               "Ahem!" 
               "Three months ago, Min and myself visited her sister, Mrs. Everett Walton of Hartford, to prepare ourselves on fashions for this present interesting occasion, and while our hearts were with dress, my head was filled with the book problem. Somebody-a stranger-must help me on my book. I wanted literary criticism. I would not risk my reputation on what I had written-I was not satisfied with it, and one cannot judge of what one writes oneself, you know." 
               "I know." 
               "Everett Walton introduced me to an elderly gentleman friend of his, with whom he was very intimate, and recommended him strongly to my good graces, as being an unusually benevolent, active member of the church-wonderfully zealous in those great revival meetings-bosom friend of one of the most distinguished revival ministers-also had been member of the City Council, sheriff, and mayor, and-you understand-a married man, with children grown." 
               "I understand." 
               "We attended some of those astonishing revival meetings-and my patron was unwearied in his efforts for sinners-among other sinners, your humble servant, who sung her best on the hallelujah hymns; and on the way home, he inquired very earnestly if there was no possible way for Miss Barclay's invaluable society to be procured for the benefit of the city of Hartford; and Miss Barclay, thinking that a special providence had opened the way for her, told the gentleman that she had written a book." 
               "Method in the madness, as usual." 
               "I presume he saw the madness, without having your discernment of the method therein-judging from his course. I made a blunder someway at least; whether it was arrogance in me to say that I would test God's promises; whether the fault was in the prayers to Our Father-my heart was full, and overflowing with them, day and night; nearly every breath was a prayer then, and my very life, I thought, hung on the prayer; whether it was faith or works that went awry, I cannot say, not being an impartial judge of my own exploits. Human nature is weak, but my theory was that faith was given for the perfection of imperfect natures-but, Dr. Barker, you see, it is almost impossible to tell you the result." 
               "Go on, Mag, please." 
               "So I took the MS. to him, at the United States Hotel-having, as a last thing before I started, knelt down and asked God again to direct me, and thanking Him fervently for opening the way before me. I gave him the package, on which I had spent the work of all my years; told him it needed criticism; he was acquainted with literary men, he said, his friends; they should tell him its faults, and he would report the criticism to me-it would be invaluable." 
               "Yes." 
               "And then he told me, with an emphasis, that he loved me madly-that I had capsized him completely-I had stultified him-and he had come to see me, then and there, to tell me so! Would I pray for him? Was it not a providential thing that we had met! 
               "I looked at the gentleman, thunderstruck. He was a splendid specimen of the physical man. You saw Charles Moore-he was his exact counterpart, only his eye never met mine, it avoided me-it was beautiful, too, and so was the silver in his curls." 
               "All providential!" 
               "I had flattered myself that a special providence had sent me to him in answer to all my burning prayers, and at last I told him so; and told him, too, that I would forgive his insult, and I would pray for him, and I would leave the MS. with him still, and permit him to redeem himself by doing me the good I needed." 
               "Yes." 
               "And I have never seen that MS. since. I sent for it, once, twice, thrice, four times. The last time, my messenger said, on his return, that the gentleman, with cool contempt, informed him that it was lost, and he couldn't find it for the lady, and he might tell her so." 
               "Yes. What then?" 
               "Much that can never be told. I concluded, for one thing, that Providence had mocked me. That was no manner of answer to a prayer, that I considered satisfactory. There was a fault somewhere. If I had trusted God too much, I would be sure and trust myself more in future. I would remedy that defect soon. So I commenced my old practice of pistol-shooting. Had a grand time, too. I did not feel disposed to lose the manuscript. I had spent too much on it, and could not afford to lose it, I thought. I was fully resolved to find the way to the gentleman's heart; if I could not do it in one way, I would be sure to do it in another. I was desperately tired of life, anyhow; did not believe in God; longed to see Frank, it seemed to me, as no human being ever longed for a loved one before. If he had 'gone to the bad,' I wanted to go, too-and as soon as possible. I concluded I would send one ball through the hypocrite's heart,-not that I fancied his company into the other world either-and I would send another ball through my own." 
               "It seems you did not do it, or I should have seen an account of it in the newspapers. What a plum they missed!" 
               "Yes; I thought of that, too, as I took the carriage for his office; and I thought of his wife and children, and of the church that would miss his efforts for the conversion of sinners. I thought of it all, when I called him out to the carriage, and told him I must trouble him to find the MS. for me, as it was essential that I should have it." 
               "Yes." 
               "He was as bland as a June morning, if I could only have caught the sunshine of his magnificent eye. 'He regretted exceedingly that the thing was lost; he would be sure to find it for me-told me that I was as beautiful as ever, and he had the same burning love for me.'-- 
               "And I stopped him right then and there, and told him he was a fiendish liar, and God knew I would shoot him down in the streets if I heard any more language of that kind from him; but as he had lost the MS., he must give me the criticisms on it immediately. It was necessary for me that I should have them. 
               "'Yes,' he said, 'he had showed the thing to a friend of his-a student of Yale College (!) for criticism-fine fellow, friend of his-who said there were fine things in the book, but its pro-slavery sentiments would damn the book.' There was not a line about slavery in the book. 'He himself was pro-slavery-ran on the pro-slavery ticket for office, and was defeated. There was not enough of incident or novelty in the plot of the book to suit the popular taste; the masses in the streets were only interested in some horrible tragedy.' By the by, Dr. Barker, I have a conpassion for that same popular taste.-I wonder if it would suit the legislature to listen to a blood and thunder slave story." 
               "Finish your story." 
               "I stopped him with a laugh. I could not help it for the life of me; it was too ridiculous. Providence or no Providence, I told him that he would never distinguish himself for logic; his remarks were not to the point, etc., etc. I would thank him to send the manuscript to me by the next express, which he promised to do, and never did, and so my book went overboard. I found out that, unfortunately, the man, like my three friends of the legislature, was unable to spell, and I concluded, on the whole, that it would be casting my pearls before swine to shoot myself for him, and I should prefer better company to Hades; was afraid we should quarrel while Charon was rowing us over the Styx, and so I would not do it. I would do better: try again on the book, and stake my religion on its success; be a little more cautious about my helpers." 
               "So you have come to me." 
               "Yes, sir," said Mag, laughing; "and you understand, that if you play me false, I consider you fair and good and worthy game for shooting! I should have no scruples about shooting you down. I could hate you, because you are strong, and can be noble. I never could condescend to hate an insignificant soul." 
               "I am at your service, Mag; make what use of me you will. Don't shoot me till you have tested me." 
               "Thank you kindly! When my book is rewritten I shall send it to you as its guardian. It will not be done soon; for I hope my faith will revisit me. Every page must be written with a prayer, for my religion fails with the book. I am busy in school now; heart and brain are full. It is my life-problem, you know. I shall do my best now, and be cautious, too." 
               "The devil seems to have answered that prayer of yours, and God to have had no part in it. Your spirit has gone mad over it, and that is wrong. I believe your prayers will all be answered yet. It must be so. You will work out the life-problem successfully, Mag, do not doubt it!" 
               "Unless the Bible is a lie, God must bring good even out of that pollution, Dr. Barker. I speak reverently now. I had most implicit faith. Simple faith, they tell us, is all-powerful. Mine was simple enough, perhaps; but I know it was TRUE! God knows, it was true, while it lasted. If the Bible is true, and that faith was true, then that prayer is obliged to be answered yet." 
               "To doubt it would be sin, and you have sinned in your bitter doubt to-night." 
               Mag went on her way with less of desperation, yet a skeptic still; for she could not see why these things were so. 
               It was a glorious moonlight night. During the ride home Mason Rivers was unsaying every word he had said in going. 
               With Mag it required a tremendous effort of the will to listen to his words, much more to parry the pointed sentiments he was bestowing freely. A tragedy was going on in her heart and brain, of which her flirting and coquetting were the side-scenes. 
               "It should be no fault of his," Rivers said, "if their marriage in jest did not become one in earnest, and a happy one." 
               "Our sentiments on the woman question are so entirely dissimilar!" Mag replied. "You consider it an indispensable requisite that you should put all the preliminary questions yourself. When I marry in earnest, I shall ask my beloved the fated questions; he must never ask them of me. I shall never say 'yes' to a man who asks me." 
               "You will confer an inexpressible favor, Miss Barclay, by asking me the questions now. I am more than anxious to answer them. There is no time like the present time. My answer is waiting. It shall be 'yes,' and thank you kindly." 
               "I am not going to ask the questions yet," she answered. "I am not prepared; I must wait some months, to impress upon your mind a sense of my discretion. I pride myself on my discretion, and you must see it in its perfection." 
               "Your course this evening has convinced me past a doubt." 
               "Well, I must convince myself of your perfections in the same line, before I venture; so we must possess our souls with patience, whether we wish or not." 
               They reached home at last. Mag bounded up to her room, threw off her hat and shawl, and surveyed herself in the mirror. It was the same figure that had stood before Dr. Barker, but she was not sure of her identity; her spirit seemed disembodied, standing beside its fleshy tenement, that seemed changed to painted stone. Was that, indeed, the creature that God and man recognized as Magdalene Barclay? That unwomanly thing? How she hated herself! That thing might be put into hat and boots! She smiled at the conceit-placed the idea before her on its feet-surveyed it-turned it topsy-turvy, and took its bearings-whirled it on its head-then pitched it flat-for somehow her own head was giddy and sick. She must put it to other business than going insane, indeed she positively could not afford either to get sick or go insane, because she had no one who loved her, to take care of her, under those peculiar circumstances. Ergo, she resolved neither to get sick nor go insane-a strong will would prevent either; she would write poetry first-and she did. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           UNREST. 
                            
                              Thought comes all weird and wild to-day, 
                              The pulse throbs fierce and slow- 
                              The blood mounts madly on its way, 
                              Its emptied fount lies low; 
                              I list no more love's music lay, 
                              For thought of human woe. 
                            
                            
                              Night's haggard gloom is on the soul, 
                              Night, too, is on the sky, 
                              And horror reigns with stern control, 
                              No blessed light is nigh- 
                              For ghastly thoughts upon me roll, 
                              Of trembling mystery. 
                            
                            
                              Oh, human heart! Oh, bleeding heart! 
                              The vulture gnaws thee still! 
                              It rends thy quivering veins apart, 
                              Yet ne'er has drunk its fill! 
                              Did Prometheus to earth impart 
                              The pangs that made his hell? 
                            
                            
                              The heart works its own evil doom, 
                              No vulture's beak is there, 
                              Nor demon from night's deepest womb, 
                              Nor fiend from earth or air- 
                              'Tis soul brings soul its deathly gloom, 
                              Hearts frame their own despair. 
                            
                            
                              There is no darkling mystery, 
                              Like that of human sin; 
                              If Death himself perchance could die, 
                              Our life might then begin; 
                              'Twere peace, rest, life, in death to lie, 
                              Free from the curse within.
                               
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               And then she answered the letter of Charles Atherton Moore, rehearsed to him in their worst details the events of the evening as a counterpart of his long unanswered letter. She said that she had discovered that the sister arts of wooing and winning were by no means confined to the sterner sex-that ladies, too, like Goethe, might study as a part of self-culture, the art of extracting their rarest secrets from human hearts-and so on, ad infinitum. 
               Months afterward the letter reached Charles Moore, on his return from the Orient, at Smyrna. He was on his way home to his native land, but he turned from it again in disgust, as if that land was haunted by pestilence. He went trampling the old earth over again, to crush down the intense bitterness in his soul. 
               He answered the letter. 
               "Oh, Magdalene Barclay! For me only should have been the immolation of the wild virginity of your spirit! The pure bud of promise in your rare girlhood has blossomed into diseased life; not by God's sunlight of love, but by kindling baleful passion fires! My peerless rose-my bright New England flower-is polluted, worthless. God help me! God help us both! I would have received your spirit in its immaculate innocence; and had I, by some 'bloody blunder,' stained its purity, by all laws, human and divine, I would have torn out my own heart to atone for the wrong! Oh, Magdalene Barclay! you have wrought out your own curse! thrown yourself into the abyss! God help us, for you have dragged me down with you!" 
               Thus he wrote; the letter was received by her all too soon. It was never answered. He gave no address for a reply. 
             
             
               XXIV. CHANGE OF SCENE-FATE OF A BAND-BOX. 
               "THIS life is absolutely intolerable, Miss Barclay," said Mag to herself, as the winter months rolled away. "Your heart has at last become that empty millstone, which having nothing else to feed upon, is grinding itself away. The worst possible has come! Everything other than this must be better. Penniless, friendless, loveless, what can you fear more? You are at bay with the world. Life thus far a perfect failure! You have no hope for the future, but you must live on and work on, and the energy of desperation is more powerful than even hope. With hope there is fear of loss, and hope unnerves one; but with you all is lost; every step you take now will be forward; there can be no lower depths to the abyss. You must leave these hills and mountains, which are haunted by memories of Frank, who has left you, and of Charles Moore, who has not only turned traitor to you, but to himself-yes, betrayed himself, given himself up to the earthly instead of worshipping the divine. You could have borne anything but that! Yes, this life is unendurable! You are now a slave to circumstances; but you must force circumstances to your will, in some degree. We are the framers of our own destinies. The heart is its own fate; and you too can dare Fate now to do her worst, and smile as she tramples upon you. Let her do her utter worst, she can never wring another tear from you. You shall find some new slavery at her hands, that will help you to forget yourself. Fate shall bend somewhat to your will, or that fierce spirit of yours will do the flesh a deadly harm." 
               To resolve with energy, was to act with energy. Mag wrote North, South, East, and West, to every acquaintance she had, applying for a situation as teacher-the only employment open for a woman. At last she received a response from eastern Mississippi. Her services were desired as principal of the Female Department of a new Institution, "Clarke Co. Male and Female Institute," Mr. Church, the principal of the Male Department, wrote that he was glad to hear, that besides taking charge of the Literary Department, she was somewhat qualified to teach music and painting, as in an emergency, she would be able to assist the professors in the department of the Arts. 
               A few months were given Mag for preparation; she accepted the terms, closed up her administration in the Academy at Glenlyn, and made ready for a change of scene. She devoted herself especially to the fine arts. Hudson Ely invited her to become an inmate of his home in New Haven. Through the kindness of Dr. Barker, she was received into the studio of a New York artist, who was painting the portraits of distinguished residents of New Haven at that time. So she was domesticated with Min, a student of Art under Mr. Sawyer, and music pupil of Mr. Burnett. May Burton entered an Institute at New Haven at the time, and so her blessings brightened as they took their flight. With friends around her, she almost forgot the wild pain in her heart-kindness was soothing; and the long talks on art, and the study of the beautiful, magnetized her restless spirit-the hardening heart melted. One day-one strange day-she remembered it for years-the fountains in that stony heart were unsealed, and sweet, human tears came gushing like rain-drops in springtime. They fell back in showers and watered the dry, burning, stony heart. For years afterward, her sweetest dream of heaven was to sleep-to awake in the embraces of one who loved and pitied her, and to sob her pain away. The next tears she shed were upon the heart of one who loved her well, and pitied her with a great, yearning, solemn pity; but long years rolled away before she shed those tears. 
               She was copying a child's portrait-a bright, sweet face, with dimpled mouth and shoulders, and sunny curls; she named it her "Art-baby," and called it Charlie, because she loved it, and because it was its name. She was mingling tints for the cloud drapery around the shoulders, when her heart melted so miraculously into tears; when the tears had passed away, and the rainbow that accompanied them, Mr. Burritt, whose portrait the artist was painting, entered with a lady. 
               The lady looked at the work on Mag's easel. 
               "You have portraits of twins," said she to the artist, not comprehending Mag's part of the performance. 
               "There is a genuine compliment for you, Miss Barclay," said Mr. Burritt, whose heart was large enough to encourage all effort that came under his observation. His congratulations came with such genial, whole-souled sympathy, that Mag's heart rose with a glad bound, and woman-like, because he had flattered her, she forever afterward insisted that Elihu Burritt had a great, warm heart, a noble generous heart, and that was true. 
               He has a heart full of magnanimous love for the sorrowful and down-pressed-for the black slaves of the sunny South, and the white slaves of the rugged North, and the hordes of slaves to passion and sin and want, that throng the old earth. Because there was a great, earnest heart beating for humanity in his bosom, he went over the ocean on his mission of universal peace, and unfolded it to mother England; and because of that warm, true, loving heart he is striving so earnestly to be the slave's friend and emancipator. 
               Elihu Burritt, the learned blacksmith-the friend of peace. A son of New England claims it as his right to victimize the man of the people even in this book. If it is wrong, we beg his pardon. Our apology is, that Burritt is a man of the nation, born in New England; whom New England is proud to honor. 
               But we are wandering from our story. 
               From that day, at Mr. Burritt's request, Mag stayed at her easel while he was sitting for his portrait; and her master requested her to exert herself to rouse the expressions in his face, while he was giving the finishing touches to the picture. She had the audacity to try some of her powers in calling out the strange, variable piercing light in his dark blue eye, which it was so difficult to transfer to the canvas. 
               "The expression of your eye has a dangerous cork-screw turn that is very difficult to interpret, sir! What a wiry soul must be at home in the remote regions, that you do not permit the profane to enter! And what a curious trick you teach it of looking out upon souls not of its kind!" 
               It was a piece of saucy daring in Mag; and she watched the eye and face to see what expressions her remark would call forth. There was a bright, merry, flash of surprise, and a quick, keen glance, that did not petrify her; but did encourage her to be more daring still-to question him eagerly of all the notabilities of the old world whom he had known as friends. For an hour she poured out an incessant volley of questions. 
               "How came you to know all those old German theologians?" he asked her at length, having patiently answered all. 
               "She had become acquainted with them all, in her dreams." 
               Mag ran home at night, and told Min that "she had had two sugar-plums in one day; she had miraculously accomplished a fit of weeping, and had talked with the Learned Blacksmith." 
               Her further remarks were interrupted by the entrance of one Richard Hudson Ely, Esq., Judge of Probate, in a terrible panic. 
               "Min, I have lost my Docket-book, and it is my opinion that you have hidden it in some of your wonderful housekeeping apparatus. Do, for heaven's sake find it for me, or I shall be ruined!" 
               "Not I," said Min, composedly; "I have not seen a scrap of it." 
               "You must have seen it somewhere; just think. A little black, doomsday book. I have hunted the office high and low for it, and you have just lost it in some of your pickling and preserving machinery, which jars on my feelings tremendously, Mrs. Ely." 
               The judge was in a fret. 
               "I declare I haven't seen the first shadow of it," said Mrs. Ely. 
               "It is no laughing matter, I'll assure you. All my cases for the next court, with their order of appearance. You or Bridget must have misplaced it. You seem to enjoy it!" 
               "We are every one sober as the judge himself," said Min, putting on a solemn face. For a mortal hour the worthies, with Bridget, spent their energies in searching every nook and cranny, from garret to cellar, but the Docket-book did not make its appearance, and Judge Richard Hudson Ely was in dismay. 
               "It will be a fearful judgment day," said Min, laughing in spite of herself, at his woe-begone visage. "Don't disturb your equanimity so frightfully! Do cool yourself off and get comfortable, and I know you will feel better." 
               A painful smile distorted his countenance. 
               "You have kindled the fire with it, Mrs. Ely." 
               "It must be the fire of your-disposition. Don't disturb your temper over trouble, it makes it worse." 
               And Min proceeded to take down every book in the secretary, and turn upside down every document in the drawers. 
               "What would you give for a sight of the Book of Doom?" said she, diving under a package of papers, at a little black article, which she fished out. She darted away, as she saw light breaking suddenly through the gloom overshadowing him, as if he had been a criminal unexpectedly reprieved. 
               "What penalty does he deserve, Mag, for so basely slandering my housekeeping propensities?" She was flying over sofas and chairs, with the book safely out of the judge's grasp. 
               "Such intolerable impertinence deserves a merciless punishment. With what pitiless torture he has disturbed the peace and repose of a happy family, for the last hour." 
               "Please, ma'am, I am so sorry! I won't never do so no more; never!" said the judge. 
               "You cannot be trusted, sir; you will lose it again yourself, and then with the most reckless ingratitude slander my talents for housekeeping. Mag Barclay! Mag Barclay! Take warning by my sad fate. Never commit matrimony! Woman! thou long-suffering, much-enduring article of flesh, blood and spirit!" 
               As Min resignedly surrendered the book, a look of unspeakable satisfaction was reflected from her lord's face into her sparkling physiognomy. When next Judge Ely made his appearance, he presented his lady a fine edition of Miss Leslie's Cookery Book. 
               This life soon ended for Mag-all too soon-she was obliged to start on her journey. She found Mr. Burritt in Mr. Sawyer's studio when she called to make her adieux. They greeted her cordially. 
               "I am sorry, sorry, sorry to know that a New England girl will go South," said Mr. Burritt, advancing to meet her as she entered. "I cannot believe your mission lies there, Miss Barclay. Those slaveholders will corrupt you. I never knew a Yankee girl who went South, that did not come back tainted in sentiment." 
               "But Mr. Burritt, pardon me; your logic is bad. If fuller knowledge and light concerning the details of a great evil, must force conscientious Puritan-bred children to change or modify their sentiments, would you have them avoid that knowledge?" 
               "There is indeed a plausible look to your question," he replied, the genial soul beaming from his benevolent face. "But really and in earnest, you ought not to go South." 
               "Ought is a great word, for even a great man to use," said Mag with a quizzical look. "It is much easier to criticise a course of action, than to improve upon it. I am more than anxious to do right. If you can suggest an improvement in my plans, my mind shall be open to conviction." 
               "You should go to Paris and study art." 
               "It is a happy suggestion. I thank you for it. I promise now, faithfully, to do it at my first opportunity, and not before!" 
               She received the benedictions of her masters, and went on her way. 
               While waiting in his parlors hung with paintings, to say a "Good bye," to Mr. Burnett, she became absorbed in the study of one of those beautiful engravings of Christ crowned with thorns-"Ecce Homo." The look of appealing agony in the eye, for her, had a strange charm. Her master put the picture in her hands, as a parting gift; and that pictured Christ accompanied her in all her wanderings as a precious thing, when she had lost all faith in the presence of the Divine Christ with mortals, and when the Paraclete was not the Comforter to her. 
               The new minister at Glenlyn was her escort to New York. He told her he had business there; she knew his sole business was to do an act of Christian charity, to an orphan who had been teacher to his children. 
               It was a bright morning in March, when she bid Aunt Lina, Uncle Alph, and little Cousin Harry a "Good morning." She assured them in parting, that she would do her best never to break her neck, but if she was ever so fortunate she would endeavor to let them hear the joyful news by the first opportunity. Uncle Alph's last exhortation to her was to "Be good, and happy," which advice struck her with a ludicrous emotion that she tried to swallow, but which went down with difficulty. As Uncle Alph's disposition had been the great curse of her own and Aunt Lina's lives, she was moved with a perception of his talents in giving advice. She had no doubt that those four words of advice had cost Uncle Alph, at least, a week of hard study, and for those overwhelming exertions in her behalf, she could bestow no more fitting thanks than eloquent silence. She resolved mentally, however, to send Uncle Alph the first money she ever came in possession of, to relieve his business misfortunes, she was convinced that it was the only thing that could improve his temper or bring even a show of peace to the family. 
               Uncle Alph, seeing the lady smile at his parting effort, felt that he was not appreciated, and as she drove away with the minister, declared that she was "one queer little animal, anyhow," and perhaps she was. Unfortunate Uncle Alph! In a year, he was in his grave. 
               Mag was sick before she reached New York. She had a tremendous cold, which set her head in a tremendous whirl; there was nothing to do, however, but laugh at the dizziness, and say silly things, which she did very easily, under the foolish circumstances. 
               "What a charming prospect!" Mag exclaimed, with sudden admiration of darkness visible, as the cars groaned and thundered slowly through the tunnel near New York. She would have enjoyed an earthquake just then, and had a hateful, insignificant feeling, because she could not accomplish much more than a locomotive! She, somehow, wanted to have something tear up those rocks over the tunnel, and it fretted her, the thought that nothing could do it. 
               "Your remark cannot be intended for 'eye'-rony," responded the new minister, in amazement at her perceptions of the beautiful! 
               "'I'ron'y' savors of 'ego'-tism, sir, and should never be permitted to slip in, except in desperate cases." 
               Poor Mag! she was sick; she did not dare risk herself on the overland route alone, so she took steamer for Charleston. 
               She waved her handkerchief, with a parting smile of thanks to her "minister," as she stood upon the deck, and the steamboat left the pier at New York; and once more she was "alone upon the waters." 
               "Well, Miss Barclay," said she, "it is no more funny this time than it was the last time, when you received that interesting epistle from Lieutenant Moore; but never mind. If you could only prevail upon a shower of respectable tears to come to your relief, it might be considered by the virtuous as the proper thing, and it might be amusing employment, under the circumstances, and you seem at present to have no especial entertainment for pastime except your bandbox! By the by, what a relief to have such a source of comfort and employment to a mind in vacuo!" 
               Mag picked up that bandbox-it was a pet bandbox-it contained her Sunday hat. Of course, she could not go even into a heathen land without a Sunday hat. There was a Sunday all the world over; and she, a Puritan-bred, church-going Yankee girl, to leave the land of civilization for Mississippi without her Sunday hat! Preposterous! Her trunks, however, had overflowed with some very useless (!) books, and crowded out that indispensable piece of bodily furniture, and the last resort was a bandbox! She had protected it from enemies thus far-she remembered how ruefully and spitefully the "minister" had eyed it; she caught him once doubling his fist at it with a malicious look, as if it would have delighted him to have pitched it after Curtius-when he jumped into a patriot's grave in the Roman forum. How men do hate bandboxes! 
               She picked the thing up, as we have said, with a due sense of its need of protection, and went to her state-room; trying, as she went, to raise a little sublime enthusiasm-for she saw the blue-green-black waves tumbling around the steamboat-about "old hoary ocean." She thought a few things about "mountain billows." She remembered that Byron, on a similar occasion, probably, had said to the salt water, "Roll on thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!" but she thought, on the whole, that she wouldn't say it, for it would "roll on," anyway, just the same-her words would not affect the ocean much! And, somehow, she did not feel romantic; she felt rather dolefully; she had not yet acquired a particular love for the "ocean," as Byron had; it required a cultivated taste in her, for-for-it must be put down in romance as a fiction almost as strange as fact-there was coming up a driving storm; the wind and rain chased the ship mightily, and Mag got mighty sea-sick. Being in an indifferent frame of mind at the time, she carelessly poked her elbow through the window, letting in upon her a crash of glass, as well as the fine driving storm. Well, it felt cool and comfortable, under the circumstances-the wind and rain did-for she was feeling terribly feverish-and as she did not flatter herself she could stop the storm, she concluded that she just would not try-she would let it drive on and in, and she did; so, when she reached Charleston, she was not able to speak aloud, which made no particular difference, as she had no one to speak to; but somehow, something ailed her head, or heart, or liver, or lungs, she did not know precisely which, for she felt hot some, and some she felt cold; so she stopped at the Charleston Hotel, and sent for Dr. Robertson to prescribe for her. 
               "Do you suppose I am sick, doctor?" she asked, laughing. "I am sure I don't know, and I will be obliged to you to find out." 
               "No," said he; "there is not a particle of disease in your whole system. I think you will live eighty years yet, if not a thousand." 
               "What a shocking disappointment! Don't tell me so, doctor! You are sure I have not an organic affection of the heart, that will carry me off soon?" 
               "Your heart will never give way! You could not give it away!" 
               "And my brain?-no predisposition to be light-headed?" 
               "Not enough to do any harm. Drink a nice bowl of tea, go to bed and sleep soundly. I will call on you some time to-morrow, and in twenty-four hours you may go on to Montgomery." 
               And Major F. M. Robertson, M.D., sat an hour, and talked of his adventures in the Florida war, and the talk was better for Mag than a bushel of sugar-plums, even in broken doses. 
               The next day she awoke in the course of the morning, made her toilette, rang for her breakfast, drew up the sofa before the fire-room No. 120, Charleston Hotel-cushioned herself upon it, and lay there and meditated.
                
               Poor Mag! She had received many good things in this life, for which she had not been thankful. She had, like many another poor sinner, taken the good she had received as her right; and when it was taken from her, it never occurred to her to say with Job, "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord." She had an indefinite, nay, quite a definite idea, that if there was a God, which at present she very much doubted, she had been very cruelly treated; but as she could not prevent it, and crying would do no good, she would laugh about it-it was the best thing. Was she not an orphan? How Mag harped upon that, just as though there were not thousands in the world worse than orphaned-thousands of parents whom it is impossible for children to "honor" or reverence, since they bring to themselves and their children only curses! 
               Poor Mag! She had the indefinite idea that if God existed, He owed her something; in some way she ought to have compensation for the bread of charity she had eaten; that bread had not been sweet or delicious; she had never been able to discipline her taste to love it-it was too intolerably bitter. 
               She had taken Frank's love as a right; she had taken the love of Charles Moore as a right, and had never thanked God for them, poor sinner; but demanded as a further right some very proud gifts. She had met and loved two noble souls on God's earth. She had no idea-with all her irreverence and contempt for diminutive and fractional souls-she had not the remotest idea but that such magnanimous souls were common on the earth. She thought she should meet them and know them, and they would recognize her. She had to learn that integers-whole souls-cross the orbits of earthly existence as rarely as comets. Poor Mag! Poor little simpleton. She thought, too, she had measured herself; thought she had some idea of her position in the scale of humanity. She considered herself a perfect miracle of conscientiousness; gave herself credit for being one of those magnetic souls that continually attract and influence other souls! What a quantity of nonsense had to be taken out of her! Frank had predicted it. She had said to herself that she was proud and inconsistent, and she hugged that saying to herself with a deal of satisfaction, as if it had been a very wise, meek, humble, and consistent saying. 
               She had come out now into the world to fight her battle alone. Wonderfully independent she felt; no human being was concerned in her welfare; she was free to go to destruction if she chose; she was not sure but she was going, whether she chose or not; she would laugh if it was so-no use in crying. By the by, was she sinking into the unfathomable abyss, or was she rising to the unfathomable infinite? God only knew-if there was a God. Was she degenerating, or being purified as by fire, by all her fiery thought? At times, when she thought herself going down, down, DOWN! to bottomless depths, she was to be surprised to find herself suddenly standing on firm ground, which she deemed the bottom of her abyss of sorrow and degradation. On that ground she was to stand and gather new strength-Anteus strength. A strange daring, almost like hope, was to visit her often there; a hope that, after all, the death which would full surely come at some time-no doubt about that-might at least be a variety to experience. And when she got utterly tired of earth, she herself could open the beautiful gates, and see what was the knowledge that lay beyond. In the depths of that abyss she had dreams of the Beautiful.
                
               We do worship beauty! It is implanted in our nature-the worship of the beautiful. We worship human beauty; it is the noblest type of ideal loveliness. Mag loved the beautiful. 
               She dreamed delirious dreams of manly strength and beauty-of perfection. She bent her heart in worship of one form; and in her adoration, she loved to clothe her own physical charms in glorious garments for him. In the eyes of one human living being she longed to look beautiful. In dreams she doffed the black garments, in which the world saw her clothed; and in dreams she arrayed herself for him. Then she looked down into her anxious soul, stilled her throbbing heart, sunned herself in his smiles, drank silver melody from his lips; his hot passion tones wooed her; in dreams she floated with him on radiant clouds to heaven, and slept on thrones. 
               Poor, little, wayward, earth-born Mag! She meditated sublimely as she lay upon the sofa, with her brown eyes watching the fire. 
               Just as she had again dared fate to do her worst, for she had no fear-fate could never force tears of brine from her human eyes, though her human heart should ooze itself away in tears of blood-Dr. Robertson came to visit his patient. 
               "It is splendid," said she to him on parting, "to cure a lady without medicine or charges! You must appreciate Plato, sir! Please accept a copy of Bohn's translation, to remind you of a stranger whom you have benefited; and be assured, that in the first book I publish, I shall book you as the very best physician I ever met in Charleston." 
               The next morning, Mag and her bandbox were on their "winding way." A few miles from Charleston, the car took fire in which she was sitting, and in the mle, her bandbox was in immense danger of annihilation, besides Mag herself getting suffocated with heat and smoke, till she grew black in the face. A benevolent individual, who sat behind her, rescued the bandbox, gallantly helped her over the tops of half-a-dozen seats, knocked a few people out of her way, gave her one tremendous push through a few more into the fresh air, where she took breath, and therefore went on her way, her spirit still in the flesh, which was probably as convenient an arrangement for the spirit as the flesh. This benevolent personage also saw her safely exchange cars at Augusta. 
               She met no further adventure that interested her until she reached Montgomery, with one exception. At Atalanta, Peel's Campbell minstrels came on the cars. One member of the troupe, a good-looking young fellow, took his seat immediately before her, leading by a string a most exquisitely interesting phenomenon in the shape of a forlorn, half-blind infant puppy, which puppy Mag pitied with a great pity, and which pity the puppy seemed to appreciate, for he climbed up the back of her seat, and looking intently into her face, commenced a series of the most distressed yelping, whining, and barking that his utmost capacity could accomplish. Mag smiled affectionately into his face; she saw his powers were feeble; she encouraged him, assured him that she considered him a "poor fellow," a "good fellow," asking him "where lay his pain?" All in vain; the dog would not be comforted of his wonderful grief, and at last his master smothered it by shutting the poor puppy's mouth with his hand, and holding it in durance, telling Mag, as an apology for the puppy's impertinence, that his bark was much worse than his bite-which is the case with the whole generation of mortal puppies-and in this case the bark was unusually feeble, and gave Mag much food for contemplation. A few minutes after, as some of that Campbell troupe were discussing their experiences, in language more forcible than polite and chaste, the dog's young master went to them, leading the quadruped by his string, and Mag heard an emphatic whispered "Hush-sh-sh, there is a lady present!" Mag was conscious of their glances toward her; the tone of the conversation changed instanter, and Mag in her heart pronounced the master of that little puppy a gentleman, and thanked him for his delicacy of feeling; and thought of pistol-shooting in Hartford, and a pious, Christian gentleman she once met there. 
               Next, Mag found herself on the steamer St. Nicholas, in the Alabama River, minus her trunks and bandbox. "There is a way out of every trouble, if one could only find it," she said to herself. She went to the captain, and in her own laughing style informed him of her dilemma. 
               "Had she her checks?" 
               "Yes, sir, but the trunks were not on board." 
               "They must be at the depot, then." 
               Here a young military student from Marietta, Ga.-Mag fancied military students-offered his services to track the trunks-" and bandbox," Mag put in-through every hotel in Montgomery, while one of the depot agents, who was listening, offered to storm the depot-it being eleven o'clock at night. Mag was resigned, and spent the interval in writing a love-letter to May Burton. Depot agent returned without Mag's worldly possessions; military student ditto; and Mag tried her laughing philosophy, asking the "agent" if he thought she could possibly "play pretty" enough to the captain to induce him to do anything further; if not, she must go ashore, if it was midnight. 
               "Don't go yet," said the agent, "I heard the captain cursing some of the servants just now; he was swearing that the boat should not leave till the lady's trunks were forthcoming. No doubt the servants have smuggled them." 
               Soon after the gentleman sent for Mag to come to her state-room door, the missing articles were there, safe and sound. 
               "How did the things reach here?" she asked in astonishment. 
               "A special providence, no doubt." 
               Mag began to believe in special providences. 
               "They came on wings, certain, sir! A half-hour since, they were not here, to my sure knowledge. But how can I thank you, sir, for your benevolence?" 
               "Allow me to congratulate you!" 
               "Well, it is unspeakable, sir!" Mag's eyes were shining with a puzzled look; she did not know what was proper under the circumstances. "Will you permit me to shake hands with you upon it?" 
               And the two shook hands very happily and cordially, and parted. 
               The bandbox and Sunday hat were somewhat damaged. 
               The military student informed Mag that the company had concluded, from her appearance, that she must be a "literary lady." They sailed down the river very placidly, Mag thanking them mentally, for their opinion, but denied the soft impeachment, saying to herself, that unfortunately she was but a Yankee schoolmistress come south to seek her fortunes. 
               The next thing that occupied her attention was a chicken-a real, bona-fide feathered biped, that got astray on that Alabama River. The boat had stopped at a bluff, and was taking on cotton, when the little, frightened, desperate, ambitious thing escaped from its prison on the hurricane deck, and fluttered out to freedom, landing on the rocky, muddy banks of the Alabama, leaving its wits elsewhere. 
               "Dear, dear, what quantities of bipeds there are," thought Mag, "who want what they can't get, and when they get it, get what they don't want." 
               The chicken went shrieking and fluttering, up one rock and down another, as if it had scattered seventeen senses in as many different directions, and was risking life and limb to collect them again. And Mag looked up at the wild vines climbing the gigantic forest trees on the river, and the waving moss, and the little white heron that hovered over the dipping willow branches, and the big, black alligators gators that didn't. And she wondered if she had not fluttered out to freedom with the desperate daring of that crazy chicken-and, poor child, she had. She thought a special providence ought to be taking care of her, and so she believed she would do as she would be done by-be a special providence to the benighted chicken, and she was! She flew down-not on wings, for she had not received any as yet-down a flight of steps, over forty or a thousand bales of cotton, more or less, walked a plank, climbed a bank, and chased the chicken! Poor little fool, it was afraid of her, ran from her as if she had been an evil spirit, never mistrusting that she was a special providence, but that was natural. Here a gentleman helped the unfeathered as well as the feathered chicken out of their respective dilemmas. Mag caught the fellow-the chicken, not the gentleman-carried him tenderly into the cabin, introduced him to the ladies, who treated him to piano music and other refreshments, dismissed him at last to the highest sphere, and then Mag and the gentleman moralized. Mag, of course, questioned the utility of so much pain and fright to the chicken; and also, of course, they stumbled upon a discussion, in which the gentleman vindicated the ways of Providence with men; and Mag forgot her pain and solitude, forgot that she was "weary long ago," she "forgot herself and the universe" in listening. The hours rolled on till midnight, a group of men and ladies gathered silently around and listened-the stars came out-she poured out question after question, which the stranger, a grave, elderly, noble-looking man, answered patiently, eloquently, and earnestly. 
               She awoke from her abstraction at last, and rose to go. 
               "And now, my child," said he, smiling gravely, "may I ask you one question: Do you believe in God?" 
               "You yourself, sir, have proved to me the existence of two equal gods." 
               "What taught you all the questions you have asked me?" 
               "Pain and suffering have their uses, sir; they are all that teach a woman to think. I may possibly be like our little stray chicken, lost alone on the rocks and quicksands of the river of life. I would like to learn if an Over-ruling Providence will save me as it did the chicken." 
               "Then you, too, have gone out into the wilderness for forty days and nights to be tempted of the devil-you innocent child?" 
                
               "By ten thousand of them, sir. Any hope for me?" 
               "You will not be tempted beyond refuge. Legions of angels will minister unto you. Be assured of that." 
               "Thank you for the assurance, sir; and good night." 
               The gentleman was Rev. Mr. F--, of Demopolis, a Scotch divine. He left at Selma, and Mag saw his face no more. 
               A pleasant time they had down the river. One day the boat was aground, and she watched the amphibious boatmen haul it off the sand-banks. And then the negroes! There was a large party on the lower decks, emigrants for Texas, who were wonderfully musical at night; they lay on the cotton bales in the moonlight, and Mag learned their camp-meeting choruses, and showered them with "sugar plums," which she sent for at the Bar, which showers caused some break-neck scrambles among the ebons, and called out the white expression of their teeth and eyes, till they seemed crazy with joy. Mag and the darkies seemed the happiest creatures in Christendom. What sorrows either were capable of suffering, God only knows, as He alone knew whether at that time any calamity, past all sorrow, was sitting at their hearts. "There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man," wrote Paul, the Christian martyr, years ago, to bond and free in Christendom. 
               A night at the Battle House, Mobile-a journey up the Bigbee River, and Mag found herself landed at Bladon Springs, and greeted by Mr. Church, principal elect of the Clarke Co. Institute. 
               The "season" had not commenced at the Springs, and no conveyance could be obtained for love or money, to take them thirty miles into the frontier life of the Southwest. After staying and drinking sulphur-water enough to make them sick, they undertook the journey on horseback. Mag gave up the bandbox in despair; bade it adieu with accustomed resignation and composure, consoling herself with Pope: "Whatever is, is right." We may here add its sad fate. 
               When next Mag's longing eyes greeted it, it was as near utter annihilation as ever bandbox was. To all intents and Sunday purposes, it was utterly annihilated. 
               A great moral was thereby indoctrinated with Mag's theories of morals, viz.: Ladies ought never to travel with bandboxes. 
                
               Thirty miles on horseback! And such horses! One was an elephantine plough-horse; Mag's was a miniature edition of horse-flesh, with a gait that gave great exercise up and down, and around and about, to her lungs. The movement is styled the "knitting-needle gait." After riding all day, she thought of that horse that trotted a half-hour in the shadow of a half-bushel; Mag declared that her lungs were jolted into jelly, and she believed that "variety was the spice of life that gave it all its flavor." Mr. Church assented, and they exchanged animals. She mounted the elephant, and walked leisurely and in peace to her journey's end, while her companion performed the "knitting work." 
               Night overtook them in the pine forests, and the forests were on fire!
                
               As far as the eye could reach, the dry leaves, and piles of dry logs and brush, were blazing. The long lines of light illuminated the very tree-tops, and the brilliant moonlight through the white smoke, looked like midnight rainbows. Mag forgot her fatigue in watching their beauty. At eleven o'clock her journey was accomplished. 
             
             
               XXV. FRONTIER LIFE. 
               "IT most surely cannot be that you are listening to the 'harmony of the spheres,' Miss Barclay," said Mag next morning to her prime minister, as she awoke. She was listening to what seemed some very unearthly music, issuing from the earth beneath her, instead of the heavens above. Mag thought the "spheres" must be in distress, by their groans-if it was the spheres-but she had concluded that it wasn't. The music was a series of grunts, interspersed with notes, long and short, shrill and sweet-perhaps-of course those who uttered the squealing considered it sweet-"De gustibus," etc.-and Mag was impressed with a sense of the harmony. She rubbed open her eyes, to open her mind to the full comprehension of the subject. It was a matter for thought experiment. The sense of the ludicrous overpowered Mag's sense of the harmonious, as well as her other senses. 
               "If I am not mistaken, Miss Barclay, you once read in the Book, that the herd of swine who were possessed of evil spirits, ran violently down a steep hill into the sea, and perished. This could not have been that herd; but they set a praiseworthy example. I think these must be 'possessed.' I wonder if there isn't a 'steep hill' out somewhere near, and I wonder if these little pigs could not be induced to follow the example of their ancestors. You are said to have enticing ways, Miss Barclay; for mercy's sake, try your powers on the pigs." 
               Mag bethought herself of her toilette. With astonishment, as she performed it, she commenced taking notes. She had been too much exhausted the night previous to notice anything noteworthy. 
               
                  Note the First.-She was in a log-house, containing four rooms, two separated from the other two by a wide passage or balcony, connecting with the piazza, which ran across the front of the establishment. 
               Mag looked through the cracks in the logs as she lay on her couch, and saw in the neighboring room-no matter what! 
               She turned her eyes away, caught glances of the open sky smiling down upon her from between the rafters and shingles in the roof. Afterward the rain visited her through those very cracks and crevices, while she dreamed upon that little bed of pine; and the winds came to her there with their funny tales, besides those tales that were not so very funny. 
               
                  Note the Second.-Although her neighbors, the pigs, had their bed beneath hers, there was a floor between the two beds. Afterwards, at her forcible suggestions, they were convinced of the propriety of the thing, and kindly vacated their apartments. They brought too much company into her room-a continuous party of fleas. 
               Company is a fine thing in its place; but Mag had always tried to be very select in her associations-"A man (much more a woman) being known by the company he keeps." Mag acknowledged herself a flea, but not precisely of that species-she preferred her own kind-which was natural; she did not choose this style of flea society. 
               
                  Note the Third.-A floor was between the two beds. And such a floor! Every plank loose-not a nail to fasten them. The floor had been constructed in the pressure of a first settlement in the backwoods, was laid of green plank, which in drying had warped and curved to leave open intervals for communication with the neighbors beneath. As Mag attempted to walk, the plank kept up a sort of see-saw motion, which discomposed her a little at first; it was accompanied by a music which was excessively novel, and which pleased Mag as she took her first exercises in walking a plank. After she became accustomed to it, and had learned the art of balancing herself on a movable platform, her equanimity became excessively composed. 
               To assist in her toilette, a little darkey soon entered, with a crash towel, a tin wash-pan, and no soap. "What! no soap?" quoted she to herself, from Foote, "So he died"-and she put her pretty fingers into the water, and put the water on her face, instead of putting her face into the washpan of water, "and she very imprudently married the barber." Mag went on with the quotation and her ablutions together, supplying deficiencies from her trunks, "and there were present the Picaninnies and the Job-lilies, and the Garulies, and the grand Panjandrum himself, with the little round button at top; and they all fell at playing catch as catch can, till the gunpowder ran out of the heels of their boots." 
               Mag was struck with the appropriateness of the emphatic sentiments, under the circumstances. She went out for an introduction to her host and hostess, who deserve a particular introduction here, and shall have it. 
               Judge John James Jacobs, president of the Board of Trustees of the Clarke Co. Institute, stood six feet and two inches in his boots; his weight physically was over two hundred-morally and mentally, his weight is not recorded, but it was somewhat less. 
               Physically, his lady was about fifty pounds less than her lord; morally, she was far his superior; mentally, not recorded-her mind being yet in its native simplicity; like Eve, she never knew books. 
               The only time that Mag ever saw her use one, she seemed in profound abstraction over its ideas; which was not wonderful, as she was making the effort to discover them, with the book up-side-down, and it requires practice to decipher ideas easily thus. 
               She was of an uncertain age-say "fair, fat, forty," and more. 
                
               The judge was a self-made man, for which he deserved credit-his calibre was of an indescribable species, a cross between Ovid Bolus and Simon Suggs, in Baldwin's "Flush Times of Alabama and Mississippi." We refer the curious to that book of genius, for further information as to his "toot onsaumbel," as "Kit North" so charmingly expresses himself. 
               Judge Jacobs, we say, was a self-made man. At the tender age of nineteen, when the down of adolescence was springing upon his soft cheek, he had found himself the principal of an "old field school," a description of which "Southern Institution" may be found in the Memoirs of Dr. Alexander, of Princeton. Then and there he met his destiny, a blooming lady of twenty-three, a daughter of that class of people, called in southern parlance, "poor white folks;" from which station, by degrees, her husband had promoted her to the positions of mistress of his household, consisting of-no matter how many servants, now-and the mother of eleven children-the full dozen not yet accomplished. After marriage, he had studied law a month or two, obtained a license, became probate judge, wherefore he wrote "Hon." before his name; also became president of the Board of Trustees of the educational interests of Clarke Co., Mississippi. 
               The entire household can be numerated. The white family consisted of the judge, his lady and the eleven children; the servants were Aunt Nancy, the cook-a gigantic Amazon of a mulatto, who continually reminded Mag of Grandma Barclay-with twin babies six months of age, who helped in the cooking; three little motherless girls of the ages of one, two and three years, who did likewise-a house girl, named Betty-a boy of fourteen, named Washington, who cut wood for the whole establishment, and a girl of thirteen, who was nurse for the eleven white children, and assistant nurse for the five mulatto babies. All of the servants, including the five infants, occupied the one log house, yclept the kitchen, consisting of one room, where all the cooking for the whole household was done, also all the sleeping and eating for the darkies. 
               This establishment of servants was a source of infinite trouble to the "mistress," she being "poor white folks" originally, and not accustomed to the management of servants. Aunt Nancy was a "hired servant," and, unfortunately, much wiser than her mistress, and had no love for her, and usually spent her wisdom in contriving ways to provoke her. 
               "Disappointments are not usually considered blissful experiences, Miss Barclay," said Mag to herself; "but you may be able to cultivate a taste for them-it will be entirely a cultivated taste. At present, I think that you and I both have a decided aversion for them. Nevertheless, we are anxious to learn all that life has to teach, and we will be sure never to slight a lesson." 
               "How do you like the South, Miss Barclay?" asked the judge, and the judge's lady, and every person she met for months. 
               Mag gave fractional answers to the questions, with her brightest smiles, for the ludicrous would come up. She thought of Frank's dictum, "The truth is too precious to waste on ordinary occasions." 
               She exerted herself to discover the charms of southern life; she remembered Charles Moore's descriptions of the Huntsville lite, and compared her notes with his. She found it a contrast instead of a comparison. It was with some difficulty that she learned to appreciate the South. 
               "How do you fancy the Institution buildings?" asked Mr. Church, with a comical look, as they walked out to take a view of the place. 
               The village consisted of some dozen log houses, scattered through the pine forests. The Institute buildings were also of logs, with chimneys built of sticks and plastered with mud. 
               "Do you intend to stay?" asked Mag. 
               "The salary is really very liberal, and that is secured to us." 
               "Will you bring Mrs. Church here?" 
               "Not at present; she is not well, and would die here. She is not accustomed to roughing it in the backwoods, and I should be ashamed to ask my wife to come here. We shall have to rough it if you decide to stay." 
               After a consultation with the Board of Trustees, both decided to stay, and do with their might what their hands found to do. In fact, there was nothing else left, Mag being out of money, "urged by hunger," and so she determined to fight the battle of life out against all odds-and they were all against her. "Urged by hunger," social, mental, moral and physical hunger, that was never satisfied-nothing but famine. 
                
               Her boarding-house was the best in the place, and it did not improve on acquaintance, though she made numerous acquaintances. She became familiar with every species of filth, thanks to Aunt Nancy and the kitchen arrangements; then others made use of her toilet articles, till she put them under lock and key, out of the way of white children and black; fleas from her neighbors, the pigs, visited her in crowds, till she entered suit against their premption rights; then she became familiarly acquainted with bedbugs, who had a great fondness for her o'nights, but whose affection it was difficult for her to reciprocate, even in romantic moonlight, that hour for affection. 
               Her host and hostess, in the excess of their southern hospitality, insisted upon entertaining her, in her own room, till the latest hour for retiring, and as said room played the part of parlor to the establishment also, why, Mag did not find the time for solitary thought in which she could possibly carry out her resolve of testing God and his Bible, and the faith described therein, by writing the promised book! 
               She tried to find the solitude as she had done in Glenlyn, by rambling in the forests and communing with nature and her heart; but she was obliged to give it up, after having narrowly escaped being bitten by three moccasins on the creek, and two rattlesnakes in the undergrowth of the woods. Moreover, it was dangerous to walk alone on the frontiers, on account of "runaway negroes," who frequently infest them, lurking in the forests. 
               Mag did her best, her very best; "did with her might what her hands found to do," sagely concluding, "such is life in its most unmitigated forms." 
               But the Institute. 
               The Hon. President of the Board of Trustees, with characteristic bombast, had represented to Mr. Church that the Institute was an embryo college, to be chartered at the next session of the legislature. At the first meeting of the Board, the subject was duly discussed with the principal. The Board consisted of moneyed planters of this wild southwest, whose plantations lay for miles around. They offered very liberal endowments for the college, but as yet "the pear was not ripe," the thing was in the germ; the first session of the school would show whether the Institution could be built up and gain the confidence of the community. 
               The thing to be done was to draw patronage; for this all powers were put in play, and all of Mag's were required. She combined in her one person the offices of Principal of the Female Department and Professors of Music and the Fine Arts. Spite of the company of the judge, his lady, and the eleven innocent children in her room, she contrived to write original plays for a theatrical school performance; she drilled all the musical abilities of both departments of the Institution for a grand concert; posted all the classes, from the alphabet up to geometry and belles lettres, for the examinations; and the session closed in triumph. They had fought the rough battle for five months, and won. The patrons became enthusiastic about the Institution. Pupils, from the first, came pouring in-some from their homes, six and seven miles away, on horseback, muleback, in carriages and buggies, till the log school-houses were thronged like bee-hives. 
               For the examinations, large arbors were constructed, as for a camp-meeting; the patrons sent overseers and servants in armies to erect them. The posts consisted of pine saplings; the roof was a high lattice-work of pine boughs. And all the elite of Eastern Mississippi, for fifty miles around, were present in full dress of silks, satins, diamonds, etc., at the finale. 
               To entertain their guests, the trustees gave a barbacue. A long line of pits were constructed; oxen, sheep, pigs, etc., were laid upon the coals, and a battalion of sable cooks basted them with a sauce of butter, spice and vinegar, as they turned them with their three-pronged forks. Mag watched all the operations, and thought of Homer and Virgil. 
               When all had passed by, there followed the most alarming and extravagant newspaper puffs: the "Reports of the Examining Committee," which were written by the president of the Board of Trustees, and in which all the classes that had made extravagant failures were excessively eulogized, which proved to the principals the blessing of ignorance in the heads of an examining committee. In geometry, said committee were captivated by the "pictures," and not the demonstrations, which they concluded must be all right, the classes being exceedingly flippant. 
               Then came the vacation; and for Mag it was full time, for the poor thing was absolutely starved. To remedy the starvation, she commenced a course of chills and fevers, which made ravages on what starvation had left of her physical constitution. 
                
               "Good God! does she cast a shadow?" exclaimed one of her patrons one day, noticing her cadaverous visage. 
               Thanks to hoops and crinoline, and what they contained, Mag was able to cast a very respectable shadow. 
               But she got desperate with the hunger and fever, and one day went to Aunt Nancy. 
               "Aunty, for goodness sake, can't you find me something nice to eat? I am sick; and this corn bread scratches my throat when I am well. I can't eat it when I try my best, and I am sick now. I couldn't swallow it if it was the last on earth." 
               "Laws, Miss Mag, honey, if Mistis Jacobs 'ud on'y give out any seasonin', I'd fix somethin' mighty nice for you. You jest orter know how my mistis in Virginny let me do." 
               "Virginia?" 
               "Yes, honey. Ole marster-not Mr. Jacobs, I don't b'long to him-my marster in Virginny, had to sell us all 'cause he got in debt, and Mars' Chaney bought me. Laws, chile! I've got a husband and eight chillen in Virginny." 
               "Besides your husband and children here? You are well off. How many children have you in all, Aunty?" 
               "I've got nineteen chillen, Miss Mag. Let's see-" She commenced counting on her fingers. "There's Washington, and Semiramus, and Jeff, and Cely, and-and-I 'clare I can't remember 'em all; but there's nineteen of 'em." And Aunt Nancy kept on counting on her fingers till her wits were completely bewildered. 
               "Yes, I know there's nineteen of 'em. There's eight in Virginny"-she counted them again on her fingers-"and there's seven here." 
               "But that doesn't make nineteen," said Mag. 
               "Wal, I don't care!" said Aunt Nancy, getting into confusion; "I know there's nineteen in all; and there's eight in Virginny, and there's seven here," 
               Mag never was able to solve the mystery about those children. 
               "Did you ever see any of those Virginia children after you left them." 
               "No, Miss Mag. Ole marster came out though to buy us back, arter he got out of debt-he promised us he would do it when we left Virginny-but Marster Chaney liked us; he didn't want us to go back; so we staid here. But little Chloe, my baby, that I left there, is dead." 
                
               "Your master told you so?" 
               "Laws, no, honey; she appeared to me arter she died-a little white angel with wings; she tol' me how she was dead, and I know she is-I shouldn't know any better ef I'd seen her buried with my own eyes." 
               Aunt Nancy had not a shadow of doubt about that baby, and Mag swallowed a great lump of envy at the faith of the woman, for her own was in a despairing condition, as usual. 
               Yes, Mag was sick. She took chills and fevers, and then blue-mass and quinine, and wanted to get hold of some of Aunt Lina's biscuit or cream-toast, or anything but the abominable-we won't say what-served up for her, whether sick or well. She could get nothing palatable for love or money. 
               "The only philosophy 'in a world like this,' as Longfellow and Frank have it, is to make fun of sorrow," she said to herself; "but when it comes to absolute starvation, it is cultivating the funny under difficulties. When one is hungry for comfort, and can find nothing to eat but one's own heart, it is not comfortable, at first. Being fond of nothing to eat, is entirely an acquired taste." 
               But one day a neighbor, in the bounty of her heart, sent Mag some cake and sweetmeats; she eat them, and came very near eating no more on earth, for they gave her cramp in the stomach, which it requires a highly cultivated taste to enjoy. A physician was sent for in double quick time, to keep her from dying. By a special Providence, he was in the neighborhood, and the minister too. The reverend gentleman hurried in to witness the "last agony," and insisted upon trying to "save her soul." Mag refused to listen to him; the soul might take care of itself; she was too busy trying to breathe to attempt its salvation then. The good man went away terribly shocked that one so young should be so careless and unconcerned at such an awful moment-the moment of death. Mag had long before concluded that it was a much more awful thing to live than die. And she was more than half right; if men are prepared to live, they are prepared to die.
                
               Dr. Hudson came and undertook the salvation of the body, instead of the soul, and that was to the purpose; gave her a powerful emetic in powerful haste-and not any too soon, for her pulse was gone, and her breath almost gone-but she was saved-at least her skepticism had a longer probation. 
                
               Dr. Hudson took a fancy to his patient, for some reason not recorded-perhaps Christian charity-told her she "bore pain like a major," sent his carriage for her as soon as she could ride, and so she rested for an interval from hunger and worse than solitude. Martin Luther says that the society of one's pigs is better than utter solitude. Mag always thought that Martin Luther was propounding a theory that he had never tried by practice, when he said that. She had tried the theory thoroughly, and was convinced that Luther was mistaken. 
               Mag regained health and strength rapidly, thanks to a finely developed physical constitution-thanks to the mountain air of New England. With Dr. and Mrs. Hudson she rode into the forests on horseback to cut bee-trees, went fishing and hunting, and felt quite like herself again. Then with good things to eat! Their table was loaded with the frontier luxuries-wild turkey, venison, and all kinds of game. 
               The next session of the Institute commenced under new auspices. Mag resigned the principalship to Mrs. Church, who insisted upon joining her husband. Mag only took charge of the department of the arts. As Dr. and Mrs. Hudson sent for her nearly every week, and loaded her carpet-bag with "goodies" when they sent her home, it was quite an improvement. The second session closed, and so did her first year in Mississippi; she went to spend the vacation with Dr. and Mrs. Hudson. 
               It was a pleasant home. We must describe its arrangements. 
               There was a good, substantial log-house, shaded by splendid oaks. A black baby in a scarlet dress was sitting on the nice, white piazza floor, eating a biscuit, as the carriage drove up. Mrs. Hudson sent her black pet to its mammy's cabin as soon as she saw her company arrive; Mag entered the large, airy parlor, with its sanded floor. Its furniture consisted of a mahogany framed bed, covered with a fine Marseilles counterpane heavily fringed, a handsome rosewood piano, a fine secretary filled with books, and two large mohair cushioned rocking chairs, stationed on either side of the fire-place, which was filled with pine boughs. And what a luxury to eat clean food, especially with silver forks! They ventured on the discussion of slavery at times, even at the table. 
               "Did you ever see Madam Stowe?" asked Mrs. Hudson son one day, as she handed half-a-dozen lemons to a little darkey grinning by her. "What do you think of those books of hers?" 
               Mag never had formed an opinion. 
               "It is an obsolete question, Mrs. Hudson-but what do you think of them? Madam Stowe is not a favorite in the South." 
               "Think of them? Here, Wat, take this, you little rascal!" 
               She gave him a slice of bread, butter and honey. 
               "And go tell your mammy to send me the nutmeg grater to make lemonade." 
               The bread and butter vanished suddenly through Wat's open countenance, and he imitated its example through the open door, while Mag laughed at the turn of thought. 
               "I think that if every incident in her book is a fact-yet the books, on the whole, are as big lies as were ever written-it would be about as true to represent marriage by all the divorce cases that could be collected, and prove it to be unholy by a key showing that the divorces were all facts." 
               Wat popped his head in at the door, ready to dodge at an instant's notice. He thought he was going to be funny. 
               "Mammy says she's done lost the mutton leg gitter." 
               "The nutmeg grater, you little scamp," said his mistress, laughing, and Wat disappeared with a pleasing grin and brought it. 
               "If you want to make your fortune by writing an abolition book, I can tell you of worse cases of inhuman treatment than any ever written. Just here I can give you some splendid capital. Pity that Mrs. Stowe has quite overdone the thing," said Dr. Hudson. "Here, Becky, show yourself." 
               A black, short, chubby, shining-faced, good-natured, happy looking mortal, who was waiting on the table, at this address, looked modest, with an attempt to blush, which attempt proved abortive, on account of her complexion. She was entirely unconscious of the elements of her history that made her capable of being lionized. 
               "That lady made a great commotion in the adjoining county last year. She belongs to the estates of some minor heirs, whose guardian hired her out last year to an educated Irishman, by name of Halloran, who owned a small farm in Choctaw Co., Alabama. The wretch abused his servants shamefully-they were not his own. He burned this girl with irons, sawed her limbs, starved her-God knows what he did not do with her, till she escaped to her master, a perfect wreck in health." 
               "What came of it all?" asked Mag. 
               "Major Vivion prosecuted a dozen different suits against Halloran, for as many different kinds of abuse, gained them all, and when he had done with the villain, the county, to show righteous indignation, took the case in hand, to put him through the fire with further prosecutions, till, finding the country growing too hot for his comfort, he privately gathered up his plunder and decamped to Arkansas. The girl was sent here to be cured." 
               Mag looked shocked. 
               "I could give other instances of cruelty worse than that, if possible, which never came to punishment, because negro testimony is not legal, against an overseer." 
               Mag was puzzled to know what answer was politic. 
               "What do you think of all these things?" she asked, at last. 
               "They are great evils, of course. And another evil of slavery is, that no marriage among the people here is legal. If slavery is a greater blessing than curse to the blacks-and that is the southern theory, that the brutal wretches of Africa were brought out of their cannibalism into Christianity by slavery-yet this arrangement about marriage with them needs reformation. Bad as the case is, there is as much fidelity in marriage among the blacks as among the whites, north or south. There is more of chastity south than in northern cities. That is southern sentiment-conscientious southern sentiment, too." 
               The three thought silently for a time, and the doctor went on- 
               "No nation, or race of people, can bear freedom, without education. The Israelites in barbarism preferred slavery to the hardships of freedom. The ignorant Jacobin mob of France tried freedom till they deluged the land with blood, and could only be kept from licentious anarchy by a sceptre of iron in the hands of their master, Napoleon. France can never be free from despotism till her lower classes can be educated-a large majority of them cannot even read. Freedom in Hayti has proved a failure. England is anxious in her heart to find for it a master. What this last revolution will do for Hayti, time will tell. Whether republicanism in America is more than an experiment, the education and enlightenment of the masses alone will determine. And the enslaved ignorance of Europe pouring into our country, is mingling foul elements for freedom to operate upon! Education is freedom!" 
               "Slavery is a difficult problem," said Mag. She was thinking of the hopeful condition of that legislature whose three members could not spell, and the thirteen 'men of mark' in the legislature of Texas. 
               "Yes; without education, freedom is a curse to any people-and these blacks cannot be educated here; it would produce insurrection, anarchy, and horror past description. In self-defence, masters are obliged to keep their servants in ignorance. Yet it is only the white blood mixed with the African, that makes the element dangerous. The pure African blood is sluggish." 
               "Anti-slavery men say otherwise." 
               "There are exceptions to all general rules. They judge the rule by the exceptions. We know that the exceptions prove the rule. We never put the pure African race to learning mechanics-they very rarely can do it. All our mechanics are mulattoes. The white blood gives the energy and intellect. We know it." 
               Mag was silent. 
               "No, no. Slavery is here. Whether a curse or a blessing to white or black, as far as human foresight can predict, here it must stay! I solemnly believe it is a greater curse to the whites than to the blacks. It enervates the young in both physical and intellectual energy. A woman at the South is never developed in energy; she depends upon her fathers and brothers for support. It is as rare as a miracle for a southern girl to depend upon herself as three-fourths of all you northern girls do. There is no use in denying it, literature and education is of a much lower grade at the South than at the North, and it is one of the results of slavery." 
               "Will England introduce slavery into India?" 
               "England has a great desire to do it, on account of the cotton crops of India. 
               "You have discussed the subject sufficiently for once," said Mrs. Hudson. "We must get up a deer hunt for Miss Mag to-morrow. If we are not fortunate enough to start a deer, at least we can have a famous ride." 
               "Yes," said the doctor, "Henson will go with us, and we will send to Major Erwin to come with Mrs. Erwin and bring his pack of hounds." 
                
               Mag's heart gave a sudden throb that nearly choked her, at mention of a name-"Major Erwin!" Strange, what spell lies in a name! 
               The next day, Major Erwin sent his hounds, with regrets that the sickness of his child would prevent Mrs. Erwin and himself from attending the hunt. 
               They rode for miles into the forests, and when they came to the "deer run," Mag took her stand with Dr. Hudson, while Mrs. Hudson went with Henson, who was one of the students at the Institute. 
               Mag and the doctor discussed innumerable things, of course, while waiting for the hounds to "open," whenever they should start a deer. They heard the hounds at intervals-an interrupted baying. 
               "I don't listen to any of that sort of talk," said the doctor, as he listened. "No deer yet, certain. When Tiger opens, we shall hear music that means something. I believe you shoot, Miss Mag. It will be worth while if you kill a deer to-day." 
               "I have never practised much except with pistols, and I should be too much excited to attempt with a gun at a deer-it must be very fascinating-but I will not attempt today. I have never seen deer enough to want to shoot the first one that goes bounding by." 
               "There goes Tiger!" said the doctor, as a deep bay inspired the air. "Now, listen for music!" The hounds commenced a full cry. Mag's blood tingled-her fingers ached to get hold of the gun. But the hounds ceased the chorus suddenly. 
               "What can it mean?" said the doctor. "I never knew Tiger to make a mistake! They are on track of something, but it is not a deer yet. Then the music never stops till the death, and that will be when just through yonder you see a deer leaping for life. There is nothing under heaven so graceful as the bound of a deer! There they go again! No! Tiger is not sure of the game!" 
               "How do you know Tiger's voice?" 
               "Oh, a hunter always knows the voices of his dogs as well as he knows the faces of his children," said Dr. Hudson. 
               "There goes Tiger again! And it is not a deer-it is a wild-cat! A deer would have passed here before now, but there is no accounting for the tricks of a wild-cat. The dogs can't track one-he dodges, and sneaks, and climbs trees, and makes perfect fools of the hounds." 
                
               Here a servant made his appearance, in great haste. 
               "Major Erwin says please come over dar, right quick-his baby mi'ty sick, Master William!" 
               "Yes; tell the boy I will be there directly. I can't leave you here, Miss Barclay." 
               That name had again paralyzed the blood in Mag's pulses, yet she did not dare permit her tongue to ask if it was Major Guy Erwin. 
               "Let me go home with you, Dr. Hudson," she said. 
               "And home she went, and seated herself in the largest arm-chair, and tried to hush the palpitation of her heart, but she felt sick and faint. She tried to laugh at herself, and did wish she was asleep, but her heart palpitated on. 
               Mrs. Hudson stayed with Mr. Henson, to see the hunt out. At night they brought home a wild-cat of enormous size. 
               This was Mag's first hunt in the Southwest, and this her first experience of the far-famed southern hospitality. She saw it in other guises afterward. 
             
             
               XXVI. CHANGES OF THE MOON. 
               "YOU must go with me, Puss, to see Mrs. Erwin," said the doctor, when he returned. "That child is going to die, and she is nearly frantic." 
               Mrs. Hudson glanced towards Mag. 
               "Never think of me! I will stay with mammy to-night, and play housekeeper till you return. I shall enjoy the solitude." 
               She was glad to be left alone. She was a coward then, though nothing in earth or air did she fear. She thought she dared look in at the mouth of the pit, and laugh at the gambols of the demons. Had she not once met the archfiend himself, in the form of an angel? God sent her to him in answer to prayer! Had she not dared him to her terms, with her eye fastened on his wavering eye, and her finger upon the trigger of a revolver? She had learned then a lesson for all future time. If answers to prayer must lead her past a yawning hell, where God failed her and Satan came, she would never fail herself. Henceforth she would trust herself first, and God last; she was sure of herself-she was not sure of a God. Henceforth works must come before faith. She must work out her salvation-perhaps with fear and trembling, yet if the Bible was a splendid lie, and there was no God, as she sometimes thought, what could there be to fear? Why not, for one hour, one day, one week of rapture, barter herself to Charles Moore in marriage, and when sated with bliss, when they had drained the goblet to the lees, as all of earth who knew joy did, when the rapture was paling at the dregs, why not then escape into the Great Unknown? 
               Mag had some odd ideas about the exhaustive nature of joy; but there were gleams of truth in them. Happiness is an art. 
               She opened a copy of "Mustang Gray," lying upon the table. She read Jere Clemens' opinion of men and things in the preface, and it made her brave in that hour of temptation; it made her cautious-her reckless or fearless moods were wanting in caution-in them she said, and did, and learned daring things that few women are tempted to know-well for them that they are not. Life was teaching her some lessons that it had taught that man of the world, Jere Clemens. She turned the pages, and her eye caught stray sentences: "Long intercourse with a treacherous race had made suspicion a virtue." And again: "Who has not reasoned of things he would shudder to reveal? If there be any such, let him kneel in his closet and thank God, not that he is better than others, but that he has been less severely tried." "I will shake hands with you on that sentiment, Mr. Clemens," said Mag to herself. And again: "That virtue is strongest which is least tempted." "I disagree with you there, sir," said Mag; "that virtue is strongest which has overcome temptation." She closed the pages, and acknowledged herself a coward. She dared not ask Dr. Hudson if that sick child was the child of Guy and Lizzy Erwin. Her tongue rebelled when she commanded it to do that service. 
               So she stayed alone with her aroused passions of longing, that for a long, desperate year she had controlled with curb and spur, lashing them into obedience when they had dared utter pitiful complaints, amid starvation of mind, soul and flesh. She was alone with those utter longings now, and gave them loose rein; she dallied with her temptation-for all temptation is in the heart. If we drive thought away, we shall never be tempted beyond refuge. She resolved to tighten the rein when she felt herself going mad. Many souls on earth would go mad, if they yielded their thought to the memories of wrong, and passion, and sorrow that earth has taught them. 
               "If God would not take care of her, for the present she would take care of herself; not yet would she throw herself into the abyss whence there was no return. She could wait and eat sorrow longer yet." 
               It would be a relief, an amusement to get tidings from the world beyond those Frontiers. Of all the untold millions thronging the world, she never should speak with more than a hundred; but it would interest her to hear from the million, and it was nearly time for Wat to return from the post office-it was ten miles away, but Dr. Hudson had sent him for her. Late at night he returned, and brought letters that recalled her wandering senses. The first she read was from Alec Ross. Uncle Alph had died of fever, and would fret no more on earth. 
               Well, it gave her a motive for living. It is not much of a motive to work for a self alone, especially when one cares not what becomes of self. Thank fate, she could send Aunt Lina some money. She would divide with her to the last. Aunt Lina now would manage business affairs, too, and it would be more home-like in Glenlyn. 
               The other letter was from Richard Hudson Ely, Esq. We give it entire: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "DEAR COUSIN MAG:
                            
                           "It is a boy! All correct!
                            
                           
                              "Yours to command! 
                              "RICHARD HUDSON ELY."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               To this letter Mag responded immediately. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "DEARLY BELOVED COUSINS:
                            
                           "I am glad it is a boy! Boys have a deal the best chance! I only wish I had been a boy, but I was not. Girls are of great benefit to the world sometimes. I have no doubt you are glad Min was born a girl, on account of the results. I would exchange myself for a boy now if I could, but I don't yet see how I can! If a girl ever ventures into your family, don't treat her so shamefully as to leave her alone on her own responsibilities 'in a world like this.' I have always thought my father and mother made a great mistake in leaving me as they did. I never was able to see the wisdom in the arrangement; but many another sinner is in my condition," etc., etc. 
                         
                      
                  
                
               The next day the doctor and Mrs. Hudson returned. The child was dead. The mother had held her only child in her arms, watching its agony in speechless horror, or imploring the doctor, for Christ's sake, to do something for her baby, wondering, too, why God could let it suffer so-praying frantically that he would only let her suffer in the place of the child. The spasms had passed away at last, and left as their work a dead child in a young mother's arms. And the mother, with the soft, devout look that the Madonna might have worn, when she received the Christ into her arms, then straightened those beautifully molded limbs, calling it fondly by all its pet names, "her young birdling, her darling, her wild falcon, her pet eagle, her Charlie!"-thanking God too, that he would never, never, never, suffer so terribly again; yet refusing to be comforted, because her child was not! It was so hard, so bitter hard, to lay such glorious loveliness out into a lonely grave! 
               Mag went with them to the burial. 
               It was a rude forest scene-a grove of young oaks, and one small open grave. The sunset rays were slanting beneath the trees before the parents could force themselves to lay away their priceless treasure. The kind-hearted neighbors who had gathered there were seated in groups under the trees waiting. Mrs. Hudson and Mag sat on a low seat near the open grave. At last a carriage drove up, followed by a large group of servants. Mag's soul was in her wide eyes as she looked-unable to move a limb. The carriage contained a noble-looking man, a lady closely veiled, and the coffin of the child. The gentleman lifted the half-fainting lady from the carriage, while a few of the servants took up the little coffin, and placed it by the side of the grave. The servants broke into a wail. The neighbors rose as the carriage drove up. Mag, sick through heart and soul, had drawn down her black veil, and Mrs. Hudson was still sitting by her, when the grief-stricken mother, seeing her friend, came, with her ungoverned southern impulse, and threw herself kneeling at Mrs. Hudson's feet, burying her face in her hands upon her lap, and sobbing in passionate sorrow: 
               "My baby! My beautiful baby! My sweet little Charlie!" 
               Yes, it was Lizzy Erwin, and that tall, athletic man, whose whole frame was convulsed and shaken at the sight of her sorrow as well as his own-that man, leaning against the strong oak because his own robust strength was unnerved, that was Guy Erwin. 
               And Mag, in her soul, envied them-coveted their sorrow-madly was breaking the first and last commandments, and wishing in her deepest soul that she could lie down in that grave, if loving human tears from any of earth could fall for her! Why had not God permitted her to sleep when a baby, in an innocent, passionless grave, while a father and mother yet loved her? The tempter was with her then, and she would almost have bartered her soul for one hour of human love like that of Guy and Lizzie Erwin. If mortals have never met such an hour of passionate sorrow, let them "go down on their knees and thank God, not that they are better than others, but that they have been less severely tried." 
               Lizzie ran on in her wild woe, and a long, loud wail rung on the air, as the servants saw the agony of their mistress. 
               "Oh, Mary Hudson! why did God take my baby? What shall I do? What can I do? I cannot have it so! I cannot leave my little Charlie alone in these wild woods, with the winds and the rain and the cold night. Alone! alone! forever alone! my birdling! my baby! my beautiful! Oh, why did God do it?" 
               Mary Hudson was sobbing passionately and could not tell her why. Another voice, in which was no sob, but a tone like that of hope and gladness, soothed her. 
               "God has done it, dear lady, because he loved the boy so dearly! God has done it in mercy, not in judgment. God has carried the baby to his own glorious home. Charlie has gone home. God loves him and you better than you love your baby. He will never be broken-hearted for love in his new home, will never learn another lesson of pain, will never know misery and anguish, will never, like his mother, worship idols with a passion that may lead to ruin and despair. God loves that mother's darling with a love better than the mother's love; out of that fond Father's arms the baby is now looking down upon his mother's great grief, with a great yearning love; and the Father's loving heart yearns for her too. Charlie sorrows now only for his mother's wild, earth-born sorrow; her eyes are dim, and she does not see her boy; she will never see him in sin and sorrow again, but she will surely see him again at last. When he visits her now, it will be by a sweet presence, inviting and guiding her to purity and happiness. God the Father loves the mother and her child with a love greater than her soul can conceive, even in its most far-reaching depths of passion and worship." 
               Not that Mag believed a word she said. An icy mist enveloped her heart, the heart that she said so often had been trampled into a New England grave. There was a grave in that heart, too. Had she not buried there her first born, her beautiful, a thousand times more beautiful than the first-born sleeping by that grave? Its radiance was blushing sweet as heaven, when she tore open her heart of flesh and laid it in its grave. She, too, had been a Madonna. What maiden has not, who has truly worshipped? She had watched a death agony alone in the wilderness, and was the angel of His presence there to save her? 
               Warm fingers clasped hers caressingly as she went on; those music words were soothing, whether or not they contained truth. Even if every word was false, there was nothing else to say-no other message in the universe to comfort a mother for the death-agony of her child. 
               Not that Mag thought Lizzy would believe her words, for when did ever a young heart bleeding beneath the stroke of Providence, believe that the stroke was given in love? 
               Guy Erwin came and stood by them. 
               "Come, Lizzy, let us go and see Charlie." 
               He lifted her to his side, and together they stood by the side of that little coffin; together they bent over the little, smiling sleeper, each knelt and kissed the marble brow and eyes and lips, for they loved the sleeper as they loved their own souls-a part of their own life had gone with the life of their boy. 
               Mag envied them madly then-her horror had come upon her alone. Her veil was thrown back, and the sad soul was radiating from those mournful, tearless eyes, when Lizzy caught the look, and astonishment broke in upon her great grief. 
                
               "Magdalene Barclay! How came you here?" 
               "God knows! I cannot tell! But I am breaking my heart over your sorrow, Lizzy, and would comfort you!" 
               "I need you! You must go home with us now!" She turned-" Guy Erwin, this is Magdalene Barclay!" 
               And Mag went home with them, and her presence comforted them, and they comforted her, till on that restless night, after the long years of desperation, in which her energies had worked with mad strength, it seemed that she was resting in heaven. 
               She had not yet been tempted beyond refuge. 
               That night of restless peace! Again and again she probed her heart and questioned her conscience. Had she done wrong with Charles Atherton Moore? Her conscience told her, no. Her every thought for him had been pure. She took the precious unction to her soul, that she had a clean, pure, fresh, unspotted conscience. She had in her life taken false steps that had to be retraced. With Charles Moore she had been true to her pure instincts. The result was-what? She shuddered as she thought. With her book, too, she had taken false steps-they had led her past the doors of perdition-but those steps were taken when God was directing her path, in answer to prayer. How she grieved over that! Her whole nature had poured itself at that time in prayer! A sweet faith, like her olden child faith, had visited her, and urged her onward! She had fulfilled the conditions-acknowledged God in devious ways, and he most certainly was "directing her paths." Again and again she shuddered at the thought of the pollution, up to which that prayer had led her; with sacrilege she thought, that if there was a God, she could never forgive him for "directing" her there. Where had been her error? She had followed her pure instincts, followed blindly the Bible faith, and the result was---. She could not frame language for her thought. She slept at last, and dreamed of Frank and Charlie, and heaven was in her dreams. 
               She waked in the morning, bewildered to find herself in the home of Lizzy Erwin. It was a newly-furnished, elegant cottage. Lizzy herself had hardly become acquainted with its suite of rooms, having but just returned from Huntsville with little Charlie. 
               "What Providence sent you into this heathen-land?" asked Guy. 
                
               "I came to teach the heathen." 
               "You must have a taste for martyrdom. Well, they need civilizing, God knows. They are the best-hearted people in the world, but their ways are not your ways, and it must be death to you to adapt yourself to them." 
               "They would not thank you for your opinion of them." 
               "You are certainly casting your pearls before swine in that school. The Book says the swine will turn again and rend you." 
               "On the supposition that my talents are pearls. I had flattered myself they were diamonds, that would shine even when thrown into filth and trampled down. But it is somewhat audacious in you to call my companions swine." 
               Mag, however, thought of her companions, the pigs. 
               "Do not flatter yourself that your associates will recognize your talents as diamonds. Carlyle says that only a hero can recognize a hero. People must have both eyes and light to know the beautiful. What light has Mrs. Peters to appreciate your cultivation? What idea of honor has Judge Jacobs, to recognize truth, purity or fervor in you? He is as unscrupulous, even in business transactions, as Satan could demand. You have certainly mistaken your mission." 
               Mag thought again of the special Providence directing her every footstep, and the "Not a sparrow falls without him." 
               "What mission would you propose?" asked Mag. 
               "Come here and teach Lizzy and me. We have an independent kingdom here. We need you. It will be sinful for you to refuse to come and comfort us. Do you not like the Institution well enough to make it your home?" 
               "It is Paradise here." 
               "The angel has left it," said Lizzy. 
               "Gone, to a better Paradise, Puss," said Guy. And they all reverized solemnly. 
               "I have been a thoughtless reprobate," said Guy, at last. "The hereafter has never concerned me much. I found enough to interest me in the present; but little Charlie has taken my heart with him wherever he has gone. It is for my interest now to believe in guardian angels; and the Bible says that angels are ministering spirits. I shall endeavor to believe it, and it will not be difficult to believe now." 
               But it was difficult for Mag to believe. She did not wonder that Guy, with every earthly good in his grasp, physical and intellectual wealth, the wealth of love and fortune tune-she did not wonder that it was easy for him to believe that a kind Providence was watching him-but what was God doing with her? Yet in all her poverty and orphanage, she never could see the moment when she would exchange her personal identity for that of Lizzy Erwin, whom she envied, which was a wise arrangement of Providence. 
               "Yes, this is a pleasant home of ours. Why will you not stay with us?" asked Guy again, one day. "Pride prevents you. Remember, by pride the angels fell." 
               "And 'Pride goeth before destruction'-it has marred my life." 
               "If you will martyr yourself by teaching"-- 
               Mag thought of Aunt Lina, and concluded she must. 
               "Do get a decent situation-at least one where you can have some of the necessaries of life." 
               Mag "had no objections to improving her condition if she could do it without sacrificing her independence." 
               "Independence! Heaven help us! Have you run away with the blessed idea that there is such a thing as independence on earth? 
               "We are all slaves to circumstances, even when we most control them. The chief slave in these United States is that old gentleman, James Buchanan, who longs for the time to come when he may lay off his chains. The first slaves in France are Louis Napoleon and his empress, the fascinating Eugenie! How they do exert themselves to amuse their masters-the populace-who otherwise might amuse themselves by tearing them from thrones. Independence! Nonsense! Come and teach Lizzy and myself. We will give you a better salary than you are receiving. By the by, this house is neatly finished to be done entirely by servants." 
               "Yes, thank you," said Mag, laughing. "But there is such a spirit as liberty. One writer says, 'At times she takes the form of a hateful reptile. She grovels, she hisses, she stings. But woe to those who, in disgust, shall venture to crush her. And happy are those who, having dared to receive her in her degraded and frightful shape, shall at length be rewarded by her in the time of her beauty and glory.'" 
               "Do you represent that spirit of liberty?" 
               "If so you have recognized the spirit in its degraded form, and have honored it, you have not crushed it." 
                
               "Has any one dared to trample upon it?" 
               "Only one Christian man, to whom I was directed by God, in answer to prayer. The spirit of liberty represented itself to him as a stranger in poverty and orphanage, and merely asked aid. It wanted employment, that it might rise to its own sphere among its own kindred, and that Christian man ruthlessly trampled upon the proud, degraded spirit, and tried to fling upon it the worst pollution he could find on earth." 
               "In the time of that spirit's glory, woe to him who in scorn ventured to insult and crush its pride and purity, in the days of its degradation!" said Guy. 
               "Revenge is a delicious momentary morsel-it leaves a taste of intense bitterness. Hatred and revenge work out their own curse in the hearts that harbor them. We need not go to the Bible to learn that. 'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord.' Revenge when cherished, develops the spirit of evil in man, and educates him for a fiend. I have tremendous capacities for hating, but from purely selfish motives I must annihilate them. Moreover, most objects are beneath hatred-the soul cannot bend itself to hate what is beneath it-only a noble being is worthy of hatred or revenge, and the noble never inspire hatred. That Christian man is safe from my revenge-his name will never be revealed by me." 
               "You are coming to some curious logic." 
               "It is not logic, it is truth. The Bible recognizes and commands it. 'Be not overcome with evil, but overcome evil with good.'" 
               "So you devote yourself to loving your enemies with a vengeance. You will coin your life into blessings upon your enemies. That you call the spirit of Christianity? It is a splendid theory." 
               "With me the virtue is all taken away; it is all selfishness; I refrain from revenge to purify myself, not to do good to my enemy." 
               "What a sensible little soul you are!" 
               "What was your remark about building this house-it was connected with the subject of independence?" 
               "I gave the head carpenter and his wife their freedom for his building it; they were mulattoes; I tried to send them to Liberia, to inhale the blessed air of liberty." 
               "Did they not go?" 
               "Nothing could induce them to leave America. They were born here-their friends here-and they must stay here. They went to Mobile, however; but it is against the laws of Alabama for a negro to be free, so I am obliged to be their guardian. They come home here every Christmas and take their independence with the negroes at the Quarters." Guy turned to Lizzy-"Miss Mag has concluded at last to stay with us and teach us liberty and Christianity. We all intend to grow powerfully in the graces." 
               "All except the conclusion," added Mag. 
               "The screw is loose yet in her life-philosophy. I regret it more than I can tell," said Guy. 
               They spent the days in riding, hunting, fishing, or with reading music, and games. Charles Moore's name was often mentioned, but never by Mag. Guy came from the post-office one day. 
               "No letter from brother to-day?" asked Lizzy. 
               He shook his head sadly. 
               "What can the wild boy be doing in India and China? I am really famishing to hear from my brother. Please, Mag, permit me to ask if you hear from Charlie?" 
               Mag's face paled; her fingers shook with a nervous tremor as they lay palsying upon the book in her lap. 
               "Never." 
               Lizzy went on wickedly-some perverse spirit must have impelled her-"He wrote from Smyrna last-had been to the ruins of Nineveh-had seen the monument to Jonah-proof of the truth of Bible prophecy, he said-sent us some blocks of marble with curious inscriptions from Nineveh-but wrote in his wild way that he was starting on a chase for an old gentleman, who, they said, carried a scythe and was called Death-he was going to hunt the world over for him-Death and Love were together somewhere-the old man had forgotten to look grim, and was playing the sly, avoiding him, with as many graces in his arms as a coquette or a New England flirt-he himself was paying his addresses to the Death, urging his suit with as much passion and fervor as a boy in his first, mad, foolish love. He had found that he must be cured of many follies before Death would grant his embraces; he must be worthy of a bride before he could win her, and God knew his bride must be worthy before another wooing; and worthy of Death, before he would grant favors and the embraces of a marriage in the great Hereafter." 
               Mag's face grew whiter and more ghastly as Lizzy went on, and as she finished, she accomplished the feat of fainting entirely. 
               Guy and Lizzy, of course, half drowned her with water, half strangled her with cologne and ammonia, and so she recovered her senses. 
               "I beg your pardon, Lizzy," said she, as soon as she could move her tongue; "it was an accident; I did not intend to get sick; it was an unpardonably foolish mistake of mine. I will promise not to do it again;" and Mag smiled. 
               "Please to lie still and behave yourself until you are able to move," Guy commanded; and as Mag just then could not move, she was forced to obey. 
               The vacation ended, and she went back to her mission. She carried with her now a remorseful pain, that gnawed at her heart and would not be appeased. She never again was proud of her "fresh, clean, pure conscience-such a glorious thing!" Her conscience turned traitor and upbraided her now; she did not mind hunger and physical want now; she paled over a deeper thirst, the approval of that conscience. Through her, Charles Moore had lost faith in her sex; through her, he had doubted the honor of womanhood. From all she could learn of him, he believed that she had willfully betrayed him-had deceived the nobility of his nature, and he was giving himself up to evil. A man could do that and redeem himself; for a woman who took one false step, there was no redemption. Because one woman had betrayed him, he would ruthlessly betray the order, whenever he could so amuse an idle hour. It was now an amusement to finger the secret chords of human hearts, even when the responsive notes were all of wailing. How many a man has done the same! 
               "I must have reached the bottom of the abyss at last," she said. "I thought long ago I had sounded its lowest depths. All is certainly lost now-there can be nothing more to lose. May outraged womanhood pardon me the wrong I have done! No, there can be no lower depths." 
               But there were lower depths. When she had reached the bottom of the abyss, there was nothing to do but rise again; and her time had not yet come. 
               She began to mistrust, from the lashings of that unquiet conscience, that a God had appointed a judge and jury to sit in condemnation of her self-deceiving pride. God was permitting her freely "to work out her own destiny," to "make her own fate." She was controlling circumstances, yet was she a slave to circumstances. The materials of her destiny had been given her-glorious physical, mental and moral strength. Charles Moore had told her that ages ago, on one moonlight night, and told her it was her duty to make herself a perfect woman. Had she, indeed, as she boasted to herself, cultivated her talents to the very utmost-done with her might all her hands found to do? She had been busy and earnest, night and day, and never knowingly had violated her conscience. Had she been doing wrong all her life? God alone knew-if there was indeed a God. Yes, she must test him; she must know whether there was any power for good in faith. Once more she determined to go to him, and this time it should be for life or death. He had promised in his word that faith should be all-powerful. It had once failed her terribly. The God in Christ had said, "Whatsoever ye ask in my name, I will give it." Now it should be life or death forever. 
               The domestic affairs at Mr. Church's were in a sad condition also; there had always been anarchy in the kitchen; and the rebellion had come to a crisis one day, for it had declared itself in the following emphatic language. Their cook went to the "mistis" one day, in great wrath: 
               "I 'clar, I jest can't cook nothin' decent, with sich a lot o' lazy niggers clutterin' up the fire! I won't try to do it! My mistis wouldn't 'low no sich works! Six of us, all eatin' and sleepin' in this one room-cooking for white folks and niggers too!" 
               "Which impidence," the indignant mistress told Mag, "she jest knowed I wasn't goin' to stand! Great, lazy, good-for-nothin' hussy! I took the cowhide and whipped her, till I couldn't lift my arm; she stood stock still too, as meek as if she had been a child o' Moses, and I could feel every lick, as if I was hittin' a log." 
               Mag thought "pity it had not been a log!" 
               "And jest as soon as I had done it," continued the lady, "do you think, the impertinent white nigger turned on her heel, picked up her two young 'uns, and, in spite of me, went straight home to her master; and her master took up for her, and wouldn't let her come back! My husband was mad good about it, I tell you! Think of a great, strappin' mulatto walkin' over white folks like that!" 
               The new cook was a boy, Jacob, a steamboat hand, but he found himself in Aunt Fanny's multifold troubles, minus some babies; and sent on the table about the same amount of abominations. Mrs. White, poor woman, found herself unequal to the control of her kingdom, like Richard Cromwell, but, unlike him, she could not decline the sceptre, which, in her case, was a cowhide, and all suffered for it. 
               "They say every one must eat a peck of dirt in a lifetime, and I am cultivating my taste for it. There is nothing like getting accustomed to a thing! When the 'seasonin'' is mostly wool, why all one has to do is to close one's eyes-and then one's mouth-it is soon over!" said Mr. Church. 
               School affairs went on famously for a time, until Mrs. Church was taken sick, in consequence of having slept several nights with the rain pouring on her bed. 
               Mag had the whole school upon her hands again; it was at an unfortunate time too-just before the grand examinations. 
               By dint of work from daylight till midnight, she drilled the classes, wrote plays for rehearsals, was manager of the theatricals, teacher of elocution, and conductor of the music for the concert, and again the finale was a triumph. Students of the Male Institute were pressed into her service, in this time that tried women's souls; for a reward, she promised to teach them the fitting and beautiful, in the wonderful mysteries of human hearts. 
               But summer came again, and fleas, and lizards, and snakes, and pigs. And Mag saw the varieties of life in consequence, and learned lessons of philosophy, which were very valuable, and so did the boys of the Male Institute, and the Hon. Board of Trustees-and so may all creation who wish to read their experience here. If it was not a romantic experience, it was at least true. Like Johnson's celebrated doggerel, it contained more truth than poetry. 
               On account of the burning summer heat, the pigs, in looking for a cool and shady retreat, discovered it under the Male Institute. They took up their summer residence there! the fleas accompanied them, of course, but had higher aspirations, and ascended, taking lodgings in the boys' pants, which, being already occupied, there arose a rebellion. When, to rout the invaders, kicking and scratching had been thoroughly tried in vain, the boys, in self-defence, sent some important resolutions to the Hon. Board of Trustees. 
               "Resolved-That if the Trustees of the Kane Co. Male Institute will not expel the pigs and fleas from the Institution, the school will leave en masse. 
                
               "Resolved-That the School will take a holiday, to give the Trustees time for consideration and action upon these important resolutions." 
               Mr. Church dispatched the interesting document to the President of the Board, and spent the day with the boys in hunting and fishing. 
               The Board immediately met, and took the matter into deep consideration. It was a difficult and delicate piece of work. After mature discussion and deliberation, they resolved to send one of their number with a troop of servants to see the business thoroughly done. This overseer was carefully instructed to drive out the pigs from under the Institution, then to strew over their bed a light layer of pineleaves, to be set into a light blaze, which would burn out the fleas. All of which was faithfully done. 
               The fleas were effectually burnt out; the "light blaze" also caught the turpentine of the pine logs, and in one hour every flea had vanished, and the Kane Co. Institute, like ancient "Troy fuit," a heap of ashes, which gave the Board of Trustees matter for further consideration. 
               They met immediately thereupon, viewed the ruins, and "resolved" that it was a "special providence"-(which interested Mag, as she was hoping some day to believe in special providences)-which indicated that the building was by no means worthy of the enterprising principal and interesting school. A subscription was instantly on foot, for a new framed Institution; and the old plan of endowing and chartering it for a college was renewed and urged forward. At last, however, the most mature minds concluded to postpone the college to a little more favorable season. The new buildings were mightily enlarged and improved, went up rapidly, and, like the giant Antus, the Institution gained strength by its fall. 
               Having found the moral to this incident, Mag went on her life-journey, conscious, too, of an intolerable pain that was tightening upon her vitals whenever she gained time for thought and feeling. Alone and in darkness, the agony would not be controlled; she wrestled with it, and with remorse, but they would not be conquered, and she had full opportunity of testing that bitter panacea for sorrow, "What cannot be cured, must be endured." She was thankful for the slightest incident that could lull her serpents to forget-fulness for a moment. 
               One Sabbath evening she met Aunt Nancy, dressed in her bright scarlet dress and turban, and white apron, on her way to "preachin'." 
               The church of the frontiers was a little log-house, where, semi-monthly, the inhabitants, if it was not too hot, or too cold, or too rainy, met to learn their duty to both God and man. 
               Aunt Nancy was on her way to a meeting of the colored people. "Uncle Sussex" and "Parson Dan Ray" were to hold forth to their colored brethren. 
               "How d'ye, aunty?" was Mag's greeting as she met her. 
               "Thank the Lord, I'se mi'ty well, Miss Maggy. How do you enjoy your mind yourself? 'Pears to me you're sort o' troubled in mind o' late, and you orter get your foundation 'stablished on the Rock of Ages." 
               Mag only wished she could; she had been trying for some time, but she did not tell aunty so. 
               "And you are a sure enough church member, aunty?" 
               "Thank the Lord, honey, I'se been a member of the Baptist Church a great many year." 
               "The Baptist Church? Then you thought you would take a 'through ticket' to the New Jerusalem! You can't 'fall from grace' in that church." 
               "Dunno 'bout that, Miss Maggy. I 'sisted on g'wine to the Lord's Table in the Methodist Church one day, and they tole me they should turn me out of the Baptist Church if I did it again; and I couldn't see what it all meant. Both are gwine to the same heaven, I s'pose; 'case I didn't feel right about it, I thought I'd jine the Methodist Church too, and commune in both churches, but I must have fell from grace, for now they won't let me commune in the Baptist Church." 
               "Perhaps you did not have any grace to fall from." Mag thought of all Aunt Nancy's iniquities at Judge Jacobs', and could hardly forgive the filth she had served up for table use. Mag thought cleanliness ought to be a part of religion-it was one of the graces. 
               "At least you have a 'free pass' to all the other denominations. Don't you think something could be done for me, aunty?" 
               "There's no tellin' what the Lord will do for you. You may get religion ef you'll go to meetin'." 
               And Mag went on with Aunt Nancy to "meetin'." Aunt Nancy improved the opportunity to exhort her to "make fruit and meat for penitents, and to flee from the 'raf to come." Mag changed the subject. Listening to good advice is difficult, when we have no faith in the advisers; and "preaching" was Aunt Nancy's forte, the "practising" with her was in as forlorn a condition as it was with Mag's friend, the Andover graduate, who considered his preaching all that concerned his congregation. 
               "Ain't you afraid of the comet, aunty?" 
               "Me 'fraid? No, honey, 'case I'm 'pared to go, when the trumpet sounds. I'm ready and a waitin' for the year o' jubilee to come!" 
               "The year of jubilee, aunty? Do you really suppose now that when the comet hits all creation we shall be knocked into the year of jubilee? Really, now, are you never afraid of pitching into fire?" 
               "The right sperit ain't got in you, Miss Maggy, or you wouldn't laugh. You won't laugh when you see it a comin'. That ar' comet ain't a goin' to destroy the earth, it is goin' to destroy sin, and ef you don't get sin out o'yer heart, it will get burn in fire." 
               Mag half believed that. 
               "How do you know, aunty?" 
               "It's been 'vealed to me." 
               Mag laughed. She remembered Aunt Nancy's revelations of old. There had been a time, when to remedy the kitchen disorders at Judge Jacobs', Molly had been transformed into cook, and Aunt Nancy made washerwoman-the worst possible arrangement. A gentleman visitor was in the house for a week, and one day, like Belshazzar of old, Mr. Fowler's pants were "found wanting"-that is, they turned up missing, and of course aunty was called up for a "revelation" of the mystery. She "'clared 'fore the Lord she jest didn't know whar' they could a gone; she had looked, an' looked, an' looked, an' as sartin as God Almighty was a settin' in heaven, she couldn't find 'em!" The judge told her that "as the Lord was in the habit of 'vealing himself to her, and she was accustomed to receiving powerful answers to prayer, she must just pray up those pants, or"--he hinted alarming anathemas. The next morning, bright and early, Aunt Nancy made her appearance with the pants, saying "she had spent the bressed night in prayer to God Almighty, an' jest at break o' day the Lord had answered her prayer. He directed her outen the yard, and thar' on the ground, the first thing she saw, was them pants a lyin', all washed and ironed." 
                
               Mag did not doubt about Aunt Nancy's special providences. 
               As they entered the "meetin'," Parson Dan was holding forth mightily. The spirit was moving him in sundry places. He stamped, danced, and shouted; his gestures were as energetic as those of Rufus Choate, though, instead of tearing his coat, he tore his shirt. He went over as much ground with his understanding as circumstances would possibly allow-taking as wide a circuit as Henry Ward Beecher himself, and using his bandana with about the same effect on his countenance. The whole performance reminded Mag of a description given by one of the "reprobates" of a camp-meeting: "A distracted meeting, in which the exercises were mostly shouting and cavorting." 
               Parson Dan seemed also to have the gift of continuance. Uncle Sussex, who sat behind him, concluded at last that he had done and said enough, so he very quietly took hold of Parson Dan's pants behind, and pulled him down into the chair, to let him rest from the workings of the spirit. He sat there, his face buried in his hands, weeping and laughing by turns, and uttering, or rather jerking out at spasmodic intervals: "Glory to God! Glory!" till his emotions were exhausted. 
               While he was being relieved of his overplus of feeling, Uncle Sussex took the floor, and lined off a "hime" for the congregation to sing. 
               Mag respected Uncle Sussex. Parson Dan was by no means a consistent church member, being addicted to the low vice of stealing, whenever he had opportunity. Uncle Sussex was a venerable, grey-headed mulatto, universally respected by white and black, for his upright, consistent, Christian life. Mag listened with reverence-she always reverenced goodness. His language was correct. The mulattoes are far more correct in their language than the Africans. His manner was solemn and impressive-no passion in his tones. Mag always sickened over uncontrolled emotions under any circumstances. Uncle Alph, in his moods of passion, had taught her utter contempt for any person that did not rule his spirit. Uncle Sussex reminded her of Father McLean, whom she almost worshipped; she listened with all her soul. His subject was a favorite one with the negroes-a description of the heavenly home. He told them of the golden streets, the gates of pearl, the starry crowns, the shining harps to which all would sing. There was a sweet smile on his lip as he described them in subdued tones, and tears rolled silently down his dusky face, as he described the meeting of fathers and mothers, and brothers and sisters, long separated. There was a radiant beauty in Uncle Sussex's face, and Mag knew then how lovely those withered features would look when they formed the face of an angel. And his spirit magnetized the spirits of his listeners; their emotions, like his, were all subdued; their faces were wet with softening tears; they sobbed, but repressed their sobs. Parson Dan himself was subdued, and when Uncle Sussex sat down, he rose, and in a rich, clear, powerful ringing voice, commenced a popular chorus- 
                      
                        "March on! Brethren, march on! 
                        For we shall gain the victory! 
                        March on! March on! For we shall gain the day!" 
                     
                  
                
               It was a wild, sweet strain, and those mellow voices harmonized wonderfully. They varied the time, tune, harmony and words, to suit their wavering emotions, repeating again and again the chorus- 
                     "March on! Brethren, march on! For we shall gain the day!"
                  
                
               Then they all rose as they sang, and as the tears rolled down their cheeks, they walked slowly around shaking hands with each other, and sometimes a soft gush of laughter interrupted the sobs, as some hand dearer than the others met in a clasping embrace. 
               Mag sat alone, and watched it all with her wide, earnest, brown eyes-she listened to the swell of the sweet harmony, and it thrilled her nerves strangely. And those dusky faces gathered around her, they saw an inexpressible sorrow in her mournful, tearless eyes, and they told "dear young mistis" there would be no sorrow in heaven-fathers and mothers and all would be there, and no sorrow! 
               Aunt Nancy came to her, swaying her tall, Amazon figure backward and forward, keeping time to the wild chorus, and her handsome brown features were pale with emotion. 
               Uncle Sussex came. Mag placed her soft hand in his old, hardened, black palm with a real grateful smile; her heart yearned for his blessing; and he gave it. "Dear young mistress," he said, and his voice was tremulous with tenderness ness. "Thank God there will be no sorrow in heaven-no tears there-no broken hearts-God will wipe away all tears. Go to him when you are weary and heavy laden and he will give you rest!" 
               Mag had been to him, and found mockery. But that slave, with his heavenly pity, poured the balm of healing into Mag's hardened but breaking heart. For a time it became again a heart of flesh; she went on her way humanized, more resigned, more submissive. Sorrow was the lot of all on earth. Her temptation was common. It is the glory of the Christian religion, that it satisfies the wants of the ignorant-Philosophy is for the educated alone. 
               The next draughts of Lethe and Nepenthe with which she amused the serpents at her vitals, came in another form. She watched the spirit of southern chivalry in a peculiar outbreak in the Institution. It came in a form that she could neither control nor influence, but it was particularly interesting to a girl educated with "northern prejudices." 
               Mr. Houston, a northern man-what the southerners called a full-blooded Yankee-had moved into the settlement to take boarders for the Female Institute. The term "Yankee," at the South, expresses the concentration of all the gall in the South, against the North. When any one disliked Mag, they poured out their odium by calling her a "Yankee." To express their approbation, they could find no stronger terms than by saying that "there was not one iota of Yankee blood in her." Mr. Houston was a Yankee colporter in the employ of the American Tract Society; he had a cousin Yankee colporter, and marvellous reports the two were accustomed to send for publication of their efforts among the destitute and ignorant through all these benighted regions of the Southwest. 
               They had, however, as Mrs. Partington expresses it, "a thousand winning ways for making themselves hateful." Mrs. Houston was one of the most estimable ladies in the community, universally beloved. No one ever dreamed of calling her a Yankee. 
               One of Mr. Houston's "Yankee tricks" was outside of the comprehension of southern education or chivalry. He had taken from the Orphan Asylum at Natchez, a girl of sixteen, who was in his family what, in northern parlance, is termed a "bound girl." That is, he gave bonds to the Asylum, obligating himself to support her till she was eighteen, teach her domestic work, send her to school one term, etc. Her position in the family was dubious. White girls in the South leave domestic work to be done by servants. Southern people could not comprehend what Mr. Houston meant; they gossipped about it, as people will; they got into a fever about it. Was the girl a slave or not? Sometimes she attended school with the boarders, but not often, and she worked with the slaves; the schoolgirls took the gossip in hand, reported it to the victim of persecution, till she grew impertinent and rebellious, and thereupon Mr. Houston gave the white orphan girl of seventeen a severe flogging, which roused all the chivalry in the Southwest against the Yankee colporter. 
               Southern men approved of slavery, but not of white slavery. Here was a white orphan girl to be rescued from slavery, law or no law. The girl had a brother somewhere, an undeveloped young soul, but he was sent for, and it was demanded of him that he should demand his sister of her Yankee master. Reluctantly he did it; Mr. Houston refused to give her up until the Orphan Asylum released him from his bonds, promising that she might go then. The refusal was considered another "Yankee trick;" it was like putting fire to powder. The blood of southern chivalry was boiling; it wanted to accomplish something; it must have vent! The trustees instigated the boys of the Male Institute to abduct the girl; the boys thought it was seeing life. The girls of the Female Institute were instructed to abduct the trunks; the girls thought it was mighty funny. Then the affair came to a focus at midnight, which was romantic, and the boys took pistols and things which was valorous. Mr. Houston got wind of the affair, and with his cousin and nephew, garrisoned the log-house with one double-barrelled gun in the hands of the nephew. Operations commenced by one of the dare-devil students riding up to said nephew when he came out with the gun, and telling him, with a shocking oath, which cannot be recorded for a Christian community-to fire, and suffer the consequences-which so alarmed the gallant nephew, that he turned, fled into the house, and sheltered himself behind a convenient, door. Meanwhile, the busy school-girls, being the enemy in the camp, escorted the girl with her trunks to the nearest neighbors, and the valiant school-boys took charge of both. 
               Bright and early the next morning, the girl, brother and trunks were placed in a carriage amid the storming anathemas of Mr. Houston, who threatened the whole country with both law and gospel. Three or four students escorted the carriage to Slater's Landing, on the Tombigbee River, with their double-barrelled guns, to keep off the law and officers, whom Mr. Houston tried to send after the girl. Law and officers, however, joined in the rebellion against him. The orphan girl was placed on the steamboat-she was loaded with presents-a purse put in her hand for expenses, and she went, God knows where. Probably-we won't say what we think! 
               The next year, the cousin of Mr. Houston was detected "tampering with negroes;" that is, plotting with them to run away with him; he had given up his colportership, and professed himself an infidel. He instantly received a hint from the heads of society that he must leave Mississippi instanter, if he did not wish to be hung by lynch law, or receive as a present a coat of tar and feathers, and a ride on a vehicle yclept a rail. The ex-colporter took the hint and his departure immediately, threatening terrible vengeance as he went. He would write such an abolition book as should make the eyes of community stare, their ears tingle, and their hearts quiver; a book that should cause the institution of slavery to totter, and men and women to tremble in their shoes-especially all those who wore shoes-which threat having never been accomplished, still hangs like a pall or black mantle of doom over Mississippi. Mag thought she would take warning by his sad fate, and never "tamper with negroes." 
               Guy Erwin sent for Mag to Rose Hill as often as she would come, which was not often-their kindness turned to torture upon her heart. Guy, as usual, remonstrated on her self-sacrifice, on the sin of her wasting life and talents. 
               "If you will be independent, Magdalene Barclay, go and study art. You will confer a favor on me, if you will permit me to furnish you with capital. You shall repay me when you choose." 
               To all of which Mag gave her old reply to Charlie. I cannot accept your wonderful kindness, Guy Erwin, because something within me that I cannot disobey, tells me I must not." 
               "At least let me get you a situation in a civilized land." 
               "Thank you; I will accept that aid with pleasure and gratitude." 
                
               "You shall go to Marion. I will put you under the guardianship of my friend, Dr. Lanier. I will make the arrangements before you die of starvation here." 
               A little incident hastened Mag's departure, which we give here, not because it is interesting, but because it shows a curious phase of a business transaction with the board of trustees, and which did not improve Mag's reverence for humanity. 
               Mr. Church came to her one day with a dozen confused apologies; he had something unpleasant to tell her-something at least a little provoking, etc., etc. 
               The long and the short of it was, that he had been in a difficulty with Capt. Peters-one of the difficulties incident to school-life on the frontiers of the Southwest. One night he had given Joe Peters a right genteel flogging. Joe was the most perfect specimen of a reprobate that was ever bound for the gallows. Mag had passed while he was in the exercise of the rod, and amused herself mightily at the monkey performances of the little wretch, which was very wicked in Mag. Joe thought so, too. He was taking a sort of hornpipe around the floor, making the most rash, reckless and desperate promises of repentance and goodness, with the most eloquent and miraculous contortions of mouth, and pantomime of kicking, scratching and biting when his grimaces were unseen. Joe had gone home and told his father that Mr. Church had nearly murdered him to please Miss Barclay. Mr. Church had received an insulting note from the Captain, saying Miss Barclay's influence in the Male School ought to be repudiated. 
               "Poor little Joe!" said the astonished Mag. "Why, all the flogging in Christendom would only cause the iniquity in him to strike deeper. I certainly hope Joe will have as easy a time as possible on earth, for I am afraid he is bound for a hot time hereafter, if there is a hereafter; and fire itself cannot burn out his total depravity. Why, I love the little sinner desperately, he is such a perfect model of wickedness." 
               Mr. Church had answered the note according to frontier etiquette. That is, he put the note in his pocket, and a fine bowie-knife in his sleeve, and answered it in propria persona. The Capt. he knew to be a bully, who is always a coward. He told the Capt. that Joe had not received half the flogging that he deserved; that if Joe or the Old Nick had told him it was given at Miss Barclay's instigation, it was a lie! If the Capt. wanted satisfaction out of him, as he had threatened, he should certainly have it, and of the very kind he wanted, provided he could get it! 
               "Well!" ejaculated Mag, as she listened to the details. 
               "Well, you have no idea of the amiable expression that stole over the Capt.'s face, like May sunshine. He swallowed his words in the note so fast they would have choked him if his tongue had not been smoother than oil, and we parted with the greatest affability. I was excessively flattered by his appreciation of my extraordinary talents. I am, in his eyes, President in prospectu of the Institute, soon to become a college." 
               "Such is life in its most unmitigated forms," commented Mag, as usual, when taking life in the rough. 
               "But the point is not yet. Pity that Joe told that tale on you! Don't be alarmed, all things are straightened for you." But he handed her an official document, which Mag read, and her face flushed. She returned it in silence. It was a list of "Resolutions" from the enterprising Board, complimentary to the Institution, ending with a suggestion that Miss Barclay's place be supplied by a southern teacher. 
               "I called a meeting of the Board immediately," said Mr. Church. "The Captain was absent, and not another member of the Board knew anything of the clause concerning Miss Barclay. The Capt. had manufactured it to show his own appreciation of the lady. The Board 'resolved' to punish his audacity-also 'resolved' that Miss Barclay was a lady of uncommon genius, and a superior teacher, whose place could not be supplied by any other teacher North or South. So much for your laughing at Joe's misfortunes! You should always sympathize with sorrow if you expect to win love, and never laugh at it." 
               "Mrs. Jacobs has also found fault with my Yankee ways, of late," said Mag. "What a pity that I never could learn to live without eating. It would be so convenient." 
               "It is an indispensable qualification for a teacher in the Southwest; but one should avoid the foolish mistake of the Dutchman's horse, when he learned to live on shavings. Just as he had got well learned, he died," said Mr. Church. 
               "I am afraid the incident may disturb the peace of the family," said Mag. "The judge will never forgive me now, and his hospitable roof will be more unendurable than ever, and I don't think I will ever try to endure it-it will not be worth while." 
               And Mag went to Guy and Lizzy for refuge, and Guy laughed at her tribulations, and told her of the fate of those who threw their pearls before swine, and reminded her of his warnings and exhortations. 
               But Mag would not stay at Rose Hill. In a few months she left Mississippi and Guy and Lizzy, to find life with new variations, as teacher of the two young sons of Rev. Dr. Lanier, of Marion. 
               We will here add, the Kane Co. Institute is still flourishing under the imposing cognomen of the --- Institute. Its patrons declare that it is undoubtedly the best school in the southern States, and in a very short time they intend to endow it as a college, when Mr. Church will be elected President. 
             
             
               XXVII. VARIETY THE SPICE OF LIFE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The curtain 
                        Rises to solemn music, and lo! enter 
                        The eleven thousand lovers of Cologne. 
                     
                   
                
               LIFE next dawned upon Mag in the pleasant, thriving little city of Marion, Perry County, Alabama. Her heart thrilled with a real joy, as her eyes fell upon the New England-like village-the civilized-looking white houses with green blinds, the grounds blooming in roses, jasmine and honeysuckle. As they greeted her vision, she knew how well she had loved New England; knew that she was proud of her birthplace; felt that she was a patriot; that to her, patriotism meant pride that she was born a child of fair New England. Her heart swelled, as she thought of its green hills, its sunny valleys, and its glorious granite mountains. A New England girl, alone in the world, but free as a solitary eagle! Some time in the future she would try her wings in other regions-would gaze upon the rarest earth had to show! Alas! it was a fouler world for a woman rover than even she dreamed. Perhaps it would be better for orphan daughters that some kind philanthropist should force them on to heaven in their childhood. Little orphan sister of mine, God knows I have been tempted when you have said your prayers at my feet, and were sleeping in my arms, while the tears were yet wet on your long lashes, God knows I have been tempted to hush the heart-beat in your breast, before it was torn with the unutterable agony that it must know, it must know, before the end comes! God help us both, my darling. For there is a God. And he shall save us yet. I will storm heaven itself with prayers for you! And, little beautiful sister, should you go a rover into strange lands-a stranger and orphan-beware especially of church members. The garb that Satan takes to insult widows, orphans, and strangers is the form of religion. Pure-hearted lady romance writers will not tell you this. What do they know of the foul world? Your brother shall save you, my falcon! You shall be safe with your eyes of light in their grave, before you shall be permitted to try the world alone, if God does indeed answer prayer. And there is a God who answers prayer. 
               Mag was a stranger, a rover. God had thrown her a waif upon the ocean; she must fit herself for roving. She had work to do, before she allowed herself rest or recreation. Her first work now must be to test God's promises; she must learn for herself, and know whether it was a lie, what the Bible said, that God would answer prayer, nay, that he heard the young ravens when they cry, and clothed the lilies of the field, and watched the fall of the sparrows. Now her book must be written. Whatever else was neglected, that should be neglected no more, and every page should be written with a prayer. Every duty that she owed others should be accomplished faithfully; but when duty was done, then her soul should be her own. 
               Life as a teacher, and now working under orders! Obedience to superior officers, to a woman is delightful. When she reverences the moral and intellectual man, her work is all of love. But to submit to obey the orders of inferiors-to do that which the judgment condemns-there was nothing thrilling or heart-satisfying in that to one of Mag's aspirations, or style of cultivation. There might, in the lesson, be the discipline of endurance, but nothing of the expansive nature of happiness. 
                
               In molding and educating the nature to perfection, it is necessary to study noble models. As the painter or sculptor must have his beau ideal, and by earnest study, become familiar with all forms of grace and loveliness, so the soul in humanity must study grand models of human virtue and nobility. Christ is the ideal. Christ is the God of our earthly worship; but we need daily and familiar intercourse with human goodness, truth, and magnanimity. And, alas! how few have any conception of it! Alas! how the weakness and imperfection of human nature in its noblest forms, at times disgust and sicken us; how often we turn from it, disappointed and weary, and swallow our contempt for ourselves and kind, and wonder if man was ever so thoroughly weary before of paltry humanity! But Mag was young, and still on the outlook for something noble in man to reverence; she still had the hope that there would be something divine in man for her to worship. She was waiting to find her master, and be obedient. She had been obedient to Frank Ross, because she reverenced him. She had reverenced Charles Atherton Moore; alas! she had not been obedient to him. Where were his wayward footsteps roving? God bless him, and when next she saw him, she would obey him implicitly. But she did not. She would be glad to obey the next noble soul she met who was her superior. Dr. Arnold of Rugby was one of her ideals; Professor Parks, of Andover, was another; Dr. Olin a third, and President Woolsey, of Yale. She reverenced all these. Edward Everett filled out the very beau ideal. She had a sort of indefinite hope that she should find in the Rev. Dr. Lanier, her new patron, a combination of all these. As Frank said, "there was a deal of nonsense to be taken out of her yet." Mag concluded that he must be one who could teach her to think; one who had absorbed grand truth; some one to whom her intellectual nature might trust itself for guidance; in whose nature her spirit might find repose: in whose finely-trained moral powers, her spirit might have full faith. She knew herself to be a woman-a creature whom God never intended to be alone in the world, of which she could have no knowledge; a being endowed with pure instincts and intuitions, whom God never intended as a reasoner or thinker; she was ready to give her reason and opinions to the guidance of a noble, intellectual man; she knew that women were dreamers-pure and delicate were their dreams, as every book written by the order will show, and of wonderful intuitions, as Josephine of France, her model of womanliness, had proved. But little opportunity had she on the frontiers for imitating her model; nevertheless, she reverenced obedience, grace, goodness, long-suffering, magnanimity, forgiveness. 
               Mag knew herself to be a woman-a dreamer-not a thinker; she did not trust her own thought-knew it could not bear the test of masculine, intellectual criticism. And she really hoped to find a strong, reasoning intellect, who could teach her truth. She had found it once in Charles Moore. She did not doubt she should find it again. 
               Whole souls are as rare as diamonds. It is a glorious thing for the young, that their thought may be educated and expanded under the fostering care of large-hearted men-men whose truth and goodness the young must reverence, whether they will or not. Thus the young are taught faith in humanity, strong as that founded on the Rock of Ages. The tempests may come, the winds may blow, storms of temptation may sweep over that faith, the iron may enter the soul, till pages of life history are unfolded, whose every letter is written in blood from breaking hearts, but the foundations of that faith in God and man will never be shaken. Children of noble parents, who love God, are thrice blessed; the blessings descend to their children of the third and fourth generations. But from the influence of ignoble parents, the curse descends, and produces a terrible, terrible progeny. Witness those licentious districts in Europe, where the support of foundlings has become a public curse. The influence of such fathers and mothers is fearful. The responsibility of all parents is fearful. The effect of their errors spreads like the throbbing of air, or the tides of ocean, to the remotest bounds of time. For erring parents, Christ's prayer must be the only hope: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." 
               A half hour's conversation with the Rev. Dr. Lanier had put to flight all Mag's beautiful dreams. It needed but a half hour to reveal to her that he was neither Dr. Arnold nor Edward Everett. In fact, what was revealed to her, made her intensely sad; as though again thrown upon an unknown ocean in a crippled boat, which must be trusted to a helmsman more ignorant than herself; a man unfortunately innocent of all knowledge or suspicion of his own ignorance and helplessness. She saw at a glance that if she guided her little life-boat safely through the breakers, it would be in spite of the man at the helm; she must influence him, by causing him to think that his was the controlling spirit and mind. She knew herself to be a superficial scholar and thinker; he was vain of his knowledge as the imperfectly educated always are; his opinions varied with every changing wind; and though Mag doubted her own thoughts, she laughed at his; the phases of faith, with him, were more abominable than Newman's "Phases of Faith," if possible; Mag's thought passed through fire afterward, and she trusted it more, for she discovered that there were masculine as well as feminine fools and dreamers; Mag was superficial, but this man was more superficial still. Unfortunately, she had a great contempt for a weak, passionate man, and it was in a short time difficult to conceal her contempt for this man and his opinions, and she saw trouble ahead. She was afraid that some day she should "walk over him too emphatically." Mag was a skeptic; she doubted man and God, but she doubted her own thought utterly. She doubted the clashing opinions of all the wise and good men of the ages; then how could she regard the shifting opinions of this inconsistent soul, who had the audacity to think that his teachings were oracles to her, and that he was her hierophant. Girl as she was, she had read books of philosophy, of which he had never heard, and clergyman as he was, she was familiar with works on theology, of which he had never dreamed. 
               She must keep her place, by humoring his vanity. How she hated the business! how her soul revolted at the task! She must "appreciate" him! How we all delight in "appreciation!" If Rev. Dr. Lanier ever said or did or wrote a fine thing, his very soul was restless till the world knew and approved it; his "own estimate was not measure enough for him," nor "his own praise reward enough." Mag studied his fine points to appreciate them. He was a poet. In his youth, years before, he had published poetry; even now, at times, he was seized with poetic pangs, and wrote beautiful verses. There were fine fancy and abundantly elegant language to adorn the scattered thoughts he wove into rhyme. He read to Mag whole volumes of what he called his youthful follies, professing to be vastly ashamed of ever having been guilty of those perpetrations, calling a poetry a school-boy disease which he had taken, and from which he had safely recovered. Innocent man! Blind to his own vain craving for flattery, like the poor baby who, when he had closed his own eyes, thought his mother could not see him. Mag "appreciated" his poetry, and his sermons; they were full of imagery, like cloud-piles in a summer sky resting on air. He read them all to her-for "criticism," he said. She noticed the exuberant fancy, the luxuriant language; she was far too wise to notice the want of thought; he was pleased with her criticism, and of course, pleased with her, and for a time she sailed over the quicksands safely-the breezes were favorable. He reported his new teacher as a sort of eighth wonder to the world-wonderfully wise in Latin, Greek, mathematics and the poets. He did not mention the philosophy and theology, for, poor man, he was not himself posted. To prove her accomplishments, he reported to the public her wonderful literary performances-as he would have written a newspaper puff, without regard to the wounded sensibilities of his victim. How her pride was tortured with it all! She thought of Charles Moore, for she was a romantic little soul, and thought it would gall her pride like crucifixion, to have him see her name bandied before the public as blue-stocking, instead of a true-hearted woman. "I have taken my shame upon me! I have indeed taken my shame upon me!" was her soul's cry, repeated to herself again and again. "If Charles Moore has any regard for me, how it will wound his proud, sensitive nature, to have my woman's name on the mouth of the vulgar herd." She almost hated the man that advertised his vanity with her name. 
               Rev. Dr. Lanier and lady met Mag cordially-received her in their elegant home, made it a home to her, a delightful refuge from the tiresome, hateful routine of frontier school life and duties. Everything that wealth, or refinement or cultivated taste could procure, adorned that home-pictures, music, flowers, books. It seemed that in this one mansion of Dr. Lanier, the serpent had forgotten to enter with his slimy trail. The mistress of the home was young, witty, accomplished, her mind highly cultivated; she was exquisitely beautiful, exquisitely fascinating, and oh, so exquisitely kind! She was kind to all-to her servants, to the lite that thronged her magnificent parlors; kind to the young and gay, to the old, and poor, and infirm. She was kind and bewitching and lovely to Dr. Lanier, so that she had stolen and ruled his heart; he worshipped her-made her his idol-notwithstanding God had forbidden idols. "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." Her nature overflowed with love to all; she craved the love of all-the love of her servants, of the young, of the old, of the great world and the small world; she often said it was her misfortune that she had always found love irresistible! And with all her kindness, she was lavish of her best gifts to the friendless stranger and orphan who entered her doors. With her own fascinating grace she went with Mag to the luxurious chamber appropriated to her use, told her it should be her home whenever she would accept it; and on that night, Mag knelt down and again thanked God that in the midst of judgment he had remembered mercy. Peace hovered over her in her dreams, and on that night, the heart of a weary wanderer ran over with its fullness of content. Again and again she thanked God that he was with her at last, and that she had found a refuge from the foul world; she had come into a sanctuary, a hallowed place at last. 
               "Rev. Dr. Lanier says wonderful things of you, Miss Barclay," said Mrs. --, one day. "He told me last night that you were certainly the most fascinating lady he ever met-were astonishingly wise in the poets, very appreciative of the beautiful, not beautiful yourself, but the dimples around your mouth were absolutely bewitching." 
               "Did the puppy dare?" ejaculated Mag. "God help me! I consider him insufferably presuming in taking the liberty! He will certainly never think it again!" 
               If Mag had not utterly disliked the man, she would not have been so thoroughly indignant. To her thought she added, "Charles Moore, in a world like this it is impossible to keep myself precious! I have taken my shame upon me! God help me to bear it! Must a woman alone always be exposed to insult like that? Is there no shield, no protection? Must I live alone among influences that suffocate every noble aspiration of my nature? Is there no way to live in a world like this, but by administering to human vanity, and pandering to human weakness? Can I afford to pay the price of popularity with this high priest? Oh, if I could but find some bright little isle of the ocean, far away from all this human vanity and passion, of which I am getting so desperately weary! I am weary and toilworn with the last desperate battle for breath and bread, and long for rest, it seems to me, as mortal never longed for it before-long for human love, too, as the angels must have longed for love when they lost heaven. But Charles Moore tells me now, I must make myself a worthy bride before I shall be wooed for that marriage in heaven. I cannot grow worthy here, bending what is noble in me to obey a man for whom I have no reverence. I must work out a noble woman's destiny before I adorn myself for him. Will the bridal ornaments be those of a meek and quiet spirit? humility in the place of this heaven-daring pride? I have not as yet found them." 
               There was no escape from the life-no hope but in her book. She determined to pour out her whole life and energies upon it; it was the work of desperation; it must be done now or never; she must do it or die, degenerate by contact with earthly, polluting selfishness. 
               Her mind had other work to do; there were obstacles to that book-work mountain-high, but the Bible had said that Faith, like a grain of mustard-seed, could remove mountains. She would take God at his word, and pray. She would have faith now. 
               She did pray. Morning and night she prayed, as one whose last hope, whose only refuge, hangs on the prayer. And she worked, too. Too busy was she now to cultivate favor with the high priest-too busy even to return calls from the kind ladies of the town; her life was elsewhere. In her classes every duty was faithfully done, but she avoided all the outer world, except to perform her duty. Her life-problem was one that they could in no wise help her solve. She was now testing God-trying the truth of his glorious promises; she was safe if they were true; all was lost if they were false. She was testing God. Man she had tested, and found him always with elements powerful for evil. She would be in solemn, thorough earnest with every line of her book now. She would keep herself thoroughly trained in physical health, that brain and thought might be clear; half the books written were flooded with the passionate humors of ill-health and nervousness in their authors; books were often but an outlet to the melancholy and misanthropy of disappointed hope; she would write with a clear eye, from a clear, brave soul, God helping her! Rest and recreation, health of mind, body and soul-she must and would have them all, God helping her, as he must, if he existed, and the Bible was his word. Nature demanded rest and recreation. She found them all in the house of Dr. Lanier-music, books, conversation, and mental and social health, with Cora its mistress. 
               In a few months, too, she was made happy by a visit from Alec Ross. Life began to bear a gleam of hope. He had been to Huntsville on a visit to the Moores, and came by Marion to see Mag; and Mag went wild with joy to see once more a face that was not the face of a stranger. Only those who, for years, have been strangers and alone, can know how blessed is the sight of a noble face we have loved in childhood. Mag had never been a sister to Alec as to Frank Ross. He had never won her soul as Frank had done; but now that the grave had closed over Frank, the tie that bound them was most sacred. Nothing unholy should ever come between them. Alec Ross was a splendid specimen of manliness-a man of strong passions, naturally taciturn, but of fine genius. Nature intended him for a noble destiny. 
               Mag did her best to entertain her guest. Dr. Lanier welcomed him to his hospitality for Mag's sake, and for the sake of Colonel Moore, and especially for the sake of his cousin, "Charles Moore-as noble a fellow," he said, "as ever trod God's footstool." Alec Ross left the King House to accept Dr. Lanier's hospitality. 
               "Charles Moore!" How the name quivered along Mag's nerves! 
               "Are you, too, acquainted with my cousin, Lieutenant Moore?" Alec asked of Mrs. Lanier one day. 
               "He was once one of my dearest and most intimate friends," she replied. "I saw him about two years ago, at Valhermosa Springs, near Huntsville. It was at the time his sister was married there. You recollect the circumstances were not quite en rgle, but it turned out a very pretty romance." 
               Alec found wonderful grace and favor with Mrs. Lanier. She gave select soires every night, to introduce him to the lite of Marion, that he might be charmed with southern society. 
               Mag entertained him by teasing him concerning Josie Newton. That old flame was not yet quite extinguished. Mrs. Lanier was quite interested in the affair. 
               "I am really jealous of this charming Miss Newton," she said one day. "You must tell me what her chief charms are." 
               "Ah," replied Mag for Alec, "she had such sweet, pouting lips, such coquettish dimples, such soft, languishing, sapphire eyes, and complexion of lilies, roses, pearls, rubies, carnations, and a purse of silver and gold, and affections like diamonds! Alec loved them all with untold devotion." 
               "And, Mr. Ross, do you love Miss Josie now, better than you love me?" Mrs. Lanier asked, with a sweet, arch look. 
               "Impossible! You are as beautiful as Josie Newton. I will not say you are more beautiful, for she is faultlessly lovely; but you are in every gift far her superior. Your wit, fascination, and cultivation, aside from your wonderful beauty, would make your charms irresistible. How can I prevent myself from loving you best?" 
               Mag listened to the badinage and compliment, and thought that Alec had not learned it in Puritan New England. Mrs. Lanier laughed. 
               "Mr. Ross, you have much of the address of your cousin, Charles Moore. He was one of the most elegant and fascinating men I ever met. There was something mysterious about him, though. He sometimes quite turned my head, and again he was as unapproachable and grim as if all his thoughts were beyond the grave. He used to declare to me, he was meditating an elopement with Death, to a marriage that was to come off in the Hereafter. We were grand friends, I assure you! Our friendship was suddenly cut short. He started East, and friendship has been obliterated by the oceans rolling between us." 
               "But neither oceans nor seas can divide our friendship," said Alec. "Time itself cannot sever it, without severing heart-strings." 
               It was a strange style of badinage, and Mag thought of Charles Moore, and Valhermosa, and his never-to-be-forgotten letter to her from there; and as she thought, a name in that letter flashed across her mind in letters of light-Cora Lanier! Could this bright lady be the lover he had clasped in his arms among the mountains, when the voluptuous breezes stole his senses from him? Her eye ran swiftly over her figure, hair, eyes-they were the same. Link shot into link in the chain of evidence, till all was complete; she no longer doubted. She shuddered too; the trail of the serpent was even in this paradise, that she had almost coveted. Ah, if we could but look into the hearts of those we envy, how would it destroy the demon of envy. Could we but look into the hearts of our worst enemies, we should see that which would destroy the worst fiend of revenge, and change the monster to pity. There is sorrow and sin enough in every human heart! The Man-God, who saw all the secret thoughts of man, was never known to smile! 
               And Charles Moore! No wonder he must leave Valhermosa, or sacrifice his honor! Had not the sacrifice been made before he resolved upon its salvation? No wonder there was at times "an air of unapproachable mystery about him, as if his thoughts were beyond the grave." And Alec Ross was in the snare of this siren! Would he too yield to the temptations of the deceiver? Would his moral strength also give way to the triumph of passion? 
               Then came the thought of her answer to prayer-her. tempter. She had demanded an apology of him, and listened to it with her revolver in her hand. In her desperation she had resolved it should do stern duty; for she was sick of life. Was ever another mortal so utterly sick of earth? It should be the means of giving her freedom and Frank's companionship. It is a dangerous thing to dare a desperate woman; circumstances can make of the noblest the most perfect fiends. A strange apology her tempter had given her. She remembered it for Alec's sake now. 
               "The animal nature in man is powerful, Miss Barclay. Man needs grace to control it, and there are times when even grace is not sufficient. There is many a sin that grace cannot conquer; these sins can only be disposed of by repentance. Never trust a man because he is a church member, Miss Barclay. Religion never yet subdued a man's passions, whether of revenge or love. My prayer to God is that we may meet in heaven." 
               "How do you expect to get there?" Mag asked in astonishment. 
               "I am sure I don't know," was the reply. Neither did Mag know. 
               Was there any but an infernal meaning to those words? That man bore the name in community of a large-hearted, noble, active Christian; he was the intimate friend of devoted Christians. Yet he declared that grace must be conquered by sensuous passions. If grace in Christian men could not subdue passion, would not Charles Moore and Alec Ross permit the physical to trample down the moral, without the aid of this miraculous grace? What did it all mean? She would be silent; she would watch and see what heart-secrets would be laid open to her gaze. It is a sorrowful thing to have all our young dreams of the divinity in humanity so put to the torture. 
               Charles Moore had entreated her, with all his passionate energy, to permit him to save her from contact with the world. Did he, too, believe that even grace was powerless when striving with human passion? 
               "For your own sake, for my sake, for God's sake, let me save you!" 
               Many things were becoming clear to Mag. Scales were falling from her eyes. Like all young souls, she could not believe the world so vile! Scripture phrases took new meanings. "The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked." She began to believe it, and felt unsafe, and wished she could believe a God was taking care of her. Even "in a world like this" she was safe if the Bible was true. 
               She went to church with Dr. Lanier on the Sabbath, listened earnestly when the man of God gave forth his text. Charles Moore had engraven those words on her heart; now every line burned there in letters of living fire. "There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man, but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above what ye are able, but with the temptation will also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it." 
               And she believed it! Cora Lanier might have resisted temptation. "It had been her misfortune that she had always found love irresistible." No, it had been her fault. And Mag knew now that she was in a world full of temptations. Every step was beset from the cradle to the grave; they were infesting every human heart-sleeping serpents, ready to awaken at every breath of self-love. "Therefore, thou art inexcusable, oh, man, that judgest another." The serpents were in her own heart, sleeping around her, too, and she was standing among earthquakes, ready at any time to burst forth. And she knew that Cora Lanier, bright and beautiful as she seemed, was coquetting carelessly upon the verge of a volcano's crater, that at any moment might belch fire and destruction into the heart of the paradise she had distained, and into the noble heart of the man she had already dishonored. 
               Mag watched Alec and Cora as they walked home from church together. She heard his low-toned compliment as the wind blew aside her dress; she marked the emphasis, and lingered, fearing she should hear more. 
               "The breezes are friendly traitors to those beautiful little feet. Come on my left side, ma belle, and I will shield you from their treachery, and you will be the object nearest my heart, as you are already its queen." 
               Yes, the spell was on Alec Ross too. She knew it when, as the time of his visit expired, he lingered-not one day, but many days-ostensibly to visit her; though being in school she scarcely saw him. He lingered as the guest of Dr. Lanier. Where was his sense of honor now? To eat of a man's salt, to sit at his hearthstone, to tamper with his honor, to bring disgrace upon his household gods, pollution upon the home-altar! Alec Ross had come to that. Great heavens! She saw it all, for she was clear-eyed now. Strange to say, she began to believe in God now. She had wondered what he was doing with her; she knew he had work for her now, and she must do it. Her powers came into full play-she felt buoyant-her spirits even became playful; she felt so brave to do-God would help her now-she knew it! She must not only keep herself pure, but she must purify others. She must prove by her life that, whether by grace or without grace, it was possible to resist temptations that wring every fibre of the soul; it was possible to overcome evil with good-to do God service. God should help her. There was a God! None but an Infinite God could open such infinite depths to the soul in the flesh. She was so clear-eyed now. She saw their position and she saw her own; both were dangerous. It was dangerous for her, a stranger and friendless, to peril her own fortune-her good name-by being known as the intimate friend of Cora Lanier. She had not been careful to make herself popular with the high priest-her patron. She had avoided him; but in her new knowledge of human frailty, she had learned that he was revengeful. So are all men. He would never forgive her present want of appreciation of his virtues-never forgive her for disappointing him. Nothing could tempt her now to stay near Cora Lanier. She must leave Marion; and if Cora suspected her knowledge, she would injure her in self-defence, and so would her husband. He would do it now as soon as it was politic. She could see, too, that when she left, some plausible story must go to the public against her-he had praised her too extravagantly on her arrival. If he knew Cora Lanier's weakness- but he did not-he would anathematise both together. Not for worlds would she harm the siren; not for a thousand worlds send the arrow to the heart of that husband who worshipped her. She had come to both a stranger, and they had received her; she was sick and in prison, and one had comforted her. Alec Ross might dishonor himself by betraying their hospitality-she would not. She loved them far too well; there were in her heart sentiments like love and honor, due them. 
               But she had work to do now. She must be about it. 
               Wonderful to relate, Providence befriended her. She began to believe in special providences, and answers to prayers. The newspapers were teeming with stories of answers to prayer in those revival meetings-she thought of her prayer-she thought of "Bushnell's Nature and the Supernatural"-she thought of the Bible. She received a letter from Colonel Walter of Marengo County, offering her a liberal salary and a home, to teach his little daughters. 
               She took the letter immediately to try the pulse of Rev. Dr. Lanier. She knew her course had offended him-she wanted to sound him as to her precise position in his estimation; she wanted to form an opinion as to how much harm she might expect from him. 
               She gave him the letter. He read it and looked up. 
               "I do not wish to lose your services as teacher, Miss Barclay. I cannot deny it, you are a splendid teacher." 
               "But the salary, sir, you perceive, will be more than I am receiving now. My contract with you, however, does not close until the year closes. You recollect, you even mentioned the day of the month on which the contract was to close, to insure the full year. I came a few weeks before the time. I consider myself bound by that contract." 
               "Whenever you are dissatisfied, you are at liberty to go, Miss Barclay." 
               "Thank you. And if you are dissatisfied with my services, you are at liberty to dismiss me. I believe, however, you promised to increase my salary after the full year had expired." 
               "If I was pleased with your services, Miss Barclay. You are a thorough teacher, I know; but I will tell you frankly, you are unpopular with my little sons." 
               Mag smiled. She saw through it all. Saw that he had been trying to find evil against her, by questioning the pupils; had listened to and encouraged every harmful tale that the malcontents could invent. Of course, it was as honorable as eaves-dropping, or listening to servant's tales. She knew it was a slight fiction, the story of her unpopularity; or if there was any semblance of truth in it, she could easily remedy it, whenever it was worth while to make the effort. She never yet failed to make herself popular when she chose. 
               She stood smiling, and twirling the letter in her hand, while thought went shooting through her brain. At last, looking up, she said: 
               "You say you are satisfied with me as a teacher?" 
               "You are really a magnificent teacher." 
               "Very well, with your permission, I shall stay and fulfill the year's engagement." 
               And Dr. Lanier really imagined he was conferring a favor in permitting it, and thought she would be glad to stay even longer. 
               "I have always considered it my duty, in all things that I attempt, to do my best," she added. "I shall continue to do so until the close of the year, when I shall leave." 
               And Dr. Lanier thought it all finesse, and that she would not leave. 
               "I shall be glad to have you stay, Miss Barclay, on account of your superior style of teaching." 
               Mag wrote to Colonel Walter, that if he would wait for her five months, she would accept his offer. He replied that he would wait. 
               Her next business was with Alec. She wondered if he really would sacrifice principle to passion, so much as to leave her a stranger and friendless, to continue her intimacy with a woman whom he knew to be unclean. If Alec would not warn her of her danger, neither would she tell him of Charles Moore, nor hint to him that he was not the sole object of the siren's affection. Now that her eyes were opened, she knew there were other men in Marion who shared her favors, and others still with whom she was a marked woman. Undoubtedly, Alec thought himself a lone star; and not yet would she undeceive him, if ever. She must test his principles-the truth of his friendship for her; yet she would do her very utmost to save and honor him. 
               "You have glorious talents intrusted to your keeping, Alec," she said to him that starry night, as he escorted her home to Dr. Lanier's. "Does your conscience never reproach proach you for not doing your best with them? I do not think you are devoting them to honorable service, or doing with them what God intended, when he gave you those glorious gifts of genius." 
               "You are a good girl, Mag, and preach wholesome doctrines to a sinner like me. You are perfectly Utopian-a real visionary; and this world will give you rough handling for the very purity of your ideals. After a few devils have imposed upon you, you will come to the stern realities. You are fresh and pure yet in your aspirations; but, poor child! you will be misanthropic and selfish enough in a few years." 
               "Alec Ross, do you not believe in nobility of soul?" 
               "Yes, Mag, I have known you, and of course believe in it. If I had some one constantly to stir me up to enthusiasm, as you do, I might make something of myself that neither you nor I should be ashamed of. But honestly, Mag, the charms of the fair and frail bewitch me overmuch. My charmers, of the style of Josie Newton, never wrought any good in me, for there was none in them." 
               "But is it not our duty to free ourselves from baneful influences? tear ourselves from temptations that are baleful? You have glorious talents-God gave them to you. With them you can make yourself anything that you choose-you can be all that you aim at. With your gifts you have no right to aim at anything less than the noblest." 
               "I am not vain, Mag, and you are a flatterer now." 
               "Do not play modest, Alec. God has made you accountable for what he has given you." 
               "Well then, Mag, I am a coward, and dread failures." 
               "You are sluggish! Dread failures! Life is a tremendous failure, if we do not make exertion. All things under heaven that are true and honorable and of good report are within your grasp, if you but make the proper exertion. You long for them-I know you do; you lie down and gaze at the luscious fruit, sweeter than any in Eden. Be assured it will not fall into your arms, if you do not open them to receive it, like the lady who has stolen your senses, nor come to your lips uninvited, like a false-lipped siren! You dread failures! You might win position, influence, love-a love which might be honorable, a blessing to you and yours, instead of a curse to you and her, and the blackest hell to hers." 
               "You are in earnest, Mag." 
                
               "You should be in earnest, Alec. What are a dozen failures if success is won at last. You are sure to win. If you exert yourself, it will be against all the laws of nature, that you fail. Dread failures! All life has been a failure to me; but I must work on; if I fail forever, my only alternative is to shoot myself, when I find myself tempted beyond refuge. But our grandest lessons are learned from failures. We gain strength by going to earth; we rise renewed. We gain wisdom, learn how to commence another battle that shall end in victory. If you attempt to win, you will never fail." 
               "Your words ring upon my nerves like a note from a trumpet. While your spell is upon me, Mag, I tremble like Felix and say with Agrippa, 'Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.' When you are gone, I shall listen to the voices of other charmers, and they will wile me away." 
               "And unless you make yourself deaf to the songs of the sirens, as Ulysses did, you will be wrecked in whirlpools worse than those of Scylla and Charybdis; you will be wrecked, body and soul. If you do your best, Alec, the noblest in this broad America will be proud to give you a love that will not be the unclean thing from whose spell even now you have not the will to tear yourself." 
               "You are a sphinx-unfold your riddle." 
               "You say I influence you for good. You will pardon me for saying right now, a bold, unwomanly thing. You are my cousin, Alec, more brother than cousin, for you have no sister, and I have no nearer kin. I love you dearly. There is not another human being upon earth, who has the claims upon me that you have. I love you dearly; but to you, as well as myself, the idea of marriage would be as unnatural as if you were my own brother. For Frank's sake, as well as for your own sake, my love for you is a sacred thing. Nothing unholy shall be permitted to come near it. Not for the universe would I mar it. If you will but be true to yourself, to the nobility that God planted in you, I am capable of a devotion in friendship and love for you, of which you never dreamed. Do you not love me, Alec?" 
               "I do love you, Mag. I reverence you as the noblest creature God ever made!" 
               "You would never permit harm to come near me, if you could shield me?" 
               "God knows I would not. I would do more for you than any human soul." 
                
               "Do not perjure yourself, Alec. I must be more to you than any other soul, until the one comes to you who has a God-given right to be dearer-bone of your bone, flesh of your flesh. Shall I be the dearest one till then? Promise me, Alec." 
               Alec paused a moment before he replied. Strange gleams were darting across his face; strange lights in the midnight eyes. Mag watched them eagerly. Was it not his good angel triumphing over the temptress? He looked up to heaven, glorious in its stars. 
               "By all the stars in heaven, Mag, I swear it shall be so!" 
               Mag gave a long sigh. He had not sworn by the God above the stars. His words did not satisfy her. There was no honest outlook to those passionate eyes. 
               "I must be dearer to you than Cora Lanier." 
               "Why do you mention her, Mag?" he asked, hastily. "My regard for her is pure." 
               "Pure! I have not said otherwise." 
               "There is no wrong, in loving a woman purely. All the instincts in my nature teach me to love her, and to love her purely." 
               "Your arms have been around her; your lips on her lips." 
               "If it is wrong, who gave me these passions? I did not endow myself. My fate impels me to love all that is lovable and bewitching in woman. The passions must be fed; they were given us to gratify. It is no sin to feed passion, since fate has ordered it Mag, there is no such thing as sin. It is all fate. How can we prevent our passions? Pope said truth-Whatever is, is right." 
               "And you have really found use for that sacred dictum!" said Mag, in scornful irony. "It is a noble doctrine when thoroughly tried. I congratulate you, cousin, that you have found suitable exercise for it. The fruits it will bear you, will be burning sweet upon your tongue. What matter if you know them to be burning bitter afterward? And that is Cora Lanier's faith also. Perhaps she taught it you, while her head was on your heart, and you were feeding on those sweet lips, where so many others have fed. She professes to have always found love irresistible. She is anxious to win heaven, whose atmosphere is all love, and is to be received as a member of the church on next Sabbath. Did you know it, Alec? You had better stay and join with her. That is her faith Whatever is, is right." 
               "I know." And Cora Lanier did join the church on the next Sabbath. 
               "You do? You learned it of her instead of Pope. You discussed that doctrine, and the love doctrine, too, in the presence of Dr. Lanier, and declared that it added to the piquancy of your amour, that he failed to understand your language of double entendre." 
               "You are Satan's own, Mag." 
               "So Uncle Alph used to tell me. But just now you called me one of God's noblest. Your faith seems to be variable, like Cora's love and faith. When her propensities, guided by your talisman, 'Whatever is, is right,' teach her to throw herself, by that love which is irresistible, into the fond caresses of all her ardent-hearted lovers, thus playing coquette with your pure love, and devil with her husband's-I hope you will excuse my language, I learned it from bad associations on the frontiers, for, spite of ourselves, we do get stained by mingling with sinners. Perhaps that is not to the point, for love cannot be sin, since Christ commanded all little children to love one another; and, of course, love must grow with our growth, and strengthen with our strength, till it becomes heavenly. And, of course, if any wrong comes of it, why God is to blame for giving her such passions. Of course, he ought never to have given the power to control passion-it takes the charm away." 
               "Go on, Mag." 
               "It was absolutely cruel in God, that he not only made us accountable, but forced us to feel that we were accountable; it was right shabby, that gift of a conscience; it would be so much more convenient if that had been left out. It was unjust and cruel to so spoil the luxury of human arrangements. And for pure daring, the best way to show him your independence of his laws, and your sense of his injustice, will be to tell him frankly and outright, that positively you won't submit to have the world regulated on such principles! But I must go. Good night." 
               "Stay, Mag, one moment. You are dearer to me than any other human being-dearer to me than Cora Lanier. I have given you my solemn promise that it shall be always so; but let this compact of ours be a secret between us. Do not reveal it to any mortal. I shall leave to-morrow. I will write to you very often, my best friend. Show my letters to Cora. I may address them to you both, as my best friends. Believe me, Mag, my love for her is pure. I would not injure her for the world." 
               "Very well. Good night, Alec." 
               "I shall call and tell you good-bye in the morning." 
               And what did Mag think of it all? Much that was not revealed then. She would let events take their course, and act in emergencies as discretion should dictate. She did not trust Alec. A man who could betray a husband's hospitality and honor, might permit passion to come between his friendship for her and his brother's memory, for Frank had been her guardian angel. There is nothing too sacred for passion to trample upon, when once it has battled down principle. 
               Letters from Alec to his "Dear Friends," came pouring in, thick and fast, and long, and passionately eloquent. The tempter, as usual, wore the garb of an angel. Mag carried them all to Cora Lanier; told her that she knew that Alec loved her; that the passionate love-passages were intended for her alone, and she alone knew how to answer them. 
               Out came the whole of the sad secret. Mag was made confidante in the affair. They had agreed to correspond under cover of Mag's envelopes, not daring to risk discovery otherwise. They had not dared hope that Mag would approve, so the letters were to have a double meaning, which Cora alone could understand; and Cora translated the double entendre to Mag, and gave her an eloquent answer thereto, burning with love, which Mag sent to Alec, with the added message of her own, that if he had the audacity to write more than once again, she should leave Marion the next day thereafter. 
               And thus the affair closed, and thus closed all communication between Magdalene Barclay and Alec Ross, except as mere acquaintance. 
               Mag found she had Dr. Lanier and Cora both on her hands, for Cora suspected she was playing her false, as was natural. As both, in self-defence, would find it good policy to harm her if they knew her political measures, Mag grew diplomatic, trying her skill in the wire-work. She had much at stake-her only fortune, a good name-she must preserve it unstained for Charles Moore. A breath could injure it. If Dr. Lanier dared breathe her name in connection with the unholy, he surely should pay the forfeit, for Mag was desperate then. But she had learned to believe in God, still at bay with the world; but she felt brave as well as stern, doing her life-battle with the energy of a strong, desperate spirit, that was roused to life by the sense of danger. She would not fail. The energy went careering through her pulses buoyantly, and she smiled as she went on her way. She was always playful and smiling when danger was near; when her heart was nearest broken, she was most sportive. There was a wild joy in saying that evil itself should not triumph. She would put her foot upon it, she would smile at its writhing, she would bound laughing away from it, if she could not crush it. 
               She believed in God now, strange to say-well for her that she did-she would have gone to the bottomless without that faith-gone utterly insane. Her faith in the power of the divine over the human in man was entirely gone. She did not blame the high-priest now for his spirit of revenge; she would not blame Dr. Lanier for any anathema he might pronounce on the daughters of Eve at any future time; she did not blame Charles Moore for doubting her truth, and the wild bitterness went out of her heart at the thought of her answer to prayer; it had rankled there, it had festered, it had blackened her soul with mortification; but these mortals, who had yielded to human weakness, were no worse than their kind: if others seemed better and nobler, it was because they had been shielded from temptation-life had been more a sanctuary. Wise men acknowledged it to be a problem yet unsolved, whether principle itself in humanity was not the result of education and circumstances. 
               Many things were growing clear to her. She saw that her strength was developing: one great temptation resisted and conquered gave wonderful strength-gave faith in self. She had done stern battle within the year, had overcome evil, and was none the less pure herself. Conscience approved now. God was working with her and for her. She went to God with it all, with all her new knowledge of human weakness, with all her loneliness, her lovelessness; not to one human being could she reveal her sorrow, her great sorrow, to find those she loved so false and unworthy; she went to God and asked him to pity her, for she was alone, and he had said it was not good for man to be alone. She went to him lovingly, too, as she had done years and years before in her simple child-faith. On the very night that Alec left her-a perjured traitor-she went to God, smiling as she threw herself on her knees, saying softly: "I have come back to thee, oh, our Father! deathly weary of all this love-longing and world-battle with those who permit themselves to turn demons, but do with me as thou wilt, only do thou give strength. Thy wayward, loving child hath come back to thee at last, our Father-come back from all her wild, terrible wanderings, back into thine arms once more! Oh, fold her tenderly now, and let her rest from her weariness! Do with her as thou wilt, O Father, thou canst not fail thy child now. Thou hast promised that she shall not be tempted above what she is able. Thy child loves thee now, oh, our Father! but she is tempted to the uttermost, and begs thee that the strokes of thy chastening may be light upon her now, since Christ has loved her." She threw herself upon her couch, and closed her eyes, smiling as she murmured the old baby prayer, "Now I lay me down to sleep." Then the wings of a Psalm floated over her-"The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want; he leadeth me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still waters." She slept peacefully during that long night, and floated on radiant dreams. Frank came to her, looked down upon her with his glad, bright, fond eyes; she felt his warm kiss upon her brow, she seemed borne away on clouds with him, he was bearing her up, keeping charge of her lest she should dash her foot against a stone. She trusted him. God sent him, to give her repose from weariness, to fill her heart with pity for the erring; his glad voice rang through her whole soul with its music: "You are right now, Mag! Never fear again. I shall be with you always when you are in temptation. It is all right, Mag. It will be all right at last. God is doing it! I am loving you now as ever, and God is loving you. Your mother is near you, your father is watching you, and God is with us all!" 
               It might have been only a dream, but it was a true dream. Homer tells us that "dreams are from Zeus," and Christians tell us they are from God. Mag dreamed that dream, and believed that it came from God; it was a blessed belief. If it was a false one, it did not harm her, it brought her great joy, and strength-and neither time nor eternity can ever take from her the happiness that the belief gave her, whether it was true or false. She worked earnestly on that faith-for it was faith that inspired her now-a glorious faith that made her life so peaceful and glad and buoyant, that she almost went on wings; a new light was in her eye, as that new faith lightened her heart. 
               Busy she was, for she had a great evil on her hands to control. She must make acquaintances in Marion; prepare for the worst. She had kept herself precious, secluded from the world. She had nothing in common with its false heart. Hers was buried long ago in New England. But now she must let herself be seen and known, so that if her enemies dared say aught of harm against her, the world might judge for itself whether it was indeed true. The tender mercy of her enemies might be very cruel. She should never trust another human being beyond herself. 
               Busy she was. She returned her calls; made herself less careless in dress, accepted invitations to visit the homes in Marion, exerted herself to make a favorable impression, and took time to become popular with all. 
               Little time did she have for her book. Again she was obliged to put that off; she was obliged to provide against danger, instead of building up a hope, or testing God on the book. She must shield the fortune she was keeping precious to bring Charles Moore, when she met him in the better land, her good name. The book must wait; yet what time she found she worked on it faithfully. 
               One day in her work she found herself in great need of a passage from Plato. Her copy she had given Dr. Robertson, of Charleston; she must have another copy. She went to Rev. Dr. Lanier, requesting him to send for it with his next order for books. He, as usual, volunteered any amount of good advice. 
               "Miss Barclay, let me advise you as a friend to be more careful of your money. You will find a much better use for it than buying such books as that. Of what use can they be to you? A lady in your position had better read other books, and save the money. Money is the only thing that gives influence and position in this world." 
               "Thank you for the advice, I did not ask for. If you do not wish to send the order, I will get the bookseller to do it for me." 
               "Certainly I will send for it; but I think you really need advice as to what is for your best good, and I can tell you that money is the most powerful thing in this world." 
                
               "Are you working for money alone, sir?" 
               "When I left college, my best friend, one of the professors, as a piece of parting advice, told me to make money a prime object in life. It would be a friend when all other friends failed; it bought love, it gave power, position, influence-all things in this world. There was truth in what he said. I took his advice, and have ever since been acting upon it. I am working for money. God has blessed me in my work; he will bless me still. In a few years I hope to be able to leave this drudgery, and serve God because he has blessed me. When I have made myself independent, I intend to devote myself entirely to his service. I believe God recognizes my anxiety to labor for him, and will bless me in my labor for money, so that I may sooner be able to serve him, convert sinners, and save the world." 
               "God speed you on your work, sir! I am quite sure he will find it impossible to save the world without your invaluable assistance, and on account of that, he will make all his plans for regulating creation dove-tail into your money matters." Mag couldn't keep down the speech. She went on: 
               "But, dear Dr. Lanier, you are no longer young; even now, you are wasting the best of your powers. You do not read, and your mind is retrograding instead of progressing. It seems to me that the mind needs feeding as well as the purse. The contents of the purse may escape-of the mind, never." 
               "There is some truth in what you say, Miss Barclay. Sometimes I regret that my mind is so absorbed in these account-books, but I can't help it; God will help me to find leisure in a few years to commence study, and save sinners, and make a name for myself." 
               "God help you!" said Mag. "It will be a very essential addition to the glory of his kingdom that you make a name for yourself. He will probably put himself very much out of the way to help you do it. I could almost congratulate him on the powerful help he is about to receive." 
               "You are a mischievous creature, Miss Barclay." 
               She was too mischievous to be politic then. 
               "By the by, my very dear sir, what do you suppose the Man-God meant when he taught his disciples 'Take no thought for the morrow, saying what shall we eat? or what shall we drink? or wherewithal shall we be clothed? But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you?' Of course, Christ must have been joking with those disciples." 
               In a year Rev. Dr. Lanier resigned for a more lucrative situation. Mag left Marion at the close of the year. She heard afterward that the hierophant reported that she was a skeptic, and insane, and that he had known it from the first. Well, perhaps he had reason for saying so; at least he found that there was method in her madness. She was thankful that his tale was no worse. Having made acquaintances in Marion, and become popular with her Bible class in church, they might judge for themselves both of her faith and her sanity. 
               Mag cultivated her musical powers while in Marion. At her "home" she had practised with Cora and the accomplished Professor Brady-had spent some of her happiest moments in practising duets with the siren-her voice was all music. After the departure of Alec Ross, their voices harmonized better than their hearts. Mag was thankful that Mrs. Lanier had no daughter. The education would not spread to the next generation. It would be a sad lesson to teach a daughter, that love to a woman could be irresistible. To a man, love may be all-powerful-may play the wild with passion-and for him there is redemption on earth as well as in heaven; but to a woman, whose heart finds love irresistible, it is at the price of honor past all redemption. A woman's honor! The slightest breath can spot its purity, and when once sullied, the utterly worst is come; neither winds nor waves can bring back again the pearl of great price. Neither time nor--Can eternity redeem the jewel? 
               Among the sinful of earth there is no forgiveness. Only a sinless Christ gave compassion and redemption to Mary Magdalene. 
               Magdalene Barclay remembered Alec Ross and Cora Lanier with a great and loving sorrow. Alas! we often love fondly brothers, parents, children, whom it is impossible for us to respect, but then love is full of intense pain and anguish-intense in proportion to the strength of the love. 
             
             
                
               XXVIII. PLANTATION LIFE. 
               "I HAVE engaged in the wild and stormy conflict of life," said Mag to herself, as she was travelling alone to commence the struggle anew by changing the battle-ground. "Not yet can I find repose. My grave is not ready for me yet, nor the bliss beyond it. As yet I have not been conquered, but another victory like the last would ruin me. For years now I have been a rover alone, and here am I at this day alone and friendless still. No new friends in the great world, and the old friends have forgotten me in their own happiness. One thing priceless has come to me, Faith. The wanderer has come back to God at last. If God fails me now! But though he slay me, I must trust in him now." 
               The carriage was passing through the grand prairie lands in the heart of Alabama. She saw an old, grey-headed negro at work in a cotton-field, and told the driver to inquire the way to Colonel Walter's plantation. The driver obeyed. 
               "I say, boy, is this the road to Colonel Walter's?" 
               The old negro touched his hat, in the style of Chesterfield. 
               "Yes, mistis; dis road will fotch you dar directly. Dat is de house up yonder in de fork ob de road. Dar is one of Colonel Walter's boys now." 
               Mag turned and saw a handsome little brown-haired, rosy-cheeked rascal, mounted astride a pair of saddle-bags on a splendid grey mustang. He smiled in an appreciative way. 
               "Are you Colonel Walter's son?" she asked. 
               "No, miss, I'm only his boy." 
               "Only his boy, eh?" said Mag to herself. "Well I certainly shan't kiss Col. Walter's boys-it don't do to kiss negroes; but if you had been near enough, and I had not stumbled into the good fortune of asking the question beforehand, you are such a handsome little fragment of the colored population, I should certainly have kissed you for 'white folks.' It's a special providence that I missed the blunder, for I should never have survived the shock." 
               Colonel Walter had offered the inducement of a home to Mag, to tempt her to Cedar Grove. The sunshine was pouring down floods of radiant light when she entered that home. It was a pleasant mansion-a large, new, handsome structure, containing an innumerable quantity of rooms, balconies, verandas, etc. It was in the centre of a grove. Through the spacious grounds were winding paths, bordered with shrubbery, leading into groves of cedars and oaks, or into arbors covered with jasmin and honeysuckle. On the south of the mansion the sun was smiling into the heart of a miniature Eden of roses. Upon the west, beyond the cedars, the smoke was curling quietly and gracefully above half a dozen negro cabins under the oaks. Colonel Walter, a tall, dignified-looking man, with white clustering locks, and face beaming with benevolence, met her on the piazza and welcomed her; his lady, a beautiful, warm-hearted Southron, went with her to her room, and told her it was her home. The lady had a sweet, ringing voice, and her laugh was very musical. Mag had seen beauty, and heard music before in woman, and alas! had grown distrustful, and this cordial kindness was not permitted to win her heart. She might have trusted it, for to her it never changed. 
               And school was pleasant now. Two little ladies, Margaret, a blue-eyed fairy, who entertained herself with all sorts of mischief that was against the rules of propriety, and Sallie, who was older than Margaret, and who endeavored to reform her sister's ways. There was a sister, Puss, in the family, but as she was married, she went to another school than Mag's, several miles away. There was a brother, Mack, also, whose forte was admiring fair faces, and blue eyes, and one sweet name, Alice. 
               Sallie was older than Margaret. And grand times they had, riding over the plantation. The Colonel had a passion for fine horses. He and his lady often drove over to the "negro quarters," a mile away from the mansion, to name the new relay of babies that arrived on this sublunary sphere; and then Sallie and Mag sometimes followed on horseback, and Mag played cavalier to her pupil. Sometimes Mack rode break-neck races with Miss Barclay. Sometimes Sallie got up a performance not down on the programme, like a plunging of horses and a breaking of saddle-girths. After kneeling gracefully at the horse's feet on such an occasion, Sallie retired from her devotions and remounted, as the colonel had a serious objection to her being a timid rider. Mag received three new pupils, and with them all she had now something to love-it was delicious, too, to find something to love. And Mag taught them all that the world had taught her-music and art, and poetry, and romance, and history, and philosophy and theology-and she loved them as those love, who for years have found nothing else to love. She found rest and recreation now. And she went to work again on her book, with a fresh prayer on every page, and a fresh courage too. She wrote poetry and romance for the newspapers, and felt highly appreciated, when Mary Ann, her femme de chambre, a pretty, educated quadroon, declared her compositions to be very charming. She thought her star must be rising. Never before had she known the genial kindness of a home. Her heart glowed and expanded under the kindness. She grew daring, and saucy and piquant in her study of heart-histories; for she had told Charles Moore that one of her principal life-studies should be, to learn the mysteries in human hearts-the ways of men with maidens. 
               She was seated one evening in the drawing-room, her portfolio in her lap. Mrs. Walter was on the lounge, talking merrily, the colonel in a big arm-chair, discussing a newspaper document. Mag was not in a mood for writing-she was in an inquisitive mood. 
               "Mrs. Walter, please tell me how in the world the colonel came to fall in love with you?" she asked with saucy mischief. 
               "He says it was all done for pity's sake," Mrs. Walter replied, with a laugh that showed her beautiful teeth to the best advantage. The colonel went on reading the items of a shocking catastrophe. 
               "Colonel Walter, please relieve my agony of curiosity. Enlighten me as to the particulars. You have not the slightest idea of my distress to get the items for my book. I am taking notes for publication. If you will relate the affair, I will publish, sure as fate." 
               "And I will prosecute you, sure as shooting." 
               "Item first," Mag went on, writing. "She was your first wife's brother's widow. Something new in romance." 
                
               "Sick and alone," added the colonel, laughing. 
               "Desolate and forlorn," chimed in the lady. 
               "I knew she was of no earthly benefit to herself or anybody else, under the canopy, and I married her to take care of her, and to make her a useful member of society. She could at least keep the children from falling in the fire." 
               "That was excessively amiable in you, sir," said Mag, taking notes. "That will look uncommonly well and original in my book." 
               "I believe you have some iniquity in your head. What sort of a book do you intend to get off?" 
               "Exceedingly pious and excessively funny. The pious part is to captivate the money of the good-the funny part to beguile reprobates, before they know it, into goodness. I shall put your history in it on account of its moral-a warning, you know. I think I can consider you on the good list, however. I can tell better when I have seen more of your behavior." 
               "Put my case down as a warning. My hand, heart and fortune were insnared by charms like those," he said, pointing to his lady. "Many another innocent soul has been so ruined. She laid the trap for me, and I walked into it." 
               "The particulars, if you please, sir, or I shall fail to bring out the moral." 
               "She and our brother-in-law took my Mack one side-he was a little fellow then, although he is big enough for you now-and drilled him on some questions to be put to me." 
               "Your book is a work of fiction?" asked the lady, pointedly. 
               "Mack learned his questions prime. He has a forte for asking ladies questions now; I consider it the result of that early drill. You must look out for him, Miss Mag. He will be asking you questions." 
               "I will ask him first, and save him the trouble. What was the one he asked you?" 
               "One day, Jinsie and I were sitting together, large as life, eating peaches, when Mack walked up to us mighty sweet, and says: 'Papa, mayn't Aunt Jinsie go home and live with us to keep house?' Wasn't it a poser? For a minute I didn't unbutton my lips. I flashed my eyes up at her, and great Jerusalem, how she was blushing! She knew she had put him up to it. I told Mack 'Aunt Jinsie must go home with us, and he must ask her when she would be ready to start.' The little Cupid did it." 
                
               "And I told him," added the lady, "that I would go home when his papa, my brother Charles, was married; but Mack insisted that he wanted me to go, so that his papa need never be married." 
               "Now for the finale," said Mag, writing. "That looks well so far." 
               "Some one proposed soon that all the household should take an airing. And to be sure there came such a calling for horses, carriages, buggies, drivers, you would have thought all Christendom was to take a drive. I, for one, became alarmed for fear all might not be accommodated. I offered several grown people and any amount of children, seats in my buggy." 
               "Did all the inhabitants ride out? I must be particular for the book, you know, to get the exact number. Critics are very particular on these things." 
               "Well, yes. This one was suddenly seized with the headache, that one with the tooth-ache, yonder one had the earache, and t'other one the toe-ache. All the horses and carriages and drivers were sent back to the stables, and she and I rode alone in my buggy." 
               "And the result?" said Mag, writing with the gravity of a sphinx. 
               "In two months I was married." 
               "She was married, I suppose, some time after." 
               "She came here after that to satisfy Mack, and to keep the other children out of the fire." 
               "Mack's papa was not obliged to be married after that." 
               "The colonel was excessively bewitched in those days, was he not, Mrs. Walter?" asked Mag. 
               "Oh, yes; he used to tell me over, and often, and besides, and again, that I was the prettiest creature on the top of God's green earth, and parting with me for a week was worse than parting with his eye-teeth, which used to affect me so that I cried like a baby at mention of it." 
               "Oh hush, Jinsie! You'll ruin your book, Miss Mag, and I shall sue you for libel." The colonel picked up the newspaper, and read aloud, with intense gravity, the details of a horrible catastrophe, at which Mag and the lady laughed with heartlessness perfectly horrifying. 
               The exercises were interrupted by the entrance of Jupiter, the factotum of one of the nearest neighbors, a splendid mulatto, into whose individuality was gathered the very quintessence of all the politeness of seventeen Frenchmen. Jupiter, with a series of bows, advanced and presented an enormous bouquet of roses to Mrs. Walter. 
               "Oh, Jupiter!" exclaimed the lady; "isn't it magnificent?" 
               "By Jupiter!" exclaimed the colonel. 
               And while they were diving their faces and fingers into the midst of hundreds of crimson and cream-colored roses, the bouquet being fringed with fairy white buds, Mag picked up her notes for publication, and slipped out. She met Mack Walter on the piazza, with a bouquet of verbenas and hyacinths. 
               "The belle of the Cane-Brake sent you these with her compliments, Miss Barclay." 
               "Thank you. Did you 'propose' to her by means of these flowers?" 
               "Oh, I 'propose' to her every week regularly. She gave me these to help me out while proposing to you." 
               "How many belles are you engaged to now, Mack?" 
               "I am in love with three, besides yourself." 
               "You must tell me all about them sometime; I shall take your portrait for publication. A southern gentleman flirt. You are really a fine specimen of the order, and can help me out in my researches of human hearts. You must keep yourself in practice, and when you propose to me do it in your best style, for I shall put it in my book, and it may win you immortality." 
               "Will you have it in poetry?" 
               "Pooh; no indeed. I shall want to watch your eye-and you had better study on the gestures and emphasis. Recollect it is to go down to all future generations." 
               "Well, I must watch your dimples too. Miss Mag, you must try to blush, or I can't get on with it." 
               "If it were only possible, now! I'll do my best, Mack; for the benefit of posterity, you know! We are to labor for public good." 
               And Mag ran with her portfolio and bouquet to her room. The kindness of the beautiful girl, the nearest neighbor, who sent it, thrilled down into Mag's heart. And the sweet beauty of the flowers with that fragrant kindness, strange to say, brought a gush of sadness over her, with the seraphic visions that had haunted her young dreams on the lakes and mountains of New England. Memories rose sweeter than the blossoms, fragrant with her one life-love. A great gush of longing swept over her; soft, beaming, liquid eyes looked down into her soul with their reproachful tenderness. Would that reproach haunt her forever and forever? She went out into the groves of cedar, and let her heart sun itself in the memory of their melting light. For a time the agony of longing would have sway. She bowed herself in reverence to the image set up in her heart, of Charles Atherton Moore, and the pure God's truth in his remembered gaze. It had taught her more of the glory of Eden than the inhabitants of Eden ever saw. His voice had been her music, sweet as heaven. Heaven could never be heaven to her unless she heard it there; heaven could not be heaven to her unless she could know those fond lips all her own, and the heart throb true to her forever-to know that she would never again be alone and unprotected in a world full of fiends-where some men were endowed with "arithmetics instead of consciences, and vultures in the place of hearts;" though others had developed into angels. That voice! Would she hear its love-music no more till eternity? No more?-no more? Yet till eternity dawned, its echo would be angel sweet. He had prophesied right. None but those who had lost a heaven of love, could know the agony of longing that sobbed silently in the soul's great depths, while the eye was tearless and the lip smiling. God have mercy on the weary. There are moments of passionate anguish that sweep over the soul, we know not why they come, but the foundations of the great deep are broken up, and faith itself is torn away by the raging storm. What in the name of the merciful is God doing with us? Down to dust and ashes we go, with the wreck of the beautiful-our life-hopes and strength all vanished-love trailing in sack-cloth, till we are awe-struck at our ghastly hopelessness. 
               Thank God that nature reacts. In degradation and dust our youth is renewed. We mount up on wings as eagles; we run, and are not weary; we walk, and are not faint. 
               Mag took her heart to her chamber, and it continued its reverie. She was giving freedom to its passionate longings-permitting a dangerous experiment-the tendency of such license is to madness. 
               Mat, Bettie and Jennie, her pupils, knocked softly at her door and entered. 
               "We have come to dress your hair to-day. We want to arrange it so sweetly, that the one you love best, would feel that you were beautiful." 
               Their soft fingers on her temples charmed away the sad, passionate longing. She blessed them again for their kindness. 
               Again she wandered out into the sunshine. 
               She strolled into one of the negro cabins, and there lay a soul warring with death. "God help us! Vanity of vanities, all is vanity!" 
               The spirit was struggling madly to free itself from the flesh. Paul, a young, strong, gigantic specimen of the creature made in the image of God, was dying. Why must the spirit leave that firm flesh? What charm was there to that black clay, which the spirit had fled? What charm now to the once glorious flesh of Frank Ross? Would her lips cling to his moldering lips fondly now? Not long before, in dreams, his arms had enfolded her. Was not the kiss of the spirit better than the touch of the flesh. Frank was living still, and now brought her faith, when midnight was settling upon her soul. 
               She had looked on death many a time; had watched that mysterious parting of soul and body, trying to discover whether we do indeed "die as the flowers;" trying to get glimpses of the unknown regions, whither the spirit fled, if death was not a dreamless sleep. 
               There was, to her, a strange fascination in the lifeless clay. She had spent whole nights with the beautiful dead. Mysterious charm, could she but send messages by the departing to the departed! On the supposition that there was a hereafter, a God of the present, a divine Christ, and a Paraclete, she had kept her every thought, word, and action pure, under temptations that wrung the last fibre of nature. She had adopted the theory found in the Bible: "Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good." Men and devils had laughed at it, "in a world like this," as utterly impracticable. But neither for men nor devils would she dishonor her own nobility. 
               Mack Walter came and stood by her. He shuddered with her to witness the seeming agony of that flesh. Was the spirit unconscious in all that terrible writhing and gasping? The flesh was so strong, and the soul tearing out of its prison with such superhuman strength. Where? Where was it flying? 
               "Where is Paul going, Mack?" she asked. Mack was silent. His handsome features were shrouded with gloomy thought. 
               "He is a sad reprobate, Miss Barclay." 
                
               "There hath no temptation taken him, but such as is common to man." 
               And Mag left the living soul with the dying soul-nay, can the soul die? Mag thought of Plato on immortality, and of Christ. She entered Molly's cabin. Poor, frail, Molly. She, too, like Cora Lanier, had found love irresistible. How gloriously the sunshine was pouring down smiles through the green, waving trees before the cabin door, mocking the agony of the dying wretch yonder. The very leaves were rustling with low laughter, as the winds went dallying and coquetting with them. Mag was sick with passionate thought; she threw herself on Molly's couch. Molly brought a pillow for the burning head-she, too, like Cora, had a heart overflowing with kindness to high and low. She bathed Mag's temples with her choicest treasured cologne. 
               "Did you ever wish to die, Molly?" Mag asked, as a zephyr came wandering by, and kissed her fevered lips. There was a world of mournfulness in the large dark eyes. Molly's face reflected intense pity. The negro race are full of impulsive, uncontrolled emotion. 
               "No, Miss Magdalene. Oh, no, I ain't good enough to die yet!" 
               Aunt Mary Jane, a splendid mulatto, sat sewing in Molly's cabin. She had the reputation of being the most unmanageable fury on the plantation-too much white blood in her veins. There was a strange, soft gleam in those bright, glowing eyes, that amazed Mag, who was trying to fathom the secrets of all human hearts. There was a subdued, loving beauty in those eyes, that would have adorned the face of an angel. 
               "Did you ever long to die, aunty?" 
               "Well, Miss Magdalene, sometimes when I lie awake, night after night, in pain and trouble, I thinks ef it's the Lord's will to take me, I'd be almost willin' to go. Why? did you ever want to die?" 
               Mag had longed to die a thousand times. 
               "I am sure I don't know, aunty. I think now, that I wish I was in Paul's place, yonder, dying. He, poor fellow, begged the doctor to save him. But the doctor could not do it." 
               "Paul was dreadful wicked, Miss Magdalene," said Molly. 
               "And you and I are dreadful wicked, Molly. Do you never do wrong, knowing it is wrong?" 
                
               "Oh, yes." Molly hung her head. "Everybody does wrong, knowing it's wrong. Everybody knows I do wrong; but I know I'm better than some, that pretends to be honester than I, Miss Magdalene; one is just as bad as another, only some hides their badness." 
               Molly was fully convinced of it too. And Mag would not judge Molly. She thought of Christ's words: "Whoso is without sin, let him cast the first stone at her." She remembered how pitilessly Cora Lanier pronounced judgment against sinners. She remembered that pure-hearted May Burton judged a woman-oh, so gently, as a woman ought to judge a woman! and began to think that only the sinful never forgive sin in others. "To the pure, all things are pure." 
               Mag had hugged the blessed delusion to her soul that she had never, never, never violated conscience. Had she not consoled herself with the Pharisee's prayer? She had seen spiritual wickedness in high places; "had been irreverent to the false, from very longing to worship the true; had turned in disgust from one pretended teacher after another, for all were blind leaders of the blind." There was none good-no, not one. 
               "Then, you really love this beautiful world, Molly?" she said at last, looking up out of the pain in her heart. "What do you, sinful girl, find to comfort you here?" 
               "My children are a world of comfort to me!" 
               They were all children of shame. 
               "And God permits even that mother's love to be hallowed. How was it in those European districts, where the multitude of foundlings had become a public nuisance? How was it in the shame of England, where marriage could not be afforded by those who herded together in starvation and want?" Mag asked. 
               "God permitted this mother's love to be hallowed. God, the All-Father. God, who is love-whose heaven is love. These are strange mysteries; and why-why-why, are these things so? 
                      
                        "And oh! if, perchance, there should be a sphere, 
                        Where all is made right, which so puzzles us here, 
                        Where the soul, disenchanted of flesh and of sense, 
                        Unscreened by its trappings, and shows, and pretence, 
                        Is clothed for the life and the service above, 
                        With purity, truth, faith, meekness and love." 
                     
                  
                
                
               "I have extracted rare secrets from the 'Mother of Sorrows;' learned God-sent lessons from woe and degradation. Perhaps the Man-God has a mission for me to accomplish yet, to the sinful and down-pressed; perhaps I have some great, unconscious sin sleeping upon my conscience that needs atonement; perhaps I have wronged my best lover, by thought, or word, or deed. If so, in humiliation and sorrow, I shall redeem myself yet, and be a redeemer to others, so help me God!" 
               And then Mag promised the "Our Father," that if he would give her but one day with Charles Moore, to tell him all her heart, she would die satisfied. Now her life should be devoted to redeem others. 
               Poor Mag; within an hour she saw degradation past sorrow, and could only sicken over it, without having any hope in prayer. 
               Just beyond the inclosure at Cedar Grove is the square mile of public land, known in Alabama as the Sixteenth Section; every sixteenth square mile in the State being devoted to the public school fund. 
               This land is rented to the class of people known as "poor white folks." 
               There are about fourteen cabins on the mile, inhabited mostly by people who have once owned servants, but by thriftlessness have lost all. For the most part, a more miserable-looking set of unfortunates surely never breathed. Mag went out to talk with nature, and listened to what was surely unnatural, though the conversation really occurred, and that is why it is given here. 
               She passed the nearest cabin. Five or six filthy, tattered little girls were hanging on the fence, keeping the dogs from her, as she entered the gate. She heard a shrill voice scream from the cabin: 
               "y-e-a-o-u-. H-e-n-r-y- C-l-a-y!" 
               The answer came ringing back from a ragged boy of thirteen: 
               "What in the h-- do you want now?" 
               "Come here, you sassy d--, or I'll make your daddy give you a hundred lashes," said the mother. 
               "By G--! No you won't, you old fool you!" Henry Clay responded, walking off. Mag entered. The woman was sick, lying on a filthy straw mattress, a young baby in her arms. The six little girls followed Mag in, and stood around staring at her, as she greeted the woman, whose face looked like that of a skeleton covered with sallow skin. She ordered "them impudent gals" to "clear out o' the house," but they disobeyed orders. 
               "Them children do make so much fuss and clatter, Miss Barclay, anybody might a knowed I'd gone crazy long ago, if I hadn't been naterally a mighty strong-minded woman." 
               Mag picked up the forlorn baby and tried to admire its innocence. She inquired its name. 
               "His name is Charlie." 
               Mag resisted a strong inclination to throw the thing out the window. 
               "I allers did hate babies, and sometimes I think it's a judgment sent on me, that I've got sich a lot of 'em. Six gals and two boys. One of the boys we named Henry Clay, hopin' it would make him a smart man. T'other one is Charles Walter, from Colonel Walter. I tell him I want the colonel to adopt the baby if I die, and see which of the two names will make the smartest man." 
               "You are looking dreadfully sick," said Mag, changing the subject. 
               "Yes, I've got a dre'ful risin' in my side, and if it breaks inside, I'm certain to die. I knew a woman that died of such a swellin'; when it broke in her, it popped like a pistol." 
               Mag was speechless; she tried to amuse the baby, that looked shockingly like its mother, who continued in monologue: 
               "I tell the old man, that if I do die, and he gits my gals a stepmother, and marries again, I'll haunt her and him. All he said to it-the old sinner-was to ask, what the d-I was a-lyin' up here for, tellin' sich lies-I'd been a-dyin', and a-dyin', ever since he had known me, and hadn't died yet. I telled him, I shouldn't do it now, if I could help it! I'm like old Tantabogus, Miss Barclay, I want to live till the last day in the afternoon." 
               And Mag thought she had wished to die, in Paul's place, who by this time had probably gone. She put the baby, "Charlie," back into its fond mother's arms for protection and love. 
               In a few days that Charlie died, and the mother recovered. Dr. Kane says that the soul can lift the body out of its boots. Perhaps the mother's determined will made her "swellin' pop open" on the outside. Perhaps it was a case of special providence. Poor baby! How it could help dying was the question. It was fed on coffee without milk, and was never but once dressed and washed in its short life of four weeks. 
               Mag concluded she would not be "sentimental" any longer that day. She would be thankful. She would have a calm pulse. There was slavery worse than negro-slavery, wretches on earth worse than orphaned, and a thousand deaths worse than the simple parting of soul and body. The flesh could be not only the grave of the spirit, there was flesh destined to become the spirit's hell. Mag knelt down in her pleasant chamber and thanked God for his wonderful mercy to her. 
               The next event that interested her attention deeply was a wedding. It interested the whole family, for there was to be a fandango for the occasion. Mary Ann, her femme de chambre, disposed of herself in marriage to Washington, the coachman, who was a new arrival from Tennessee. He was very popular among the colored population-had a wife in Tennessee, a free woman, but she wouldn't be persuaded to join her husband in Alabama, and Mary Ann consoled him. Wash was a real "quality" negro, used handsome language, was polite as a prince, had known the "big-bugs"-Gen. Gideon Pillow for one, carried him his wedding-suit when he was married, had an opinion of the man, too, and expressed it, "that Gen. Pillow was the most unpopular man in Tennessee; he might electioneer till doomsday for office, and he would never get his own kin to vote for him." 
               Washington and Mary Ann concluded to be married. She was prettier and smarter than his free wife anyway; she was "quality," too-could read, had been free herself in Charleston once, was handsome, had high notions there-two white children for instance-but that did not make any difference, she had repented; she was proud that Alec was sometimes mistaken for a white boy. They had a grand wedding. Puss, the oldest sister, made bride's cakes. Sallie made syllabubs, and Margaret made pyramids of bouquets, and Mack made fun. Mack went to town to get the minister to perform the ceremony, Mag lent the bride, and every other bride that wanted them, her watch and chain. Mack protested against such a corruption of morals, declaring that it was permitting the jewelry to commit polygamy. It was a "quality fandango"-three bridesmaids, two quadroons, and one blue-eyed white mulatto, so fair, no one would have mistrusted the "color" in her veins-all dressed in new embroidered Swiss muslins and white bridal wreaths. 
               The minister performed the ceremony; Mack insisted that the most essential part of the ceremony was that the minister should kiss the bride-minister wouldn't be persuaded to do it. Mag told Mack to set him the example, and Mack demurred; Col. Walter also refused to do it, even at Mag's particular request. 
               And after this they all went to a camp-meeting, thus: 
               One gorgeous, golden and glorious morning early in October, Sallie, Margaret and Mag, with Mary Ann and Molly, the servants, exalted themselves to the utmost height of their capacity for human bliss, viz., the acme or tip-top of a six-power mule wagon, loaded with mattresses, trunks, chicken-coops, bedsteads, turkey-pens, chickens, ducks, turkeys, and so forth, et cetera, and so on. They found their way to said summit of bliss, by first filling their reticules with cold ham, chickens and biscuits, and their pockets with nuts, apples and ginger-cakes-for the spiritual state lying dormant then, to their unspiritualized tastes, happiness wasn't happiness without a pocketful of "goodies." To reach this height of bliss, they placed the tips of their laced boots first on the hub of the fore wheel, next on the uppermost verge of said wheel's circumference, thence lifting the weight of their precious bodies-Mag's weighing just one hundred and twenty-five pounds-up toward the clouds, into the cerulean, where, in serene content they looked upon the busy world far down beneath them, undisturbed by its petty cares, passions and vanities. Thus enthroned in the sublimity of their own aspirations, they moved majestically along, with Gabriel mounted on one of the hindmost mules as driver to further bliss, Mack going ahead on horseback, the colonel and Mrs. Walter in a buggy. 
               Through the limestone prairies Gabriel guided his steeds; the fields were white and emerald with drifting cotton, golden and brown with corn ripe for the harvesting. They passed through the gigantic forests, where the majestic old trees, in the embraces of loving, young, beautiful vines, like David with Abishag, were renewing their withered veins with youth; but the vines, strange to say, clung delightedly around them, trusting in their rugged and glorious strength. 
                
               They soon met, in their triumphal progress, a large party of servants-men, women, children and babies, followed by an emigrant wagon, on which they looked down from their seats in the upper spheres; they recognized it instantly as a speculator's team with his wares. The wares of a southern speculator or trader are all specimens of flesh and blood that he is able to bring into market for sale. This lot of goods consisted of handsome boys and girls, with bright eyes and brighter teeth, laughing ebony cherubs in their mothers' arms, and some elderly servants, who looked weary of their voyage. All gave a cordial greeting. 
               "Good morning, uncle! Good morning, aunty!" called Mary Ann, and Molly, and Mag, and Sallie, and Margaret, in a breath. 
               "Good mornin', honey! Good mornin', chillen! How d'ye? How you do?" came replies. 
               "Where you come from, aunty?" called Molly. 
               "From ole Virginny." 
               "Did you, sure enough? I came from ole Virginny, too. Maybe now, you know some of my folks?" 
               "When did you come from Virginia?" asked Mag of Molly. 
               "Oh, when I was a little gal. I came wid speculator." 
               "Did you not feel terribly at leaving home?" 
               "No," said Molly; "I was young, you know, and thought 'twas mi'ty nice to go abroad." She called to another: "Whar you come from, uncle?" 
               "From Souf Car'liny, honey." 
               "So did I," said Mary Ann. "I used to be free in Charleston." Mary Ann was mighty proud of it, too. 
               The establishment soon arrived at the bustling little city of Uniontown, drove majestically up to the store of Mr. Henry, one of its merchant princes, stopped, and purchased a tin cup! 
               They reached their destination in due time. The encampment consisted of rows of log and frame cabins, meeting at right angles, inclosing a large square, in the centre of which was an immense roof, capable of sheltering several thousand persons. 
               "Colonel Walter and lady received them at their cabin door. Then followed such a time of putting up furniture, and down matting as is indescribable. The confusion was delightful; they revelled in it; ran riot in its luxuriance, and when its joys were all exhausted, they strolled off into the woods for chinkapins (fruit resembling chestnuts). Mack bought out the first apple-merchant he met, and bribed his way into the pantry among the pickles and preserves, to stay his feelings against the good time coming; and when night came, Mag said her prayers gratefully, and slept soundly, nor longed once for home or a mother's love, but she did dream blissfully of Charles Atherton Moore. 
               A week rolled away, and the delightful confusion still reigned. There were the good things, like pigs and turkeys, to interest them-also lots of sermons from the "big-guns" of the Alabama Conference. 
               The moral and social tastes got incomprehensibly mixed at night. Then the whole camp-ground was illuminated with light-wood torches, and the very spirit in men and women was stirred by the wild music of the camp-meeting songs, and Mag tried to throw her soul into the spirit of it. She wanted to know for herself all the "experiences" that life could give. Dr. Neely aroused their souls by his clarion eloquence-the altars were thronged with "mourners" inspired by that ringing call. He stood up before the great congregation and entreated all that were weary and heavy laden to come up and find rest for their souls. So the Man-God in the wilderness might have invited sinners. The invitation was given now in tones wonderfully winning, and Mag thought of the Christ and his call; "I am the way, the truth and the life-no man cometh to the Father but by me."... When Mag heard the inspiring call, she would have gone up, if she had not seen spiritual wickedness in high places-if she had not heard her tempter in Hartford give the same thrilling invitation to sinners.... Mag doubted that religion of feeling.
                
               But other mourners listened to the solemn, eloquent call, and they believed; they came up to the altar, threw themselves in abandon into the dust-their hearts burdened with all strange sorrows of earth. Mag did not wonder that they longed to lay them down-she longed to lay hers down at times; and down in the altars the priests and people, mourners and comforters, were prostrated together, and the wild cry of desolation rung forth, and then the prayer went up, strong, earnest and fervent-the weary wept their weariness away-there came a soothing hush, a solemn calm, resting upon the rocking waves of those spirits. At times, too, a strange, beautiful chorus ascended, or a "Hallelujah" song. And Mag threw her voice into the chorus, for some of the music thrilled her soul. 
               Mack had taken the time to pay his devoirs to all the belles he could find. He came to Mag as she sent her voice quavering on the highest note of a Hallelujah. 
               "How much religion do you think there is down in that straw?" 
               "Hush, Mack! I don't comprehend it in the least, and because I don't know, I will not say that those people will not get religion there. Unfortunately, my development has taught me to despise all excitement and passion, unless it is under perfect control. They call it inspiration-but I believe the days of the prophets passed ages ago." 
               "These people are all getting intoxicated with excitement, and call it religion. They are doing it to drown sorrow, just as that musical man yonder takes a glass of something to make him happy. That pretty girl, too, has been the belle of several revivals, to my certain knowledge. She 'falls from grace' as soon as the excitement is over. That is right affecting now, the way she has thrown her arms around her father's neck," he said, pointing to a beautiful girl of eighteen, in the altar. "A pretty tableau. I intend to make love to her to-morrow. One of her temperament would be a charming partner in a flirtation." 
               "It does harm to say all these things, Mack. If I thought I could get any good by the prayers of these people, I would ask them to pray for me. I believe in religion, Mack." 
               "I don't believe that much of it comes here. I believe in it, too. It is a fine thing, and I intend to marry a woman who is a Christian. Religion is a grand thing for a woman." 
               Mag tried to comprehend the excitement. She, too, had rushed into forgetfulness by the inspiration of music and painting. Then, in her devotion to the beautiful, she had forgotten all fear of the future, and all sorrow for the past, by wrapping herself in the elysium of rainbow-dreams. Was that religion? There were times, too, when she worked gloriously on her book; or, throwing work aside, rushed into the sweep of the inspiration of Homer and Virgil, and the Bible-Rufus Choate's panacea for care. Was that religion? 
               Cora Lanier inspired herself for society by opium; added a fresh lustre to her eye, also a new sparkle to her wit, with a glass of champagne. The debauchee gave himself up to physical intoxication; she acknowledged to intellectual intoxication. Was this religion, a spiritual intoxication? A something of which her nature had no experience? Mag doubted it all. Those who abandoned themselves most to this spiritual enjoyment, yielded soonest to temptation in their conflict with the world. 
               Mag took the problem to her own little room in the cabin, and forgot it by studying Chateaubriand's "Genius of Christianity." She was as much struck with the errors, as with the truth of that "Genius." 
               And she puzzled over faith itself. Was it a supernatural conversion of the nature? Paul found it so. Paul worked supernaturally to the end with his faith. She, too, had found it a powerful element; it had helped her, like a miraculous agent, when her trial in Marion tested her strength. Was her seemingly superhuman energy a gift of God in answer to prayer, as Bushnell taught; or was it as Comte had taught, but the working of a law in her nature? Whatever it was, whether true or false, whether law or Gospel, she had found it kneeling at some mercy-seat. If it was merely a law of her nature-and she could almost believe it at times-who or what made the nature, and the law to govern the nature, and what fastened the two together, and kept them in operation, if not a God? 
               And with all her reverie, she knelt down and said her prayers. They were entirely different from those she heard at the altar, but more suited to her wants. Her heart contradicted half their prayers. 
               There was much to interest her at the camp-meeting. She tried to fathom human thought, human hearts, and human experiences. She was trying to form an opinion of men and things, for she did not trust or reverence human goodness. 
               Colonel Walter introduced her to the master-spirits. 
               Their own minister-a popular author too-told her that his nature needed the stimulus of love. He must have home love, as a refuge from the world-battle-the contest with evil. 
               Mag had fought her battle at Marion, with no home love, with no human sympathy-whether or not her nature had such necessities.
                
               Dr. Neely also told her that he should have been a maniac long before, but for his Eden-home. 
               "Had he ever been a skeptic?" Mag asked. 
               "Yes, he had been all along that path; but now, the truths of revelation were so clear, he could only wonder that he ever doubted." 
               Mag listened in marvellous wonder, and wished the revelation would become as clear to her. 
               "Had he ever known a female skeptic?" 
               "No, thank God. Such a monster had never crossed his path. A woman had no excuse for being a skeptic. A man might doubt God, thrown as he was into the world to battle down iniquity, but a woman had no excuse; in the sanctuary of home, she might believe in God and man; her nature might ripen for heaven under all sweet influences. He would never marry a woman who doubted God. His wife must be a member of Christ's Church, which was to the point." 
               Mag remembered that Cora Lanier joined that church to veil her guilt and passion from the world's prying eyes. Theodore Parker says: "All modern wickedness must be banked up with Christianity." But the existence of counterfeit coin proves the belief in the existence of real coin. 
               The author of the "Eclipse of Faith," gives the aphorism as an answer to Hume's well-known argument against miracles. All nations of all ages have attempted to establish their religions by means of miracles, for the belief in miracles is universal. Some have believed false creeds, established by false miracles, but the counterfeit, shows the existence of the real. Des Cartes says the conception of God, proves the existence of God. "All modern wickedness must be banked up with Christianity. If the state wishes to sow some eminently wicked seed, it ploughs with the church." And Mag thought of all the wars carried on in the name of Christ, to build up the ambition of men. To what good? God knew. God would take care of his own truth. God was in it all, if there was a God-and she could not doubt it now. God had ordered it all from the beginning; the Omnipotent, Omnipresent, Omniscient God, who in wisdom and love had permitted the sin of Eden; permitted evil, that a greater good might come of it. God had never made a mistake in his decree that man should have a free will and sin. If he had ever made one mistake, mankind were in unsafe hands; he might make other mistakes. No; all the wars of sin and passion carried on in the name of Christ, were permitted by God; the blood poured out on the battle-fields of ages, had enriched the ages with experience for new developments of thought!... And solitary bleeding hearts! God was with each heartthrob; he heard the ravens, watched the sparrows, and numbered the very hairs of the head. Mag's solitary heart, ploughed by sorrow and enriched by its own bleeding, was becoming fertile soil for grand experiences and glorious developments. 
               The appeal of the agent for the Southern Tract Society, interested Mag also, having heard so much of northern discussion on the subject. She heard the plea now from the southern pulpit. 
               "Amid all the resources of these great United States, and all its plans for mercy, there was but one tract society that could possibly supply the spiritual wants of the servants. The publications of the other societies were of such a character, that it was endangering their very altars and homes to permit them to be circulated. In self-defence, then (to prevent their wives and daughters from continual fear of danger), the South had been obliged to abandon those publications (their tendency was to produce insurrection), and to establish their own societies. In Nashville was now established their one Southern Tract Society, the only one that could give the Gospel to their poor servants." 
               And then came the earnest, tearful, eloquent appeal that southern men should support nobly and generously their own institutions, that their households might not be deprived of the Gospel tidings, and that their servants might be made glad and strong with the good news of salvation. The appeal reached the hearts and purses of southern men-many gave tears with their gold. 
               "Sunday is the most religious day of the entertainment," said Mack. "You must put on all your glory to-day. The saints come out in their choicest apparel now. You will see all satins, moire-antiques, laces, diamonds, rubies and pearls to-day. You must be sure and wear your flounces, Miss Barclay." 
               Mag wore her flounces. At night there came a whispered report that there was an insurrection on foot among the slaves; it was only a whisper. But timid ladies shuddered, and every master ordered home his servants, and the night police was doubled. During the political abolition excitement of the last presidential campaign, rumors of insurrection were common, and in many cities and villages all the arms were bought up by the whites, to guard against rumored danger, and to prevent servants from making trouble. At that time, too, the servants were deprived of their usual holidays. When the excitement had subsided, their privileges were renewed. On account of this suspicion, the servants at this camp-meeting were deprived of their usual revival times among themselves, with their own ministers. 
               Mag left the grounds before the "breaking up." Mack offered her a seat in his buggy home. They went to Uniontown, spent the night at the house of a friend, with music and merriment. And all went home the next day. Home! Her first return home! 
               Lily, the poodle, greeted her, and Tip, the house-dog, nearly eat her up, as well as knocked her down, with gladness. And all three went "kiting" over the grounds, through gardens and groves, Mag gathering her arms full of flowers, and tearing a dozen or so of her flounces, went pirouetting (Mack said "pirooting") all over the halls, piazzas, balconies, and verandas. Afterward she proceeded to the grand piano and murdered any quantity of music, which did not disturb Mack, because he did not hear it, and could not sing a note if he had. Lily, the poodle, accompanied her by singing, dancing, frisking, and cavorting, without any serious damage to himself, Mag, or the piano; and lastly, she, Mag, closed the piano and the morning's exercises by ascending with Lily to her own room, and writing, with Lily's sympathetic aid, a-a-a love-letter to-to-Charles Atherton Moore! which, of course, never reached him, as he chanced to be at the antipodes, and only served to prove to Mag herself that she had not forgotten him, if she was skeptical on that point. Nay, it might have convinced her that she had cultivated for him a most enthusiastic regard, notwithstanding his iniquities with Cora Lanier. 
               And when the letter was finished, and the spirit was still chafing for further life and exercise, a strange impulse seized her to write to Frank Ross, and tell him her whole soul. She bit her lips to see if she was not dreaming-it seemed so natural to tell Frank everything, and Frank was living somewhere, and she wanted to tell him that she had grown strong, and faith had come to her. 
               She repeated to herself, Franklin's creed of a Divine Providence. The duty of men was to worship God, the worship most acceptable to him being good deeds to humanity. She rehearsed Webster's faith in Christianity, as engraved upon his funeral monument. She wondered at the cruel meaning of the "Remorse," that John Randolph declared was hurrying him down to death. 
               Again she appreciated Jefferson's "Philosophy of Jesus;" also his philosophy of life. "The most fortunate of us, in our journey through life, frequently meet with calamities and misfortunes which may greatly afflict us; and to fortify our minds against the attacks of these calamities and misfortunes, should be one of the principal studies and endeavors of our lives. The only method of doing this is to assume a perfect resignation to the Divine Will; to consider whatever does happen, must happen, and that by our uneasiness, we cannot prevent the blow before it does fall, but we may add to its force after it has fallen." 
               There were often days now when she was buoyant of heart, days when she believed in the Supernatural with Bushnell; in the "simple faith," which could work miracles in answer to prayer. There were days when she went to God and asked him to help her on her book, and believed that he was doing it. There were days when she asked God to save Charles Moore and herself for an earthly love, as a foretaste of that heavenly marriage, and she believed God would do it. That faith, whether it was false or true, made her strong and happy; the happiness, when once passed, could not be taken from her. It was well to cheat the hours into happiness; better beguile them with happy hopes, than miserable fears of evil. "Sufficient unto the day should be the evil thereof." The evil might never come. What a pity, then, to torture her heart with groundless fears of evil. Even if it came, it could not rob her of the happiness caused by a false hope. 
               She was eager to tell Frank of her new philosophy of religion. Mr. Chamberlain was welcome to call her insane now. If this was insanity, it was sweeter and better than health, and her finger was on her pulse now. She knew she could control the madness. 
               Yet all this restless eagerness, if Mag had been a man, would have driven her into wild wanderings over the earth.... The spirit must utter itself. In this southern land she could not go over mountain, valley, and lake, as at Glenlyn, and she was thankful for the inspiration of any occurrence that could give that restless spirit life in action. A thunder-storm-a southern hurricane-anything that revealed power, to her was a God-send-a great joy; she permitted her spirit to become intoxicated then; and when the lightnings were playing, she read the grand old masters, and thanked the God she so often doubted, for the companionship of night and storm. Then she was not alone. 
               Curious discussions came off, at times, in the drawing-room at Cedar Grove. Mr. Marschall, a young artist from Marion, of extraordinary talent, just from Europe, gave her an introduction to thought and customs in the old world, that made her world new. They discussed abstract beauty, instead of the ideal-and the element that could inspire love. The artist declared, laughing, yet in cool earnest, that "the only lady whom he ever wished to marry, was his own sister; she was the fulfillment of his ideal woman; but since Abraham's time, such a marriage was against law, and he considered his love persecuted by the Fates." 
               The colonel and Mack one day helped Mag into a somewhat audacious experiment. A Kentucky colonel, who had shot his man in a duel, abetted the iniquity. 
               As usual, they had been discussing the philosophy of religion, especially of Christianity. The Kentuckian had made out a strong argument for fatalism, and completely annihilated that of a young minister, who unfortunately had never tested his own theories, and was innocent of all knowledge of the weapons of logic. 
               The colonel also declared that "Mag's theology was abominable stuff; her predestination was so strong, it was nothing but fatalism. All that was meant in the Bible, by God's fore-knowledge, was that with God, the present, past, and future, was one eternal now." 
               Mag laughed, declaring that "the definition was sufficiently blinding for all practical purposes, especially to the comprehension of a skeptic." 
               "She believed some wonderful things," the colonel said. 
               "And he believed some miraculous doctrines." 
               "She ought to believe them." 
               "No matter whether she ought or not, how could she, if she could not? Belief was not controlled by the will. And no matter how sincere a poor wretch might be in his doubts of Christianity, not one man in twenty of the educated ministers of Christ's Gospel would do more to help a forlorn sinner out of the mud, than anathematize him for daring to question the Bible." 
                
               "That was a libel on Christ's ministers and church." 
               "He could not prove it a libel." 
               "She should prove it a libel. She should write letters from a sincere skeptic to some of the best minds in America, and he would wager anything under heaven that she would receive answers from them that would be to the point." 
               And Mag, who was not troubled with reverence for human goodness or greatness-more was the pity-took the wager, and wrote the letters, reading them to the company for their approval of the sincerity of the skepticism. 
               Mag was liberal in her views of Christianity. Five gentlemen of different denominations were selected to be the victims. Prof. --, of Andover, Mass., Congregational; Bishop --, of Georgia, Methodist; Archbishop --, of Mobile, Roman Catholic; Rev. Mr. --, of Marion, Episcopalian; Rev. Mr. --, of New Hampshire, Unitarian. We give a specimen of the style of documents that were sent to these persecuted gentlemen. Mag wrote them from her heart, dated Doubting Castle, while imprisoned by giant Despair. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR SIR: Will you pardon the presumption of a doubter who dares trouble one of Christ's ministers with skepticism? Pardon a skeptic, now sitting in darkness and the shadow of death, praying for 'more light.' A solitaire has found the magnificent gloom of solitude more an oppression than a delight to the soul; there are no loving eyes looking down from the midnight stars; the only voices breaking the silence of solitude are like those of the daughters of the horse-leech continually crying, 'Give, give!' They have cried to the unknown God, asking him the questions that have troubled human hearts in all ages, from Job and Jeremiah, pouring out their terrible cursing on the days of their birth, to Solomon, forsaking him who bestowed wisdom, and honor, and might and glory, for 'woman's idle love.' They have cried at the shrine of the unknown God, and if there came answers to their cry, no priest has as yet interpreted the mysteries of the oracles. You are a priest of the so-called Most High God; will you tell a doubting sinner the hidden meaning of these things? Why are these things so? There is something in our natures beseeching us forever and forever, 'Oh, come let us fall down and worship!' We have bowed ourselves to pour out our adoration, and found ourselves prostrate before-not idols of wood and stone, the work of men's hands, nor idols of sweet human flesh and blood, but fallen angels, fiends, who mocked us, deriding us with bitter scorn, saying, 'There is no Christ.' That 'bastard Hebrew baby' was neither God nor the Son of God! There is no atonement-no refuge from the torture and agony that is making such mad riot and havoc of our nature. 
                           "Can you, as God's apostle to those in darkness, drive away the shadow of a great horror, haunting the doubter at mid-noon and midnight? Can you teach me to believe in God? You may say that books should teach the skeptic; there has been no one to guide this doubter in the choice of books, and those read have perhaps wrecked the best part of the nature. Can you teach the doubter faith? one who has learned Satan's anguish, 'Me miserable! which way I turn is hell, and in the lowest deep, a lower still threatening to devour me, opens wide?' It is terrible to feel that in the contest with evil, the soul, if immortal, is being dragged down to the pit, degenerating daily to a death, compared with which the dreamless sleep of the Sadducees would be heaven. If, sir, you consider it a presumption, the present asking for aid to escape that death, will you forgive, before you cast the skeptic out? At least the pariah may then cultivate the taste to enjoy hellish experiences, and will then as now remain, 
                           
                              "Very respectfully, your friend and obedient servant."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The letter was decidedly womanly-but Mag lost her wager, for she received answers from all but the Roman Catholic Archbishop. 
               After a few months she received a very short, very kind note from the wife of the first-mentioned, advising her to pray "Lord, help mine unbelief," also to pray to be saved from that "pride of intellect which would search into things not to be revealed." 
               Mag followed the advice, as well as she was able, and was grateful for it. 
               The bishop from Georgia mistook her for a gentleman, and wrote to the "Dear Brother," that his difficulties were not intellectual, as he supposed, but the result of a solitary life and morbid nerves-told him(!) to leave books and dreams, and go to work-make it his business to comfort the orphan! 
               Mag declared she would do it every time! 
                
               If he (!) would learn the deep meaning of that scripture, "Do God's will," he would never be troubled again with doubts. 
               All of which is truth as pure and undiluted with error, as truth is ever found on earth, undoubtedly. Mag knew it, afterward. 
               From the other gentlemen she received the kindest possible letters, books, pamphlets, and documents, till the post-office must have ached, and the post-master began to mistrust that she was a literary lady. 
               All this added wonderful interest to her monotonous life. She got glimpses of the world; had communion with minds that had thought and suffered, and grown strong and earnest, and she was not obliged to resort to thunder-storms or tornadoes to rouse her spirit to companionship. It might have been a wrong step, but she never regretted it. 
               Time went on. Mrs. Walter was haunted by the spirits of mirth and mischief. One day, as everybody and his wife were preparing to go to Greensborough to lay the corner stone of a new southern college, the spirit of repentance took possession of her, and she went straightway to the presiding elder, and confessed to him all these sins of Mag's. 
               The reason why she did it, seemed to be a perverse inclination to bring Mag into trouble with the bishop from Georgia, who was to deliver the address on that important occasion. 
               The bishop was a friend of Colonel Walter, and the colonel threatened love with a vengeance, which must always be endured when it cannot be avoided. 
               To Greensborough they all went. The colonel drove his own magnificent grey mustangs, with his lady and Margaret in the rockaway. Mag, Sallie, and Mack went in the carriage, with Mrs. Walter's gigantic bay horses. Mag and Mack discussed horse-flesh, and so forth, on that journey. They sympathized on their tastes in horse-flesh, appreciating the glory of physical strength, beauty and grace-riding races, and all that style of thing. What else they said, as they rode through the green prairies, and crossed the creeks shaded with the silver-blossomed catalpas and magnolias-is it not all recorded in the book of fate? 
               Everybody was at Greensborough to see the laying of the corner-stone of the new college. Their party took the front seat, beneath the very droppings of the-sanctissimi! Mr. Henry, Mag's patron, the father of one of her pupils, placed himself as her right-hand man, and volunteered to point out to her the honorables, as they arrayed themselves on the platform; also to fan the flies off, and to say and do any number of other wonderfully agreeable things. 
               They watched and discussed the bishops, D.D.'s, honorables, generals, colonels, and polloi, as they went up the rostrum, and Mag peered earnestly into all their faces, to discover, if possible, what stuff these Csars were made of, that they were grown so great, and failed to solve the mystery; she concluded that greatness, like Paul's philosophy, was a several-sided affair, being all things to all men, and some things to some women, the latter of which she was one. 
               After some cabalistic exercises of the masonic fraternity, a pouring out of wine, and corn, and oil-probably to feed the college and make it grow-the Hon. Henry Hilliard made an oration. 
               It was a southern speech for a southern college; its eloquence was worthy the orator and the people. Some of its "sentiments" interested Mag, as she had been endowed with "northern prejudices." 
               The South would remind the North that charity should commence at home. That business policy safest for each man, province, and nation, was to attend to its own particular business, and leave alone the affairs of neighboring men, provinces, and nations. "First, remove the beam from thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to remove the mote from thy brother's eye," the Scriptures had said. The North must learn this policy; its aggressions were becoming absolutely unbearable; all that the South could do, would be to rise in self-defence and free itself from northern influence. The South must have its own literature, its own education; the influence of northern teachers must be done away; it was corrupting to southern institutions. They were that day founding a southern college; it must be put entirely in charge of southern professors, etc., etc. 
               All of which Mag noticed with profound respect. 
               Mr. Henry made a very entertaining remark to her, to call off her attention; would have offered her a magnolia blossom from the arch of flowers, if he could have reached it. Mag considered magnolias as splendid southern institutions; also, human nature, at times! 
               "Please hush, sir," she whispered in reply. "I am deeply interested in the discourse. Mr. Hilliard is looking at you besides-and I like him. I am a New England girl, and proud of it, and wish I could tell him so. I would make him like me too-I know I could. I would tell him that God honored me by permitting me to be born in New England; and if I should tell him so, he would be as deferential to me as to Mrs. James Buchanan, if she were a supposable personage." 
               "And there is a problem for him to solve," said Mr. Henry. "How is northern influence to be done away from the South? There is quite a large proportion of the element to be got rid of." 
               "And," added Mag, "since, with but rare exceptions, neither southern men nor women ever become teachers. It is not in their style of solving the problem of a life destiny to teach young humanity book-knowledge." 
               Bishop Pierce rose for the concluding oration. He looks one of nature's noblemen, great in goodness; the signet of royalty seems stamped on every feature-is radiant in his eye. 
               His oration was on the wants of the age, more education, and that sterner want, more religion to guide progression down the ages. The discourse impressed the audience, as did the man; it was chaste and sublime. 
               The exercises were over at last; and there followed the Babel of confusion worse confounded. The party from Cedar Grove kept their places, waiting for Colonel Walter, who was on the rostrum. Mag was astonished by a greeting from Dr. H-- of Montgomery, who had befriended her at Marion. 
               "The bishop informed me a few weeks since, that he had received a letter from a brother, by name of Barclay, on skepticism, and asked me if I knew such a brother. Did you write that letter, Miss Barclay?" 
               Mag was thunderstruck. Her heart gave an immense thump, which sent the blood in torrents to her face, making her brain reel. 
               "Yes, sir," she gasped, at last. 
               "Was the letter written in good faith?" 
               Imagine her feelings. How could a skeptical letter be written in faith? It was a contradiction of terms. She might say in truth, "Yes, sir;" or she might with truth say, "No, sir." Truth being, in this instance, as usual, a double-faced affair. After revolving the two faces intently tently before her mental gaze, she decided on a deliberate affirmative. 
               "Yes, sir." 
               Mag might have been overwhelmed; but just then, to pile up the agony, Ossa on Pelion, she saw Colonel Walter's tall, dignified figure, crowned with white locks, making its way through the crowd toward her. He introduced to her bewildered senses, the bishop! How Mag pitied the afflicted bishop! Such a woeful expression of puzzlement struggled into life on his benign countenance! He looked down on her "stately and loving," as a shepherd might have looked on a stray lamb from his fold. Mag longed to ask him for his blessing. 
               Both the bishop and Mag survived, to Mag's astonishment. 
               As they were leaving the grounds, the presiding elder, to whom Mrs. Walter had "confessed," came upon them. 
               "I asked the bishop a few moments ago about that letter. He was wonderfully interested, and informed me that he had just been introduced to the gentleman's wife!" 
               "Such is life in its most unmitigated forms," said Mag, ready to cry, only, unfortunately, she could not. It was not her wont. 
               They partook of the princely hospitality of Mr. Nelson, nephew of Mrs. Walter; dined with Bishop Paine, Hon. Mr. Hilliard, Judge Moore, afterward governor of Alabama, with other honorables, and Mag listened to a unique discussion on the propriety and impossibility of abolishing northern female teachers from southern schools. 
               Colonel Walter got nervous for Mag, and made some very desperate efforts to call off her attention. However, Judge Moore relieved the colonel by a well-timed remark. 
               "I have been for two years a teacher myself. I have daughters, and I know that there is no better way for them to acquire discipline of mind and character, than by becoming teachers." 
               The colonel drew a long breath, as if some threatened danger had been averted. 
               A thousand unutterable thoughts crowded Mag's brain the next day, as they visited the luxurious home of Mr. Walter's brother-in-law, near Marion. In strolling through the grounds, they came to an inclosure, hedged in with arbor vit, so high and thick the eye could not penetrate within. They entered a latticed gate, and stood awestruck struck among marble monuments, over which thousands of the white flowers of Cape Jessamine were blossoming. The dead were sleeping beneath the marble and the flowers. There came thought again of the beautiful dead far away. Was the grave the end of all perfection? No! no! no! a thousand times no! Thank God, "the dead shall rise again-this corruptible shall put on incorruption, and this mortal shall put on immortality!" 
             
             
               XXIX. WHAT THE SPIRIT AND THE TEMPTER SAID. 
               THE months rolled on. News came to Magdalene Barclay that May Burton was slowly dying. An uncontrollable desire seized her to see May before she went to the spiritland. She had other business, too, in New England, and to New England she would go, and to the world's end, perhaps, for she had grown daring since she had been thrown on herself for sympathy and companionship. 
               "Colonel Walter," said she one day, "the idea has possessed me of late, that I must visit New England." 
               "I always knew you were 'possessed' with strange ideas, and that is one of them! You have no business in New England!" 
               "Please, sir!" said Mag, with her most coquettish, pleading tones. 
               "It is midwinter. Wait till summer, and we will all go with you." 
               "I don't feel as if I could possibly wait a minute! Please, sir, say yes, or my heart will break into a thousand pieces." 
               "Shocking! As if you ever possessed a heart! Though you are possessed of most unaccountable whims and things. Yes, you may go. When will you be back?" 
               "As soon as possible, sir. Can I do anything for you?" 
               "Yes, stop in Montgomery and make a speech to the legislature. The Canebrake people have a petition about these Sixteenth Section Lands. As it is, the public money is of but little use. The Section people are mostly too lazy to send their children to school, though it is at their doors. We want to take the money and endow a Female College. We will make you the president of the college." 
               "Thank you, sir. I will make the speech to the legislature. No doubt, sir, it will pass by the house with a storm." 
               Mag went to Mr. Henry, her patron. 
               "What in the name of wonder do you want to go North for?" he asked. 
               "I have a secret for you. I have been writing a book." 
               "I always expected you was doing something desperate. Let me see it!" 
               "Yes, sir. But it is not finished, and it puzzles me. My heroine does not behave to suit me. I intended her as a model-lady, and, in spite of me, she is growing strongminded, and says such naughty things, she frightens me. I am afraid she will ruin herself; she is turning out a perfect Lola Montez on my hands, and I intended her for the Madonna. I must go and ask Dr. Barker what to do with her. I started to write a very pious book, too, and the thing has run away with me, and I am in trouble." 
               "Perhaps I can help you out." 
               Mr. Henry read the manuscript and commented. 
               "It is a queer production, but on the whole, I like it. Your heroine is a saucy thing-not well brought up-deserved more whippings than she ever got; I never saw but one girl like her in all my life, and I have seen lots of the animals. The over-pious critics may damn your book, and some will say it is pedantic-and some will call your children's smart speeches failures-and you, poor child, you'll have a time of it with them all!" 
               "And I have written every page with a prayer. As for the pedantry and that sort of thing, I think it deserves a 'scoring,' and so I intend to take it meekly." 
               "Well, go and get the thing published. I will furnish you with the funds myself." 
               "Thank you, sir." 
               "But," thought. Mag, "if the thing has not stamina enough to support itself, it may go overboard again." Then she blessed him with all her soul and might for his kindness, and prepared to go North. 
               The night before her exodus from the Canebrake was one when all the elements in heaven and earth were at war. She listened through the live-long night to the rain upon the roof, and dreamed waking dreams of May Burton and Frank Ross, of Charles Moore and her book. In the morning the rain was pouring still. 
               "Whoso regardeth the clouds shall not reap," she said to Mack, to convince him that it was best to go through the mud to the depot. 
               "I am at your service, through fire, water and mud." 
               So they went, through mud and water, and were thankful to reach the fire at last. 
               Mag remembered the horrible fate of her Sunday hat, in her first travels. Being taught by experience all the tribulations incident to a bandbox, she now put her Sunday hat into a new tin hat-box-put said hat-box into the buggy, and put herself in after it, before they started. Mag always had an affection for a Sunday hat; it must have been in her Puritan blood. Her present pet was black, like her Sunday flounces; it had black flowers within and black plumes without. Mag was fond of those things too. 
               The rain poured down; but she stopped with Mack to say her adieux to the beautiful lady who had sent her flowers during the summer. They took a parting glass of wine. Mag drank to the success of the lady and Mack, in their every flirtation with beaux and belles; they drank to her success on her book, promising to electioneer for it, in rain and sunshine, and so they went their ways. 
               Mack and Mag took their way through the mud. Miss Mary, with those clear, brown, still eyes, watched them as the horses waded, plunged, wallowed and rolled in the unmitigated mud of the Alabama limestone prairies. Unmitigated? No, for at last they came to a creek that was in danger of overflow. The horses plunged into the rolling water, the waves surged over their backs. Mag was busy watching the romance of their noses floating above the tide, and forgot that the buggy was following those elevated noses, and that also her Sunday hat was in the buggy-forgot that she herself was sitting in the buggy-never dreaming but she was sailing through the air on rainbows, till she found the skirts of her garments, and her Sunday hat, all undergoing baptism by immersion. Language could not express her feelings. 
               "They say love sweetens every sorrow," commented Mack. "A nice dish of it would be apropos now. Wonder if our 'proposal' would not be a comfort in this emergency. Are you ready for it?" 
                
               "What an unconscionable flirt you are, Mack! What did ever possess you to get into such habits? It is bad business! You get a bad name by it, and some lady will be sure to pay you in your own coin. You may 'confess' the particulars of your experiences, however. I intend to put them in my book-The Adventures of a Southern Male Coquette. You may commence on Miss Morton first." 
               "Well, I will tell you about that. How shall I commence?" 
               "In your own style." 
               "'Once on a time,' a fine old uncle of mine conceived the fortunate thought of leaving me the snug little sum of about eighty thousand dollars, which sum being reported about the country as toward a million, I immediately became a young man of consideration, to all southern belles, who are captivated by such charms. Among others, Miss Morton paid me her addresses. Being very young and verdant at the time, and neither wise nor pious, I reciprocated her affection; but afterward I saw Miss Hattie, and took a wonderful fancy to her, because she would not take a fancy to me." 
               "Ah, yes, forbidden fruit! But I intend to make the proposals myself whenever I meet my destiny. There will be some miracle wrought to tell me that I have met my fate. Do you suppose that you will know your other self when she first comes into your presence?" 
               "My instincts are at fault about it. For the life of me I cannot conceive now whether my other name is Mary, Magdalene, or Alice." 
               "Alice is a sweet name-let it be Alice. But how about Hattie?" 
               "That name of Hattie has a charm. She was such a mischievous thing. But I declare I did not intend to tell her I loved her, Miss Mag. A fellow is forced into love by circumstances at times. This love is an odd sensation, anyhow. What do you know about it? You know such alarming things, I am afraid of you." 
               "I declare, Mack, I never mistrusted you could be so modest. I'll promise never to propose to you, if you will tell me about Miss Hattie." 
               "Wasn't she the mischief, though! And how Harper did love her! I never knew a man to love another as he loved her. And his jealousy drove me into love. I tell you there is no accounting for love! I should not be astonished any day to find myself"-- 
                
               "You will never get to the story. What about Harper?" 
               "His jealousy? How it forced me in love? He called me into his room one day. I saw the devil in his eye as I entered, and two pistols lying on the table. I began to be in love as I saw the pistols. I carelessly took one of them in my hand as I sat down, which softened the look in his eye like a miracle. I asked him pleasantly what he wanted of me. He replied earnestly that he wanted to know my intentions with regard to Miss Hattie. I told him that I did not consider myself under any obligations to let him know my intentions. 'Well,' he said, 'he was as solemn as death with his intentions, for he loved her as he loved his own soul, and if I was merely flirting with her, it would be honorable in me to make way for him.' I felt very much of a sensation of love for Miss Hattie just then, and so told him that the field was open for both of us-I should win the lady if I could, and he might do the same. Miss Mag, it was the prettiest proposal I ever made, and the hardest won battle I ever tried. You ought to have heard my pleading. Hattie was on the shy, and played witch to perfection. I never was so badly enchanted! For three hours I did some of the most devoted talking! No mortal ever did a more thorough business at wooing. She would not begin to say 'yes.' For two weeks she led me in the game. I pleaded with a fervor and eloquence that would have astonished Burke himself. And was not she inspiring? I tell you the sensation goes down to my boots while I think of it! I had not been in earnest till I began to think I should lose her. The puss would not give me any sort of answer. At last I was determined to force her to some kind of terms, so one day while we were riding, I stopped the horse under a big oak, like that one yonder-it was not raining then as now. Suppose we try the same experiment now in the rain. I told her that the horse should not leave that tree until she gave me some sort of answer, either yes or no. Well, the horse stood till it was tired; the flies got almost as devotedly in love with him as I was with her. Not a word would she say. I began to think it was a desperate case. I told her, however, I was satisfied with her society; we would stay there till night-fall or doomsday-we would not budge a foot till she gave me her answer." 
               "What were you thinking of about then?" 
               "A great many things-housekeeping and all that sort of business-love in a cottage, you know!" 
                
               "In a cottage! I thought you taste ran to castles in the air?" 
               "I never fancied castles; my tastes are simple, and end in cottages." 
               "What did she say?" 
               "She said Yes!" 
               "Can you describe your sensations then?" 
               "I went out of my head for a while. It took my senses entirely. That 'Yes' was mighty sweet, Miss Mag. I never heard anything to equal it. I wonder if Alice could say it? I declare I'll ask her. I told Hattie-what went to the stars. How many times have you ever heard the like? You would make me see stars if I should tell you the same. I dare not venture yet." 
               "What came of it?" 
               "After a few days I began to reflect. I did not want to marry, after all. Cousin Frank asked me what under heaven I was about-I deserved a lesson in pistol-shooting. I told him the whole-just how Harper led me into it. Frank told me I could get out of it honorably, and I had better do it, or he would shoot me. All I had to do was to give Hattie half a shadow of a hint, and she would send me off, with documents so strong they could never be redeemed." 
               "Yes." 
               "The next time I visited her, I told her that, after all, I believed I was as much in love with Miss Mag Barclay as herself! Great heavens! You should have seen her. I saw more stars in fifteen minutes, than in all my life before or since! It was a shower of meteors. She blew me sky high! If another man ever got such a 'kicking,' I am sorry for him!" 
               "Well." 
               "I was worse in love than ever. I begged her pardon a thousand times, but not another 'Yes' could I get out of her, and I had to make the best of it." 
               "How was that?" 
               "I went to Harper; told him the field was clear for him. She had annihilated me. The fellow thought I was fooling him. I answered him that it was God's truth; I had proposed, and been refused; she had rejected me past all hope." 
               "You did?" 
               "Yes; and the tears sprung to the fellow's eyes, when he found I was in earnest. He grasped my hand with a blessing that made me almost as happy as the 'Yes' that Hattie once gave me. In a week they were engaged. One day, as he returned from a ride with her, he loaned me his buggy, and persuaded her to ride with me, at my request. I told her then that Harper knew from me, that she had discarded me, and she might, in honor, tell him so. The dear little soul! she put both her hands in mine, and told me I was one noble fellow, and if I would, we should be fast friends forever. And that was blissful! You and I then had a grand time at the wedding, you remember. That's all." 
               Just here, Mack and Mag reached the depot, and betook themselves to the fire. Mag surveyed her bedraggled dress, and the withered flowers and wilted plumes upon her bonnet. She squeezed her wet shoes over her hand to dry them into shape. She screwed, twisted, and pressed several handkerchiefs and veils into her Sunday hat, to shape that affair. The wrinkles came straight in her shoes, and then in her hat, and of course in her face. The sunshine came out there, as well as in the sky to dry the garments and the weather. 
               And she was proud of her hat when it was righted; she was always proud of it when she remembered it. She put it on her head, instead of in the hat-box, and preserved it there till she reached New York. 
               "Be sure and come back soon," was Mack's parting injunction. 
               "Tell Miss Alice to be sure and invite me to the wedding." 
               "I think it will come off very suddenly-if she can be caught." 
               "I am very anxious for her to reform you. Good bye." 
               There followed three days of almost unbroken solitude in the busy world of travel, in which Mag's spirit took all the variations of the compass, from the wildest flights of careering joy to the saddest of all pitiful wailing. She talked to her troublesome heart; it was upbraiding her, longing to vindicate itself to Charles Moore; longing to tell him that she had not become false nor a hypocrite, in being for years a solitary rover. She had been searching continually for the beautiful, the good, and the true. Her heart had not yet been tempted beyond refuge with all its wonderful capacities of loving and hating. 
               She had been a fool in saying there was no God; but would not that little pale-faced girl yonder say it in her heart, before its throbbings were hushed in the grave? It was a "wee bit," tiny girl, a little minstrel girl who entered the cars with her almost baby brother, just before they reached Philadelphia. And Mag gave the child money, and thought she gave her love, and took infinite credit to herself for it-vain-glorious thing-and just then the cars ran off the track with a tremendous crash, that nearly knocked the apple out of the child's hand that Mag was putting into it. But no lives were lost, only the baggage shockingly smashed (Mag's hat was on her head), and one old negro knocked under the stove-pipe, when the forward car, by upsetting, tried to pitch the rest of the passengers out of the windows. They mostly crawled out through the upper windows, however, the under ones being connected with the ground instead of the fresh breezes of heaven and freedom. 
               And oh, the sorrowful faces that she saw in New York! One voice that she heard haunted her for days. It was on Sunday that she heard it, for she reached New York on Saturday night. It was the voice of an old, wrinkled, haggard-faced woman, who sat on the steps of one of the Broadway palaces, and held out her hand entreating, "Money, money, for the love of God!" Mag smiled down cheerily, and answered her: "God knows, I would give you oceans of it, mother, if I had it, to go on interest." She added to herself, "till I, too, am a wretched beggar, old, haggard, and grey-haired." 
               Sunday found her at No. 66, Astor House, tired of solitude, and bound to extract amusement or entertainment out of the great, solitary, false-hearted world. She had but little admiration for it-but little hope for it-but little fear of it, and no reverence, even for its opinions. She had grown brave in it, because she despised it. She thought of Brutus, and his conclusion of the whole matter, "Oh, Virtue! I have worshipped thee as a real good; but thou art an empty name, and the slave of fortune!" And thought was an inspiration-she felt free in that Babel-free as upon her native mountains. 
               It would be pastime to go to church-but her poor, drowned hat! She perched it on her hand and looked at it-she perched it on her head and looked at it. There were angles acute and obtuse in it; there were right angles and curves, and diagrams that it would have puzzled Augustus Smith, LL.D., himself, to demonstrate mathematically. A bright thought struck Mag; she would rejuvenate the thing. She rung for a chambermaid-sent for an iron, although it was Sunday, and she was near the land of the Puritans; she heated the iron on the grate, wet the bonnet, smoothed out the wrinkles, ironed them dry over a few towels that she crushed into it, pulled out the laces, shook out the plumes, poked out the flowers, placed the bonnet on her head, made a courtesy to the rocking-chair, stopped herself in a schottische around the centre-table, because it was Sunday, said "Good morning, ma'am," to the lady in the mirror, donned her mantle, walked into St. Paul's church alone, fully convinced that her hat was the prettiest hat-the most bewitching hat in that infernal Gehenna-the city of Gotham. It was the Sunday after Christmas, and she sat in the church and looked at the Christmas lights and Christmas garlands, and she listened to the Christmas sermon on the blessings of social life and home. The preacher informed her that God had said that it was not good for man to be alone; Mag knew it, and thought about a woman being alone-wondered if it was not considered decidedly bad, "in a world like this," yet, nevertheless, she intended to go alone the next day to the Dusseldorf Gallery, and look at the Greek slave; it would be such a delight, after having seen the black slaves of the South, and the white slaves of New York, to look at a marble slave that she was convinced did not possess so useless an article as an aching heart. 
               And when she had seen it, she proceeded to New Britain, on her way to Glenlyn and May Burton. 
               She found Judge Ely in a state of distracting disappointment on account of his lady's misbehaviour. 
               "To think, Mag, that Min should serve me so! It is a boy again! And I had got my heart sot on a girl!" 
               Mag kissed her big cousins-especially the judge, for pity's sake-and then she kissed her little boy cousins, especially Charlie, for his namesake-the oldest one was named with that beautiful name; and then she proceeded to Glenlyn. 
               Aunt Lina was in cheerful spirits, considering her recent bereavement. Some lines of care were smoothed away, and a hopeful resignation had taken their place. Business affairs on the farm were looking up, under Aunt Lina's management; and little Harry had grown good and handsome some, and Mag kissed him and called him her brother, and he reciprocated. 
               "I have some news for you, Mag," said Aunt Lina. "Would you believe it, Master Socrates has been converted and joined the church, and turned preacher; his wife has got to be the nicest looking lady in all the land, and the children are so good and happy; it is the best thing he could possibly have done, for you can't think how it has improved him. He has gone to keeping school again-has got some new clothes-looks like himself-labors for the salvation of sinners every Sunday, and there is no telling what will become of him." 
               "Nor of a great many others," replied Mag. 
               She reached May Burton at last. 
               Sweet, pure, May Burton! She was surely going home. Her eye lighted up with a smile of unearthly beauty, as Mag came to her, and a gush of unearthly gladness swept through Mag's soul. 
               "I was sure I should see you before I went," said May; "I have prayed for it, night and day. I knew God would answer my prayer! It brings heaven here, to see you. Have you no message to send by me to that unseen heaven?" 
               "You do believe God answers prayer, my darling?" said Mag, as she pillowed the head upon her heart, and wound her arms around her. Mag's throat was swelling with a tearless sob, which she swallowed, as usual, with a smile. 
               "Believe it? I know it. Never, never, never doubt God again, Maggy Barclay! God has answered my prayers. If ever you have uttered one prayer in faith, be sure God will answer it." 
               "If the prayer was uttered years ago?" 
               "God will answer it yet! Never doubt him again! I wanted to see you to tell you that, before I went home." 
               And Mag repeated the line from Dr. Judson. 
               "I never prayed earnestly and sincerely for anything, but that at some time, in some way, probably the last that I should ever have devised, the prayer was answered." 
               "You will certainly know it yet, Mag. There is a God. He is the Our Father, and all things are working together for good to us, when we love him." 
               Day by day, now, Mag watched by the bedside-day by day the pure life ebbed away, and Mag looked into the dark eyes and watched their flickering light, till one night, as the sun was setting, the spirit prepared for its departure. Father, and mother, and friends were by the bedside; Mag was there, not sorrowful, but glad with a great hope-a great inspiration. May Burton's life was all spirit now, and Mag Barclay's spirit was all life; Mag, too, was going home at last-wayward, reckless as she had been, sacrilegious in her mockery of man and God, she was going home at last. May was leading her into the land of the great Hereafter-"into the Silent Land." 
               "Put your arms around me once more, my darling!" whispered May Burton, for the last time. 
               And Mag smiled as she kissed her, and whispered back that it was sweet as heaven to be with her. 
               "Now sing to me, Mag." 
               And Mag sung, sweet and clear, a song of Jesus. 
               The light flashed full and bright into those dying eyes. 
               "Oh, Maggy Barclay, I hear music in the air, answering your song! I see the angels!" 
               "Do you see them? Do you see Frank, May? Oh, do you see my father and mother? But you do not know them. You will know them! When you speak to them, tell them that the little girl they left alone on earth, has tried, oh! so hard, to be brave and strong! Tell them that she longs, with an unutterable longing, to meet them in the Hereafter; longs to be folded in their arms, and know their love, and sob all her wild weariness away. Will you tell them, darling?" 
               "I will tell them, Mag, for I know God will permit it." 
               "Tell them that their child has loved them always, and has tried to keep herself pure and true, for them and God. Tell Frank everything that is beautiful, May-I know he loves us." 
               The smile brightened on May's face, as she lay gazing beyond the setting sun. What vision was dawning on those pure, spiritual eyes? Who may know? 
               "I must go now," she murmured. "Kiss me, father-kiss me, mother-kiss me, dear little sisters-kiss me, all." 
               She was almost gone. 
               "Good bye now. Jesus is waiting. I am going to Jesus. Good bye!" 
               She was gone to the unknown land. 
               Magdalene Barclay stood by the grave of May Burton, with tearless eyes. Whether her unnatural exaltation of spirit was insanity, or inspiration, or faith, the great, good God alone knows. It was well that some spirit sustained or strengthened her then, for her life-work was not yet accomplished. She was to go forth into the world again, and meet the tempter. She had gained large victories, but she was to meet him on another battle-ground. He disputed possession of her heart, and gave up the contest only to renew it with tenfold strength in the vital parts of the soul. 
               Mag saw May Burton close her eyes in that last, dreamless slumber; saw her last smile, as they laid her away for the great awakening in the hereafter, and then went on her own way, strengthened, to accomplish the work whereto God had sent her. 
               And now she must attend to her book. Her first business was to test its merits. Dr. Barker, its guardian, must see it. But Dr. Barker, she found, had just gone West for an indefinite time, and Mag must find other resources. She thought over every human being, of her acquaintance, whose criticism would avail her. She did not dare trouble Hudson Ely. And Alec Ross? 
               It was against her principles to have dealings that could be avoided, with a man who had once played the traitor. She remembered now but one human being who she thought could aid her; not to a stranger would she again go for aid; her first adventure should be a warning for all eternity. But friends and foes are guided by the same motives of action in this world; there is good and evil both, in every heart. There was good in Alec Ross, and evil in Charles Moore, and evil, too, in Mag's imperfect, human heart. 
               Rev. Mr. B---, of Boston, had once taken the fancy to patronize her, as he saw her on a school-examination at Glenlyn. He was an author, acquainted with the literary world. To him she would go. 
               To Boston she went; sent a message to the Rev. gentleman, to meet, at the Revere House, the pupil he had once patronized. And he came. It had been years since she had seen him, and she would not at first unfold all of her book project; she wanted to form an opinion of the man; also he might judge of her development. She only half fancied his style of thought. At last she introduced her book, with an apology. 
               "He had always expected the world would hear from her. Now, with her knowledge of southern life, she had it in her power to do a vast deal of good in writing against the damnable institution of slavery. He would gladly be the patron of a work from her pen, against that accursed evil." 
               Mag "was afraid her sentiments might be considered by him as rather too conservative. If she represented southern life at all, she should represent it exactly as she found it." 
               "Yes, and she had found it the most damnable, God-forgotten, hell-deserving curse, that Satan had ever succeeded in bringing upon earth. There was no language strong enough to pour out anathemas upon the hell-born, abominable, accursed thing." 
               Mag laughed-saucy thing-but she could not help it; he seemed to spit out those adjectives of cursing, as though they rolled sweet on his tongue, and he enjoyed the flavor. 
               She asked him, "if that might not be what was termed orthodox swearing? What it would do for ministers to use, but not the reprobates, for fear of being considered wicked?" 
               And she wondered, too, if those were the tones Christ used in his address to the "Generation of Vipers." She had always fancied them tones of indignant grief, not of hatred. There was passion and anger in this man's tones; and, as we have said, Mag looked on all licensed passion with unconcealed contempt. 
               "If I had heard a 'southern fire-eater' use those phrases, sir, I should say to him that I did not consider them sufficiently elegant for parlor use, or for ladies' ears; however, they give one an idea of wealth of language; ideas seem to flow so fast, they cannot be spouted forth decently and in order. But, to change the subject, sir, can you tell me whether the statue of Beatrice Cenci is still in Boston?" 
               And Mag exerted herself to talk of art, and oratory, and music, and everything but her book, for now she would, by no means, permit it to this man. They took a long ride to Cambridge and Mount Auburn, rode through the cemetery, and recited the poets, and Mag again wished herself safely in heaven, while she was looking at those beautiful monuments among the trees, and wished she could drive on till she reached the unknown, for she saw now that her book, written with so many prayers, must risk itself among strange publishers for criticism-poor thing-and it was not yet finished. Home to Glenlyn she must go, and work day and night to finish the thing, before she returned to Alabama, and let it try its luck in New York on the way back, to be bridesmaid at Mack Walter's wedding. It was Alice, after all. 
               She thought of all these things while talking with her abolition friend, on the observatory at Mount Auburn. At last, she bade him a good bye, thanking him for showing her the lions of Boston. But she would not leave Boston then; not after she had been over the State House, and the Common, and to the Bunker Hill monument, and to the Navy Yard, and on board of a man-of-war in the harbor; she would not leave Boston till she took a solitary promenade past No. 12 State street, to see if she could not catch a glimpse of the editor of the "Boston Journal." She had an overwhelming curiosity to know whether he wore spectacles. 
               Mag worked herself fairly insane on her book. Morning, noon and night she let her brain run wild, and her nerves also. She finished it at last, and started alone again, as she came, on her travels homeward to Alabama. She grew a little faint-hearted, in spite of herself, at that Babel of New York; for she was desperately tired of that hard brainwork, and she was at times famishing again for Frank, and May and Charlie. But she had poured out her life in prayers on the book-it was to be the test of God after all, and her courage and strength must not fail her now, for now or never was the time for action. She had come to the Rubicon. 
               The carriage stopped at the -- House-that quiet, aristocratic hotel by --- Park. She avoided the - --; she had been there-it was no place for a lady alone. The clerk of the establishment met her at the carriage, as if she had been a millionaire. Mag concluded that there must be something decidedly more distingu in her appearance than in her purse, or the gentlemanly fellow would not be so deferential. She graciously accepted his consideration, booked herself for room No.-, a pleasant, private parlor on the first floor. She walked into the public sitting-room that fronts Union Square, and found herself face to face with Charles Atherton Moore! 
               Mag had learned to keep her face under perfect control; the blood fled from it, but not a muscle quivered; her senses were well trained now-they had been through a stern ordeal since last she had trembled before him. Her frame quivered slightly with emotion as she placed her hand in his. Not yet was her prayer for him answered. She met him frankly and honestly. 
               "God knows I am glad to see you, Charles Moore! You have been a strange rover. I am glad you are going home at last." 
               Those eyes were upon her again. 
               "I have wandered beyond your wildest dreams, Magdalene Barclay, and you are a wild dreamer. I told you I was going on the road to destruction, because you promised to follow me there. I have tried the path thoroughly, Mag-looked for Ruin, have not found it utterly, but now I have found you and Ruin together." 
               At words like these, Mag's powers came in play. She became perfectly self-possessed. It was not the Charles Moore of her dreams. 
               "Come to my room, No. 60, in a half hour, Charles Moore, I will talk with you there." 
               In a half hour she had made her toilet to receive him. She went to meet him, as he sent his card-gave him her hand as a princess might have done to a favored subject, and they entered the parlor together. 
               There was a proud, firm compression of those curved lips, and a steel-look in the blue eyes at the gracious reception of the princess Mag. 
               "I told you long ago, Mag, that I should never again make a proposal of honorable love to you. I gave you a gem once, that you trampled upon ruthlessly. I have grown ruthless since. You have sown the wind, you must reap the whirlwind." 
               His breath was upon her cheek, fragrant with wine. While she had been preparing to receive him, he had prepared to receive her. He threw his strong arms around her, drew her down to him upon the sofa-he pinioned her there-he devoured her lips with passionate kisses, murmuring, while she strove madly away from him, in the serpent tones, whose music might have beguiled Eve, "No, you cannot escape me now, Magdalene Barclay! God intended us for each other once, but you have destroyed yourself! I will not chide you now, for you are mine, all mine." 
               Mag could not free herself from those powerful arms. Her presence of mind did not forsake her then. She was perfectly calm. Her spirit rose free and daring. Not even then did she fear him. 
               "Release me, sir," she said, in low and emphatic tones, "or your life will be the forfeit!" 
               "You would never kill me, Mag. You could not do it!" 
               "God knows I would do it!" 
               But his arms pinioned her in a grasp of iron. 
               "Please, Charlie!" said she, cooing softly in her most pleading tones, "please, Charlie, let me go for one little moment. Only see how you have deranged my hair. Please let me go for one instant." 
               He slowly and doubtfully released her. She bounded from his arms and rang the bell-walked to the mirror to arrange her dishevelled tresses. Charles Moore followed her, his arms were around her again, but she was upon her feet now, and forced him from her; she threw him back with her proud strength, and lifted a daring glance to his. There was passionate scorn in her words, low and calm as they rung from the curl of those lips. 
               "God knows I do not fear you, Charles Atherton Moore! And oh, I have such infinite compassion for you! I pity you as the Man-God we used to talk about pitied the Magdalene! Since you and I parted years ago, I have believed in God. If I doubt him utterly again, I will go to that world where Frank Ross has gone. If it be annihilation itself, that will be glorious in comparison with this life on earth, where evil reigns supreme." 
               The servant entered who answered the bell. 
               "I had much to say to you, but it is useless now, you must go." 
               She turned to the servant. "Show the gentleman to the public parlor." 
               Charles Moore did not dare disobey the look of her eye. He walked out, Mag locked the door after him, and then her nerves gave way. She threw herself upon the floor with a long shudder. "'Et tu Brute.' Had it come to this!" Again and again she shuddered-sick-sick-sick-brain, heart, and soul sick! "Was this mockery an answer to the thousand earnest prayers of her bleeding life? Her prayers-her work for years, all mockery! life itself all mockery! heaven a mockery!" 
               Her brain had been overtasked in its labor to finish the book. She had worked on it night and day, with her finger on her pulse, to know how much fever the busy brain could bear, and now the one thing too much had come-it was overtasked at last, and gave way under the terrible rush of thought. 
               "God had done it!" she said again and again. "God had done it, if there was a God! He had fooled her again, in answer to the thousand, thousand bitter prayers of her long years of loveless solitude! While she had been a stranger in a strange land, how she had yearned and thirsted for human love and sympathy! How she had longed for death, but would not take her life in cowardly madness, because, perchance, there was a God! How she had entreated the Unknown God to reveal himself in answer to prayer, and permit her to know that he existed. She had thrown her all upon this venture, faith, love, hope-hope for this world-hope for everlasting life! She had thrown all upon the venture, and lost! All was lost! God had promised faithfully to direct her in all her prayers! He had directed her hither to this! The Bible and Bushnell's "Supernatural" had led her to test God. Her book-her work for years-had been, thus far, only a mockery! God had brought Charles Moore a devil to mock her! Should she not mock and defy the God who had done it? Life was an unmitigated curse; she would not for another day trouble herself with the unendurable thing! She had reached the bottom of the abyss at last! There could be no lower hell! What was life, or earth, or heaven to her, since Charles Moore had turned Arch-Demon? Frank was gone-May Burton was gone-she was entirely alone upon the earth now. No one could miss her, or care when she threw her worthless life away! The prince of the pit had won her heart. Perdition with him was sweeter than heaven without him! Not another moment's bliss could she find upon earth, and now she was going to the Great Unknown-now she would go to the long, dreamless slumber!" 
               Her senses forsook her entirely; she sank into blissful unconsciousness; the spirit was indeed overwrought; the brain, so busy in its desperate life-work and struggle, had gone insane at last; the long excitement of years had reached its crisis. Yes, she had reached the bottomless at last. There were no lower depths for her. Tempted beyond refuge! 
               At last she awoke from unconsciousness; staggered to her feet, went to her trunk, took out her pistol, seated herself self upon the sofa as she examined it, pressed down the balls with trembling fingers. Her nerves shook strangely; they were not controlled by will. She condescended to no prayers now-they were worse than useless-there was no God. Twice her prayers had led her to the mouth of the pit; now she would enter it of her own free will! 
               She smiled to herself, a strange, sad smile, as thought worked on. She wondered what a conscience meant; it was a curious piece of mechanism hung in the human frame; it had influenced her for twenty years; led her over a wild, rough path, a path that she should travel never again!-never more! To the grave she should go, without tasting once on earth the love of father or mother, or home. The pistol might do its work. She smiled again; her fingers pressed upon the trigger caressingly. She turned faint again, and stretched herself exhausted upon the sofa. 
               All night long she lay there; the fever mounted to her brain, burned in her veins; the pistol dropped upon the floor, forgotten. Her brow and temples were hot, and the fingers wandered over them, but could not cool them, for they were burning, too. Footsteps tortured her; her heart throbbed with a beat that was torture too. She forgot everything in the wild torture of thought. Charles Moore had dishonored his own soul; she would not live to see that degradation. It tortured her in fever. He had degraded his soul. 
               The long night passed. Footsteps went by her door. At last, there came a knock, once-twice-thrice repeated. It recalled her senses; she staggered up and opened the door. It was a servant. He brought a note; but she was giddy again, and threw herself upon the couch before she could read it. The servant picked up the pistol, and laid it on the centre-table. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Forgive me the outrage, my darling cousin," the note ran. "I have passed a night full of horror. Permit me to come and ask your forgiveness! Yours devotedly, now and forever. 
                           
                              "CHARLES ATHERTON MOORE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Tell the gentleman I cannot see him." 
               The servant left her. In a few moments there came another knock-and another-and another. She gave no response. The door opened, and Charles Moore entered. 
                
               "You must see me! You must forgive me, Magdalene!" 
               He was kneeling by her side now, and she was smiling upon him with a strange, bright smile; the look in her dark eyes was more than radiance; it was insanity! 
               "I know now it was all a lie they told us about 'Our Father in heaven;' and I am so tired! I must go to sleep, only I can't sleep. I shall never dream any more, dreams of the wild dreamer; there is no dreaming there in the ruins. We will be baptized together; the waters will rock us again in the little boat; it will be so cooling to go down in the water, with the white lilies, together-so very beautiful-you and I together, Charlie! Are you not Charlie? And you can call me 'darling' again; and I will show you all the ruin you have been searching for so long. Put the water cool and fresh upon my heart, for I love you dearly as the Christ loves sinners. I must die now! We are great sinners, Charlie; you and I are great sinners, but love is the atonement. Did you not say you loved me once in Glenlyn, thousands of years ago, and we dreamed of angels, with whom love is never a sin-never, never, never a sin; and we are great sinners, yet we love the angels." 
               Charles Atherton Moore trembled over the ruin he had wrought. If he had searched the world for it, he had found it at last. His lips were tremulous with a great and solemn fear, as he murmured: 
               "I do love you, better than my own life; better than my own soul! I love you for your stainless purity! I would kill myself a thousand times, rather than harm you!" 
               Tears were raining from his eyes upon the fevered brow; they were not unmanly tears. He bathed the brow and hot fingers with water; rang the bell, and sent the servant in all haste for a physician. 
               It was brain fever, Dr. H--- said; the brain had probably been over-wrought, and some sudden excitement had brought the fever to a crisis. The patient would need watchful nursing. 
               And she received it. 
               There were intervals when her senses seemed returning. 
               "Will you not give me the right to nurse you now, Maggy?" he asked, in one of these intervals. "You wronged me years ago in denying me that right. We have wronged each other. Shall we not forgive each other, and right those terrible wrongs?" 
                
               "Do with me as you will. God is deciding for us, Charlie." 
               "You will be mine-all mine, in this sickness and sorrow?" 
               "All yours; I dare not say otherwise. God is doing it." 
               Dr. H--- offered his services in this emergency. A marriage license was procured, and when the excitement would not injure the patient, Mag listened to the solemn service. 
               "Wilt thou take this man to be thy wedded husband?" 
               The response was sweet and clear: "I will." 
               It brought music, forgiveness, and blessing. 
               All that love could do, was done for Magdalene Barclay Moore. With love for medicine, the equilibrium was at last restored to her over-wrought brain and shattered nerves. 
               "Dr. H--- says that I may take you back to Glenlyn soon, ma belle," said Charlie to her, on the sixth day. "You are to keep very quiet and very happy, while I write to Uncle Ross to meet us at the depot. I shall tell him just how naughty you have been, and let him prepare the punishment." 
               "And please, Charlie, write to Colonel Walter, and tell him what a funny excuse I have found for leaving him." 
               "And I will write also to Colonel Moore and lady, of Huntsville, that their wandering boy is coming home again, and is to bring them as a daughter the wayward, coquettish little New England girl, that sent him for years a rover, and has almost been his ruin. She is going to redeem him now." 
               "Will they love her, Charlie?" 
               "She will steal their hearts whether they wish it or not. They must love her, or I shall disown them." 
               "And I am to have father and mother! I am to have a sister Lizzy and brother Guy, and home and friends! Oh, Charlie, I am sure it is impossible! All for me?" 
               "And I shall write to Guy and Lizzy that we are coming there. Shall we wait and go to Newport and Nahant first, this summer, for your health, or home first?" 
               "It is all a dream, Charlie. I want to sail on the little lake at Glenlyn and talk to you about Frank and May; and we must see Hudson and Min Ely. Oh, two such famous boys as they have, Charlie! You would never believe it! And, Charlie, I saw Lizzy's baby laid in the grave; it was named for you! And Guy is such a grand fellow! How he does love you! And how much we have to talk about!" 
               "Hush, hush, chatterbox! You will never get well if you talk so fast. Why, Mag, the words come pouring out in such profusion, there is no order to them. What a tongue you have, and what lips! But the doctor has forbid your talking; you must go to sleep now." 
               "I am so happy, I can't think of sleep." 
               "Then you can't go to Glenlyn next week. Seriously, Mag, you must sleep." 
               "How can I, Charlie, when I can't?" 
               "You are one willful, naughty girl." 
               Charlie put the willful head near his heart, closed the willful eyes; and large tears stole from under those long lashes, and she sobbed herself to sleep at last, exhausted with her fullness of content. 
             
             
               XXX. HOME AT LAST. 
               IN a few days, the nurse whom Dr. H--- had sent, permitted Mag to be dressed. Charlie received her with a grateful joy, to which she responded. 
               "I must thank God now for it all! My heart has been running over with prayers continually, but now I must tell the great, good God how I love him. It is so easy to believe in him and trust him when we are happy; but you told me that, years ago, in Glenlyn. May I tell God that I love him now, Charlie?" 
               "You are a strange child, Mag." 
               "But the 'Our Father' is all the father I have ever known-a better God to me than the distant, Mighty God of whom we once talked. He is near us; he folds us in his arms when we trust him, and listens in love to our wildest sorrow and gladdest joy. It was wrong for me to doubt him as I did when you came to me. May I tell him so?" 
               "Tell him all you please. If he loves you as I do he will pardon you though everything is wrong." 
               "But it can't be wrong. If God is true at all, he is wholly true. If God is anything to us, he is and ought to be everything to us-our father, lover and friend. May I tell him how you and I have come home together at last, and love him, Charlie? We love him because he loves us, and commands us to love each other as our own souls. Shall I tell him? It will be very beautiful!" 
               "Do you love God, because I love you, Mag?" 
               "When there were a thousand tempters around me, in my worse than solitude-when I was alone among those whom I thought to be human demons-and entirely unprotected, if there was no God, I thought of the magnanimous and honorable love you had shed upon me in blessing, then your image towered like an angel beyond all the selfish, passion-bound slaves around me, and I went to the unknown God, in humility, and thanked him that I had once known you. I promised him that if he would restore you to me, but for one day, I would be satisfied. I would know that I had tasted the deepest bliss life had to give, and I would die gratefully, saying, as Jacob said when Joseph was restored, 'It is enough!' God has permitted me to be with you now many days, and I must thank him, for I feel very unworthy of it all. I do not realize this new life. I tremble, fearing it is but a dream from which I shall soon awaken. I have been a stranger and a rover so long-feeling forever that happiness unshared was not happiness-that I shudder, fearing I must leave you, even yet, and I must ask our Father to keep us both." 
               "You shall ask him for me, Mag." 
               And Mag knelt down then, and thanked God because he had brought them home to him. She asked him in all humility, for Christ's sake, to preserve the hearts trembling with the very fullness of the great happiness of earth. She asked him to fill them with his Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, and make them meek, and lowly, and loving, and pure. She asked him to teach them to love and adore him supremely, and to make them so lovely in his eyes that he would delight in his children. 
               "Charlie and Mag went to Glenlyn. Uncle Ross met them. 
               "You have done it at last, Mag," he said. 
               "Charlie did it, uncle! I never should have done so rash a thing in my sane senses." 
               "H'm! The most sensible thing you ever performed in your life. You have been a crazy child all your days. I hope Charlie will keep you in close quarters now, till you behave yourself." 
               "On the whole, uncle," said Mag, "I've concluded that the marriage couldn't have been legal. I know I was not in my senses. Can't something be done about it now? Charlie has deceived me-captured me under false pretences. I thought he was a soldier and belonged to the United States army; and now it turns out he is a coward, has deserted the army; and I am in heart-rending tribulation. Don't you think that ceremony illegal?" 
               "We will have it performed over again some night next week, with all the honors. I myself will see that the knot is fastened so firmly that there will not be the slightest possibility of your slipping it." 
               "But how am I to join the army, uncle? Charlie will be court-martialed the instant he reports himself. His furlough was only for six months, and he has been gone for years. I am broken-hearted over it all." 
               "If you are really anxious, Mag, I can get up a shipwreck to account for the desertion," said Charlie. "Father was a soldier himself, you know, and has influence with the government, especially in the war department, and I can yet take you to join the army in Texas. How will you enjoy frontier life? If you cannot submit to hardships, I shall be obliged to leave you here." 
               "Do you think you'll be able to find anything to eat on the frontiers? Eating is a very bad habit, of which I was never able to break myself, though I tried excessively when I was on the frontiers. Please, Charlie, don't starve me." 
               "I think most of the people in San Antonio live by eating, Mag, and I'll try my best to feed you." 
               "Thank you, Charlie. How much you relieve my fears!" 
               Mag was poring over a book one day-"The Eclipse of Faith"-her eyes eclipsed with tears at the death of Harrington, in the last pages, when Charlie found her. 
               "And about that book of yours, Mag?" said he. "You have spent so many prayers over it, and poured out your heart and life upon it-of course you intend to publish it now." 
               "There is no occasion to publish it now, Charlie. I have found my position without it." 
               "That remark is not like yourself, Mag." 
                
               "Well, I don't think my opinions of life were fully formed when I wrote. I was young-thought undeveloped. In the next two years, if mind and thought expand as God intended they should, I shall have outgrown the book of my girlhood, and repudiated it. What is truth to a girl of eighteen, is seldom truth to a woman who has tested life." 
               "You said you were testing God, audacious girl. Dare you leave your work unfinished, having persecuted him with your prayers over it for years? Dare you do less than your best for it?" 
               "It is a crucifixion to my pride to be brought before the public-to permit every bantling of a critic to display his powers, by spending his opinions on my opinions. What I wrote, was truth to me when I wrote it. Now it is precious to me as truth. Many would condemn it, because to very few has experience taught such truth. Nothing but desperation ever drove me to write it. It is a penniless woman's last resort to gain a standing-place in the world-her only hope for safety and seclusion, from a daily public life, in the sanctuary of a home. I was sick of the very danger of my position. With my habits of thought, it was unsafe to be a stranger, a teacher and a woman-my temperament was against me also, for when I doubted God, in orphanage, and went to his ministers for comfort, they called me that horror of horrors, a female skeptic. A woman's name-the slightest breath can stain it, and there is no redemption. In desperation, as a last resort, I wrote a book, and wrote what life had taught me, but I do not wish to be brought before the world, by publishing it, now that the necessity is over." 
               "But the answer to the prayer of faith? You have prayed over your pages for months-you wish to know for yourself whether the Supernatural comes to the aid of Nature, as Bushnell teaches. Do you believe in miraculous answers to prayer with him?" 
               "I believe that God makes us work out the answers to our own prayers. 'Faith without works is dead.' God does not permit man for one instant to throw aside his own energy. Labor develops the faculties for that higher life in the hereafter; and God intends to force us to the highest development, by teaching us to answer our own prayers. If God answered prayer otherwise, men would lose energy..... My book is written-the writing of it was an education to me; even if an utter failure, I have a clean conscience. I have done with my might what my hands found to do-have used to the best of my abilities the talents committed to my care. If the book perish, let it perish, it has developed my faculties. I take a higher stand-point of thought than if it had never been undertaken-am worthier of your regard, and God's approbation. Let the book perish. I have lived in it up to a nobler life." 
               "You have educated your energies..... What is to become of them now?.... Action is your life..... Rest will be certain death to one who has cultivated your restless habits of action." 
               "You and I ought to do some good in the world-it is demanded of you, Charles Atherton Moore. You have no right to permit your royal nature to live any longer in selfish luxury. It must do a noble life-work now." 
               "You would make your fortune, Mag, by giving public lectures." 
               "I intended to try it, if my book proved a failure. It would be a crucifixion of my womanly nature, but a last resort..... I could do it, when the last friend, who could mourn over my destruction, was gone..... No one on earth to understand me..... I could afford to put on a mask, take my shame upon me, and see what the world could give me-for, having lost all, I could lose nothing more." 
               "Goethe says, 'The longer I live, the more certain I am that the great difference between men, the great and insignificant, is energy-invincible determination-an honest purpose once fixed-and then victory. That quality will do anything that can be done in the world, and no opportunity, no circumstances will make a creature a man without it.'" 
               "I believed it ..... and if I did not, my case was not less desperate ..... nothing more for me to lose..... I intended to preach, however, that woman's province was home-that she had better go to her grave than ever step out of its shelter. I intended to advise all mothers to take their little daughters to heaven with them, rather than leave them alone in a world like this. I was going to approve the customs of the Chinese, of killing their female children, and of the Hindoos, of burning their widows." 
               "Your lectures would have been popular, for you would have made them eloquent, pathetic, pious and witty." 
                
               "There are two worlds in America, one of which is ruled by the 'Almighty Dollar,' and one in which intellect is power. Oh, how those do worship the former who cannot enter the latter! A friendless woman has no hope to win a position in either world, but by writing books-and alas, the only books her intellect, cultivation and experience permit her to write, are romances. The world is flooded with romances written by women. Some have written in desperation, as I wrote, others wrote because they were endowed with minds that were stagnating for want of action, or growing morbid with thought that was preying upon itself, having no outlet or exercise. You have no idea, Charlie, of the intense pity I have for these idle, restless minds." 
               "Yet you are not one of the strong-minded-would not send them before the public to work?" 
               "Never! God help them! A woman's province is home-her throne in one human heart, not on the lips of the world!" 
               "You are a mass of contradictions!" 
               "These strong souls are terribly tempted at times. To you I may say a daring thing, because you will not misunderstand me. Many and many a woman in America has prostituted herself by a legal marriage-given her person without her heart, for gold. I can see, by my battle for existence among the false who wore the garb of Christianity, how a friendless woman could be tempted to buy protection at such a terrible price-the gift of a hand without a heart. But what you thought of, in New York, I believe to be as holy in God's eyes, for we loved each other. It would have been a horrible sin, one that would have brought its own retribution-a pure nature would have found in it insanity and death! God permits sin to work out its own curse at times." 
               "Go on, Mag; a woman has very little knowledge of the strange loves of a man's experience. Well for them that they have not! They are Shielded from knowledge that would stain the purity which alone makes their natures lovely." 
               "But, for that very reason, a lady writer cannot represent life as it really is. Most of their romances represent life falsely. What life has taught must be written, and few women have large experiences." 
               "Lola Montez is a woman of large experiences." 
               "She paid a pearl of price for them! 'Thou art inexcusable cusable, O man, that judgest another!' I never dared condemn Lola Montez. She was terribly tempted. It was a sorrowful thing that she yielded to temptation. She deceived something noble in her nature when she permitted herself to do evil, that good might come to Bavaria. God shall judge her. I was once tempted to the crime of suicide, but you saved me!" 
               "God saved you, Mag, and you saved me. We should have found ruin and death together!" 
               "Do you know what became of my pistol, Charlie? The last I remember of it, I laid it on the centre-table." 
               "I took possession of it, supposing it was intended for me. I think I deserved it. But now for your book." 
               "Charlie, the book will bring me into the world again, as another one of the race of female novelists-poor souls!" 
               "You can publish anonymously. You can send your child an orphan into the world, to perish, if it has not strength enough to save itself." 
               "Poor, unprotected thing! And laugh at it myself, when the critics annihilate it? It seems almost cruel." 
               "In these days, a book witten by Gabriel or Ithuriel could not be a success on earth, without literary friends to notice and puff it. Faith cannot save it without that kind of work. I can help you answer your own prayers for its success, by inducing the faithful to work for it. You will allow me to do that, so that you may know, for certain, whether all your prayers, and faith, and labor have been in vain." 
               "Well, Charlie, put pictures in the book-I like pictures." 
               "You do, you witch! And will you go to Europe with me, when it is all over?" 
               "I would rather go home." 
               "Your home is wherever I am. Shall we go to Asia, too?" 
               "Once you promised to take me to Congress. I want to go to Congress. I intend to vote for Douglas, too. I like him. He is a man. He has made some false steps, but because he knows how to profit by defeat, I like him. You certainly must go to Congress, Charlie!" Mag could not get over the habit of dealing in badinage. 
               "I'll do anything reasonable for you, Mag. But I've concluded to take you into the army, and soldiers can't be Congressmen, till they have fought and bled for their country! You are getting exorbitant in your requirements." 
               "I am getting crazy to see Lizzy and Guy. Are not you?" 
               "I am not of the insane order, you know, Mag. It is necessary that one member of the family should be cool and prudent, to preserve equilibrium. There must be a balancing power." 
               "I am glad that discretion and prudence are your forte. You know I pride myself on my indiscretion. I can take large license now." 
               "I have no doubt you will try your power. When you try it against me, I shall exert mine, and I won, I believe, in that last trial." 
               "It is the great charm of life, that you are my superior." 
               "Thank you. It was difficult to find your superior, was it not, Mag? You played your part admirably with me, and won the victory when you thought yourself defeated, as ladies often do." 
               A few evenings after this, all the lite of Glenlyn were assembled at the Ross mansion, to do the honors! Josie Newton was there, with all her blushing glories thick upon her. Aunt Lina was there, and declared that she was proud of Mag at last. Alec Ross was there, and by his side a pure, sunny-eyed girl, who looked up to him with a woman's reverence. To him the charm of her nature was its fresh, bright purity. Like many another Puritan girl, bred in the sanctuary of New England hills, her wildest dreams had no conception of the strange paths in which passion had led the man she worshipped. She thought him too noble to be influenced by temptation. She was destined to fulfill woman's mission; to purify by her gentleness, goodness, and truth, the heart, of whose stains she remained forever unconscious. 
               Neither Frank Ross nor May Burton were there. 
               Frank's father and his mother looked for him and missed him. A sadness trembled on his mother's lip, and settled on his father's brow. 
               Mag and Charlie went to them. Charlie said: 
               "We could not have loved Frank Ross more dearly, if he had been our own brother. For his sake, let us be your children, Uncle Ross." 
                
               A tear started down Dr. Ross's cheek, and many tears rained on Aunt Emma's heart, as he replied, fervently: 
               "God bless you, my dear children." 
               Dr. Ross recovered the tone of his spirits during the evening, enough to distinguish himself by a "sentiment," which he gave on the marriage occasion. It was received by the company with all the honors. 
               "The union of the North and South. The South, the first-born of mother England, and full of strength, yet, with a disease in its bosom; the South, rich with a proud but generous chivalry, that at times leads it a reckless rover into lands not its own. The North, second-born of her mother, earnest, brave, and noble as her own rugged mountains and lovely valleys. The North has stung the restless pride of the first-born, by tampering with the disease in its veins, till the love was dissolved that once united them, and ruin and desolation threatened their union. In much tribulation, they have found, at last, that only in union is strength; only in family love can be found true prosperity, peace, and happiness. Only in the union of the North and South can the spirit of true freedom find its home. Only when the spirit of love is in that home, can God pour out his blessing. 
               "The union of the North and South. With God's blessing, its offspring will be Liberty and Peace." 
               Charles Atherton Moore and Magdalene Barclay Moore were soon on their way to Alabama. Alabama-a fitting name: Here we rest.
                
               Grandfather and Grandmother Barclay gave them a parting blessing, the patriarch leaning upon his staff. Again tears fell from Mag's eyes, for her heart was softening at last. She listened to his words in much sorrow, for she knew she should see his face no more. 
               "The Lord bless thee, and keep thee; the Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace." 
               Charles Moore joined the army; but, when on furlough, their home was with Colonel Moore in Huntsville. Their life was not of unalloyed bliss; it is not the lot of any upon earth; well for the earth-born that it is not, or they would forget that they must win another heaven beyond the grave. There were partings that were full of sadness to them; but there were meetings, also, full of bliss. Mag never saw the day when she did not need the smile of God. There were daily blessings, for which she was grateful, the love given her for Charlie's sake. She needed God's smile upon it always, to make it perfect, and she did not forget to ask God for that smile. She won an honorable place in the hearts of the household. 
               Colonel Moore came to her one day, as she sat listlessly upon the sofa. 
               "You seem to be in a pouting mood, my daughter. You may recover yourself by being useful." And to put Mag in the way of being useful, he stretched himself upon the sofa, with his head upon her lap. "Now, while you magnetize my headache, you may tell me what you and Charlie have been quarrelling about. I don't intend to let Charlie impose upon you, he is too much of a tyrant always." 
               "He is a terrible fellow, he is so jealous!" 
               "This is about my idea of heaven, Mag; to lie on a lounge with a pretty girl's fingers in my hair." 
               "You must not mention your ideas of heaven to the over-pious, papa; they will be shocked, and tell you that angels are too busy and in better business, than to spend a priceless eternity in combing hair." 
               "I haven't acquired heavenly tastes yet; my ideas are about as earthly as those of the good old lady, who thought she should sit in heaven all day with a clean apron and sing psalms." 
               "You must improve your tastes, papa. You shock us by mentioning them." 
               "I can't help liking to have pretty fingers play the deuce with my hair!" Mag gave said hair a twist. "Mag! look out for the pulling! And I do love good little girls who have the mischief in them-I can't help it. And I hope they won't get it all taken out of them, before they go to the better land. I should hate it mightily if you were not as big a witch in heaven as you are here!" 
               "Oh, papa! How wicked! Charlie is dreadfully jealous of you!" 
               "He knows you are a born coquette-the reprobate! You'll be coquetting with me soon; but I'll stand between you and all harm-and do you tell Charlie so. You are too obedient altogether." 
               "And I am jealous of mamma, too. Charlie thinks her perfect, and I have done my best to get perfect, and I can't. What can I do about it?" 
                
               "It's a puzzle, isn't it, Mag? You'll never be like mamma surely, or like any one else but yourself. The Ethiopian cannot change his skin, nor the leopard his spots. It is a hopeless case for you. You must try to make the best of it." 
               "Do you know I have been trying all my life to pattern after that model of meekness, vanity and submission, Josephine of France, and now I am more like any other pattern in the universe than hers. It is discouraging. Don't you think so?" 
               "It is a discouraging world, any way. But I'll help you all I can, if you'll promise not to spoil yourself by being too good." 
               "I'll promise." 
               "Haven't you found the world a terribly discouraging place?" 
               "I don't know," said Mag, growing serious at the thought. "I remember several years of my life that were discouraging. When I left Glenlyn, everybody forgot me; that made me feel my insignificance. Then I went to Mississippi, and found no new friends to fill the vacancy. And worse than that in Marion, I found none but false friends; and that was discouraging, for I thought I was going to the bad, in spite of myself. I wondered some very sublime things over it all. Wondered what I had done, that God should treat me so; wondered if I had been wicked all my life, without knowing it, till I was given up to evil, like the man McCosh tells about, who, having gone on in prosperity, and flourished in wickedness, till he thought he and evil were omnipotent, found suddenly one day that adversity had come. Then his sins, that had supported him, every one turned against him. They came out from all their hiding-places, in the battle-ground of life, and hunted him like sleuth-hounds in full cry, and every cry a curse, till he knew, at last, that the tendency of all sin is to ruin and destruction. I thought that my unconscious sins were carrying me to ruin, or else there was no God. Then the world was discouraging." 
               God does not always save the good; many a good man and woman will find no refuge from evil but in the grave." 
               "But the tendency of good is to build up. If we cling to the good within us, through all temptations, at last it will strengthen us, and if prosperity does come, all that good within us then comes to crown us with blessings. Many and many, for want of energy, or on account of some evil that has descended to them, perhaps from the third and fourth generation, or from the violation of some law of nature, have fainted and died before the day of prosperity came. God works by law; faith works by law. Men cannot transgress the laws of nature, the laws of their physical and moral being, without suffering the consequences of the transgression, and the worst consequences descend in curses upon their children! But it makes me sad to think of these things. I believe I want to cry, papa, and I wish somebody would love me." 
               "You are growing so wise, it will be right hard to love you!" 
               "Oh, papa is growing cross! And there comes Charlie with the horses, and I am glad, for I don't love cross people. Isn't Grey Eagle a beauty? But my Grey Falcon is the most graceful. I think I prefer Charlie to you after all, and I hope you, papa, will have a great heart-ache for jealousy. I shall coquette with Charlie. I can do it with a perfect ravishment on horse-back." 
               "I could swear to that." 
               "Don't, sir, if you please. Isn't this riding cap a distingu affair? And won't it be a cap-ital thing if I cap-tivate Cap-tain Moore instead of his father, the colonel? Good-by, papa. Au revoir." 
               And Mrs. Charles Atherton Moore tossed a handful of kisses back on her fingers, as Charlie met her. They mounted and rode away. 
               Under all this badinage lay a broad, true, pure strength; it was like the bright ocean foam that covers deep, still waters. She loved the Father with an earnest, child-like love-the playfulness of her nature had often been cultivated, to veil from profane eyes the sacred secrets of her being; if she must go to the bottomless she would go smiling-now it rippled into daily life as sunshine. She considered happiness a great duty as well as a great art. It was a great duty to cultivate her nature toward perfection. 
               Charles and Magdalene Moore recognized at last the loving Father's hand as having always guided them through mysterious ways. They became members of Christ's Church on earth-devoting themselves to the task of developing to their utmost power all that was divine in humanity. By doing God's will, at last they learned to know the doctrines. 
                
               They had wonderful and mysterious hopes and loves, laid up in the unknown land. Frank and May were beyond the grave; and beyond the grave, Mag hoped to introduce Charlie to her own father and mother. They talked of it as a glad and beautiful thing. Strange to say, Mag had never doubted their love for her, with all her wild doubting; and she did not doubt their love for Charlie, because of his devotion to their deserted child. 
               But they had glorious earthly loves of brother and sister. 
               And one spring-time found them with Guy and Lizzy at Rose Hill; the roses and honeysuckles had learned to bloom in the wilderness. 
               "This life of ours is a perfect romance," said Mag, one day, as they four lingered over the breakfast-table. "But marriage is a serious thing, after all. Think of the monotony of sitting down opposite the same face at table three times a day, and three hundred and sixty-five days in a year." 
               "Unutterably horrible!" groaned Charlie. 
               "Human nature is so exhaustive!" continued Mag. "How do you and Guy manage to be interesting to each other so many days in a year, Lizzy? I have discovered that it is a terrible thing to have all we desire." Guy laughed. 
               "Yes," said he, "forbidden fruit is the only desirable fruit in the Eden of the world. Wealth, honor, fame and love are beautiful in the distance. We tire of them all, when we have them in possession. ''Tis distance lends enchantment,' etc." 
               "To quote Emerson," responded Lizzy, mischievously, "'The accepted and betrothed lover has lost the wildest charm of his maiden, in her acceptance of him. She was heaven while he pursued her as a star, she cannot be heaven if she stoops to such a one as he.'" 
               "Therefore," said Mag, "a woman must never permit even her husband to suspect her devotion, or she loses it." 
               "It is a great art to extract all the charms from existence, sis," said Charlie. "The heart has so many labyrinths, that it may require a lifetime to thread them all and know them well. I have not begun to learn all the varieties of Mag's nature, yet; and Lizzy, you will confer a favor if you will become acquainted with a part of her, and give me an introduction." 
               Mag laughed, and said: 
               "Few find marriage what they expect or desire. One philosopher says, 'If a man marries, he repents, and if he does not marry, he repents'-all of which goes to prove that marriage and human nature are great institutions, and must be managed with a great deal of art to produce happiness." 
               "Theodore Parker says," added Charlie, "'The intensest consciousness of friendship does not last long; men have but once the ecstasy of love-all rapture must be short-human nature could not long endure the tension.'" 
               "Love is an evergreen tree, that blossoms all the year round," said Guy Erwin. 
               "And bears twelve manner of fruits, and its leaves are for the healing of the nations," said Mag. "The nations of the world! the great, false, foul world! so full of angels, too! or it would have returned to its original chaos long ago, as a refuge from evil!" 
               And they all mused over the sentiment, till Charlie broke silence: 
               "This human nature is a strange institution! For somewhat less than a thousand years, I have watched it-exhausting its charms, getting ennuied past all endurance with it, and again amused past all knowledge." 
               "The proper study of mankind is woman-of womankind is man," said Mag. "How soon the sweet creatures do exhaust their charms! In a week we have fathomed all a woman's knowledge, played all the changes upon mind, heart and soul, and agree with the great philosopher Solomon, who knew the race so well, 'Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.'" 
               "Poor Solomon!" said Guy, "the race were the ruin of him, poor fellow! What a fortune it must have taken to keep three thousand of them, in the height of fashion! In these days, one woman in herself has the variety of character of Solomon's three thousand, and it is not quite so expensive to find entertainment in the sphere of woman." 
               "You remember the three Johns, in the 'Autocrat of the Breakfast Table,'" said Charlie. "Well, my Eve yonder is an improvement on even that variety. Besides the Eve that Adam knows, the Eve as Eve knows herself, and the Eve as God knows her, there is congregated in the personality of my Zo an innumerable variety of other Eves. She is a different personage altogether to every member of the universe who meets her, and every time they meet her she is a different personage. She might take the place of Solomon's three thousand. If you become acquainted with one of her, one day, you may be obliged to be introduced to another of her the next day-she is never twice the same; and, if at the end of a year or two, you suppose you had learned all of her, you are as much mistaken, as if you supposed you knew all the varieties of color in cloud beauty, or of form in sea foam. The age is progressive, and mind progresses with age, and the Eve sitting yonder so demurely, not only has mind, but cultivation and the power of expansion!" 
               "All that?" asked Mrs. Moore, in astonishment. 
               "She is a perfect specimen of what is the glory of the American Union-E Pluribus Unum!" 
               "The subject is exhausted," said Eve Moore. "Men never show their real selves to women; they come to them usually in the garb of angels, but when they dare they put on the glory of the arch-fiend; but women to men likewise. It is an art to renew the rapture of friendship or love; change, variety, action, rest, recreation, succession, are the secrets. With these we may charm our friends, and preserve love, and the heart itself may expand in the effort to forget itself and make the happiness of others." 
               "Jefferson said that the secret of happiness lay in finding employment," added Guy. "Most men rush into employment to forget their longings, ungratified heart-hunger and thirst." 
               "Many business-men devote themselves to business, to forget in its rush of care, that in their homes they find no communion of soul; men with physical natures forget their home wants in sensual intoxication; intellectual natures drown their hunger for intellectual home companionship, by study and intoxication of thought," said Lizzy Erwin, and her blue eye dilated as she went on. "Few women in this southern country are treated as men's equals. That is one of the evils of slavery. It enervates the young in both physical and intellectual energy. A woman at the South never develops her energies; she is treated while young and beautiful as a pet child; when her charms have faded, she still demands that worship, and receives-neglect, desertion, or attention given from duty, not love or esteem." 
               "Lizzy, I am astonished!" said Mag. "A southern woman to dare say that of her own!" 
               "There is too much truth in it, both North and South," said Charles Moore. "When woman has beauty, cultivation and religion, she has splendid power of conferring happiness, as well as receiving it. And religion means self-denial, self-sacrifice, meekness-means far more than the French Michelet teaches of love-it means all that the Man-God taught of devotion." 
               "Southern women have no motive for employment," said Mag. "Life is not life without something to live for, something to be gained. We need a motive for action, and some hope, and some necessity to attract and spur on our energies. Southern women have neither; but they are the most graceful women in the world, most regal in their loveliness notwithstanding." 
               "Southern men and women may find motives for action and wonderful spheres of usefulness at home," said Charles Moore. "They have already raised the degraded hordes of Africa to a higher sphere; their work and duty is to continue that education, and raise them in the scale of existence. Hugh Miller says that there are races of men who can never be raised from their degradation. Nott and Gliddon make use of this opinion to strengthen the argument against the unity of races. England pronounces freedom in Hayti a failure, on account of the hopeless sluggishness of the African blood." 
               "Where do you get your authorities, Moore?" asked Guy. 
               Charlie read from the London "Times." 
               "'There is no blinking the truth. Years of bitter experience-years of hope deferred, of self-devotion unrequited, of poverty, of humiliation, of prayers unanswered, of sufferings derided, of insults unresented, of contumely patiently endured-have convinced us of the truth. It must be spoken out loudly and energetically, despite the wild mockings of howling cant. The freed West India negro slave will not till the soil for wages; the free son of the ex-slave is as obstinate as his sire. He will cultivate lands which he has not bought for his own yams, mangoes, and plantains. These satisfy his wants; he does not care for yours. Cotton, and sugar, and coffee, and tobacco-he cares little for them. And what matters it to him that the Englishman has sunk his thousands and tens of thousands on mills, machinery and plants, which now totter on the languishing estate, that for years has only returned beggary and debts. We wish to heaven that some people, not parsons or clergymen, but some just-minded minded, honest-hearted and clear-sighted men, would go out to some of the islands-not for a month or three months, but for a year-would watch the precious protg of English philanthropy, the freed negro in his daily habits. We wish they would view the blazonry of his idleness, his pride, his ingratitude, contemptuously sneering at the industry of that race which made him free, and then come home and teach the memorable lesson of their experience to the fanatics who have perverted him into what he is.'" 
               "There is some truth in the document," said Guy Erwin. 
               "But we know that the generations of the negro race have risen in the scale of existence since they first came to these shores from Africa. They have been taught something of civilization and something of Christianity. Our duty is to help them, as well as ourselves, to a still higher life. It may be that slavery in America is to be the means appointed by God for spreading Christianity in Africa." 
               "God has permitted it at least, for reasons known only to himself. It is the old problem of evil, over and over again, till the heart is tortured by the unsolved mystery. We only know that for some good reason God has permitted slavery in America, and we must make the best of it whether we like it or not, and do our best for them," said Guy. 
               And the party adjourned from breakfast, to try the old hunting life in the woods of Mississippi, with the Hudsons. All thought even frontier life a luxury with such companionship. Anywhere is heaven if the heart is right. Christ said the kingdom of heaven is within you. We know that the kingdom of evil lies in human hearts. Heaven could not be heaven if a solitude, for heaven is love. 
               And so life went on with these immortals. 
               Never did Mag see a time when she did not need to lean upon God. There came a time when she was an anxious watcher by Charlie's sick-bed. Then her heart was full of prayer and pleading. But then she thanked God, because he had permitted an earthly love so sweet and holy. She remembered then her promise, once made to him, that she would be satisfied with one day of love: he had given her blessed years. She thanked him for those years. She pleaded with God the Father to continue them-asking blessings in the name of God the Son. She bowed her deepest soul before him in the prayer, but said fervently, thy will be done. When Charles Moore went to the unknown land, all her heart would be there. But God granted her prayer, and he rose from his sick-bed, and she continued her worship and trust, both in his manly strength, and the Father who endowed him. 
               Mag learned to be gentle to the erring. She would not judge the sinful-God might do it; he alone knew how the tempter had assaulted them. Those who had been least tempted she found judged the most unrighteous and unmerciful judgments. Christ said, "Judge not, lest ye be judged." Christ loved the malefactor on the cross. Christ loved her namesake, the Magdalene. 
               There came a time to Charles and Magdalene Moore, when they poured out their hearts to God with a great and solemn joy. A new life was born to them-another Zo commenced the journey of immortality. The child inherited her father's blue eyes, royal features and raven tresses; her beautifully molded limbs were modelled from those of her mother. She grew into wonderful loveliness. 
               "Our life is blended in this life of our child," said Charles Moore. 
               "And God's life is blended with it, and is to be its inheritance forever," responded Magdalene Barclay Moore. 
               "Would you dare leave your child alone, to find its way through a world like this?" 
               "Do you fear for your child?" 
               "It is God's child. He loves it better than earthly parents love their children." 
               "If there is a hereafter, and I know there is, I should not leave my child. God would permit me to come back from the spirit-land to watch over her." 
               "God has taken care of us. There have been unseen angels around us when we have been most bitterly tempted. I believe it. God has taken care of us. God will take care of the new life he has given us. We will keep her pure, to restore her to him when he shall call for her again." 
               "Pure? We keep her pure. She is earth-born." 
               "She may have some of the wild humor of her mother to lead her astray-God grant she may have her mother's energy also. Napoleon said there never was an extraordinary man, with an ordinary mother. Weak-minded men, the sons of noble fathers, have taken character from their mothers. It is a terrible thing for humanity, that women are not more thoroughly developed." 
               "Hush, Charles Atherton Moore! Do you not remember Frank's speech on the Xantippe question? Our little blue-eyed Zo may have the strong passions of her father to control." 
               "God gave her father those strong passions; he gave her mother her wild, playful humor also; gave them with intellect and reason; gave them for some good and noble purpose. He never endowed a human being with faculties, which, rightly controlled, could not be made blessings to human existence, and used for his glory and honor." 
               "Passion is Destiny, Passion is Inspiration, Passion is Life," said Mag. 
               "Mag's strong passion and wild humor, when guided, have made her brave in life's testing hours. When she felt that she must walk the path of misery to the terrible end-if there was no God, or he had forsaken her, when she deemed herself alone in her helplessness, caring alone for herself-utterly God-forsaken-at least she would go bravely and smilingly to her doom, and laugh at sorrow and thus conquer pain, since tears were worse than unavailing. She has passed the temptation-(fortunate Mag-many go to their graves in hopeless sorrow)-and now the wild humor gushes into her home life, a daily, beautiful thing, shedding sunshine into the hearts of those who love her better than life. It has been subdued by grace, and so Mag's playful spirit has become only a blessing and joy." 
               "Thank you, Major Moore! I cannot bear all those honors at once. I must divide them, for they are terribly oppressive. But God has crowned us with undeserved blessings." 
               "Given us a child born of Love." 
               "Whose destiny is to be guided by Love, Hope and Faith." 
               "And the new Zo should be named Faith, for Faith alone can save it." 
               The beautiful child, born in the South of its northern mother, was baptized by its father with that sacred name. She was called Faith Moore. 
               The great hope of the Union, North and South, is Faith, the child born of Love. 
               Faith, Hope, Love-these three-but the greatest of these is Love. On earth, Faith, Hope and Love are guides to heaven, but the life of heaven is Love. God is Love. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
             
            VALUABLE HAND-BOOKS OF GAMES. 
            Price 38 Cents each. 
             
               MORPHY'S MATCH GAMES; 
               Being a full and accurate account of his most astounding successes abroad, defeating, in almost every instance, THE CHESS CELEBRITIES OF EUROPE. 
               Edited, with copious and valuable Notes, BY CHARLES HENRY STANLEY, AUTHOR OF "THE CHESS PLAYER'S INSTRUCTOR." 
               This valuable acquisition to Chess Literature contains a SPLENDID PORTRAIT OF PAUL MORPHY, the Chess Champion of the World, engraved on Steel, in the highest style of modern art, by J. C. BUTTRE, Esq., being an accurate and most perfect transfer of one of BRADY'S most successful Photographs, together with a fac-simile of MR. MORPHY'S AUTOGRAPH. 
             
             
               ELEMENTS OF DRAUGHTS; 
               Or, BEGINNER'S SURE GUIDE: 
               Containing a thorough and minute exposition of EVERY PRINCIPLE, SEPARATELY EXPLAINED. 
               TOGETHER WITH MODEL GAMES ILLUSTRATIVE OF ALL THE OPENINGS. 
               Illustrated with Diagrams exhibiting critical positions to be won or drawn by scientific play. 
               BY I. D. J. SWEET, DRAUGHT EDITOR OF "THE NEW YORK CLIPPER." 
             
             
               CHESS-PLAYER'S INSTRUCTOR; 
               Or, GUIDE TO BEGINNERS: 
               CONTAINING ALL THE INFORMATION NECESSARY TO ACQUIRE A KNOWLEDGE OF THE GAME. 
               With Diagrams Illustrative of the Various Movements of the Pieces. 
               BY CHARLES HENRY STANLEY. 
               The above books are splendidly got up, and bound in flexible muslin-their price places them within the reach of all. 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 160 and 162 Nassau Street, New York. 
               W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, 43 & 45 Centre Street, N.Y. 
             
          
          
             
            SCENES IN THE PRACTICE OF A NEW YORK SURGEON. 
            BY EDWARD H. DIXON, M.D., EDITOR OF THE "SCALPEL." 
            A VALUABLE HOUSEHOLD BOOK. 
            Embellished with Eight Exquisite Engravings, from original Designs, by DARLEY, Engraved by N. ORR. Elegantly bound in cloth, gilt. Price, $1 25. 
            This highly interesting work is the embodiment of much that is valuable in science and striking in incident. The facts and narratives here grouped together have been gleaned during a practice both varied and lengthy, and from sources the most diverse both in means and matter. The canopied couch and the lowly pallet-pampered luxury and starved mendicity-have each contributed to illustrate some of those phases, the peculiarity of which has led many a reflecting mind to exclaim-" Verily, life is a mystery, and death the solution thereof!" 
            "Let us hope that, whatever truths useful to humanity may be found within these pages, will live for a little while after the hand that sketched them is resolved into its elements, and mingled with the atmosphere and the earth whence it originated" 
            The following is but a small portion of the Contents: 
            
               Scenes in City Practice.- The Cholera of '32-The Broadway Workwomen-The Young Mother-The Last Day's Work-Terry's Courtship. 
            
               The Nerve Power.-What is the Nature of the Nerve Power?-Its action on our Bodies, under the various Stimuli-Its Power over the Contraction of the Muscles-The Influence of Prolonged Inspiration in Curing Diseases and in giving strength to the Body-How does it compare with other Systems of Cure? 
            
               On Hooping Cough.-What is Hooping Cough?-Period of Occurrence-First Symptoms-Subtle Character of the Contagion-Period of Duration.-Its usual Attendants-Manner of Treatment-Has Medicine any power over it? 
            
               Will Medicine Cure Consumption?-Origin of Consumption-The Stethescope-Formation of Tubercles-Cough an Early Symptom-Bronchitis. 
            
               Scenes in Southern Practice.-King Death in his Yellow Robe-The Proud Merchant-The Lovely Creole Wife. 
            
               On Croup.-What is Croup?-Its Symptoms and Treatment. 
            
               Scarlet Fever.-What are the Causes of its Dreadful Fatality?-Has Medicine any control over it? 
            
               Recollections of City Practice.-Privation-Our Two Lodgers-A Faithful Sister-First Affection-An Unworthy Object-The Artless Victim-The Young Mother-The Wedding-Maternal Love-The Legacy-The Closing Scene. 
            
               Importance of Truth in Education.-The Right of Discovery-Fairy Stories-Children should behold Truth in their Parents. 
            
               Scenes in a Western Physician's Life.-What is Memory?-College Life in the Country-The Pious Student-The Orphan Betrayed-The Robin's Nest-Maternal Reflections-What is Love?-The Funeral Pile: what is its Philosophy? 
            
               Functions of the Skin.-Cold Fatal to Infants. 
            
               Scenes in City Practice.-1. Death's Quartette in a Garret-Delirium Tremens-2. Precariousness of Medica Life in New York-A Professional Martyr-The Curse of an Irish Practice-Death of the Physician, his Widow and Child-Parental Love-Mercantile Affection-The Love of Money. 
            ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 160 & 162 NASSAU STREET, N Y. 
          
          
             
            CAPTAIN MAYNE REID'S SCENES AND ADVENTURES IN THE WEST AND SOUTHWEST. 
             
               THE RIFLE RANGERS. 
               
                  Beautifully Embellished with Eight Splendid Illustrations on Plate Paper. $1 25. 
               This work is remarkable for stirring and wild adventures, many of which the writer personally passed through; and running through the whole there is a vein of quiet humor, which relieves the more fearful parts of the narrative. 
             
             
               THE SCALP HUNTERS; 
               OR, ADVENTURES AMONG THE TRAPPERS. 
               
                  One Volume, 12mo., Eight Beautiful Illustrations, cloth. Price $1 25. 
               So marked was the success of the "Rifle Rangers," both in this country and in Europe, that the author was induced to publish at an early day the above named book, a work of more thrilling adventure, bolder incident, and glowing description than had ever before appeared in the same field of literature. 
             
             
               THE HUNTERS' FEAST; 
               OR, CONVERSATIONS AROUND THE CAMP-FIRE. 
               
                  Beautifully Illustrated with Eight Engravings by N. ORR. Price $1 25. 
               In all our experience we have never met with a book which gives such vivid and soulstirring pictures of the wonderful and terrible adventures of a Western Hunter's and Trapper's life, as are presented in this evidently truthful narrative. 
             
             
               THE WHITE CHIEF; 
               A LEGEND OF NORTH MEXICO. 
               
                  One Volume, 12mo., Eight Elegant Illustrations, cloth. Price $1 25. 
               This is another of those popular works of adventure which have taken such a hold of the American public-adapted as they are to rouse all that feeling of enthusiasm and thirst for bold deeds which seems to be inherent in the breasts of our people. 
             
             
               THE QUADROON; 
               OR, A LOVER'S ADVENTURES IN LOUISIANA. 
               
                  Illustrated with Eight Elegant Engravings. Price $1 25. 
               Another spirited and brilliant romance, quite equal in stirring interest, graphic descriptions of natural scenery, and truthful, vivid portraitures of character, to anything the Captain has yet written, and little more need be said in its favor. 
             
             
               THE WAR TRAIL; 
               OR, THE HUNT OF THE WILD HORSE. 
               
                  One Volume, 12mo., Eight Beautiful Illustrations, cloth. Price $1 25. 
               Capt. Mayne Reid was an officer in our army during the late war with Mexico, and while in that country met with many adventures, which form the groundwork of his last and best effort. We can truthfully say it is the most interesting book of the day. 
             
             
               OSCEOLA THE SEMINOLE; 
               OR, THE RED FAWN OF THE FLOWER LAND. 
               
                  Containing nearly 500 pages, handsomely embellished with original designs, engraved in the highest style of the art by N. ORR, Esq. Price $1 25. 
               The brief but heroic struggle of the Chief, OSCEOLA, forms the groundwork of a narrative which is equal to any of Mr. Reid's former productions; and while the reader's patriotism cannot fail to be gratified at the result, his sympathy is awakened for the manly struggles and untimely fate of the gallant spirit, who fought so nobly for the freedom of his red brethren and the preservation of their cherished hunting grounds. 
               Address all Orders to 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 160 & 162 Nassau Street, N. Y. 
               W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, rear of 43 & 45 Centre St., N. Y. 
             
          
          
             
            THE LAST GREAT BOOK OF A GREAT SERIES! 
            CAPTAIN MAYNE REID'S LAST WORK. 
            OSCEOLA THE SEMINOLE; 
            OR, THE RED FAWN OF THE FLOWER LAND. 
            BY CAPTAIN MAYNE REID, 
            AUTHOR OF "THE SCALP HUNTERS," "RIFLE RANGERS," "WHITE CHIEF," "HUNTER'S FEAST," "QUADROON," "THE WAR TRAIL," etc., etc. 
            Containing nearly 500 pages, hansomely embellished with original designs, engraved in the highest style of the art, by N. Orr, Esq. Price $1 25. 
            The Historical Novel has ever maintained a high rank-perhaps the highest-among works of fiction, for the reason that while it enchants the senses, it improves the mind, conveying under a most pleasing form much information which, perhaps, the reader would never have sought for amid the dry records of the purely historic narrative. 
            This fact being conceded, it needs but little argument to prove that those works are most interesting which treat of the facts and incidents pertaining to our own history, and of a date which is yet fresh in the memory of the reader. 
            To this class of books preminently belongs the volume which is here submitted to the American reader, from the pen of a writer who has proved himself unsurpassed in the field which he has, by his various works, made peculiarly his own. 
            The brief but heroic struggle of the celebrated Chief, OSCEOLA, forms the groundwork of a narrative which is equal, if not superior, to any of Mr. Reid's former productions; and while the reader's patriotism cannot fail to be gratified at the result, his sympathy is at the same time, awakened for the manly struggles and untimely fate of the gallant spirit, who fought so nobly for the freedom of his red brethren and the preservation of their cherished hunting-grounds. 
             
               CONTENTS. 
               The Flowery Land.-The Indigo Plantation. 
               The Two Jakes.-The Hommock. 
               Yellow Jake.-The Alligator. 
               The Turtle-Crawl.-The King Vultures. 
               The Bath.-The "Half-blood. 
               The Chase.-A Severe Sentence. 
               The Chase.-Ringgold's Revenge. 
               Maumee.-The Island. 
               West Point.-The Seminoles. 
               An Indian Hero. 
               Frontier Justice.-Indian Slaves. 
               A Circuitous Transaction. 
               Reflections by the Way. 
               A Strange Apparition. 
               Who Fired the Shot?-A Frontier Fort. 
               The Council.-The Rising Sun. 
               The Ultimatum-Take over the Table. 
               The Traitor Chiefs.-Shadows in the Water. 
               Haj-Ewa.-A pretty Plot. 
               Light and Darkness.-In Need of a Friend. 
               The Final Assembly.-Cashiering the Chiefs. 
               The Signature of Osceola. 
               Fighting Gallagher.-Provoking a Duel. 
               The Challenge.-The Assignation. 
               An Eclaircissement.-Two Duels in One Day. 
               A Silent Declaration. 
               The Captive.-The War-cry. 
               War to the Knife. 
               Tracing a Strange Horseman. 
               Who was the Rider.-Cold Courtesy. 
               My Sister's Spirit.-Asking an Explanation. 
               The Volunteers.-Mysterious Changes. 
               My Informant.-Old Hickman. 
               A Hasty Messenger.-A Lover's Gift. 
               The Route.-A Knock on the Head. 
               An Indian Executioner. 
               A Banquet with a Bad Ending. 
               "Dade's Massacre."-The Battle-ground. 
               The Battle of "Ouithlacoochee." 
               A Victory Ending in a Retreat. 
               Another Swamp Fight.-The Talk. 
               Mysterious Disappearance of an Army. 
               The Condition of Black Jake. 
               A Sad Spectacle.-To the Trail. 
               The Alarm.-A False Alarm. 
               "A Split Trail."-Crossing the Savanna. 
               Groping Among the Timber. 
               Signal Shots.-An Empty Camp. 
               A Dead Forest.-A Circular Conflict. 
               A Dead Shot by Jake. 
               A Meagre Meal.-A Bullet from Behind 
               A Jury Amid the Fire. 
               Quick Executioners. 
               An Enemy Unlooked For. 
               A Conflict in Darkness. 
               The Black Plumes.-Buried Alive. 
               Devils or Angels. 
               The End of Arens Ringgold. 
               The Death Warning. 
               Osceola's Fate.-Conclusion. 
             
            Address all Orders to 
            ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 160 & 162 Nafsau Street, N. Y. 
            W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, rear of 43 & 45 Centre St., N. Y. 
          
          
             
            THE SCALP HUNTERS; 
            OR, ADVENTURES AMONG THE TRAPPERS 
            BY CAPTAIN MAYNE REID, 
            AUTHOR OF "RIFLE RANGERS," "THE WHITE CHIEF," "HUNTERS' FEAST," ETC., ETC. 
            
               One volume, 12mo., Beautifully Illustrated. Cloth, Price $1 25. 
            So marked was the success of the "RIFLE RANGERS," both in this country and in Europe, that the author was induced to publish at an early day, the volume whose title heads this page; a work of more thrilling adventure, bolder incident, and glowing description than had ever before appeared in the same field of literature. These two books speedily achieved a high reputation for the writer, which he has sedulously striven to enhance by the publication of several other works of a somewhat kindred character. In all of these volumes has the powerful descriptive faculty of the author stood out in bold relief, and marked him as the DE FOE of AMERICA. The Publishers are happy to say that having secured the right to publish all of this series, they are enabled to offer to the public a collection of volumes, which in point of intense interest, are not only unsurpassed, but seldom equalled. A brief Synopsis of Contents will be found below. 
             
               CONTENTS. 
               I. The Wild West. 
               II. The Prairie Merchants. 
               III. The "Prairie Fever." 
               IV. Ride upon a Buffalo Bull. 
               V. In a Bad "Fix." 
               VI. Santa F. 
               VII. The Fandango. 
               VIII. Seguin, the Scalp-Hunter. 
               IX. Left Behind. 
               X. The Del Norte. 
               XI. The "Journey of Death." 
               XII. Zoe. 
               XIII. Seguin. 
               XIV. Love. 
               XV. Light and Shade. 
               XVI. An Autobiography 
               XVII. Up the Del Norte. 
               XVIII. Geography and Geology. 
               XIX. The Scalp-Hunters. 
               XX. Sharp-Shooting. 
               XXI. A Feat  la Tell. 
               XXII. A Feat  la Tail. 
               XXIII. The Programme. 
               XXIV. El Sol and La Luna. 
               XXV. The War-Trail. 
               XXVI. Three Days in the Trap 
               XXVII. The Diggers. 
               XXVIII. Dacoma. 
               XXIX. A Dinner with two Dishes. 
               XXX. Blinding the Pursuer-A Trapper's Ruse. 
               XXXI. A Buffalo "Surround." 
               XXXII. Another "Coup." 
               XXXIII. A Bitter Tap. 
               XXXIV. The Phantom City. 
               XXXV. The Mountain of Gold. 
               XXXVI. Navajoa. 
               XXXVII. The Night Ambuscade. 
               XXXVIII. Adele. 
               XXXIX. The White Scalp. 
               XL. The Caon Fight. 
               XLI. The Barranca. 
               XLII. The Foe. 
               XLIII. New Misery. 
               XLIV. The Flag of Truce. 
               XLV. A Vexed Treaty. 
               XLVI. A Conflict with closed Doors. 
               XLVII. A Queer Encounter in a Cave. 
               XLVIII. Smoked Out. 
               XLIX. A Novel Mode of Equation. 
               L. A Fast Dye. 
               LI. Astonishing the Natives. 
               LII. Running a Muck. 
               LIII. A Conflict upon a Cliff. 
               LIV. An Unexpected Rencontre. 
               LV. The Rescue. 
               LVI. El Paso Del Norte. 
               LVII. Touching the Chords of Memory. 
             
            The above work will be forwarded by Mail, free of postage, on receipt of price. 
            ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 160 & 162 NASSAU STREET, N. Y. 
            W. H. TINSON, Printer & Stereotyper, 24 Beekman St., N. Y. 
          
          
             
            MAYNE REID'S HUNTING AND TRAPPING ADVENTURES. 
            THE HUNTERS' FEAST: 
            OR, CONVERSATIONS AROUND THE CAMP-FIRE. 
            BY CAPT. MAYNE REID, 
            AUTHOR OF "THE RIFLE RANGERS," "THE SCALP HUNTERS," ETC. 
            
               Beautifully Illustrated with Engravings by N. ORR. Price $1 25. 
            WE venture to say that there is no book extant which gives such a thrilling and yet truthful narrative of the stirring and perilous life of a Trapper, as does the deeply interesting and instructive volume before us. The author, whose powers of description are well known to the American reader through the medium of his "RIFLE RANGERS," etc., has most admirably blended instruction with amusement, for, while "IKE, THE WOLF-KILLER," cheers the Camp-Fire with his never-failing anecdotes, the HUNTER-NATURALIST takes every occasion to inform the delighted auditory of the habits, haunts and characteristics of the animal under discussion, and this he does in a manner which cannot fail to fix the information in the memory of the reader. The following Synopsis of Contents may serve to give some idea of the adventures to be met with in this extraordinary work. 
             
               CONTENTS. 
               A Hunting Party. 
               The Camp and Camp-Fire. 
               Besanon's Adventures in the Swamps. 
               The Passenger Pigeons. 
               Hunt with a Howitzer. 
               Killing a Cougar. 
               The Cougar. 
               Old Ike's Adventure. 
               The Musquash. 
               A Rat-Hunt. 
               Mosquitoes and their Antidote. 
               The 'Coon and his Habits. 
               A 'Coon Chase. 
               Wild Hogs of the Woods. 
               Treed by Peccaries. 
               A Duck-Shooting Adventure. 
               Hunting the Vicuna. 
               A Chacu of Vicunas. 
               Squirrel Shooting. 
               Treeing a Bear. 
               The Black Bear of America. 
               The Trapper Trapped. 
               The American Deer. 
               Deer-Hunt in a "Dug-Out." 
               Old Ike and the Grizzly. 
               A Battle with Grizzly Bears. 
               The Swans of America. 
               Hunting the Moose. 
               The Prairie Wolf and Wolf Killer. 
               Hunting the Tapir. 
               Adventure with a Buffalo. 
               The Bison. 
               Trailing the Buffalo. 
               Approaching the Buffalo. 
               Unexpected Guests. 
               A Supper of Wolf-Mutton. 
               Hare Hunting and Cricket Driving. 
               A Grand Battue. 
               The Route Home. 
             
            Address all Orders to 
            ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 160 & 162 Nafsau Street, N. Y. 
            W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, Rear of 43 & 45 Centre St., N. Y. 
          
       
   
