
    ----CITATION----
        Cooke, John Esten, (1830-1886). Ellie, or, The Human Comedy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6142
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  MISS INCLEDON IS OVERCOME BY HER FEELINGS. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               ELLIE 
               OR THE HUMAN COMEDY. 
             
            
                
             
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE
             
            
               Richmond: 
               A. MORRIS, Publisher.
             
          
          
             
             
               ELLIE: 
               OR, THE HUMAN COMEDY. 
             
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE. AUTHOR OF "THE VIRGINIA COMEDIANS," "LEATHER STOCKING AND SILK," "THE YOUTH OF JEFFERSON," "PEONY," etc. 
             
                
                  
                      
                        "Thrice blest whose lives are faithful prayers, 
                        Whose loves in higher love endure; 
                        What souls possess themselves so pure, 
                        Or is there happiness like theirs!" 
                     
                   
                  TENNYSON 
                
             
            With Illustrations after Designs by Strother. 
            
               RICHMOND: 
               PUBLISHED BY A. MORRIS.
             
            1855. 
             
            ENTERED ACCORDING TO ACT OF CONGRESS, IN THE YEAR 1855, BY A. MORRIS, IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA. 
          
          
             
            INTRODUCTORY. 
            PERHAPS a few words upon the threshold of this book will be of advantage to the reader, the author, and the story itself. The peculiar character of the volume, indeed, almost calls for this explanatory introduction, dealing, as it does, in the fortunes of many personages, drawn with the utmost freedom, and made to play their imaginary parts upon a domestic theatre, with which many of its readers-if it have such-are so perfectly familiar. The author wishes, then, to say upon the threshold, and with entire sincerity, that no character in this volume is intended to satirize any real personage, living or dead. He would be sorry to think that any one could believe him capable of anything so unamiable and unjustifiable-and, perhaps, this disclaimer is wholly unnecessary. It will not be attributed, by those who know the writer, to any desire to attract local attention, or excite interest in his work. The book must stand on its own merits, and he would not, if he could, have it otherwise. If there be no truth or value in its pages, it will fall and become extinct, as it should. If on the contrary, it possesses any truth, it will live, and that in spite of everything, and without any assistance. 
            A few words in relation to the title and character of the book, may be advisable. The word COMEDY signified formerly, a representation of human life-and in the "Human Comedy," the writer's aim has been to paint life as it is-men as they are-human beings as they speak and act when moved by those diverse and conflicting passions and emotions which are the common inheritance of humanity. It has thus happened that the work contains-or was intended to contain-types, so to speak, of human life: representing, each, different classes, and with an underlying philosophy in their careers, which the author trusts is quite pure and genuine in its presentation. In Doctor Fossyl he has tried to depict a character hardened by contact with material dogmas, and driven to scepticism by subjecting spiritual things to tests purely rational;-in Mr. Fantish a young man with a nature originally pure, yielding to vice from the pressure of powerful inducements;-in Miss Incledon, the woman too weak to resist the glittering temptations of the world, and entangling herself in a web dangerous and terrible;-and in Captain Tarnish, the adventurer, without courage as without conscience, a true type of that class of individuals who float on the waves of society, as scum does on the surface of a stream. These characters, it may be said, are not healthful or agreeable companions for the reader, and that is very true; but they exist. They would never had been drawn, had not their antidotes, so to speak, existed too. The writer trusts that Mr. Sansoucy will counteract Mr. Fantish and his friend, the Captain-Mr. Inclement, Doctor Fossyl-Miss Incledon he quite neutralized by Aurelia,-while Monsieur Guillemot may be permitted to stand vis--vis to Mr. Heartsease; and Lucia, the poor flower of another clime, to her friend Wide-A wake. To end this summary, which has already extended too far-in the sketch of Ellie, the writer has tried to show how a pure spirit, even though it be in the bosom of a child, will run through the variegated woof of that life which surrounds it, like a thread of pure gold, and that all who come in contact with it will carry away something to elevate and purify them, and make them better. It was in delineating this child-poorly and feebly as it is done-that the writer experienced his greatest pleasure; and he can only regret his want of ability to represent adequately the pure loveliness of the journalist's little friend. 
            Briefly to sum up everything then for the kind reader, detained already much too long-the chief aim of this book has been to show the beauty and loveliness of kindness-the reward which charity not seldom, even in this world, reaps; the influence of purity and self-sacrifice, even when they are exemplified in the character and actions of a child-finally, the supreme truth which underlies all true philosophy, that human nature in its worst manifestations, and under its most repulsive forms, does never, and can never lose wholly the good impulses given to it by God. By failure or success in these particulars, would the writer have his work judged and tested. If it teaches, however feebly, the sweetness and nobility of love, and the perennial beauty of goodness and charity, the hours dedicated to it will not have been thrown away. Beyond this he has scarcely the right to ask anything: but as it is the province and voluntary undertaking of Art to search everywhere for these noble lessons and pictures, and to place them as clearly as possible before the eyes of the world-so the right of the artist to pray for a kind consideration of his performance, and due charity for its faults, will not be denied, or called in question. If this book excites simple emotions of pity and kindness in the breasts even of children, the writer will be abundantly satisfied. He has much faith in such a criticism, and is not unwilling to subject his work to such youthful critics, or those who judge with like impartiality-certain if there is anything truthful and sincere in the volume, it will not fail to be justly appreciated. 
            
               Richmond, April, 1855.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               BOOK I. 
               CHAPTER I. RICHMOND: ON A DECEMBER MORNING. 11
                
               CHAPTER II. HOW ELLIE THOUGHT OF HER SHAWL. 17
                
               CHAPTER III. INTRODUCES WIDE-AWAKE. 22
                
               CHAPTER IV. ELLIE AND HER NEEDLE. 27
                
               CHAPTER V. ELLIE PICKS UP A GLOVE. 31
                
               CHAPTER VI. HOW ELLIE WAS FORCED TO HEAR A VERY SINGULAR CONVERSATION. 36
                
               CHAPTER VII. HINTS AT THE SKELETON IN CAPTAIN SCHMINKY'S HOUSE. 43
                
               CHAPTER VIII. A GENTLEMAN OF FASHION AND AN ECCENTRIC. 50
                
               CHAPTER IX. A BRACE OF WORTHIES. 55
                
               CHAPTER X. THE STRENGTH OF A CHILD. 63
                
               CHAPTER XI. HOW ELLIE PAWNED THE GIFT OF HER MOTHER. 68
                
               CHAPTER XII. FACE TO FACE WITH HUNGER. 72
                
               CHAPTER XIII. AUNT PHILLIS. 77
                
               CHAPTER XIV. HOW ELLIE MET WITH HER FRIEND LUCIA. 81
                
               CHAPTER XV. THE RICH DO NOT DESPISE THE POOR, THEY ONLY KNOW NOTHING ABOUT THEM. 87
                
               CHAPTER XVI. HOW MR. SANSOUCY CHEATED THE WIND AND THE COLD. 91
                
               CHAPTER XVII. THE EDITOR OF THE "WEEKLY MAMMOTH." 95
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. HOW THE EDITOR OF THE "WEEKLY MAMMOTH" CAUSED THAT JOURNAL TO WAIT FOR COPY. 100
                
               CHAPTER XIX. SKETCHES A GENTLEMAN OF THE LAW. 104
                
               CHAPTER XX. SUNRISE COMES TO-MORROW. 109
                
             
             
             
               BOOK II. 
               CHAPTER I. MUSINGS OF A JOURNALIST. 113
                
               CHAPTER II. THE OLD ACTORS-WHERE ARE THEY? 117
                
               CHAPTER III. HOW SANSOUCY RELATED A FAIRY TALE WITH REAL PERSONAGES, FOR HIS FRIEND'S AMUSEMENT. 126
                
               CHAPTER IV. DOCTOR FOSSYL AND THE DANCE OF DEATH. 133
                
               CHAPTER V. THE APPIAN WAY AND THE CATACOMBS. 139
                
               CHAPTER VI. PHILOSOPHY OF "THE DANCE." 150
                
               CHAPTER VII. HOW SANSOUCY WAS DEFEATED BY MR. HEARTSEASE. 154
                
               CHAPTER VIII. HEARTSEASE CRITICISES MISS GOSYP AND THE BANKS. 162
                
               CHAPTER IX. CONTAINS A CHARCOAL SKETCH OF CAPTAIN TARNISH. 172
                
               CHAPTER X. MR. SANSOUCY DESCENDS INTO LOW LIFE AND MAKES HIMSELF AGREEABLE. 180
                
               CHAPTER XI. AURELIA'S DRESS. 190
                
               CHAPTER XII. ELLIE MEETS A CYNICAL VISITOR. 199
                
               CHAPTER XIII. WIDE-AWAKE AND HIS ENEMIES. 205
                
               CHAPTER XIV. WIDE-AWAKE MEDITATES FELONY IN BEHALF OF LUCIA. 214
                
               CHAPTER XV. AUNT PHILLIS AND HER CASTLE. 223
                
               CHAPTER XVI. THE OLD DAYS AND THE NEW. 229
                
               CHAPTER XVII. ELLIE'S DRESS DOES NOT FIT HER. 237
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. DOCTOR FOSSYL AND HIS THEORIES. 244
                
               CHAPTER XIX. THE HYMN. 250
                
               CHAPTER XX. CONTAINS AN ACCOUNT OF MONSIEUR GUILLEMOT'S BANKRUPTCY. 256
                
               CHAPTER XXI. RECOLLECTIONS OF AUNT PHILLIS. 264
                
               CHAPTER XXII. HOW AN UNKNOWN FRIEND SENT LUCIA A DRESS. 271
                
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. WHAT BETTER EPITAPH! 277
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. IN THE ARENA: WITH SKETCHES OF THE GLADIATORS. 286
                
               CHAPTER XXV. THE OPERA OF DON GIOVANNI. 296
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. HOW MR INCLEDON CALLED ON MR. FANTISH, AND WHAT PASSED. 305
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. HOW A MAN WAS TREATED BY A WOMAN: A CHAPTER OF INTEREST TO PHILOSOPHERS. 317
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. THE LETTER. 331
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. DELILAH. 338
                
               CHAPTER XXX. THE NIGHT PRECEDING THURSDAY MORNING: THREE SCENES OF THE COMEDY. 351
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. SECOND SCENE. 358
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. SCENE THIRD AND LAST. 364
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. THE ELOPEMENT. 369
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. HOW A WOMAN WAS TREATED BY A MAN. 374
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. HOW CAPTAIN TARNISH CAME TO, AND WENT FROM, MR. SANSOUCY'S OFFICE. 377
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. WHAT TOOK PLACE AT THE SHOOTING GALLERY. 386
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. DOCTOR FOSSYL AND HIS PATIENT. 400
                
               CHAPTER XXXVIII. THE WAYS OF PROVIDENCE. 408
                
             
             
               BOOK III. 
               CHAPTER I. IN WHICH THE HISTORY RETURNS TO OTHER PERSONAGES, AND CHRONICLES A SLEIGH-RIDE. 418
                
               CHAPTER II. HOW MR. SANSOUCY VERY NEARLY RAN OVER A WOMAN, AND WHAT FOLLOWED. 428
                
               CHAPTER III. RETURNS TO SOME OLD FRIENDS. 434
                
                
               CHAPTER IV. RECOUNTS THE MANIA OF MONSIEUR GUILLEMOT'S FRIEND ANGELIQUE. 441
                
               CHAPTER V. MADAM ANGELIQUE'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE FAIR. 446
                
               CHAPTER VI. HOW THE LADY HAD AN INTERVIEW WITH LUCIA. 452
                
               CHAPTER VII. HOW WIDE-AWAKE AND LUCIA ARRANGED THEIR PLANS. 458
                
               CHAPTER VIII. TREATS OF MR. SANSOUCY AND HIS SENTIMENTS. 468
                
               CHAPTER IX. HOW HEARTSEASE COMPARED MISS AURELIA TO A PARROT. 474
                
               CHAPTER X. AURELIA EXPLAINS. 483
                
               CHAPTER XI. HEARTSEASE IS OVERHEARD. 492
                
               CHAPTER XII. AURELIA'S PRIZE AT THE FAIR. 503
                
               CHAPTER XIII. DOCTOR FOSSYL AND SANSOUCY. 510
                
               CHAPTER XIV. AN OUTLINE OF SANSOUCY DRAWN BY HIMSELF. 517
                
               CHAPTER XV. EXPLAINS WHO PASSED MR. SANSOUCY ON THE STAIRS. 522
                
               CHAPTER XVI. WHAT AURELIA SAW AND HEARD AT THE PICTURE GALLERY. 531
                
               CHAPTER XVII. FINISHES MR. HEARTSEASE. 537
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. SHE IS NOT HERE. 542
                
               CHAPTER XIX. LUCIA GATHERS HER FLOWERS. 547
                
               CHAPTER XX. THE NOTE AND THE PACKAGE, WITH THE CONSEQUENCES. 552
                
               CHAPTER XXI. THE STRUGGLE. 561
                
               CHAPTER XXII. THE VICTORY. 572
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Ellie, or, The human comedy 
             
            ELLIE; OR, THE HUMAN COMEDY. 
             
               BOOK I. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  RICHMOND: ON A DECEMBER MORNING. 
                  ON the first day of the month of December, in the year 18-, and just at sunrise, a child was going along one of the lower streets of the city of Richmond-in the quarter called, for some reason, "Bird-in-Hand"-her poorly-clad figure brilliantly illuminated by the morning sunlight raining its gold upon the chill houses and cold pavements, her shoulders unconsciously shrinking from the bitter wind. 
                  She was a child of ten or eleven: she was poor: she was called Ellie. 
                  But we shall not dismiss our heroine-who is destined to color, more or less, every page of this book-in a manner so hasty and unsatisfactory. The child had the finest brown hair in the world; and this hair waved, rather than curled, around a countenance from which a pair of large blue eyes, full of sweetness and goodness, looked into your face with the softest and most confiding simplicity. The lips were somewhat sad it is true, and they wore that expression which seems to indicate suffering at times;-but this expression was by no means marked or striking-and a careless observer would have said that the face of the child was in powerful contrast with her poor and dilapidated clothing. This clothing consisted of an old hood of wadding, discolored by the sun and wind of years-a thin frock of the cheapest and commonest material, and a shawl of the same description-while her feet were scarcely covered by her thin worn shoes, which the chill of the pavement penetrated at every step. The child, in a word, looked poverty-stricken, but quite content and hopeful, and the sweet face was such as any sun might have been glad to shine upon. 
                  On this morning the sun left no detail in the background-the red light twinkled on her instep, and lit up joyously the thin folds of her old worn shawl, and even plunged back into the hood, and turned the ripples of her brown hair into gold. 
                  In her hand the child carried an old broken pitcher, and she had managed to wrap the hand in her old shawl before grasping the handle, in order to protect that portion of her person from the biting wind. 
                  It might have been thought that she was going to the market, which was visible two or three squares away, in a comparatively splendid quarter of the city, for everything and everybody seemed to be moving in that direction. It would seem to be the most reasonable thing in the world, that this poor little dilapidated housekeeper should have been on her way toward those rich realms of hams and steaks and legs of mutton, toward which the flood poured, jostling the market-carts, and bewildering the oracular-looking donkeys who gazed at everything from beneath their shaggy eyebrows, as they munched their scanty provender in the stationary carts. But it soon appeared that this was not the child's intention. She looked wistfully at the bright, cold, glittering scene-uttered something like a sigh, and drawing her old shawl more tightly round her shoulders as the wind beat against them, turned into a grocery store at the corner. 
                  It was one of those receptacles of everything eatable, drinkable and wearable, which are generally kept for the convenience of families buying in small quantities. The portly landlord of this hostelry was reading his newspaper by a stove comfortably warmed; and was evidently of Germanic extraction. This indeed might have been surmised from the sign or legend inscribed in gilt letters above the door without-"Schminky, Grocer;"-but a single look at the actual Schminky at once verified this view. He was rotund, red and solemn-"lager" was written in his eyes, and his German pipe was in his hand ready to be lighted. He was framed like a picture in a background of hams, flour barrels, strings of onions, and barrels of beer; and possessed that staid and dignified air which lords of the manor have possessed in all ages of the world. 
                  The child came in, and asked in a timid voice if he had any milk that morning. 
                   
                  Captain Schminky, for this was his rank, uttered a surly no, and went on with his paper. 
                  Now, it is quite probable that this circumstance might have embarrassed a common child; but our little friend only moved her head very slightly, and quietly went out closing the door as Captain Schminky lit his pipe. 
                  She turned towards the market and was soon entangled like a poor flower in its weedy mass. She looked wistfully at the long rows of "cuts" of all possible descriptions, which she had now gained a nearer view of; and this time actually and unmistakeably sighed. 
                  She would have liked to have purchased a little piece of that tempting meat, or a very few of those attractive looking vegetables-she scarcely dreamed of the delight of possessing the finer things daintily spread out for public admiration;-the child, we say, would have been made happy by the purchase of the smallest portion of the enticing stores set forth; but looking at her small coin sadly, she abandoned any half-formed idea she had conceived. 
                  She passed by all the tempting stalls, sought out a milk cart, and purchased some of the milk. She then crossed from the market to a baker's shop, and exhausted her whole stock of money by reducing into possession a small loaf of bread. She then retraced her steps, drawing her shawl around her shoulders-passed by the surly grocer's-and came finally to a sort of hovel, a few steps back from the mean foot-way. 
                  A low door gave her entrance, and she passed through, depositing her pitcher and loaf upon an old pine table. 
                   
                  The room was poor and humble to the last degree, but was also scrupulously neat. The narrow bed in the corner was as tidy as hands could make it; and you lost sight of the old tattered counterpane, if such the covering could be called, in admiration of the elegance with which it was arranged. The floor was clean swept, the old broken chairs-including the one without a leg, and the two without backs-were set against the wall; and the fire-place-in which two or three small brands of wood smoked, giving out an imaginary warmth-had been swept up as carefully as if it were of marble. 
                  At the foot of the old bed a little door led into a sort of shed, where, it was reasonable to suppose that the child had her own bed. 
                  As the girl set down her burden, the door re-opened behind her, and a little boy, whose clothing was one consolidated rag from top to toe, made his appearance. He had a pleasing face, and a shock of yellow curls; but at the moment his face, wore an expression of much discontent. 
                  The girl had said as she came in, "I wonder where Charley is!" and to these words the child answered: 
                  "Here's Charley, and I wish you'd make haste and giv' me some breakfus." 
                  "I will directly, Charley," the girl said, "We must wait for Uncle Joe, you know." 
                  "I wish he'd come on; and I wish you'd make haste, and not take so long to fix yo'-self in the mornin," observed Charley. 
                  "I had to, Charley. Indeed, I had to put on all I had, and my shawl; it was so cold." 
                   
                  "Cold! it ain't cold!" 
                  And Charley shivered and drew near the embers. 
                  The girl made no reply to these querulous words, beyond saying soothingly, "It will be warm and good when the sun gets well up, Charley;" and then she betook herself busily to making some tea, in an old battered can. As she bent down, the soft brown hair falling around her pure countenance, was such as any duchess might have envied; if, indeed, duchesses are not quite above and independent of nature, in the matter of hair or other personal decorations. The child had about her a nameless sweetness, and gentleness too, that was very touching; and it was a sight for a philosopher to see her now, busying herself about the few details of the poor meal. 
                  She made the embers burn up after a fashion, boiled the water, and prepared everything for making tea. She then placed the stool with three legs close to the fire, such as it was, and with a smile which was beautiful to see, said- 
                  "Come, Charley, warm yourself now-Uncle Joe will be in very soon, you know; he must be through by this time." 
                  Charley muttered something in a very ill-humored way, and without apology or hesitation assumed the warm seat by the fire. 
                  The girl took one of the high old chairs, to which lofty elevation very little heat could mount from the low fire, and drawing an old soiled book from her pocket began to read in silence. 
                  Fifteen or twenty minutes passed in this way, and the girl was still bending over the open page, with a happy expression in her mild soft eyes, when the door opened and Uncle Joe came in from his morning round. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  HOW ELLIE THOUGHT OF HER SHAWL. 
                  UNCLE JOE was not an octogenarian, as uncles are generally supposed to be, at least in story books, but a man of forty or so, with an amiable expression on his thin face, and a kindly eye. He was clad in an old rough coat, carefully mended; wore mittens of brown yarn, and his forehead was covered with an old slouch hat, which had evidently seen good service, in sun and storm. 
                  The girl closed her book, restored it to her pocket, and went forward gladly to take his hat and coat. 
                  "Why how well you look, Uncle Joe," she said softly, "your face is as bright as it can be." 
                  He shook his head with a sad smile, and said- 
                  "No, Ellie, I'm not well; I'm took sudden with fever; I am." 
                  "Oh, Uncle Joe!" 
                  "There now, Ellie! don't you be flushin' up like fever too, and gittin' to cryin'. I ain't much sick." 
                  And the brown rough hand went to Joe's forehead as he sat down. 
                  "Is it fever?" said Ellie, with a tremor in her voice. 
                  "Oh! Uncle Joe! let me see." 
                   
                  And she felt first his pulse, and then his brow. The brow was hot, the pulse galloping Her eyes filled with tears. 
                  "Yes, they ain't no doubt about it," said Joe Lacklitter, "I'm done up-I don't jest know what it is, but I'm done up. Don't you be a-looking so struck there Charley, but you eat your breakfast. Get the tea, Ellie, and then go round to Dr. Jots-'bleeged to have him." 
                  Ellie fixed every thing with hurried hands, wiping away many a starting tear as she did so. Then she threw on her shawl and hastened to the office of Dr. Jots, who lived in the next street. The doctor, who was not a favorable specimen of the profession, promised to call round in the course of the morning, though with many mutterings, having relation to the ultimate probability of being repaid for his trouble; and with this scant encouragement, the child was obliged to be satisfied. 
                  Ellie returned home in haste, scarcely conscious of the bitter cold, and the driving wind. She found her uncle in bed, and his flushed face made it very evident that during her absence the malady had made further progress. 
                  The child nearly burst into tears, so changed was the thin face, and the calm eyes; but quickly reflecting that this would be very wrong, she assumed a cheerful look, and applied herself to the task of making the sick man comfortable. She prepared a bowl of tea, toasted a slice of bread, and carefully spreading upon it a small piece of butter which she took from a plate on the shelf, covered with brown paper, brought them to the invalid. 
                  "No, Ellie, it's o' no use propin' up the pillar," said Joe Lacklitter, "I'm not ready to eat nothin' just now, little gal. I'm a-doin' very well." 
                  "Oh, Uncle Joe! just try a mouthful-just a sip-it will do you good." 
                  "Can't," said Joe, trying to look well, "I'm took down too sudden. I knowed it was comin'! The mornin's was so bad, and my beat was so far, and I ain't been well sence I was sick last summer." 
                  Ellie turned away to wipe two large tears from her eyes, and then sat down by the invalid's bedside. 
                  Dr. Jots came in an hour; felt the sick man's pulse; looked at his tongue, and cheerfully assured him that he was "in for a rather long spell." He then carelessly scribbled something on a piece of paper, told the sick man to "get that" at the apothecary's, and went away. 
                  Joe tried to smile, but it was a woeful sight, for his head was racked with fever. 
                  "Get that," he murmured, "but how 'm I? My pay's a week in advance to me, and 'thout you, Ellie-" 
                  "Oh!" said Ellie, with a sinking heart, but smiling for all that, "don't be uneasy, Uncle Joe, I'll get it." 
                  "You're a good girl," said Joe, turning over, "I dunno what would come to me 'thout you. I'm glad you've got a little left. But wrap up good." 
                  He then turned over, and closing his hot eyes tried to sleep. 
                  "A little left!" No, Ellie had nothing; she had expended the whole of her litle stock that morning in buying breakfast, and she had not so much as a cent. What was to be done? And as she asked herself this question, Ellie's heart sank. 
                  For a moment she stood irresolute, with her eyes fixed vacantly on Charley, who sat in the chimney corner crying and wiping his eyes on his dirty sleeve; then, with a sob, she sat down and covered her face with her hands. Her lips moved, but no sound came forth, and the small form shook. Then she raised her head, and her calm face proved that she had been obedient, and gone for strength to the place of strength. Her eyes fell on her shawl. 
                  That shawl was the only article of clothing she possessed worth bartering-or which any reasonable money-lender would so much as look at. It would not be so cold, as the warm sunny morning came on, she said to herself. The question whether it would also be warm as the snowy freezing December came on, did not occur to her. 
                  She easily obtained for the shawl the trifle which she asked, and which she supposed would suffice; and then hastening from the house, whose inmate received thus the sole wrapping of the child, without compunction or so much as a thought upon the subject, bent her way rapidly towards the apothecary's. 
                  She had enough to pay for the bottle, and holding it carefully she took her way back to the hovel. 
                  She found the sick man sleeping heavily, and unrolling the medicine, carefully read the directions and prepared to give the draught on his waking. 
                  Charley was not there-probably he had been tempted to go and warm himself at the cellar opposite, for the fire was nearly out, and the room was growing colder and colder. 
                  The child looked for a minute at the vacant fire-place, and almost sobbed. The last stick of wood had been burned on the night before, and her heart fainted at the prospect of having no fire for her sick uncle. She went into her small closet, leaned her head upon the pallet, and for some minutes remained silent, save that some broken sobs, growing more and more subdued, indicated that the child's thoughts were elsewhere-her heart raised to a Friend who does not forsake us. 
                  When she came out, her face was resigned and calm; she put on her old bonnet, and taking a broken basket, went out into the street. 
                  For an hour she wandered about, picking up such chance splinters of wood, and scattered bits of coal, as she could find. Spite of the most careful gleaning, some bits of coal would remain in the interstices of the stones after the loads were stowed away, and these were assiduously collected by the child and deposited in her basket, the broken bottom of which she supplied by the paper in which the medicine had been wrapped. 
                  At the end of an hour she had collected quite an armful of broken pieces of wood, and her basket was nearly full of the coal "trash;" and she hastened quickly back, driven onward by the chill, biting wind, which attacked her almost bare shoulders with cruel animosity, but more than all by the thought that her uncle was alone. 
                  It was a piteous sight to see the child so thinly clad, and buffeted by the wind, which cut through her poor clothing like a frozen blade of steel. The old shawl had been some protection, but this was gone now, and the small form trembled and shook-shivering at every new attack of the freezing wind. The sun shone brightly, but seemed to be laughing ironically at the idea of any one's supposing that his beams had the least warmth in them-and the paving stones were freezing cold, and numbed the poor child's feet. 
                  She hastened on, however, and had nearly reached home, when she saw a crowd of vagabond boys at the corner of the street, and, in the midst of them, little Charley, who was observable at once from the great difference in his age and size. Ellie knew that many of these boys were of bad character, and stopped to call Charley to go home with her. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  INTRODUCES WIDE-AWAKE. 
                  AT the sound of the child's voice, the eldest boy in the group turned round and stared at her carelessly. He was sixteen or seventeen years old, apparently, but might have been a year younger, for the houseless wanderers of city streets look old and knowing long before their childhood has gone by. This boy was clad almost handsomely-splendidly indeed, compared with his companions-and had a careless, reckless air, which had evidently procured him the chiefship among his comrades. In all their occupations, as newsboys, paper-carriers, errand-runners, and petty thieves, Beau Sam or Sam Beau-or Wide-Awake, as the friends of this gentleman preferred calling him-was easily the chief and leader. 
                  Ellie had seen him often, and they would frequently exchange salutations, and walk some distance together, when they met; and thus, as the child came up now and called to Charley, Wide-Awake turned round, and, in the technical phrase, "hailed her." 
                  "I say! my eyes! you've been beggin'!" 
                  "No, indeed, I have not, Sam," said the child, "but it is so cold I can't stop. Come on home, Charley, wont you?" 
                  Charley grumbled, and first took up one bare foot, then the other, undecidedly. 
                  "We aint a-goin' to let him go. He's goin' to be one of our party," said one of the boys in the last stage of dilapidation. 
                  "Oh, no!" said Ellie, stepping back from the speaker with irrepressible dislike, for he was one of the most dangerous young thieves in the whole neighbourhood; "Oh, no! Charley don't want to go with you." 
                  "I tell you he does!" said the boy, with a swagger;" and we're goin' now to--." 
                  "Oh, no! Charley!" cried the child: "do not go with him. Indeed, indeed, he will make you bad; you are so little, and-and-" 
                  Ellie turned away to repress a sob. Her heart overburdened with anxiety and grief for her sick uncle could scarcely stand this new trial, and she almost burst into tears. 
                  "Go it!" cried the tattered boy; "she's goin' to cry, she is. Come on, young 'un-I'll treat you to hot coffee and brile. Come on!" 
                  Charley stood whimpering and undecided. A mere little bit of a child, it is scarcely wonderful that he should have been tempted by the offers of the boy, which were now all summed up in the shape of hot coffee and a hot broil. 
                  The boy saw his advantage, and taking Charley by the arm, made a face at Ellie, and drew him away. 
                  "Oh, no, no, don't go, Charley! don't go!" cried Ellie, dropping her armful of wood, and putting her arm round the child; "Oh, no! you must not go." 
                  "He shall, I tell you! Now you jest take your hand off o' his shoulder, will you?" 
                  This request was accompanied by a gesture to the effect that Ellie would immediately repent any interference if she dared to persevere. This was evidently the meaning of the young bully. But as the Moor says, "Who can control his fate?" Just as the threatening arm was raised, another fist came in contact with the tattered boy's head, and he found himself immediately engaged in a combat with Wide-Awake, who until the moment of attack, had watched this contest with philosophic interest, leaning against a lamp-post, and picking his teeth. 
                  The battle was not long, and by the time Ellie had picked up her armful of wood, and taken Charley by the hand, (he looked very sorry now,) Wide-Awake's victory was achieved. A last kick sent his adversary into the gutter, whereupon he was hailed with shouts as more than ever chief and commander. Wide-Awake received these tokens of public approbation with much indifference, and assuming his former careless and rakish position against the lamp-post, said to Charley- 
                  "Now, you young man, go home, and mind your sister, and don't come around this crowd. You better not. If I see you with any of 'em, I'll lick you." 
                  Charley whimpered at this, and took up his feet one after the other. 
                  "I say," added Wide-Awake confidentially, as Ellie turned tearfully toward home; "the old organ grinder over ther's dead. Did you know it?" 
                  "Oh no! Is he?" said Ellie. 
                  "Yes he is." 
                  "But Lucia is-" 
                  "You mean she aint got nobody-don't you?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Well she aint, but I'm goin' to try and help her." 
                  "That's very good in you, Sam-I'll go and see her-as soon as-when-very soon, I mean, Sam," said Ellie, thinking of her sick uncle, and hurrying away. "I'm very much obliged to you, Sam-good bye." 
                  And Ellie hastened homeward. Charley was quite submissive and repentant now, and watched the bed and the fire alternately. Ellie knelt down and arranged the splinters and put some bits of coal on them, and blew it until it kindled. She then rose, and taking an old tumbler and a pewter spoon from the shelf, set it by the medicine in order to administer the draught as soon as the sick man awaked. 
                  The child did all this with strange energy and calmness -indeed she seemed to be scarcely herself. But yesterday a timid child, now almost a woman-poor little woman of eleven!-she almost wondered at herself. 
                  Sitting by the small fire she leaned her head upon her hand, and pondered long and deeply, until her very brain ached, indeed, with the new weight of cares. Everything now was to be done by herself-there was nothing "in the house"-and her uncle was sick. Food, fuel, medicine-all these were necessary to his existence. Where were they to come from? Ellie's lip trembled as she thought of it, and she restrained with difficulty the tears which filled her eyes. 
                  It was the habit of this child, however, to make an actual practical use of that faith which so many of us keep for seasons of discourse and devotion, and quietly repudiate as an element which should enter into everyday life-doing away with our fears, and yet not making us remiss in resolute endeavor. Ellie's faith was warm and living, and if in the presence of these terrifying obstacles her weak heart trembled, he did not doubt, or give way to despondency. 
                  About noon Joe Lacklitter woke and turned in his old bed. Ellie was at his side with a look of love and pity and tenderness which was beautiful to see. 
                  The fever had, if anything, gained upon him, and his cheeks were burning. 
                  The child brought the medicine, and administered it as the label directed; then beat up his pillow, and brought him a hot cup of tea and the toast. 
                  "I might have made you a little soup, dear Uncle Joe," she said, tenderly; "for there's a little piece of meat left, but I thought it would be too strong, you know." 
                  "Yes, yes, I couldn't 'a' teched it-I couldn't," said Joe, with a sickly smile; "you're a good girl,-a good girl. I think I might try a little tea." 
                  Ellie hastened to place the old pillow behind his back, and held the cup to his lips. He drank, and after eating a mouthful of the toast, lay down again. The child carefully covered him, and assuming a cheerful smile, said he would soon be better. Joe smiled himself, and muttering again, "a good girl! a good girl!" sank into uneasy slumber. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  ELLIE AND HER NEEDLE. 
                  SO the day passed,-the "long, long weary day," as says the song,-and Ellie saw night draw on, cold and stormy, and threatening snow. 
                  The child had been reflecting all the afternoon upon her situation, and long before dark had betaken herself to her needle. This was to save candle light, and besides she could think very well while she was working, and had the further satisfaction of knowing that she was getting on with her work. When night came she assisted Charley to undress, and saw that he was comfortably wrapped from the cold in the poor, tattered covering; after which she returned to work again. 
                   
                  The sick man was still slumbering heavily, and whenever he moved, the child cast anxious glances towards the bed. She sewed on until her eyes ached in the twilight, and then carefully adjusting it so that the light would not fall in the sleeper's eyes, she lit a piece of candle in an old battered candlestick, and recommenced her work, replenishing the fire from time to time carefully, with an eye to the small remaining stock of wood and coal. 
                  Ellie was working at a lace collar of the richest description. She had taken it from the lower drawer of an old pine affair in her closet, the key of which she took with others from her pocket, and it was evident that it had already cost much labor. A word in explanation here as to the child's possession of this costly fabric; perhaps this slight digression may explain other things. 
                  Joe Lacklitter, whose chief business was the distribution of newspapers to subscribers, had received into his poor rooms, or rather room, the two children of his brother, who had died some two years before. Their mother had been a woman much above her sphere when she died, and possessed more than one accomplishment unusual in the occupants of hovels. She had taught Ellie, at the age of six or seven, to read fluently, and before she was nine had made of the child quite an accomplished needle-woman. Mrs. Lacklitter had entirely supported herself, her children, and an idle and drunken husband, by means of her needle: and the elegance with which she executed the delicate work so much prized by ladies for collars, had supplied her with constant occupation. 
                  Ellie had often taken these articles to good Mrs. Brown, at the "Seamstress' Union," where work was given to poor needle-women, and brought back to her mother the money for them. Then one day she timidly asked Mrs. Brown if she had no work for her,-and Mrs. Brown smiling and asking if she meant in the meal-bag line, Ellie had replied, "no, such as mother did, but not so fine." Mrs. Brown was very merry at this, but her merriment gave way to surprise when Ellie sat down and worked some before her eyes: and the end of all this was that at nine years old the child was trusted with this delicate work, and thus assisted her mother. 
                  Her father died, in a drunken debauch it was said; but this was spared the child. She was not long afterwards called to the bedside of her dying mother. Her mother had gazed at her wistfully, said she had something private to tell her, sent every one out of the room, but had apparently no courage to speak. She had only blessed her children and committed them into the hands of God. Ellie, with little Charley on her lap, was sobbing as if her heart would break, when Joe Lacklitter came and took her up and kissed her, and said he "had his part to do and he was going to do it-he was;" the result of which declaration was, that the orphan children were taken to his poor dwelling; and he had never repented it. There was a soft and tender gentleness about Ellie which often caused him to look at her with astonishment; but this was quite swallowed up in his affection for her. Charley, too, was a good little child, and, though somewhat fretful, had never caused him any trouble. 
                  They had thus lived for two years-Joe Lacklitter attending to his business, and Ellie regularly working for good Mrs. Brown, who often told her that her work was much admired, and trusted her without hesitation with the costliest fabrics. There is a magnetism in honesty, and Mrs. Brown knew that her things were sacred in the eyes of the poor child. Thus they had gone on up to the present, and it was no common contingency which Ellie was called to meet. Her needle must support the household, child as she was-God help her!-and she must not despair. 
                  So she sat working at the rich collar for hours while still the slumberer breathed heavily and turned on his couch. 
                  Whenever he turned, as we have said, Ellie would lay down her work, rise quickly, and, poised upon one foot, listen if the sleeper had awaked and wanted anything. As she stood thus, with her soft brown hair falling around her fair pure face, she might have realized one of the dreams of Raphael, though canvass never could have held the mingled tenderness and purity of the child. 
                  She would then sit down, and bending over the small fire, ply her needle-shrinking a little it may be when the blast rushed in, and shivering in her thin poor dress; but still she worked on, and did not stop, but true to her high heart, heeded not all the passing hours clashed from the sombre bells on the wild wandering night. Surely the poor dim candle did not prevent one eye from seeing, or the wild wind drown the low soft voice which rose from the child's lips as she knelt and prayed. 
                  Before midnight she had finished the collar, and exhausted all her fuel. She half-undressed herself only, and lay down on her poor pallet, watchful for the waking of the sick man. But he slumbered heavily, and yielding gradually to sleep, the child slumbered too-her cheek upon her arm-worn out with toil and grief. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  ELLIE PICKS UP A GLOVE. 
                  ELLIE was up betimes next morning, and at her uncle's bedside. 
                  He had slumbered heavily throughout the night, and the malady seemed in that time to have gathered new strength. His cheek was burning, and his eye had that fitful wandering expression which denotes the mastery of disease over the mental as well as the physical part of man's system. Ellie felt more than ever that sinking of the heart which is worse than a thousand tears; and it was a hard struggle to trust implicitly in that Being to whom she had just offered her prayer on her bended knees. 
                  She felt more than ever her almost powerless condition, and with one hand upon the sick man's pillow, she leaned over him and cried silently for some moments. He opened his eyes at last, and with a sort of dim consciousness that it was the real Ellie, and not the angel of his dreams, tried to smile; but it was a sickly attempt, and he soon sank back with a low sigh of pain. 
                   
                  Ellie carefully arranged the cover, and suppressing her tears, betook herself to kindling the two or three bits of wood which she had reserved. She then waked and assisted Charley in dressing, and made some tea for him. 
                  The first thing to be done was to get the money for the collar, as more medicine would be wanted, and to ask the doctor to come again; this the child determined to do at once. She instructed Charley, who was now quite subdued, and anxious to remain at home, and if her uncle stirred to get anything he wanted-tea or water, or anything-and then she put on her old bonnet, wrapped up the collar, and set forth. 
                  Dr. Jots gave a surly assent to her request that he would call at once, as her uncle was much worse; and then she set forward again, through the bitter sunrise, on her way. 
                  Suddenly, in passing the office of the newspaper which her uncle was accustomed to serve to subscribers, she remembered that they ought to know of his sickness; and accordingly she went in and said that he was ill. The information was received by the greasy looking clerk with as many grumblings as had fallen to her lot in the case of Dr. Jots. It had occurred to Ellie to ask an advance upon her uncle's weekly pay, but the rude manner of the clerk, added to the fact, which she now remembered, that her uncle had stated his indebtedness for a week in advance, paralyzed the child's tongue, and she could not find the words to prefer her request. 
                  She went out endeavoring to hide her tears, and again set forward through the chill sunrise on her way. 
                   
                  She arrived at the "Seamstress' Union," and almost burst into tears at the disappointment which met her. It was closed: and she suddenly remembered that this was one of the two days in the week when Mrs. Brown closed her shop, and went out to carry work to her "hands," and give them instructions. 
                  It was a bitter disappointment, and the child sat down on the stone before the door and cried. Early wayfarers passed her and looked curiously at her, and went on in silence;-or a paper carrier uttered a good natured "hallo, young 'un," and then hurried on; or baker boys in fast-driving carts, asked her the "time o' day for breakfast;"-still the child's tears flowed, and she seemed oblivious of all around her, gazing at the cruel door which had shut out with its iron clasp her only hope. 
                  She sat thus on the cold stone for a long time, trying to think what she should do. Mrs. Brown would not return until evening-but evening would find them destitute, and she could not leave her uncle again. What could she do-oh! what could she do! 
                  Suddenly her eye fell upon the package containing the collar, and she remembered that it was for a lady whom she had often done such things for. She would go to her, and tell her why she came, and get the money, and afterwards explain to good Mrs. Brown, who could not surely blame her. Ellie rose at once, and wrapping her cold hands in her apron, took her way towards the residence of Miss Incledon, who lived at the house of her aunt. 
                  She knocked timidly, and told the well-fed servant, who was coming out with a rug upon his arm and a broom in his hand, that she wanted to see Miss Silvia. 
                  Very good, the man said, he knew she couldn't, being as Miss Silvia wasn't up yet-but he'd send. Telegraphing accordingly to a chambermaid, who was going up stairs, he stated the child's request, and then returned to his work singing, as contented and well-fed domestics will. 
                  The maid returned in ten minutes with a message from her mistress that the child was to come in. She would be down soon "to practice," and would see her. 
                  Ellie went into the parlor, where a good blazing fire had just been kindled, and sat down timidly upon a cricket, holding her hands to the blaze. They were bitter cold, and she had not been near so fine a fire for a long time. Having warmed herself, she looked around and scanned the apartments of the room with forlorn curiosity. 
                  It was a richly furnished apartment, with silk damask curtains, a Brussels carpet, and massive rosewood furniture. Everything indicated comfort, and Ellie could not forbear comparing it with the poor room she had just left where her uncle lay, burnt up with fever, and without the necessaries of life. But this thought did not make her envious, and she banished it at once, folding her hands and making up her mind to wait patiently. 
                  Chancing to look around after a few moments, Ellie's eyes lit upon a yellow kid glove, which lay upon the floor by the sofa, within a foot or two of her; and she reached over and picked it up. Just within the wrist-band of the glove, which was evidently a man's, was visible in the broken letters of a tin copying card-and marked crosswise as if in careless sport-the name "A. Fantish." 
                  Ellie was still looking absently at the glove, when a light step behind her attracted her attention, and turning round she saw the young lady she had come to see. Miss Incledon was about twenty-two, had magnificent dark hair and eyes, and wore a handsome morning dress, which set off her superb figure to great advantage. Her face was beautiful and animated, but a latent excitability in the dark eyes seemed to indicate a quick temper, not entirely under its mistress's control. 
                  "Oh! it is you, child, is it?-the little sewing girl. I have not forgotten you," said Miss Incledon, "do you wish to--" 
                  Suddenly seeing the glove in the child's hands, she stopped and colored. 
                  "What-where-did you get that?" she said, taking it. 
                  "I picked it up from the floor, ma'am," said Ellie, who had risen and was standing respectfully back from the fire. 
                  "From the floor!-oh, yes-he must have dropped it. That is-no matter." 
                  And Miss Incledon, with a careless air, thrust the glove into her reticule. 
                  "Did you want to see me?" she said, going to the piano, opening it, and running her hand over the keys. 
                  "Yes ma'am, I brought your collar." 
                  "My collar?" 
                  "I was working it for Mrs. Brown, you know, ma'am." 
                  "Oh, yes-,my thread lace-let me see." 
                  Ellie unrolled and handed it to the young lady. 
                   
                  "Very pretty." 
                  Ellie smiled with the gentle ingenuous air of a child who is praised. The young lady looked at it for some moments, placed it around her white throat, and then laying it down on the piano, said as she ran her hand over the keys, 
                  "Sit down, and warm yourself." 
                  Ellie blushed and hesitated. 
                  "If you please, ma'am," she faltered, with a threatened tear; "my uncle is sick, and we have no money-and-" 
                  "You want me to pay for this? Oh, certainly! I might have known you came for-" 
                  As she spoke, the door opened, and the servant putting his head in, announced respectfully, "Mr. Ralph, ma'am." 
                  A quick color came to the young lady's face, and the hand which she had moved toward her pocket, stopped. Before she could speak farther, the door opened wide, and a gentleman came in. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  HOW ELLIE WAS FORCED TO HEAR A VERY SINGULAR CONVERSATION. 
                  HE was a man of about twenty-five, of tall stature and fine appearance-though his face wore an expression of gravity amounting almost to melancholy. He was clad handsomely but plainly, and seemed to be familiar with the apartment which he entered. 
                   
                  "Good morning, Silvia," he said, gravely. "You will excuse this early call, but I had something to say to you in confidence, and I knew you would be here, and alone." 
                  The young lady had already lost her careless air, and met the new comer with ill-disguised distaste, with which was mingled no little disquiet. 
                  "I am not alone this morning, however," she now said, pointing to Ellie. 
                  "Ah!" said the gentleman, with a kindly smile toward the child, whose gentle expression seemed at once to attract his attention, "you have an early visitor." 
                  The young lady played with the ribbon of her sash, and was silent. 
                  "I wished to talk with you this morning, Silvia," continued the gentleman; "will you permit me?" 
                  "Certainly," was the reply, but in a tone so cold, that it was obvious in what mood the conversation would proceed. Indeed Miss Incledon seemed to be bracing her nerves for a struggle, and to know the strength of her adversary. 
                  The gentleman pointed to Ellie. 
                  "We can speak alone, can we not?" he said. 
                  "That child is nobody," she replied. 
                  "Have you business with her?" 
                  "Yes, some collars I wish made." 
                  The gentleman sat down. 
                  "I will wait," he said. 
                  Miss Incledon flirted the ribbon she was playing with. 
                  "I don't know when I shall get through," she said. 
                   
                  "But I am pressed for time." 
                  "I am sorry." 
                  "And have something I wish to say." 
                  "I will hear it," she said, bracing her nerves and coloring. 
                  The gentleman placed his hat upon the sofa, and drawing his chair near the young lady said, as Ellie fearfully retreated toward the fire: 
                  "You probably know, Silvia, the object of this visit, for it is not the first time I have been driven to the miserable task of fulfilling what I promised my uncle, your father. Hitherto we have spoken on this disagreeable subject alone. You compel me to do what is repugnant to me-speak before another person, though that person is a child. I cannot help it." 
                  Another flirt of the ribbon, but no reply. 
                  "I was at the ball last night, Silvia," continued the gentleman. 
                  "Were you, sir!" 
                  "Yes: and I saw Mr. Fantish there." 
                  A gush of crimson blood covered the young lady's face, and her eyes flashed. 
                  "This was the subject then-" 
                  "Which I wished to speak with you about? Yes," said her companion, curbing a fire in his own eye which seemed to reply to that in her own. 
                  "The subject is distasteful, and I have told you so, sir," said the young lady almost rudely, and for the first time addressing the gentleman formally as "sir." 
                  "You have told me so-that is true," he said, repressing sing his feelings, which seemed to be bitterly wounded by the lady's tone; "but you have not shown me it is not my duty as an honorable gentleman, and as your relation, to return to the subject." 
                  "I am not aware that because you are my cousin, you have the right to annoy me." 
                  "I do not wish to annoy you." 
                  "But I am annoyed, sir-greatly annoyed." 
                  "I regret it: but you cannot have forgotten the ground upon which I base my right to speak upon this subject. I certainly have mentioned it in former interviews." 
                  "Yes, sir," replied the young lady, giving way to her irritation: "I have heard it until I am sick of it." 
                  "Then you do not forget that I promised your father to perform as well as I was able a brother's part while you were here in the city without other male relatives?" 
                  "No, sir!" 
                  "That he requested me to do so in the first place himself?" 
                  "No sir! I have not forgotten it. You made but one slight mistake." 
                  "A mistake?" 
                  "Yes, sir. You forgot your 'brother's part,' and assumed that of 'lover.'" 
                  The bitterly poisoned arrow struck the mark at which it was directed, and a deep flush covered the brow of the gentleman, and his eyes flashed. It was some moments before he could master his feelings, but when he spoke the mastery was complete. 
                  "It is true, Silvia, "he said, gravely, "that I was led into the indiscretion of admiring you more than any one else of my acquaintance, and I do not know that even the unkind speech you have just uttered is not true. But surely I was therein guilty of no breach of trust in what I had promised your father. I do not think that this requires any argument, and I only regret that your evident irritation should have led you to utter a taunt, which is also an injustice. If I experienced such feelings as you charge me with-and I can scarcely deny it-there was surely nothing improper in them. You soon gave me to understand that your affections were engaged-that was frank and honest-and I succeeded in suppressing what was a very wayward and foolish feeling in my own bosom. I am true enough gentleman, I think, and strong enough in will, to bend my feelings to my sense of right; and I most honestly assure you that I did not conceive the idea of struggling with the unknown person whom you had spoken of." 
                  "And since, sir," she said, unmoved by the clear, fine voice and noble look, "since then!-what have you done since?" 
                  "I certainly have not endeavored to make a place in your heart for myself by turning out a rival, as you may suppose him." 
                  "I know nothing of your intentions, sir," replied the young lady, whose flashing eyes betrayed a temper completely aroused. 
                  "You will pardon me for saying that I do, however," he replied, "and what I have said before-what I now wish to say-is strictly in pursuance of my trust." 
                   
                  "Wish to say! Well, sir, speak on," she said, with cold dignity but evident disquiet. 
                  "I stated that I was at the ball last night." 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Mr. Fantish was there." 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  Her eyes flashed whenever that name was uttered. 
                  "My wish," continued the gentleman, "is to tell you as accurately as possible, what occurred in a corner of the room-in a very few words." 
                  "Well, sir, said the lady, with a nervous shudder. 
                  "Mr. Fantish was standing in the midst of a party of young men," her companion continued, calmly, "with whom, I believe, he is very popular. The reputation of a "fast man" is very taking with a certain class of persons, and Mr. Fantish is said to be of that description. I was standing within a few feet of him, and I heard one of his friends ask him why he was not waltzing. 'Because I am sick of embracing,' he replied. 'I have no idea of being smothered.' 'Do you mean waltzing?' asked Mr. Fantish's friend. 'Yes, I mean waltzing,' he replied, 'but I have been through something even stronger than that. There's a little girl over yonder who is desperately in love with me-poor thing!-and, if I would only let her, she would smother me'--" 
                  "It is not true!-he did not say it!" Miss Incledon broke out. 
                  "Exactly those words," replied the gentleman, as pale as death, but speaking quite calmly, "and he added that he had left his glove behind-a straw colored glove, I observed. Have you seen it, Silvia?" 
                  It was visible through the net-work of the reticule. 
                  She covered her face with her hands, and cried with anger and agitation. 
                  "Is my word sufficient for you?" he said, "but I see you do not doubt me. If you had seen me when I left the ball, you would have believed me." 
                  She made no reply. 
                  "Is it necessary for me to say again, Silvia," he added, "that a man who thus bandies your affection, if not your name, from mouth to mouth-who throws only this thin veil over a base and dishonorable charge-who, despising all women, and deriding their purity, cannot even spare the pure young girl who has given him her affection-I say, is it necessary for me to add, that this man is unworthy of your regard, that you are running into an enormous danger by receiving him, and that you cannot too soon dissolve all connection with him?" 
                  The young lady made no reply, but overwhelmed with a thousand conflicting emotions, was completely silent. Whether she was finding excuses for the offender, or embittering her heart slowly against him, could not be discovered from her face. She certainly, however, did not doubt the relation-that was evident. 
                  "My last word, Silvia," said the gentleman, rising, "is beware! You do not know the falseness of this man-you cannot know to what depths of vice his passions have dragged an originally good nature-for I knew him. As your relative, as the representative of your good father, as your best friend-and not for an instant as your lover-I beseech you to be cautious. I do not suggest your course; you are old enough to follow your own views. For the last time, take care of this man, or you will suffer lifelong remorse." 
                  Having uttered these words with the same steadfast calmness, the gentleman bowed and went out. The young lady remained for a moment overcome by her feelings; then seeing Ellie, she thrust a piece of money into her hand which was more than the value of her work, pointed to the door, and again covered her face. 
                  Ellie, full of astonishment and agitation, obeyed, and was again in the street. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  HINTS AT THE SKELETON IN CAPTAIN SCHMINKY'S HOUSE. 
                  WITH the closing door vanished all that world of rich furniture, and warmth and comfort, for the child. She was again in the chill bleak street-one of the poor-and face to face with poverty and hunger. 
                  Hunger! How many are ignorant of the meaning of the word!-how many are, alas! too well acquainted with it! Hunger! the cry of the mean and ignoble body-the material organization-the growl of the sleeping animal ready to tear its Slave-Lord, the soul! Hunger! The hand to hand struggle with the tendency to faintness and death!-the despairing conviction that a step only remains between life and the dark beyond, which draws ever nearer-the thought that others are revelling in plenty, while you are failing for want of the crumbs which even the dogs may gather! This is what it is to be poor and in want-this is what the sick ages stagger under, drawing ever near to the day when the awful question shall be asked, "Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee?"-and when that terrible reply shall be returned, "Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me!" 
                  Ellie returned thus to her struggle, and retracing her way as quickly as her faintness would permit-for she had tasted nothing for nearly twenty-four hours-reached home. 
                  Charley had had the good fortune to procure some fuel from an old negro woman, who lived in the cellar opposite-Aunt Phillis had more than once befriended Ellie-and so the fire had not entirely died out. The doctor had called for a moment, and written another prescription in her absence; and this the child handed to his sister. 
                  Her first thought, however, was for her uncle; and so, assuming a cheerful and hopeful expression, which hid a weary and anxious heart, Ellie went to his bedside. 
                  "How do you feel now, uncle?" she asked; "I went away before you were quite waked up." 
                  "Poorly, poorly," said Joe in a faint voice; "the fever's got me regular, daughter." 
                   
                  "Oh, do not think it is very bad," said Ellie, earnestly; "You'll soon be well, and we shall get on very well." 
                  "That troubles me more than all, an' makes my head hotter 'n the fever," murmured Joe. 
                  "Oh, don't be troubled, dear uncle. I went this morning and got the pay for my collar-see how much-and we're quite rich." 
                  He looked at the tender gentle face with great affection, and murmuring "A good girl," fell back faintly. 
                  "Have you had some tea, uncle?" she asked cheerily. 
                  "I'll make you some hot in a minute. 
                  "Yes, I had some." 
                  "Well then, I'll go out and get something to make you some nice soup, and call and get the medicine. I called, at the paper office, and told them you were sick, and it is all right." 
                  "Good Ellie." 
                  "Oh, no, I'm not good, and it is very little to do for you-I mean anything would be-after all your love and kindness to me and Charley." 
                  Ellie accompanied these soft words with a look which made the poor sick man murmur a blessing, and then hastened to get his draught. Having duly administered it, she put on her bonnet again, and hurried off to get the medicine. 
                  This exhausted one-half, at least, of her store-but that was nothing. She came back and placed it on the table, and taking her basket repaired to market-poor little housekeeper!-to get the material for a light soup. This she soon accomplished, and turned again towards home. 
                   
                  She had just passed the famous sign of "Schminky, Grocer," when she recollected Uncle Joe's fondness for pepper-black pepper-in his soup, and also that she had not a spoonful of salt in the house. She therefore turned back and went into the store. 
                  The portly proprietor was visible behind the counter, resplendent in his fine uniform of Captain of the "Yager" company of German volunteers; and, indeed, so well known was this office, that we have almost committed a solecism in (American) good manners by speaking of him in any other way than as Captain Schminky-which we shall do in future. Captain Schminky, then, was behind the counter tying up a pound of candles, and he delivered them to his customer as Ellie entered. 
                  "Well now, young one, vat is it?" asked Captain Schminky, in a strong fatherland accent. 
                  "I want a little pepper and salt, if you please, sir," said Ellie, "a very little, as little as you can sell, if you please. Uncle Joe is sick, and---" 
                  "Zalt-you want zalt, eh?" said Captain Schminky, 'you want pepper, eh?" 
                  "A little if you please, sir." 
                  "For your uncle?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "He's zick?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Goot." 
                  And having uttered this somewhat ambiguous monosyllable, Captain Schminky with one hand seized the salt, with the other the pepper, and emptied a good large pile of each into a sheet of brown paper. Then for fear they would mix, he laid a slice of cheese and some crackers between them, and bundling them up, rolled the package to Ellie. 
                  "Oh, sir," she said "I'm afraid that is too much. I can't pay for--" 
                  "Bay!-I don't want noting-ton't pother me." 
                  And bluff Captain Schminky emerged into the shop, and turning his back on Ellie, abandoned the store to his clerk. 
                  Ellie picked up her bundle, and, full of thanks and gratitude, went out. Captain Schminky was there, reconnoitring the street-his hand upon his sword. 
                  "I zay," he said, "you know Zam Peau?" 
                  "Sam? Oh, yes, sir." 
                  "Ough; you ze'im when las'?" 
                  "I saw him yesterday." 
                  "You ze'im 'bout here to-day?" 
                  "No, sir, not to-day." 
                  "Ough! tam Zam Peau!" 
                  And having uttered this objurgation, Captain Schminky, with his hand on his sword hilt, took his way proudly down the street. 
                  Ellie smiled and went towards home, not thinking of the chill wind which cut through her thin dress-but full of the subject of the soup 
                  She soon prepared it, and was delighted to see that the invalid enjoyed it-he declared, indeed, that he never could have touched it without the pepper. The faculty may differ upon the advisability of pepper, but we incline to think that Ellie was in the right. She watched the invalid as he eat, with a satisfaction which gave him a new appetite; and when he was done, ran and took the plate, and smoothed his pillow, and saw him turn his face away looking much better. She and Charley then ate some of the cheese and crackers. 
                  Charley was slowly coming to the conviction-for Charley was a good boy at bottom-that he ought to do something to help his uncle and sister. He now introduced the subject, forlornly munching his cheese, and talking in a whisper. 
                  "I say, sister, I kin sell some papers, I think," he said. 
                  "Papers, Charley?" 
                  "Yes, newspapers." 
                  Ellie reflected. 
                  "Littler boys' an me kin," continued Charley, munching, "and I'm goin' to try." 
                  "How will you get them, Charley-who will tell you how?" 
                  "I know. I ain't goin' to do like that ugly Jim, that takes'em from the doors and sells'em." 
                  "Oh, Charley! I hope not! That would be stealing." 
                  Charley assented to this and continued: 
                  "Sam will show me how;-must I ask him?" 
                  Ellie pondered, and at last replied: 
                  "Yes, Charley, if you think you can do it. Sam is quite honest, I think, and I know he will not mislead a child like you. Yes, Charley," continued the child, "I think you have smartness enough to do it very well; but your feet will be terribly cold, and you can't wear my shoes." 
                  But Charley had his pride thoroughly aroused, and declared that he didn't care for the cold; and he was going off to see Sam at once. Ellie buttoned up his coat and kissed him, and the juvenile newsboy set forth upon his search. 
                  He returned in an hour with a bright look, and said he had seen Sam on the wharf, and he had promised to take him and "interduce" him on the next morning; and full of his new ambition, Charley became dignified and affectionate. 
                  So the day drew on and night came, and passed pretty much as before. Uncle Joe was still hot with fever, but he seemed more composed, and Ellie poured out her whole little heart in prayer for him. 
                  Charley disappeared early, and came back two or three hours afterwards somewhat down-hearted, but still manful. He had made a few coppers, but evidently doubted seriously about his new profession. He was to go on the next morning, however, and meanwhile consoled himself with counting his coppers-after which he dutifully deposited them in his sister's lap. 
                  During his absence Ellie had gone out and bargained with a neighbour for a small portion of wood, and this exhausted the whole of her money. But they now had enough for two days at least, and the child began to cast about her for ways and means again. 
                  She recollected that Miss Incledon had said to the gentleman with whom she held that singular conversation, that she wished her, Ellie, to remain in order to see about some collars; and now this occurred to her as an opportunity to obtain some more work, if Mrs. Brown should have none to give her. 
                  She accordingly took her bonnet, and cautioning Charley not to leave her uncle, who was dozing, set forth toward Miss Incledon's. On the way she stopped and explained what she had done to good Mrs. Brown, who fully approved of it, and was sorry she had no more work at the moment. 
                  So Ellie thanked her for her kind words, and curtseying, continued her way toward the house of the young lady. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  A GENTLEMAN OF FASHION AND AN ECCENTRIC. 
                  THE child knocked timidly at the door, and it was some time before she could make herself heard. At last, however, the portly servant appeared, and with a patronizing air, demanded her business. 
                  She wished to see Miss Silvia, she said timidly; where upon the servant said Miss Silvia had a visitor, but he would tell her-which was attributable to the fact that he had standing orders to suit such cases. 
                  "Ask her to sit in the hall a moment," Ellie heard. 
                  And accordingly the child came in and sat down. At the end of ten minutes the parlor door opened, and a man of twenty-five or six, apparently, came out smiling. He was tall, slender, and graceful-wore the most fashionable costume-and carried his glossy hat jauntily in his hand; but Ellie observed that beneath this smiling and gay exterior, there was an ill-concealed expression of weariness and recklessness, which made it anything but pleasant to dwell upon the visitor's countenance. 
                  He was undeniably handsome, it is true, and his light brown hair was fine and curling; but his complexion was pale or rather sallow, and under his eyes were those discolored semicircles which denote a dissipated habit of living. A close observer would have found at once in this man all the characteristics of the fast liver-the frequenter of bar-rooms and gaming-houses-and something of this was apparent even to the child. 
                  As we have said, the visitor was smiling, and, behind him, the face of Miss Incledon was as smiling as his own. 
                  "Oh, bye-the-bye, I quite forgot to thank you for restoring this," he said, pointing to his straw-colored kid glove. "Thanks, charming seora, and adieu!" 
                  With which words the speaker walked out followed by the eyes of the young lady, who seemed scarcely to be aware of the presence of Ellie. 
                  "If you please, ma'am," the child began after a moment. 
                  "Oh yes! you are here, are you?-they told me a girl, and I might have known-" 
                  A shadow passed over the dark handsome face as she spoke-and it was plain that she was thinking of the scene at which Ellie had been present. 
                  "What do you wish to-day?" she said, indifferently. 
                  "You said, ma'am-I thought you said," Ellie began timidly, "you had some collars-" 
                  "To work?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am." 
                  "So I have, and I suppose you wish to do them?" 
                  "If you please, ma'am." 
                  "You may-I have no objection; indeed your work is very good, child; but they are not ready to-day. If you will call next week I will have them for you." 
                  And full of her own thoughts the careless young lady disappeared up the staircase. 
                  Ellie turned away sorrowfully, and descended to the street. It was not until she reached the cold pavement that she fully realized the important character of her disappointment. Work was bread-medicine for her uncle-fuel to ward off freezing. Want of work was hunger and cold-not for herself and Charley only, but for him too, her poor, sick uncle, stretched on his bed, and more powerless far than herself, a little child. 
                  The thought sent a pang through the child's heart, and unconsciously her head drooped, and she went along crying silently and thinking of him. 
                  While thus absorbed in her thoughts, and crying bitterly-she could not help it, though she tried often-Ellie felt a kind hand upon her shoulder, and looking up, saw a graceful looking man, with short brown hair, a smiling face, and very fashionably clad, who was looking at her intently. 
                  "Well, little girl," said this gentleman, who appeared to be about twenty-five or thirty years old, and to have thought and observed much in that time-"what are you crying about, pray?" 
                  "Oh, nothing, sir!" said Ellie, shrinking from the very thought of begging. 
                  "Nothing, indeed! Nothing don't make people cry," said the gentleman. "Come, little one, how is it?" 
                  Ellie was touched by the frank kindness of the tone, and gave him a grateful look through her tears; but she remained quite obdurate upon the subject of her crying and her disappointment. 
                  "You are a strange child," her companion said, "and so, that is all. If you won't tell me, you won't-but I know you are not a beggar, though you ought to have more clothes. Come, now, I'm rich to-day-and eccentric always-I'll treat you to a shawl!" 
                  Ellie cried more than ever from gratitude at this kindness, but shook her head. Poor as they had been they had never descended to begging, and Ellie could not bear the idea, for all the cold. 
                  "You are very good, and I am very grateful," she said, with a soft look, "and if you will let me say it, sir, God will bless you for your goodness to a poor child like me. But I do not want the shawl, sir-I was not crying for myself." 
                  And Ellie moved away. Before she knew it she felt something in her hand, and heard the stranger say: 
                   
                  "There's all the silver I have-you shall take it, little one-and my name. If you can read, and I think your face says you can, you will know where to find me if you want a friend. Good bye." 
                  With these words the stranger called to a gentleman on the opposite side of the street, and crossed over; after which he and his friend disappeared. 
                  Ellie looked at the money-it was three-quarters of a dollar-then at the card. Upon it was engraved the name, "E. Sansoucy," with the address, which was not far from Mrs. Brown's. For a moment Ellie hesitated, doubting whether she should not go and return the money, so great was her repugnance to accepting charity. 
                  But she thought of her uncle; of the comforts which the money would buy for him; and her scruples yielded. 
                  "Oh, it is not for myself," she murmured, "and it will be needed to-morrow."And so Ellie's last scruples were overcome, and she returned homeward, full of gratitude to God, to whom it was this child's constant habit to return thanks for everything. 
                  She had not forgotten the kind face, however, and she carefully placed the card in her pocket. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  A BRACE OF WORTHIES. 
                  THERE is a strange microcosm around us as we saunter or press on, day after day, which few even pause to think of;-the streets of the city. Singular and notable contrasts! ever being presented, and which are dulled by use and repetition, until nothing attracts the attention! Yet surely the curious observer of the traits of human life finds much to strike him in this common highway, where the young and the old, the rich and the poor, the happy and the miserable, jostle each other in the great race of life-common in nothing but in this, that all are hastening, consciously or unconsciously, to a fixed and certain goal, where there is no respect of persons. Strange world of streets, and full of mysteries and concealments close enough to puzzle any Diogenes! It is true that some of these aspects are obvious, as the contrast is striking. The man who jogs your elbow carries under his arm a little coffin, which will soon receive all that remains of some dear child, and, covered with sweet flowers, descend into that holy earth where Christ laid down. And as the emblem of death passes on, you find yourself bespattered by the gay and merry horses which whirl onward some bright wedding party, decked out with white favors, going to a merry bridal festival. These contrasts are most obvious-but others are less marked. 
                  You do not know that the courteous gentleman who smiles as he begs your pardon for a momentary contact with your shoulder, carries a forged check safe in his pocket-book:-you do not know that the smooth wayfarer has crime and assassination in his heart:-you do not perceive the weary frown on the brow of Dives as he rolls by in his splendid coach, or that the representative of Lazarus on the curb-stone, who begs for a penny, has a little fortune at home which greatly overweighs your own. So they pass on-those strange actors on the smiling streets-the merry and miserable, the pure and depraved, the old and young, and great and small, and sick and healthy-all common in this one thing only, that they are but one great variegated procession to a fearful ceremony in the distance. 
                  Thus it happened that the pure child whose struggles with adverse things we are trying to depict, passed close to two men without knowing it-two men as different in character from herself as possible. 
                  One of these men was the gay Mr. Fantish whom she had met some time before at Miss Incledon's; the other was his father. 
                  Mr. Fantish, senior, was a disagreeable-looking man, of tall stature, coarse features, and rough frowning manner. He was richly dressed, but scarcely looked the gentleman. It requires a long time to make a gentleman, and it is necessary to begin at the cradle. It was obvious that this beginning had been deferred in the case of Mr. Fantish, senior; and his aspirations, if he had any in that particular direction, had turned out a failure. 
                   
                  As Ellie passed them, they had just met, and Mr. Fantish, senior, was saying, 
                  "Why have you not been to see me, Ashell?" 
                  "Oh, I've been taken up with a thousand botherations," replied Mr. Ashell Fantish, twirling his cane. 
                  "With a run on the cards, eh?" asked his father, laughing. 
                  "No," was the reply; "I'm tired of cards. I really begin to think that I have no luck, and am sick of them." 
                  "I am glad of it-you will find the truth of my advice at last. If you continue to play as recklessly as you did, you will quite run through with the country property left you by your mother." 
                  "And have to fall back on my respected parent, eh?" said Mr. Ashell Fantish, with careless jocularity; "thank you, I have no idea of turning out a prodigal son. I am afraid the fatted calf would be wanting on my return." 
                  The tone of these words seemed to annoy the worthy Fantish, senior, who evidently admired and attached no slight pride to his handsome and fashionable son. We are bound to say in explanation of this apparently anomalous fact, that this was probably the sole weakness of the worthy, who was not tender in his affections; but this weakness he had. 
                  Thus when the young gentleman hinted that his reception with his father, were he penniless, would be anything but enthusiastic, the elder gentleman's countenance assumed an expression of annoyance, as we have said, and he replied: 
                   
                  "You know very well that I am not a bad father, and this is not your real belief. I only advise you to take care, because it is for your own good. There is a double objection to cards: they cause a man to throw away money, and they destroy his health with late suppers and brandy." 
                  "Very true," said his companion, carelessly. 
                  "You have given them up?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I am glad of it." 
                  "And I-I am indifferent about it." 
                  "You are getting to be terribly weary-looking, Ashell," said Mr. Fantish, senior, casting an admiring glance at his handsome son. 
                  "I look as I feel," he replied. 
                  "Why are you so?" 
                  "Nothing interests me." 
                  "Nothing?" 
                  "Absolutely nothing." 
                  A silence followed these words, and they walked on. 
                  "Try some occupation," said the senior at last; "this is not rational." 
                  "What? Do you mean living as I do, in bachelor freedom?" 
                  "Yes, if you choose." 
                  "Hum!" 
                  "Why not get married?" 
                  "Good! there you are at last, my respected parent-there it is out. You would like me to make a wealthy match." 
                   
                  "I would." 
                  "To sell myself for money!" added the young man in a bantering tone. 
                  "Men do it every day." 
                  "I don't: and there is time enough to change my opinion, and my modes of action, when I am penniless." 
                  "You will not be penniless-for you will have my fortune-that is to say, if you remain a good son," added the old man, with an expression of constraint and uneasiness which was very apparent. 
                  "A good son! Why, am I not?" 
                  "Yes, I don't deny it-and I don't deny, either, that I am proud of you-though I'm free to say that I don't think you have too much affection for me." 
                  "I trust," said the young man, in a tone of banter, "that we are not going to get on the affecting tack. It is too much for my nerves, and I would rather talk business, disagreeable as it is." 
                  The old man seemed, for some reason, to suspect satire in these words, and said, with some show of irritation: 
                  "Well, suppose my business is disagreeable. I suppose I am my own master." 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "This miserable cant, Ashell, of affected puritans! I know what you allude to: you mean that I am a hard landlord." 
                  "No, sir-I was not thinking of anything of the sort." 
                  "Well, I am, sir, if you do choose to think of it, and I have some rascally tenants who will be made to pack immediately, and with very little to take with them." 
                   
                  With which words Mr. Fantish took a memorandum from his waistcoat pocket, and read it with ill-concealed satisfaction. 
                  His son glanced at it carelessly, and said as carelessly: 
                  "What ridiculous names-Slink, Lacklitter and Drachenbilt-that last must be the scion of some great German family. Well, all that is very interesting, sir, but business has few charms for me." 
                  "I know it-you are a butterfly of fashion, while I work. I do not complain. I suppose," added the old man, "you get it from your mother's family." 
                  "What, sir?" said the young man, turning round. 
                  "Your folly and thoughtlessness, Ashell," said his father. 
                  The young man's face colored, and it presented a strange appearance, for such a decoration seldom appeared upon it. 
                  "My mother was never guilty of folly, sir," he said coldly. 
                  "Go on! go on!" said the elder, stung by his son's tone, "add that her only folly was marrying me!" 
                  "No, sir! I have no desire to exchange taunts with my father. I am not a model young man, sir, but I know what my self-respect requires." 
                  "Your self-respect! You put nothing on the ground of affection for me." 
                  "I say nothing, sir-I complain of nothing." 
                  "No, you do not; but I see the devil in your eye, which means that I did not treat your mother well." 
                  "I mean nothing, sir." 
                  "Well, I didn't! there, sir! now scowl at me! I made a mistake when I married her, I don't mind confessing; for she was always thrusting her puritanical ideas between me and the simplest business operation. If I had followed her advice I would now be in the gutter, instead of rich. Deny it, if you can, sir!" 
                  "I do not deny it," said the young man, who had turned from red to pale. 
                  "And yet you always took her part against me, and I believe had a conspiracy between you to put me down-or change me! You might as well have tried to shake Gibraltar, sir!" said the old man, wrathfully. "Yes, I remember well how you went on. If you were talking with your mother and smiling, you would stop on my entrance, and a cloud would settle on your faces; if I made a joke about some business matter, there was no laughter; if I invited you to come to a meeting of the Board of Brokers, you couldn't-because, forsooth, you had to drive your mother out." 
                  "She was delicate and needed it, and you were too busy-you said you were!" interposed the young man, with his hand upon his heart. 
                  "Well, suppose I was! Could I be spending my mornings with your mother, when my affairs were in a critical position? That is a pretty argument!" 
                  "I argue nothing, sir." 
                  "You only despise me." 
                  "No, sir, I do not." 
                  "Well, sir!-go on in your course, and do as you fancy. Some day you will repent your disrespect,-yes, sir! don't look at me in that way, as if you scorned the idea of any respect being due me-" 
                  "I do not, sir." 
                  "Do as you please, and follow your own course!-and take sides, if you choose, with your mother yet!-" 
                  He almost stopped as he uttered these terrible words. 
                  "But don't apply to me, sir, while you have a cent in the world. Don't come to the father you have despised, and beg!" 
                  "The passers-by will hear you, sir," said the young man, pale and gnawing his under-lip. 
                  "What do I care? The passers by are nothing to me, and I am rich enough-yes, sir, rich enough-to speak my mind! You think it's very coarse and vulgar, I suppose, and that it may make your fine acquaintances stare-but I don't care! I'm rich enough, sir! And, I say again, don't you come to me until you are on the parish. Then I will have you-and, mark my word, sir! I will yet make you like myself, though you so despise me! You'll yet be proud to be a clerk in my office, and I'll make you just what you laugh at, and what your mother dreaded, with her cant-a close, and hard, and perfect business man! Good morning, sir." 
                  And overcome by this expression of his long pent up rage and jealousy, and a thousand conflicting emotions toward his son, the old man panted, and struck his cane into the pavement, and went his way, hastily and sternly. 
                  His son stood for a moment looking after him, with a face paler than ever. Then he nodded his head, and, gnawing his lips, uttered a grating and affected laugh. 
                   
                  He was aroused by a voice, loud and hearty, which said, 
                  "Why Fantish, my boy, what's the matter? You look decidedly knocked-up." 
                  "I am," was the young man's careless reply, "regularly. Come, and have some brandy with me. I am a little out of sorts." 
                  So separated father and son. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  THE STRENGTH OF A CHILD. 
                  MEANWHILE Ellie continued her way, and soon reached home. 
                  She entered cheerfully, holding the donation of the eccentric Mr. Sansoucy in her hand, and related all that had occurred to her uncle. 
                  "He's mighty good," said Uncle Joe; "but editurs is mostly good, I think, from my knowledge of 'em. I reckon they read so much misfortun' in the papers that it makes 'em soft-hearted. You're a good girl, Ellie, and a great blessin', and the Lord bless you." 
                  "Dear uncle, don't make me think that I have done anything but what is my duty," said Ellie, earnestly; "my whole life could not repay your goodness and kindness to me and Charley. I dearly love to do anything for you-you know it." 
                  And Ellie, with a tender smile, smoothed the pillow and made it soft to the fevered head, and then betook herself to making the fire burn. Charley sat by it reflecting. 
                  "What are you thinking about, Charley?" said the child, assuming a light tone. "A penny for your thoughts." 
                  "I was thinking' 'bout God," said Charley. 
                  "What were you thinking', Charley?" 
                  "I was thinking' that the bad people had the best time in the world-and they have," said Charley, stoutly; "I know they have." 
                  "Oh, no, Charley!" 
                  "I know they have," reiterated the boy; "they have fine clothes, and plenty to eat, and good fires, and everything-tell me they aint easiest!" 
                  "Oh, Charley, Charley!" said the child, earnestly, "it is not right to feel in that way-or look in that way. Suppose some people are rich and bad-and I know they are-they are not happiest. I know we are happier than a great many bad people." 
                  "I wish I was rich." 
                  "Oh, recollect what the Bible says about the rich people-and how hard it is for them to go to heaven. You ought not to wish for riches, Charley, but be content, brother, with what we have." 
                  "What! with cold, and wantin' somethin' to eat, and not havin' any clothes hardly." 
                  "The Savior had not where to lay his head, Charley." 
                  "Oh, I've heard that, and all I mean to say, sister, is that nobody don't believe in him." 
                   
                  "Why?" 
                  "Because, I heard you read that about poor people, and treatin' them well; and we aint treated well." 
                  "Oh yes, Charley-there are many good people who give a heap to the poor." 
                  "They'll git their reward, won't they?" asked Charley. 
                  "Oh yes." 
                  "And the others won't git anything o' the sort, will they?" 
                  "That is not for us to decide, Charley. The Bible says we must not judge about such things. We have enough to do to watch ourselves, brother, and we cannot be too watchful, for we are always committing sin." 
                  "You ain't." 
                  "Oh, yes, indeed, indeed, I am!" 
                  And Ellie's face was clouded. 
                  "Well, then, the rich, bad people ain't safe," said the boy; "I know that: and I think it is better to be poor, and like you, 'an rich, 'an like them." 
                  With which summary of his opinions, Charley was silent. 
                  "I think Charley's right," said the faint voice of Uncle Joe, who had overheard this conversation; "and you're a blessing', Ellie. The Lord 'll reward you. As for me, I'm mighty poor and weakly, and bad, and I begin to think I was laid on my back for my good. I think, daughter, I'd like to hear that par'ble 'about the virgins or something." 
                  Ellie, with tears of emotion and gratitude in her eyes, took the old Bible from her pocket, where it was always to be found, and, opening it, read the parable. 
                  "I ain't ready,-ain't," said Uncle Joe; the Lord be marciful. But I'll try to be if I'm out agin; and the thing that made me think, is you, daughter. Now sit down, and rest, and I'll try and go to sleep. Good girl!" 
                  And Uncle Joe turned over, and tried to forget his fever in sleep. 
                  Ellie soon banished the child-emotion of love and pride excited by her uncle's words, and betook herself to her duties of housekeeper. 
                  On the following morning Charley again sought the office of the paper which he had been introduced to, Ellie having first prepared a good hot breakfast for him; and the child remained absent all the morning. He returned in doleful spirits, and reported that he had not sold a single paper, and that the stones were so cold, that his feet were' most frost-bitten. 
                  Ellie made him sit close to the fire, and looking at him, observed black stains upon his face. These turned out to be, according to Charley's explanation, the soil derived from the newspapers-as he had wiped his face upon them. 
                  "Your face?" said Ellie. 
                  "My eyes, I mean," said Charley, his pride all gone. 
                  "I couldn't help cryin'-I couldn't." 
                  "Poor little brother," said Ellie, tenderly, taking his head in her lap, and wiping away the stains. "You shall not go any more." 
                   
                  And Ellie kissed the child, and smoothed his hair. 
                  "But I oughter," said Charley; "oh, what an unfort'nate boy I am." 
                  "Oh no, Charley, you are only little; and you can't make enough to pay for your cold feet. You shan't go any more." 
                  And to this Charley was compelled after a-while to assent. 
                  So the day passed, and the next, and the next; and the sick man was no better, and Ellie's stock of money was nearly all spent, for fuel was terribly costly. 
                  The doctor, too, had grown tired of coming, in view of the slender chances of receiving any fee; and Ellie felt more than ever that everything rested upon herself. She saw with anxious fear that only a trifle of her money remained, and, when that was gone, where should she procure any more? 
                  Again she determined to go and try to get some work from Mrs. Brown or Miss Incledon; and this determination, she immediately put in practice. 
                  Mrs. Brown had more "bids" for her work, at the moment, than she could supply; and Ellie was top proud and sensitive to beg. She depended upon Miss Incledon. 
                  Alas! 
                  The servant told her rudely that the young lady had gone to the country for a week, leaving no message of any kind for anybody, and closed the door in her face. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  HOW ELLIE PAWNED THE GIFT OF HER MOTHER. 
                  IT had then come to this!-her last hope was thus gone from her, and she was left alone to struggle against her bitter want, and, more than that, the want of her poor, sick uncle. 
                  For a moment the child's strength seemed to fail her-a mist passed before her eyes, and from that terrible cloud a shapeless face, convulsed with horrible laughter, seemed to hiss out-"Your faith is vain and foolish-listen to me!" 
                  That thought nerved her once more, and she resolutely set forward, with a murmured prayer for mercy. Still her heart was obliged to speak, and, with tears in her eyes, she murmured faintly: 
                  "Oh, I do not feel right! and I cannot think it is wrong-though I'm afraid it is! I do not feel right. There is something wrong in society, as they call it, when poor persons are suffering for bread, and want to work and can't!-when the money that is thrown away by others would keep them from hunger, and sickness, and temptation! I do not envy the rich, and oh, I would not wish them to give me their money. But oh! they ought to remember that, while they are happy, the poor are miserable for want of work to buy their bread!" 
                  And having uttered this despairing cry against the falseness of society, the child went on in silence-praying in her heart for resignation, patience, and more faith-more faith! 
                  By the next morning all her money was gone, and by the day after all the supplies in the house were exhausted. There was no fuel-no bread-nothing. 
                  Ellie sat down and looked at her situation, face to face. She knew that neither Charley nor the sick man could be of any assistance: indeed, Uncle Joe had been so often assured by Ellie, in her tones of assumed cheerfulness, that she could easily supply the wants of the household by her delicate lace work, that he had ended by believing her, and yielding everything into her hands. This was, then, her position. All was for her. 
                  What should she do? 
                  It is nothing for a strong man-full of experience, with friends, connections, and a thousand expedients-to be thus thrown in contact with an adverse destiny, and feel the pressure of misfortune. It is nothing to the athlete, with his arms full of vigor, his breast rugged with muscle, his eye clear and steady, to fence, and strike, and wrestle with the world, as his well-matched enemy. Skill and strength, and coolness, and experience, are powerful aids, and not often do these seize and throw the adverse fate. But for a child-a weak, poor child, without experience, without strength, without friends or connections who can aid her-it is another thing! Her arm has no strength, the breast no vigor-the eye fills with tears instead of resolution; and misfortune stands before such an one like a tiger matched against a trembling fawn. Life has many bitternesses-many savage and remorseless struggles-but surely the grasp of want and sickness on the tender spirit of a child is, of all things in the wide world, the most piteous! 
                  Yet this was just the situation of the child, whose days we are trying to give an account of. The sickness and want of her uncle was worse than her own would have been-for she was sick at heart as well; that most terrible of maladies. Hunger stared her in her face, and her faith trembled and shook. 
                  It did not give way. By one of those great efforts, which indicate rare strength of nature, Ellie bowed her heart, and if she cried, prayed too. And so she was much calmer, and betook herself again to thought. 
                  Suddenly she recollected that there was something which might go to the money-lender's still; and rising quickly, she went into her little closet, and taking her string containing two or three keys from her pocket, inserted one of them in a drawer of the old battered pine affair, which was jammed into the corner. 
                  The lock grated, for it had not been opened for a long time, and the child drew out the drawer, and took from it a small bundle, containing the gown of a baby and a little cap. 
                  Her mother had left her the old set of drawers, and this long-kept gown, which was her own when she was a baby; and Ellie did not hesitate as to her right to use it. The cap was a very handsome one of lace, most probably her mother's work, and the dress was of good material. 
                  Ellie put on her old bonnet and hastened off to the money-lender's, who lived on the corner, and kept a small nondescript shop, where the poor were assisted in the barter of their goods for money. 
                  The man, who was a coarse, low-browed fellow, so far relaxed as to make a joke upon his wanting baby-clothes; but attracted by the lace cap, finally agreed to give Ellie about one-tenth of the value of her package. With this the child was obliged to be content, though she felt the bitter injustice. That night the money-lender, who was in "good standing" in his church, was reading his bible aloud magisterially to his wife, and he read: "Whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea." He read it with an unctuous and rolling voice, as though to say, "That's my neighbors, exactly;" after which he retired with solemn prayer. "Take heed! In heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father." 
                  So Ellie went back home with another little plank between her and the bottom. She felt that it came just in time, for the lowering sky threatened a long and obstinate storm; and she hastened to expend her little stock of money to the best advantage. She made some small purchases at Captain Schminky's; but that gentleman seemed to be in an adverse humor, and carefully paid himself out of the coin she offered. Ellie procured a little wood on her way also, and returned home just as the clouds seemed about to discharge a torrent of rain. 
                  But they did not. The dark, gloomy sunset went down tinged with fire, and night drew on black and cold-but with no rain. 
                  Ellie lit her last piece of candle, and kindled a small but cheerful fire, by the assistance of which she made some tea and toast for her uncle-not paying any attention to the wild sobs of the blast without. 
                  The sick man drank some tea, and then lay back with his old faint smile, and closed his eyes; and Ellie sat down and murmured some talk to Charley. 
                  After a while Uncle Joe began to breathe heavily, and Ellie knew he was asleep. She fixed Charley comfortably, read a little, and finding herself faint with sleep, went to her little bed. Worn out with emotion and walking, the child soon fell asleep, and the muttering of the storm slowly died away. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  FACE TO FACE WITH HUNGER. 
                  WHEN ELLIE rose on the next morning, she found the ground covered with a deep layer of snow. 
                  The storm had indeed died away; no rain had fallen; but in its place had come the chill fall of snow, preceding the full winter. 
                  As the child looked out, her heart sank more than ever within her, and clasping her hands, she gazed with a species of dumb agony upon the white, cold, pitiless snow. That snow was nothing to others than herself, or those like herself. The comfortable merchant, with his great coat and India-rubber shoes, and warm throat-wrapping, smiled at it; and, perchance, was not sorry that the price of coals and wood, and all "produce," would by its means go up. The gay youths and maidens looked forth gladly and saw, in the future, happy sleigh rides, with their thinking bells, making such merry music round them as they flitted on, past laden trees, by streams, and over bridges, with their much discussed prerogatives of bold salutes upon the tingling cheek. The children every-where looked forth upon the snow-yet in their night-gowns-and were full of ecstacy at the bright visions of snow-balling, and a thousand sports, which come in with the merry, laughing, white and beautiful snow! 
                  Not so did it appear to Ellie; there was nothing merry in the snow to her-and if any beauty, it resembled that of the white polar bear, whose velvet fur and graceful head conceal the coldest and most pitiless cruelty. To the child the snow storm signified only freezing cold and the inability to procure the necessaries which her uncle needed. And so she gazed upon it with a wild look, which was so piteous in its appeal, so full of fear and suffering, that any one beholding her would have shed tears of sympathy, so evident was her agony. 
                  For several minutes Ellie continued to gaze upon the snow, shivering as she stood, for the room was bitter cold. Then covering her face with her hands she sank down, and for a time shook with passionate sobs, which she tried in vain to check. Oh! what had she done that her merciful Father in Heaven, should heap this last agony on her head-trying her it seemed so cruelly? Why was she left thus to struggle alone against all the ills of life-what deadly sin had she cherished, to draw down upon her head this cruel, cruel trial? 
                  And, as these thoughts passed through her mind, Ellie's form shook again, and her brown hair wavered and fell, but could not hide the flood of tears which streamed down her cheeks. For some moments she remained thus overcome, but gradually she grew calmer; and, leaning her head on the cold, hard window-sill, prayed long and earnestly. 
                  She rose at last, murmuring, "Thy will be done," and drying her eyes, set to work upon her morning preparations. A small bundle of splinters remained still, which she had gathered in the street before going to bed on the evening before, and with these she managed to kindle a slight fire. She then assisted Charley in dressing, and brushed his hair-going through all these things with a forlorn resignation which was most touching. 
                  Uncle Joe soon awoke, and Ellie hastened to his bed-side, and with a cheerful smile asked him how he felt. 
                  "Pretty well, daughter," said Uncle Joe, faintly, "why 'seems there's a light! It's snow-snow!" 
                  And a cloud passed over the thin flushed face. 
                  "Oh, that's nothing!" said Ellie, smiling, to hide the trembling of her lips, "that's nothing, dear uncle, and it will soon melt and go away. You will be well very soon now, and you see I am very happy." 
                  With which words Ellie feigned that she had left something in her closet, and entering it hastily, burst into tears. Even in the agony of weeping, however, the child suppressed any sound, and had her cry out in silence. She then dried her eyes, and trying to smile, came back and set about her work again. Those tears had sprung from a thought which suddenly came to her mind, a fact which for a moment she had forgotten. There was nothing whatever in the house-not so much as a morsel of bread for breakfast, or a spoonful of tea. 
                  Ellie's mind was racked with this thought, and she revolved project after project. Where could she get the material for breakfast?-that meal once over she would have time to think. Face to face now with actual material hunger-with the grim foe Want-she almost found her energies paralyzed; and felt as though she could ask nothing better than a painless sleep beneath the pitiless snow which had disarmed her heart. 
                  But the brave, hopeful nature soon banished such thoughts, and with a murmured prayer the child put on her old bonnet and opened the door, and went out, without any direct project. 
                  It was bitter cold, and the sun, struggling up through a heavy mist, seemed to be the mere burlesque of an ordinary sun, so chill and gloomy did it look. Ellie shivered, and the cold wind penetrated to her very heart, chilling the life blood in her veins. 
                  Where should she go? 
                  All her neighbors were as poor as herself-or nearly-and to borrow of them, would almost be robbery, even though they were willing to lend. The poor help each other, but the morsel which they part with is often taken from their own mouths. 
                  Ellie stood despairingly upon the threshold thinking where she should go. Borrow-nay, if necessary, beg-she must. The only question was, where? 
                  As these thoughts passed through her mind, she saw the light of a fire shining through the cellar window of the large dilapidated house which stood nearly opposite to the cabin which her uncle occupied; and she remembered that an old negro woman lived there, with whom she had once or twice exchanged a word in passing. Her kind face now came to Ellie's memory, and she determined to go and borrow a little bread and tea of her. 
                  In a minute she had hastened along the street, making deep marks, as she walked, in the soft snow, and reached the entrance to the cellar. 
                  She went down the rough steps and knocked. The voice of the old woman bade her come in, and Ellie opened the door. 
                  The very sight of the room seemed to revive the child; and timidly entering, she looked around for a moment with a sigh, which was not for herself. 
                  If uncle had only that warm, pleasant-looking room! 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIII 
                  AUNT PHILLIS. 
                  IN fact the apartment presented a sufficiently marked contrast to the poor and cold abode in which Joe Lack-litter lingered out the melancholy days of his fever and sickness. 
                  A good warm fire was blazing on the hearth, and the old woman was already up and busy at her ironing, which she performed upon a large table, at one end of which stood a tub full of rough linen. Aunt Phillis supported herself by washing, and she boasted a large and respectable "connection" who depended upon her. The variety of garments which now hung upon a "horse" in a corner would have proved this; and the commingling of ages and sexes in these garments was almost bewildering. 
                  "Bless de Lord," said Aunt Phillis, who was a comely matron of sixty, "why if tain't little Ellie. How come on dis cold morning, chile." 
                  "I am very well, Aunt Phillis," replied Ellie, "only Uncle Joe is sick." 
                  "Sick is he? De Lord! Why he strong as Sampson, when I see him. Well, well!" 
                  And Aunt Phillis, not forgetting work, tried her iron to ascertain its amount of heat, and plunged it into the heart of a prostrate shirt. 
                  Ellie blushed, and hesitated, so great was her repugnance to what seemed like begging. 
                   
                  "I thought I'd come over, Aunt Phillis-and-and-that is-" 
                  Ellie's voice died in her throat, and her eyes filled with tears. 
                  Aunt Phillis paused in her work, and looked at the child. 
                  "What, cryin' chile?" she said. 
                  "Oh, no! I'm not crying," said Ellie, with the tears running down her cheeks; "only Uncle Joe is sick, and-and-we have nothing in the house,-and-I thought if you would-lend me a little tea-" 
                  Ellie stopped, overcome by the effort which these few words had cost her, and, bending down, cried from emotion and weakness. 
                  "Tea!" said Aunt Phillis: "you want a little tea?" 
                  "Just a little, if you please," sobbed Ellie. 
                  "Jest as much as you choose, an' more too," said Aunt Phillis, laying down her iron heartily; "somethin' 'sides, too." 
                  And going to her cupboard, she brought out an old battered teapot, and some bread and cold ham. 
                  "There chile!" she said; "you jest take whatever you want: and don't you mind 'bout 'turnin' of it tell you's ready." 
                  Ellie looked gratefully at the kind, good face, and that face was really exceedingly handsome at the moment, for it was full of warmth and affection. 
                  "Jest take what you want, I tell you," said Aunt Phillis, "an' welcome." 
                  Ellie thanked her gratefully, and poured some tea and sugar into a paper. Then she took some bread, and being pressed by Aunt Phillis, added a little bit of ham. Refusing to take more, the child then thanked her warmly again, and returned home. 
                  Uncle Joe was looking for her, and she assumed her cheerful smile, and soon made some tea, and prepared breakfast. The invalied ate a small portion of the ham, the rest being consumed by Charley; and thus the day commenced. 
                  But the fuel: that was now the child's thought. It was absolutely necessary that the room should not be without fire, and where to procure the smallest stick of wood, Ellie could not think. The snow had covered up every chance bit and chip; and she well knew that she could not hope for anything there. Where should she go? 
                  As the fire gradually dwindled down, the child's anxiety became greater and greater; and when Charley shivered and drew nearer, and Uncle Joe drew the cover faintly over his head, Ellie's eyes filled for the third time that morning with tears. She felt, too, that this nervous feeling arose from her weakness, and the anxiety she had undergone for days, and the still darker prospect opened upon her, of her own sickness-the very thought of which made her shudder. 
                  She opened her Bible, and looked at it wildly. Her eyes fell upon what she had often read before, but it had never impressed her so wondrously-with such profound reality. "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls." 
                  To the mind of the child, agitated and rendered nervously sensitive to emotion, it seemed that He who uttered those words stood before her, with a sad smile of infinite love and pity on his countenance; and that he bent towards her, holding out his arms with unspeakable tenderness and goodness. So carried away was the child by this vision, that the Bible fell from her hand, and sinking upon her knees, she prayed with clasped hands and moist eyes raised toward heaven; and so, slowly felt her fear and nervous tremor leave her; and rose up with a warmth at her heart which melted every fear, and banished all anxiety. She felt around her that arm which is stronger than life or death, than things present or things to come. 
                  She picked up her Bible, and as she did so, the card given her by the stranger, which had caught in its leaves, fell on the floor. Ellie looked at it for a moment strangely, took it up, and went and put on her bonnet. 
                  She approached the bed, with her sweet smile, and said: 
                  "I'm going to run out for half-an-hour, uncle. Cover up well, and I'll soon be back. Charley will stay with you." 
                  And not waiting for a reply, the child hastened out, and set forward resolutely, toward the office of Mr. Sansoucy, who had told her to call on him when she wanted a friend. That time had come, and repressing the blush of shame which dyed her cheek as she thought of her errand, the child hastened on. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                  HOW ELLIE MET WITH HER FRIEND LUCIA. 
                  ELLIE hastened on, wrapping her cold hands in her thin apron, and bending down her head to avoid the freezing wind which swept over the snow, and around the corners, and flapped the shutters angrily. 
                  She hastened on, and after a long walk, came to the street described on the card. The address needed not to be scanned again; it was engraved on her memory, and she soon found herself at the house. She ascended a flight of stairs, then another, and finally came to a door upon which a plate with the name "E. Sansoucy," was affixed. 
                  She knocked timidly, but no reply was given; and unconsciously the child turned the knob; the door was locked-Mr. Sansoucy was not within! 
                  For a moment Ellie felt weak and faint, and a cloud seemed to pass before her eyes, from which the name engraved upon the plate gleamed pitilessly, as though every letter were a goblin, and felt an irrepressible desire to laugh at her and defy her. Her knees bent beneath her, and sinking down upon the steps, she covered her face and burst into tears of very weakness and despair. 
                  Oh, to see her last hope pass from her-to be met thus by an obstinate and pitiless fate-to feel that her struggles were in vain, her hopes but ashes, her future and the future of her uncle, delivered into the hands of those grim jailors, Hunger and Despair! To feel that nothing was now left-that there was no hope-that even God seemed to have deserted her, and turned away his face! That was the cruel pang which tore her heart-she could endure all but that! Nothing was spared her, and under this last blow, her heart bent down, faint and sick and ready to abandon any further struggle. 
                  The child remained thus for some moments silent and motionless in the presence of her destiny-battling with it, and crying out in her heart for some poor crumb of comfort. With a sort of terror at her doubts she murmured a passionate prayer, and rose up, wringing her hands and sobbing. 
                  Where should she go-what should she do? But one hope was left-work from Mrs. Brown or Miss Incledon, and speedy work; work, at which she might toil day and night, wearing her fingers away, but accomplishing it. She roused herself and set forward again with the resignation of despair. 
                  Mrs. Brown's shop was shut. As her eyes fell upon the cold, cruel door, the child felt her throat contract; and her breast shook. One hope alone was left then-Miss Incledon, who possibly might have returned. She set forward as rapidly as she could towards the house. 
                  As she was going along thus, Ellie suddenly found herself close to a young girl, who seemed to be wandering forlornly about without any settled object. She was a child of twelve or thirteen, with dark hair, dark eyes, and the imperceptible tinge of brown which characterizes the inhabitants of southern lands. Another glance told that her extraction was Italian-for seldom do the women of northern countries possess the large liquid eyes which looked out, full of sadness, from the face of this child. She was miserably clad, and had in her countenance a species of dumb despair, which told a tale of want not to be misunderstood. 
                  "Oh, Lucia!" said Ellie, with a feeling of despairing comfort at seeing a familiar and friendly face, "I am so glad to see you, though you do not look well. Where are you going? 
                  "Nowhere," said Lucia, in a voice of melancholy sweetness, and with an Italian accent, "I was just wandering, Ellie." 
                  And Lucia mechanically pressed the child's hand, and walked on beside her. 
                  "I was so sorry-so much grieved-to hear"-faltered Ellie, endeavoring not to excite her companion's feelings, "to hear of your loss, Lucia. Indeed, I was coming to you, but-but-Uncle Joe is very sick." 
                  And Ellie suppressed a sob which threatened to drown her voice. 
                  "Yes," said Lucia, with a sort of mechanical movement of her head, and without shedding any tears, or exhibiting other signs of emotion, "Yes, I am alone now-alone in the world." 
                  "Oh, not alone!" said Ellie, moved by the sad, sweet face, "we are not alone! You have lost your earthly father, but your Father in heaven remains!" 
                  Lucia looked at her companion with a puzzled expression: then with the same mechanical movement of her head, said, 
                   
                  "You mean God?" 
                  "Oh, yes!" 
                  "I do not believe in God," said the child, calmly. 
                  "Not believe in him!" 
                  "No!" 
                  "Oh, Lucia!" 
                  "How can I!" said the child, with a sort of momentary fire in her dark eyes, which, however, soon disappeared, as she went on speaking, "I have thought a great deal about a God, and I have tried to believe that there was one, who would love me, Ellie. But I do not believe there is-no there is not-I do not believe it," she added, calmly, again. 
                  Ellie looked at her friend for some moments with mute grief, as though she had wholly forgotten her own troubles in presence of this distressing incredulity. 
                  "Oh, Lucia!" she said, "you make me feel so badly by your unbelief. I have enough to distress me already, and you ought not to add to it. Not believe in God!" said the child, with a sort of incredulous pity, "oh, Lucia! how unhappy you must be!" 
                  "I am!" said the child. "I am very unhappy" 
                  "Oh! but trust in God!" 
                  "I cannot." 
                  "But try, Lucia! pray for faith, and submission, and pardon-pray to Him, and He will not turn away!" 
                  "How can I? I do not believe in him," added the child, obstinately. "If there is a God, he has made me wretched!" she cried, with despairing energy. "All that I love in the world is gone. I am sick of life!" 
                  A hectic flush covered the wan cheek, and the child was silent. Ellie had this new burthen to bear, and only those with the warm feelings which the child possessed can comprehend the pain she felt at hearing all that she clung to and leaned upon, thus set at defiance and rejected. 
                  "Oh, Lucia! Lucia! how unhappy you make me!" she cried, "how my heart bleeds for you! How miserable you must be not to put any trust in God, or the Saviour who died for us. You are wretched, you say, and that makes you doubt God. But oh! it is wrong!-it is wrong! This world is not a place for happiness only, but God means we should be tried. Our faith would be nothing if we were always happy, and in the last words Jesus said to his disciples, he told them that they should suffer all sorts of misfortunes. Oh, pain, and sickness, and misery, are not driven away by God, for they often make us better. Jesus suffered all these, and died for us on the cross;-and after all this, you say God has no love for us!" 
                  The child's face was beautiful as she uttered these words, and such was the kindness and earnest tenderness of her voice, that the frozen heart began to melt, and the child Lucia's despair to give way to tears-that blessed rain, which waters the dry and brittle heart, and keeps it from breaking with its load of anguish. 
                  "God loved us so that he gave his only son for us," said Ellie, earnestly, "and Jesus suffered more than we can ever suffer. But he did not doubt God; he said, 'Father, thy will be done,' even when he was drinking the bitter cup of agony, the bible says. He suffered pain and sorrow-he was beaten, and bruised, and crucified. He came to save us, poor, sick-hearted ones, and he loved us so dearly that he gave his life for us. Oh, he will never desert us if we trust in Him!" 
                  "If I could only believe it!-if I could only believe it!" murmured the child, bending down her head. 
                  "Pray to him, Lucia, and you will-indeed you will. He offers his love to all-He tells all that will, to come and take the water of life freely-no matter how poor, and wicked, and unhappy they are. It is offered to all; and if you are poor, and hungry, and sick, he will love and pity you all the more." 
                  The child's head drooped lower, and the frozen heart began to beat. There was such tenderness in Ellie's voice that it penetrated the crust of misery and despair, and shone in the poor bruised heart like a heavenly light. Ellie saw that her friend was not so unhappy, and said: 
                  "Do not think so any more, Lucia, please. Indeed it is wrong-oh, indeed it is! It is not the grand and the happy only who are called-it is the poor and miserable too; and they have more need of God's protection. I am not saying what I do not believe-for oh! Lucia, I am not happy-that is, I have so much to make me unhappy. Uncle Joe is sick, and we have nothing to eat, and I do not know what is to become of us," faltered Ellie, "but I trust in God. I know that he will not desert me-oh, no! no! He will never desert me, if I put my faith and trust in Him! Oh, Lucia!" added the child, putting her arm tenderly round her companion's neck and crying, "do not think He will desert us because we are poor and unhappy! He came to suffer for us-for me and you- and he has promised never to desert us if we love him and give him our hearts, and be his little children!" 
                  And Ellie leaned her head upon the child's shoulder, and sobbed and cried, and in her heart prayed for her. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XV. 
                  THE RICH DO NOT DESPISE THE POOR; THEY ONLY KNOW NOTHING ABOUT THEM. 
                  THERE are tones of the voice which cannot be resisted-looks of love and tenderness which the most obdurate heart finds itself unable to withstand. The voice of Ellie, as she uttered the words we have repeated, went to the poor frozen heart-and its dull current leaped. 
                  Lucia could not resist the child's love and tenderness, and tears: her poor heart melted, her despair gave way; she seemed to return to life again as the voice of Ellie sounded in the cold and vacant chambers of her soul. She had still a friend who loved her-she began to feel that she had, more than all, a supreme, heavenly Friend; and overcome by the warm flood of emotion, excited by the words of the child, she leaned upon Ellie's shoulder, and, sobbing passionately, said: 
                  "Oh, Ellie, you are so good and kind! You have made me hope again, and God will bless you for thinking of me in your own misfortune and distress. I was very unhappy, but you have made me almost happy. Oh, pray for me, and ask God to take pity on me, and show me how I can forget my wretchedness, and put my trust in him, for I am very poor and miserable!" 
                  Ellie replied tenderly to these piteous words, and they passed on, talking earnestly, and pouring out their hearts to each other, unreservedly and freely. It was a singular spectacle, these two mere children thus threading their way through the crowd of wayfarers who passed them by with careless indifference, or with a laugh, when the tears in their eyes were descried. Ellie had spoken to Lucia at a more critical time than she knew or imagined. Her thoughts had taken an unhealthy direction, and with the cold self-possession of the miserable and desperate, she begun to think of suicide. Why should she live, she had thought, when life seemed to promised nothing but wretchedness and agony;-when the grim spectre, Want, already waited to clutch her,-when she had not one object to cling to, not one thing or person to regret; not one tie to bind her to a life full of darkness and suffering? Her father was dead-she had no friends, she thought: why not set forth upon that voyage which should lead her to a stranger country still? 
                  The child's reflections had brought her to this point, when the voice of Ellie roused her from her abstraction, and caused her to fix her cold and vacant eyes upon the real world around her. As we have seen, she answered coldly to the words of Ellie; but little as those words convinced her of the ingratitude and sin she was committing by banishing all hope, and contemplating a great crime, still the tones of Ellie's voice were not to be mistaken. The tenderness and pity of the child fell upon her lacerated heart like balm, her eyes filled with tears, and, leaning upon the shoulder of Ellie, she had wept for the first time since her loss. 
                  "Oh, how good you are, Ellie, and how wretched I am!" she cried; "Oh! if I could believe in God as you do, and trust to him, I might wish to live; for when you came, I was thinking that the cold water would end all my wretchedness. Speak to me, again, Ellie! tell me that I am not lost! Oh, I am so wretched!" 
                  And the girl sobbed and moaned, and wept. Ellie forgot her own griefs and anxieties, and thinking, with a shudder, that the same idea had passed through her own mind in the morning, applied herself earnestly to the task of inspiring hope in the bosom of her despairing friend. Lucia listened sadly, but more tranquilly than before, and once or twice, a sad, wan smile-one of those smiles which only the faces of the unhappy wear-flitted over her countenance. 
                  They went on talking thus until they reached Miss Incledon's, where Ellie stopped; telling her friend her errand, Lucia said she would return home then, and made Ellie promise to come and see her in her old room, if she could that evening. Thus they parted, and Ellie ascended the broad steps and knocked, as Lucia disappeared in the ever-moving throng. 
                  Again the child had passed from that cold, bleak world of the streets, where the tide of life flows on over the poor and unhappy, to the abode of warmth, and domestic comfort and repose; and again her sad eyes slowly and calmly made the circuit of the handsome hall, with its rich hat-stand stand, and beautiful oil-cloth, and variegated lamp, pendent from the white ceiling. 
                  Who has ever succeeded in penetrating the thoughts of the poor and unfortunate, when these things are thrown before them-when the weak heart is prompted to exclaim, "Your luxury robs me of my bread-your blazing fires from morn 'till midnight, make me freeze in my cold hovel!" Who has ever dissected the mind of one of the world's unfortunates, thus face to face with wealth and comfort, forever denied to them, however passionately yearned for? But we may imagine their feelings:-and as there are doubtless those who bitterly envy their fortunate possessors, and rail at Providence, and the world; let us hope there are also others who feel that wealth and comfort are but circumstances of position; that the true heart, the kindly spirit, the love and obedience, of that heart, are all that should be valued, and looked to, in the short pilgrimage of Life. 
                  Thus it is not too much to say that Ellie envied none of these things; and if the thought occurred to her that her uncle would be rendered happy by a thousandth part of all this comfort-still her heart was quite free from envy, and she had no bitterness. 
                  Ellie was still looking down when Miss Incledon descended and said, carelessly, 
                  "Oh, it is you, is it?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am," said the child. 
                  "I promised you some work, did I not?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am." 
                  "I am sorry, but I have so much to attend to, that I have not thought of it. Come up to-morrow or next day, and I will give you a collar to do-and if it suits me, I will pay you well. The collar will take you a week's hard work; but if it pleases me I will be as generous as I can," added Miss Incledon, as she ran up stairs, without waiting for Ellie's reply. 
                  And that was all. To the young lady, full of her possessing thoughts, Ellie was simply a girl who wished to work-not a child fainting and in despair for the want of nourishment. Thoughtless and inexperienced in the condition of the poor, it never occurred to her, that the child might need, actually want, a portion of the money for her work: and she no more realized anything of this than she realized the condition of any barbarous tribe of Tartary or Caucasus. So true is it, as we have said-that the rich do not despise the poor-they only know nothing about them. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVI. 
                  HOW MR. SANSOUCY CHEATED THE WIND AND THE COLD. 
                  THE child had spent so much time in her different visits-to the office of Mr. Sansoucy, to Mrs. Brown's, and to Miss Incledon's-with the incident of the meeting with Lucia, added-that when she left the house, with a hopeless sob, the afternoon was drawing on, and the day rapidly giving way, to night. 
                  With dumb lips, but a despairing cry in her heart, she placed her faint feet once more on the freezing pavement, and tottered on again as before. All hope seemed to have left her; in her bosom her weak heart seemed to fail and die; a cloud passed before her eyes, and the passing flood of wayfarers seemed to be a part of some great phantasmagoria, which was playing there before her. Faint for want of food, for she had scarcely touched anything in the morning-given over nearly to utter despair, to think that her uncle and little brother were suffering for want of fire, and actual bread-her weak feet scarcely rose from the pavement, her knees bent beneath her, and the cold pitiless wind struck her to the heart, and laughed at her with terrible laughter. 
                  Tottering on thus, it seemed that every blast would strike her to the earth; that every snow-drift would be her death-bed, that every step would be her last in this world, on the unpitying earth. 
                  It is a hard thing to feel that life has no hopes, no illusions, no romance-that the future may be nothing but weariness-our days passed in a long routine of languid sickness and regret. But oh! it is harder still to be a fainting child, and to feel that society ignores you; to be a poor child, with pain, and suffering, and hunger for the whole dark future; to know that the hoarse dogs of winter will soon tear you down, and hurl you on some bank of snow to die, like an animal, of cold, and wretchedness, and want. Let a poor writer utter from the depth of his heart the irrepressible conviction that the state of things which generates this evil is false and terrible, that society is deeply culpable for permitting this blot upon her escutcheon-that one day God will point to these dying ones, and say, "They were my mother and my brethren, and ye visited them not, nor aided them, nor took any pity on them!" For if anything is true, this is true, that raising up the fainting head of that dying unfortunate, you hold upon your breast the brow of Him who died upon the cross-that passing by upon the other side, you pass by Him who said to Peter, "Feed my lambs." Society-a Christian society-let it always be repeated-takes upon itself a frightful, an enormous responsibility, in ignoring, in not relieving, all this suffering. 
                  Fainter and fainter the child became as she walked on, and the movement of her feet was rather mechanical than otherwise-for she knew not whither she was going. Colder and colder her heart began to feel, and every blast of the chill and pitiless wind swept over her like a sharp steel blade severing her flesh, and driving back to its inmost retreat the subtle and failing principle of existence. 
                  Still she tottered on, looking with dim, faint eyes upon the objects around her. An irrepressible numbness began to invade her limbs, and she finally fell, rather than sat, upon a door-step, sheltered from the wind by a projection of the building. 
                  She leaned her head upon her knees, and cowered thus from the freezing wind, and tried to pray, as though she felt that earth was passing from her. But her faculties were confused, and she scarcely knew her situation. In another hour she would have sunk from exhaustion, and been "one more unfortunate" for the avid daily press-but her end was not to be then. 
                   
                  She was suddenly aroused by a cheering and hopeful voice, and a heavy hand was laid upon her shoulder-a heavy and kindly hand. 
                  "Why, my acquaintance of the other day!" exclaimed Mr. Sansoucy, "miraculously turned up here at my door-sill!" 
                  And so indeed it was. By a sort of instinct Ellie had felt that she ought to go and find if Mr. Sansoucy had returned-and this instinct had guided her wandering feet until she sank down at his door, too weak to ascend, and forgetful of her errand. 
                  "Why, you are not asleep, little one!-that is not possible!" cried Mr. Sansoucy, drawing his cloak around him, "why, you will freeze. Come up!" 
                  With great difficulty, Ellie, only half aroused from her death stupor, ascended the stairs; and inserting a key in the lock of the door bearing the name, "E. Sansoucy," her conductor threw it open, and inducted her into his sanctum. 
                  There was a bright fire burning, and the apartment, which seemed to be the antechamber to another, and a larger one, was evidently the business office of an editor. The floor was covered with journals, the table and chairs with volumes, and pens, ink and paper-the latter yellow-lay ready for use upon the table. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy led Ellie to the fire, and more than once her weak and wandering feet struck against volumes hidden beneath journals upon the floor-volumes no doubt written by cruel and unfeeling authors, who had tried to trip up honest people's faith in truth, and failing, took revenge by putting themselves thus, as stumbling blocks in the pathway of a child. They finally reached the fire, however, and Mr. Sansoucy, making Ellie sit in a low, comfortable chair-which resembled an island in an ocean of newspapers-said cheerfally and kindly, as he rubbed her freezing hand: 
                  "Here we are at last, little one, and you'll get warm." 
                  The wind and cold were thus cheated of their prey. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVII. 
                  THE EDITOR OF THE "WEEKLY MAMMOTH." 
                  THERE was about Mr. Sansoucy that cheering and inspiring atmosphere, which often has so powerful an effect upon those who are thrown into it, before a word has been spoken, or any sympathy offered. It was a cordial to Ellie, his simple presence; and again she experienced that singular and indefinable sensation, which had seized her upon their first interview, some days before. It seemed to her that there was some hidden identity between her own character and that of the person in whose presence she now was; and his smile invigorated and restored her more than the cheerful fire-the contact of his hand raised her drooping spirits more than even the new-born hope which struggled at her heart. 
                  As the color came back to her cheeks, and her eyes made the circuit, absently, of the apartment, thence returning to dwell, full of trust and confidence, upon his face; Mr. Sansoucy smiled again, and relinquishing her hand, attacked the fire vigorously with the poker. 
                  "Faith! I believe you were going to be frozen down there, my young friend," he said: "but now you are not so badly off, are you? Don't judge of my hospitality by the stumbles you made in coming to the fire over these volumes. They are a set of rascals who come to me to be reviewed in the "Weekly Mammoth"-which I venture to say, is an animal you know nothing about.' 
                  As he uttered these words, Mr. Sansoucy busied himself in bringing forth from an escrutoire, a bottle of wine which he uncorked. 
                  "The Mammoth, little one, is a wild animal," he continued pouring out a glassful of the wine, "which is nursed by 'devils' technicaliy so called,-cradled in ink, and let loose periodically to devour the public, or their purses, which amounts nearly to the same thing. Of this savage animal I am the keeper and the master!" 
                  Having achieved this succinct description of the Journal which he edited, Mr. Sansoucy forced Ellie to swallow the glass of wine he had poured out, and thereafter two more glasses. 
                  The child drank the wine almost mechanically, with the same silent look-as if, indeed, she had abdicated all exercise of her own will, implicitly relying upon that of another, and a stronger. She did well, in this instance, at least; for, before many moments had passed, her cheeks recovered their color, her stiffened limbs relaxed, and bending down, the tears which had been gathering in her eyes, fell, relieving her overburdened heart. She had returned again to life, from that chill land which is the boundary separating this world from the unexplored domain beyond. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy looked at her fixedly, and wondering at the sweetness and goodness of the child's countenance, said softly, 
                  "What is your name, little one?" 
                  "Ellen Lacklitter, sir," replied Ellie, looking up through her tears. 
                  "Ah, Ellen is it? A pretty name. You did not give me your card," he said, smiling, "as I gave you mine. But I'm glad you came-you know me now-my name is Sansoucy-I am a literary machine, and dreadfully mercenary-a machine which moves a pen only where fuel in the shape of money is supplied. See there what an excellent description I am giving you, while you, poor little one, are almost too cold to understand me! Let me come to business now-you must have wanted a friend-speak and tell me if you do. You must, indeed, on such a day as this-the wind is freezing, and faith! I think it is cutting my window panes!" 
                  Mr. Sansoucy had been assiduously working at the fire during this speech, and had supplied it with various journals, which it seemed to relish very much indeed, and devour with deep delight. Having two or three times just escaped setting the chimney on fire, he drew back and sat down-coming to the end of his work and his speech at the same moment. 
                  The child hesitated a moment, stole a timid glance at his face, which seemed to encourage her, and said, in a faltering voice: 
                  "Uncle Joe's very sick, sir-and I thought-as you said I might-I could not get any work-oh! sir, uncle is so sick and we are so unhappy!" 
                  "Uncle Joe?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Joe Lacklitter, eh?" 
                  "Yes, sir," faltered Ellie. 
                  "I know Joe Lacklitter." 
                  "Oh! do you, sir?" 
                  "Yes, indeed, I do." 
                  "He is very sick, and I love him so, sir;-oh! it is so hard." 
                  Mr. Sansoucy was silent. 
                  "I have tried to do all I could, and I have prayed to God to help us, and give us comfort, and he has been very good to us. But I couldn't get some work I expected-and the snow came on, you know, sir-and-and-we have no-" 
                  Ellie could not finish, her voice quite broke down, and covering her face, she cried, for some moments, silently. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy laid back in his chair, and assuming a bold and Spartan expression, endeavored to catch a glimpse of his face in the mirror, over the fire-place, as though to assure himself that he looked heroic and composed. Having apparently satisfied himself on this point, he took out his pocket-handkerchief, and blew his nose with a steady and graceful hand; after which performance he looked grander than ever, and uttered an oracular: 
                   
                  "Hum!" 
                  The child suppressed her emotion, and taking away her hands gazed into the fire, thereby permitting the light to illuminate the dew-drops, which remained where they had fallen, on her cheeks. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy gracefully pulled up his collar, which was already sawing his ears, and said, 
                  "How did Uncle Joe fall sick?" 
                  "Carrying newspapers, early in the cold morning," said Ellie, raising her eyes, still filled with that extraordinary softness and sweetness which had struck the journalist before, "he was always up and out before day-break, sir, and it often made him unwell, but never much sick. But he was taken with a fever, the other day, and he couldn't go any more." 
                  "A fever?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Who carries the papers?" 
                  "I don't know, sir. Charley sold some," faltered Ellie. 
                  "Charley?" 
                  "Yes, sir; but he was too little-he is my brother, sir-and he hadn't any shoes, and cried because the pavement was so cold. 
                  "Cried!" said Mr. Sansoucy, austerely. 
                  "Oh, sir,-he's such a little boy-and when he came home, his face was all stained with the papers." 
                  "What! his tears had been wiped away with the journals." 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Ellen," said Mr. Sansoucy, reclining in his chair, and looking solemn, "this is a bad account of Charley. The boy who wipes his eyes with the morning papers of subscribers is on the high road to the --. Well! that is not to the purpose. Is this all you have had to live on, Ellie?" 
                  "Oh, no, sir; I can work, and-and-we had some things which I got some money for." 
                  "Pawned!" exclaimed Mr. Sansoucy 
                  "Yes, sir," faltered Ellie. 
                  "What?" 
                  "It was-only-I didn't want it-" 
                  "Your shawl or cloak, as I live!" cried Mr. Sansoucy, bounding in his chair. "What scoundrel took away your shawl?" 
                  "Nobody! that was nothing-I am not cold-and oh, sir, if uncle was only warm and comfortable, I wouldn't care!" 
                  Ellie's voice began to father again, as she thought of her sick uncle, and every word seemed to struggle with a sob 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVIII. 
                  HOW THE EDITOR OF THE WEEKLY MAMMOTH CAUSED THAT JOURNAL TO WAIT FOR COPY. 
                  MR. SANSOUCY looked at the child for some moments in silence, and there was so much odd and humorous pity and tenderness in his face, that Ellie found her voice came back to her, and the tears in her eyes, trembling on the long lashes, did not fall. 
                  "Well," said Mr. Sansoucy, "if you could only see your uncle warm and comfortable-" 
                  "Oh, I should be so happy, sir!" said Ellie. 
                  "Would you?" 
                  "Oh, yes, sir-I got some work and the money went a great way with us," she went on, "and what you gave me, sir, so kindly, bought uncle's medicines and tea; but we have to spend so much!" 
                  "Continue," said Mr. Sansoucy, gazing at a bust of Zeno, the stoic, and beating time upon his chair. 
                  "I worked as long as I could, sir," continued the child, "and I tried to do my duty. But uncle is no better, and our wood gave out-and Charley is crying now, I am afraid. Oh, I tried to get some work, and I have tried today, and, indeed, indeed, I never could have come to beg," a hectic flush accompanied the word, "if uncle was not suffering. If you could give me anything to do for you-some sewing!-I can saw very well-or anything-and-pay me just a little money in advance-for uncle-not me-" 
                  And choked with tears, Ellie bent down and cried her old silent cry; and then dried her eyes, or tried to, with her fingers. Before she knew it, Mr. Sansoucy's white handkerchief was assisting the fingers, and with a savage look at the bust of Zeno, the gentleman rose. 
                  "Now, Ellie," said Mr. Sansoucy, "now that you have stopped that, we will repair to the abode of Uncle Joe." 
                   
                  "Oh, will you go with me!" cried Ellie, rising and clasping her hands. 
                  "Certainly, I will." 
                  "To uncle, sir?" 
                  "Exactly." 
                  "How good and kind you are!" exclaimed the child, with a look of tender gratitude, which went straight to the stoic's heart. 
                  "Pshaw!" said Mr. Sansoucy, pulling on his overcoat in a business-like way. "I'm going down that way: I have business there this afternoon. Where did you say it was?" added Mr. Sansoucy, abstractedly. 
                  Before Ellie could reply, he burst into a laugh. 
                  "It is not so far, sir," murmured Ellie. 
                  "No, but so cold, mam'selle!" 
                  "Sir?" 
                  "Nothing!" said Mr. Sansoucy, declining to translate, "now stand still, my dear little lady, and let us see if we can't supply the place of that shawl, or other wrapping, alienated from you, by your friend, the pawnbroker." 
                  Ellie would have refused-denying that it was too cold for her-but to any demur upon her part, Mr. Sansoucy paid no attention. 
                  "There is a coat," he said, opening a closet, "but you would attract public attention; everybody would laugh at you, and my friends would laugh at me-which is one of the most awful and terrible misfortunes which can happen." 
                  "Oh, I don't think I want-" 
                  "Then that dressing-gown," continued Mr. Sansoucy, thoughtfully, "that might do." 
                   
                  "Oh, no, sir, I never could-" 
                  "But that would be a small edition of myself in petti-no, that word is not to be mentioned in polite society. The dressing gown decidedly won't do." 
                  Ellie tried to interpose again: but she was arrested by Mr. Sansoucy, who suddenly caught at a large, heavy shawl, such as are worn by travellers, and dragged it into the light, as though it had been a malefactor lurking in the closet with felonious intentions. 
                  "Try on that, little girl; and stay, let me aid you." 
                  Ellie could not resist: indeed, her resistance was very faint, for the freezing cold without, came vividly to her memory, and she looked longingly at the warm, heavy shawl. 
                  "There, it is folded to suit mam'selle's shoulders,"said Mr. Sansoucy, smiling, "and now put it on-well around the shoulders." 
                  Ellie did so with a grateful blush; and before she could thank him, found her neck enveloped in a thick, heavy comfort, which Mr. Sansoucy cautioned the child to wrap in such a way that nothing should be visible but her nose. 
                  Ellie, with tears of gratitude in her eyes, submitted to this, and to all of Mr. Sansoucy's directions; and then he led the way out. 
                  "It is probable," he said, as he locked the door, "that an emissary from the paper will speedily arrive here in pursuit of my editorial; in which case, this landing here will be an eligible platform for him to wait and kick his heels upon. One of the most serene and pleasant sensations in the world, my little friend, is that derived from making the press wait for copy-I have frequently experienced this pleasure. Now let us get on, for the afternoon is growing colder and darker! Come!" 
                  So saying, Mr. Sansoucy led the way down the steep flight of stairs, followed by Ellie; and they reached the bleak and frozen streets. 
                  "Did any body ever see so black a day," said the journalist, "it's as dark as a waif's mouth. Come, my little friend-we've no time to lose!" 
                  And taking Ellie's hand, Mr. Sansoucy went forth with his small companion on his mission. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIX. 
                  SKETCHES A GENTLEMAN OF THE LAW. 
                  THE man and the child soon left the broad and well-kept streets, and ere long found themselves in that unmistakeable quarter, which all cities possess-the quarter yielded up to the poor-where thin gentlemen walking on air at Hebrew doors, flap in the faces of wayfarers, audibly murmuring "old clo'"-where squalid men and women swarm-where, in a word, the tide of life pours on through mud and over stones, unknown, nay, not so much as dreamed of, by the pleasure parties gliding with gay music through the sunlit ripples overhead. 
                  Here was the abode of Joe Lacklitter, and they soon came to the door of the low cabin. Ellie, with her hand still in that of Mr. Sansoucy, led the way in-and that gentleman looked round. 
                  His eye took in at once all the details of the poor apartment-the broken chairs, rude table, and low bed; and then his gaze rested upon Charley, who was cowering over a few expiring cinders-the mere mockery of a fire. Mr. Sansoucy inwardly reflected that any respectable scare-crow in a cornfield would indignantly have repelled the idea of relationship to Charley. Charley, as we have formerly said, was one integral rag from top to toe-reduced to that condition of comparative respectability by Ellie's needle; and his shaggy curls had not been brushed that morning very carefully. He had one foot suspended forlornly over the almost imaginary fire; and his left thumb was in the right corner of his mouth, while he hummed a mournful tune, which sounded like the death chaunt at some goblin funeral. 
                  Charley started back at first, upon seeing Mr. Sansoucy: but that gentleman assumed the chair next to the child, and winding his fingers in the straw-colored hair, looked at him with a smile, which reassured him. 
                  Ellie had hastened to the bed at once, and, to her great relief, found her uncle sleeping comfortably. Her whole heart went forth in a warm, grateful prayer, and she turned toward the fire-place. 
                  "Has uncle been sleeping well, Charley?" she asked, softly. 
                  "Mos' all day," said the child. 
                  Ellie uttered a sigh of relief, and bending over the fireplace, tried to make the burnt-out embers blaze. As she did so, a hand was laid upon her shoulder, and Mr. Sansoucy-that eccentric Mr. Sansoucy, who thought something of the sort might be of use-drew from his overcoat pocket, a huge knot of resin-wood, crammed with combustible properties. This he placed on the fire, and then drew back, holding Ellie's hand. 
                  The wood caught immediately, and the whole room was filled with the light and warmth which it threw out. 
                  "Now, Ellen, is there a store very near?" asked Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  "Yes, sir," said the child. 
                  "Get a basket, and your shawl, there, and let us go and see if we can't find something for Uncle Joe." 
                  Ellie, with irrepressible tears of gratitude at this kindness, obeyed, and the man and the child repaired to Captain Schminky's. The cold chicken, and cheese and biscuits, and wine, which were purchased by Mr. Sansoucy, would appear fabulous were we to describe them; and when the contents of the basket were taken out before the eyes of Charley, his eyes opened to a dangerous extent, and his tongue, visible between his teeth, expressed the most unutterable astonishment. 
                  Of Ellie's thanks and gratitude, why speak? Of her eyes, brim full of that gratitude, we might say a word; but no description, however cunningly worded, could convey an idea of the beautiful look she gave the author of this magic. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy has since declared that this was perhaps the happiest moment of his life-that the expression of Ellie's face caused him the deepest pleasure he was able to enjoy;-and he has often said that she resembled a pure angel, such as Raphael Sanzio might have seen in one of his bright reveries, and died to think he could not place upon his canvass. 
                  Perhaps it was because this satisfied him perfectly, and was the payment he had selfishly expected-perhaps he did not want to receive the thanks of Joe, or any further looks of gratitude from Ellie-perhaps he was obliged to return to his affairs-but after thus doing his good part, the editor rose softly, and put on his hat. 
                  But often are the children of men mistaken in their calculations-and on this occasion Mr. E. Sansoucy was most certainly destined to delay his departure for some time yet. 
                  If the reader will deign to cast his eyes back upon a former page of our chronicle, he will find that among the names exhibited as a memorandum to Mr. A. Fantish, by the senior Fantish, on the morning of their conversation, was the name of Lcklitter-against which Lacklitter it appeared that Mr. Fantish, senior, had a claim for rent unpaid-which claim had finally been put into the considerate hands of "The Law," and by that agency was now about to be presented for peremptory discharge. 
                  This debt had been owed by Uncle Joe for only a very short time, and he would probably have paid it very soon but for his unfortunate sickness. He had told Mr. Fantish, but a short time before, that he hoped soon to pay it; and so had given himself no further anxiety about it, fully confiding in his ability. 
                  Mr. Fantish, senior, however, was much too sagacious a gentleman to trust the poor. What he could trust was a "levy" upon the Lacklitter effects for the small sum, and this was the proceeding adopted by Mr. Fantish, with the assistance of the Law and its myrmidons. 
                  All this preamble goes to introduce a gentleman, who knocked rudely at the door, just as Mr. Sansoucy was about to take his departure, and who entered immediately as one having authority, and if not sure of a welcome, at least relying on his power. 
                  This man-let us try an outline sketch of him-was the representative of a class who, managing to induct themselves into the low places of the law, throw shame and discredit upon the administration of justice, and lower in public estimation the many kind-hearted and amiable men who are associated with them in a similar capacity. Obsequious and cringing to the rich, this gentleman was fierce and cruel to the poor; he never failed to strike a disarmed victim, or to fawn upon and lick the hand which could open to bestow a "consideration," or close to inflict a blow. It was almost amusing to witness the assiduity with which he would court and flatter the fortunate possessor of "much moneys;" and it was an admirable philosophic spectacle to see him taking off his hat to a man who could impeach him for misconduct. Consistent in his admiration for wealth, he treated its possessors with uniform respect; and so harmonious and faithful in coloring was his meanness, that it impressed you with the force of a Spartan virtue. Not, however, to analyze too curiously a character scarcely destined to reappear in our chronicle-which would fain busy itself with more entertaining taining matters-this gentleman was one of those venomous insects of the times, which buzz, and breed, and sting, and are finally brushed away by that public disgust, which is not seldom visited on the best sustained officials. As yet, however, he had escaped such a fate, and came to "levy" on Uncle Joe, and his effects. 
                  The worthy gentleman entered Joe Lacklitter's dwelling with the intention of pursuing his customary programme of proceeding-which was based upon the value of his time, and the contemptible nature of the material upon which he was to work. 
                  If he was to levy upon a rebellious debtor, he would flourish his stick; if upon a woman, he would prepare to thrust her coarsely aside; while if children were in the way, he would push them out of the way with his foot, after the manner of pigs. Catching a glimpse of the head of the sick man on the present occasion, before he was aware of the presence of Mr. Sansoucy, who was concealed by the opening door, he approached the bed with the intention of dragging away the cover and forcing the invalid to rise. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XX. 
                  SUNSHINE COMES TO-MORROW. 
                  WHY should we describe the scene which followed, or busy ourselves with the disagreeable personage who has thrust himself upon our canvas? 
                   
                  As there are scenes of beauty and grandeur which no art can adequately portray, so there are base and ignoble incidents, from the too close contemplation of which the mind comes away as though its garments had been soiled. As there are characters in the world of such exalted goodness and loveliness that we take off our hats in their presence, and thankfully salute them, bowing to them as our superiors, and carrying away with us a sentiment of purity and love, which gilds existence, making the very sunshine brighter,-as there are human faces more beautiful and tender than the dreams of the old painters, with rapt eyes fixed on the sky, and waiting for Madonna to beam on them,-as the world holds these entrancing and pure visions of an infinite loveliness and beauty, so does it exhibit, in its other departments, characters and faces which the lowest grovelling of the meanest and most brutal fancy never could approach; beings which we struggle in our hearts to look on as deformities of human nature, poor and weak as it may be-which we turn from, and do not wish to touch, and gladly see depart from us. 
                  It is enough to say, that soon after entering the dwelling of the sick man, the official left it with a scowl, which would have done justice to a disarmed demon, from whose hand a prize had just been snatched. 
                  There was this observable about Mr. Sansoucy, that in any contest he generally acted with a calm knowledge of his position and his strength; and the interview which we have refrained from describing, proved this. He was well-known to the officer, he had assumed the debt-after that, the presence of the official was an impertinence. He accordingly departed, not meeting Mr. Sansoucy's eye, but turning with his scowl of hate and anger as he disappeared. 
                  If we have not described this scene, we may also omit any description of what followed. The sick man had only breathed harder, and looked on in silence-Ellie only sobbed and cried silently-Charley only gazed with terror at the mysterious intruder. As for Ellie she had not so much as brought her mind to comprehend that the law, which called itself Justice and Mercy, would aid any one in depriving her sick uncle of the bed he lay upon. 
                  Joe could not find words to thank Mr. Sansoucy, which was very fortunate, as that gentleman seemed determined to accept none at all. He explained the cause of his presence, and said that as he had promised Ellie to be their friend, if they needed him, he would faithfully fulfil his promise. He would see that a good doctor-his own physician-came to see the invalid; and just as soon as he was better, they should have a comfortable lodging elsewhere. 
                  Let us add here, that all that he promised, Mr. Sansoucy faithfully performed. That in fifteen or twenty days-thanks to the new physician-Uncle Joe was well enough to be removed; and that he was removed-and that new quarters were in the large, somewhat dilapidated building of which Aunt Phillis occupied the cellar. There, with the reader's permission, we shall in due time rejoin them, and narrate what other adventures befell our little friend Ellie, not forgetting the adventures of her friends also. 
                   
                  But we go too fast, and have left Mr. Sansoucy a long way from home on a very cold night. 
                  It was not easy for him to leave that grateful family whom he had made happy-whose darkness and despair he had turned into life and hope. At last he rose, and put on his hat. 
                  "Good-bye, friends," he said, with his cheerful voice: "It will not be long before I see you again. Come! no thanks for anything which I have done-good-bye, little one-as we say in letters, "always your friend!" 
                  And he smoothed Ellie's hair, and turned away. But before he could draw it away, or resist, or move, Ellie caught the hand, and pressed it to her lips, and bathed it with her warm, glad, happy tears. 
                  He drew back quickly, gently repulsed her, and went out. Walking along the chill and frozen streets, he felt a warmth within his heart which laughed at all the bitter cold. If all who can would only try this heart-warmth! And gazing on the tears remaining on his hand, he thought if blood were there, the stain would disappear, though "all the perfumes of Arabia" had failed to "sweeten it." 
                
             
             
                
               BOOK II. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  MUSINGS OF A JOURNALIST. 
                  SINCE the scenes just described, in which we have endeavoured to trace, step by step, the piteous struggles of a child-a month very nearly has passed, and Mr. Sansoucy sits in his chamber, adjoining that apartment we have entered once with Ellie-sits smoking, dreaming, and smiling. 
                  We have scarcely outlined this gentleman: let us endeavor now to do so. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy, the son of a Virginia Huguenot, was a man of twenty-five or thirty-and, with much character and thought in his countenance, seemed yet to retain in all their force, the youthful recollections and illusions which not seldom cling to men until a later period of life-after which they gradually fade. When we look at him reclining in his arm-chair, and sighing and smiling, the presence of these old illusions is very plain-and his face is one which any physiognomist would set down as that of a dreamer. 
                  He has blue eyes, large and mild-his hair is short and of a soft brown: his face handsome and striking. His eyes are full of kindness and sincerity; and in them may very easily be read the peculiarities of the journalist, though scarcely his singular character. No one made a more agreeable impression even upon utter strangers than Sansoucy. He had the most delightful good humor in ordinary intercourse, that it is possible to imagine-his face was the picture of kindness and cheerfulness, and it was impossible to resist his smile or his address. 
                  His countenance had that good humor which is better than wit, and when his jests gave way to earnestness, "all the world" listened, if they did not "wonder," as Mr. Tennyson says of them at Balaklava. Perhaps, however, the greatest charm about this man was his careless conversations with his bosom friends. Then it was that Mr. Sansoucy appeared in the fullest strength of his singular and almost eccentric genius. His monologue passed through all gradations of humor and pathos, and the hearer went away with the impression that he had been listening to the wisest folly, the most laughing earnestness conceivable. Shakespeare would have cultivated the acquaintance of Sansoucy, and watched him with his great luminous eyes, making a "study" of him, for a new drama; and Sansoucy, we are very much afraid, would have candidly pointed out the weaknesses in Hamlet, and gone to Eastcheap afterwards with the bard to make the acquaintance of the Ancient Pistol. The long leagues of travel had shown Sansoucy human life in every form, and if he laughed at all, as he often did, it was not an unkind or cynical laugh, but came from a large heart full of sympathy, and that truest humor, which is ever balanced between smiles and tears. 
                  After this lengthy outline, we are almost afraid to undertake our chronicle, quite confident that we cannot place upon paper anything to justify our eulogy of this gentleman's vivacity. But who could ever remember it, or explain plain it? The repetition of his words was like flat champagne, from which all the spirit has escaped-and grasping at his humor, you caught it as readily as you would a subtle and delicate perfume. 
                  When we present Mr. Sansoucy to the reader, he is seated, as we have said, in his chamber adjoining the editorial sanctum. The chamber is as much littered up with journals as the office-and the table is covered with MSS. and supports a tall silver candle-stick, in which burns a single candle. On the walls are numerous oil paintings, and some portraits, and over the fire-place, in which burns a cheerful fire, hangs in a rich antique frame, discolored with the suns of many years, a pencil sketch, which the journalist gazes at, pensively sighing, as he smokes his long German pipe, and muses after the manner of great smokers. 
                  As he gazes, a strange, wistful smile comes to his face, and he murmurs: 
                  "Yes, yes, there is the light of my youth, the sunshine of my boyhood, the future blessing of my life I used to think when I was a juvenile-and where is now all this pretty picture? Gone away, like all happy things on this earth! What's the use of sighing! All things pass and the dead day is always the brightest-especially to literary men. They deify the past, because it rises for them clear and brilliant, without any of the prosaic common-places which make the present so repulsive. I suppose some of these days I'll write a chivalric romance," continued Sansoucy, looking with his faint smile into the fire, "and all the characters will be impossible personages, all the incidents hoisted up on Brobdignagian stilts!" 
                  Having delivered himself of this observation, Sansoucy is silent, smiling. 
                  "The fact is," he continues, after indolently smoking for some moments, "there's no such thing as interpreting the past truly. We can't discern the real spirit-we miss the actual splendor and fall short of it. They say that every man is greater than his work-but that only proves that his work is bad. Pshaw! I am moralizing!" 
                  And Sansoucy smokes again. 
                  "How they do try!" he goes on, after a while, and smiling as he speaks. "There's one of the new litter of books upon the table, written by somebody who has got to dreaming about the past of the state of Virginia; and he tells us how a young fellow, once upon a time, dressed himself in velvet, ruffles, gold buttons, and so forth, and 'launched himself like a flash of lightning' somewhere-which seems to me to be a dangerous proceeding. Good! let him! There's something in the gold buttons; which tailors, however, have ceased making use of-and if there was not, throughout the book, a fixed disdain for Lindley Murray, and the English grammar generally-which may however be attributed to some hostile printer-one might go to sleep over the tale quite comfortably. But the writer has failed; he can't do it, sir!" says Sansoucy, addressing his imaginary opponent, "that time remains for the maestro, who will come some day, and then we'll have it." 
                  Sansoucy muses-smiling. 
                   
                  "What a pretty time it was!" he goes on, "rapiers, ruffles, cocked hats, and high-heeled shoes;-cut, thrust, or your humble servant!-and the ladies fair! Why can't somebody go to that old mansion yonder, and catch its atmosphere? What scenes we should live in again-illustrated and adorned by all the beauty, grace and chivalry of the elder time. Pay me, and I'll do it," said Sansoucy, laughing, "and I'll review my story in the Mammoth, with strict impartiality and fairness!" 
                  Having addressed this offer to a circle of imaginary book-publishers, Sansoucy pauses for a reply, and smokes, smiling, as though Mr. Harper, or some other enterprising gentleman had taken him at his word. A knock resounds at the door of the outer room; and Sansoucy, rousing himself, utters a sonorous "Come in!" 
                  Steps are then heard, and a gentleman enters and passes to the chamber, and gives Sansoucy a friendly and unceremonious greeting. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  THE OLD ACTORS-WHERE ARE THEY? 
                  THE visitor is Mr. Incledon. 
                  He is clad just as we have seen him upon a former occasion-with the same elegant simplicity; and his countenance wears the same expression of grave dignity. He presses Sansoucy's hand with friendly warmth, and sits down as one does in the apartment of a friend, without ceremony or stiffness. 
                  "I'm glad to see you, Ralph," says Sansoucy, "and you look quite hearty." 
                  "I'm well enough, Ernest. I was passing, and thought I would come in." 
                  "A most excellent thought, and most manfully carried into execution. The individual who mounts those two flights of stairs, must possess a warmth of friendship, and a vigor of determination, sufficient to set up a Damon, or rival Robert Brace!" 
                  Having uttered which "chaste and elegant" sentence, as say the gentlemen of letters, Sansoucy, or Ernest, if the reader pleases, smiled with his whole countenance, including his eyes. 
                  "Why, your stairs are not so high," said Incledon. 
                  "But steep-deep I may say." 
                  "So they are." 
                  "Almost as deep as my reveries when you entered." 
                  "What were you thinking about?" said his friend, in his habitual tone of gravity and calmness, which never seemed to amount to stateliness. "What a meditator you are." 
                  "True, but I am studying." 
                  "What subject?" 
                  "Human nature." 
                  "That is deeper than anything else I know of." 
                  "Yes-try a cigar-but I forgot, you never smoke," said Sansoucy. "Yes, I really think this subject is deep, and I am rapidly coming to the conclusion of one of my friends-Hope, you know-that there is a great amount of human nature in this world-this 'Pilgrim's Progress of a mortal vale,' as Mrs. Gamp says, according to Mr. Dickens, though not in near so elegant a way." 
                  "What a bitter book that is." 
                  "What? 'Martin Chuzzlewit?'" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "So it is; this hatred, almost, of America, is the only blot I see upon the character of a man, who seems to me the noblest genius of our age. What a beauty and glory of pathos is there in Charles Dicknes! All the world cries and laughs with him, and Paul is the 'little friend' of everybody! That child walks hand in had with 'Nell' through English literature, and so they will go on forever-beautiful as pathos, and as dear as early love." 
                  "A great writer," said Incledon. 
                  "Yes," said Sansoucy, "in his way, as others are great in other ways. I bow to such men, and am glad to call such maestro. They interpret the life of to-day, and this will ever admit of clearer personation than historic life, which makes it necessary for the artist to go back to the period he chooses-leaving the present, wholly-and thus throw himself heart and soul into the dead world of the past." 
                  "I should consider it most difficult." 
                  "Yes, it must be. I scarcely ever dared to touch it, though, as you know, I have written many tales for the magazines-and money," said Sansoncy, smiling. 
                  "Oh, you slander yourself." 
                  "How?" 
                   
                  "By this imputation." 
                  "The money-?" 
                  "Yes: you write, Ernest, from a true love of Art. 
                  "Art!" cried Sansoucy: "what is Art, my dear fellow? Will Art put money in your purse?" 
                  "No, but fame in your life." 
                  "What is fame?" said Sansoucy, philosophically; "stay, let me repeat you what Colonel Henry Esmond, according to Mr. Thackeray, says of worldly honors-I have it by heart, and nothing could be finer. 'What,' he says, 'do these profit a year hence, when other names sound louder than yours; when you lie hidden away under ground, along with the idle titles engraven on your coffin? But only true love lives after you-follows your memory with secret blessings-or precedes you, and intercedes for you. Non omnis moriar-if dying-I yet live in a tender heart or two; nor am lost and hopeless living, if a sainted departed soul still loves and prays for me!' Could anything be truer or more beautiful?" 
                  "Your criticism is just-the philosophy perfect, and the passage exquisite. I am glad you do not care for vulgar fame." 
                  "Care! I despise it most enthusiastically, my dear friend, and that because it is cloying in possession, and transitory in character." 
                  "Yes, yes." 
                  "What fame of general or statesman, unless it be the perfume of noble deeds lingering still, is worth having?-where is all the brilliant society which used to carry itself on hereabouts? A little dust is the contents of the crucible." 
                  "Why, you are in a profoundly philosophical mood, Ernest; you are going to turn hermit." 
                  "Oh, no, I am too fond of my life; and some-day I shall blaze out in an extraordinary way." 
                  "How?" 
                  "Literary, of course. Authors are growing respectable, and a literary friend of mine got a discount the other day." 
                  Incledon smiled. 
                  "True," said his friend, lazily; "but it is proper to say, our friend over there, the rich wig-maker, was on his note. Between the beautifier of the head, internally and externally, the Bank, you see, could not resist." 
                  "Pshaw, you are jesting. What new books?" 
                  "A whole cartload. Our literature, I repeat, is becoming respectable. I was reflecting, as you came in, that, probably, we should, some day, have a school of historical romance." 
                  "I am sure we shall." 
                  "Why should we not?" 
                  "I see no reason." 
                  "The past is rich enough in contrasts, and, but now, it occured to me, that it ought to be worked." 
                  "It will be, some day." 
                  "Assuredly," said Sansoucy: "and I will cradle the new-born babe in the white sheets of the "Weekly Mammoth." Tender nursling! he will need protection and encouragement, thrown on the roaring surges of this wicked world. True! why should not somebody come and write about the great, the magnificent things which flooded the Revolutionary period with splendor. Even the lesser details of manners are in admirable contrast with the present, and are like so many blocks hewn out, and waiting for the master-workman to raise to the pinnacle of Art. We laugh at them, but that proves that they entertain us;-and, when you came in, I was thinking what a crowd of worthies, male and female, had promenaded on that piazza, yonder, over the house-tops, in the ridiculous, pompous old times. Just think what a delighful set of folks they were. Gallant cavaliers in silk stockings and ruffles, and knee-breeches and powder-with lengthy waistcoats, and embroidered coats, assembled over yonder to talk in their pompous grand old way, which amuses me so much, that I positively like them thinking of them. They talked with ladies, observe mon ami, not at all resembling the fair dames of to-day.' 
                  "They were much the same in character." 
                  "Very true-but in costume?" 
                  "Very different." 
                  "I should think so. Fancy our respected grandfathers waltzing, or in the middle of a polka, with some of our modern misses! Faith! the old gentleman would dash his wig in words, if not in deed. They were different then-the ladies fair; and it was these dames of old days that the pompous old fogies, as we call them, talked to. Fair dames they were, in powder-with white chins, patch-covered-with short waisted dresses, bare arms, covered with diamond bracelets, girdles of velvet, with golden clasps, and high red heels to their shoes, which clattered as they walked!" 
                  "You are studying costume," said Incledon. 
                  'I? not at all. But that is but a part of my erudition. They flirted variegated fans, my dear fellow, and ogled and murmured, and laughed and sighed;-enslaving the gay gallants much after the fashion of their fair descendants in the present day. That old house yonder, saw all this gayety and laughter, these bright forms and brilliant eyes-observe my own, I grow poetical!-which shine still in the air, and make the spot fairy ground. You can't go there, and stand upon that portico, without seeing all the past rise up again, and glow with the splendor which it has not left to us, except as a memory, something 'i' the air,' subtle and delicate, like some delicious odor!" 
                  "Why, you are enthusiastic." 
                  "I am growing poetical, as I told you." 
                  "And you cling to the past?" 
                  "Why not? The gay throng of to-day has no longer anything to attract those who are fond of dreams, as I am-and that, because the past is alive again with all its glittering figures and enchanting eyes, its musical voices and gay laughter-the past, mon ami, illustrated by its cavaliers and dames, who went away before the advent of the Prosaic Age!" 
                  Sansoucy paused and smoked, for his pipe had nearly gone out in the mean time: and for some minutes he was silent. 
                  "Good," he said, at last, with his old smile, "here I am dreaming out loud, and that for your benefit. But why not? Why not amuse ourselves with a mind-picture of those tender and gracious phantoms shining through the mist; and take our hats off and salute them? Beautiful and lovely dames! they say untruly that you are dead, and only memories-forgotten music, silent laughter! I hold that nothing is less true. You live to-day as you did in the old days, with your gracious smiles, and liquid eyes, and soft lips, quite expert to shape the compliments or satire of the elder day! The flattering or dreadful speeches which you made sound for us still-the speeches which raised the gallant in knee-breeches to the empyrean, or made his reflections suicidal. Yes, beautiful and fair dames! you live to-day, and reach out tender arms towards us, showering gracious smiles! Most respected of grandmothers, you move visibly still, with the most venerated of grandfathers; and the comedy of to-day is but that of your age played over again with all its joys and griefs-its sighs and laughter! The drama is the same-the Human Comedy-but the old actors-where are they?" 
                  "Plain enough in your 'mind's eye,' as Hamlet says," replied Incledon, when this apostrophe of Sansoucy was gone through with; "for my part I am very glad the past is what it is-passed. I love it so much that I wish to increase my affection by absence and separation." 
                  "Ah, my friend! you are not a poet! You are so unfortunate as not to sleep in a garret and live on moonbeams; how unhappy!" 
                  And Sansoucy laughed. 
                   
                  "Come, Ernest," said Incledon, "this is not honest in you." 
                  "Honest?" 
                  "Were you the dreamer you represent yourself, we should not be such close friends." 
                  "Am I not?" 
                  "No." 
                  "How am I not?" 
                  "You are one of the most active men I ever knew." 
                  "Bah! I active?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I'm a waiter for time and tide, a pococurante, an eccentric." 
                  "You are also a teacher." 
                  "Eh?" 
                  "Of children." 
                  "Oh, you mean the Ragged School?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "That's my amusement. I see life there." 
                  "How you cover up your good deeds!" 
                  "Pshaw! What are you looking at?" 
                  "At your picture," said Incledon, whose eyes were fixed upon the sketch above the mantel-piece. 
                  "Ah! at my head!" 
                  And a slight cloud seemed to pass over Sansoucy's forehead, as a mist glides across the heavens in a morn of May. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  HOW SANSOUCY RELATED A FAIRY TALE WITH REAL PERSONAGES, FOR HIS FRIEND'S AMUSEMENT. 
                  SANSOUCY'S face remained thus shadowed for a moment, and his eyes seemed to wander far away to other scenes of joy or of pain, of sorrow or of happiness-which, no one could tell, for his brow was inscrutable. 
                  Then sighing, he said, as his face cleared up again: 
                  "Ah, my picture-you are looking at my picture?" 
                  "Yes: you have often referred to it," said Incledon, with a slight smile, "and I think it is not a fancy piece." 
                  "No." 
                  And with the quickness habitual to him, Sansoucy passed from smiles to thoughtfulness, from merriment to sadness. 
                  "Tell me who it is, Ernest!" said his friend, "it seems to me I have seen the face before." 
                  "Perhaps-yes, who knows,"murmured Sansoucy 
                  "Have I seen it?" 
                  "It is not improbable." 
                  "It has a history?" 
                  "Yes-a sort of history: for me. That, Ralph," said Sansoucy, with his old pensive smile, "is one of the ligaments which bind me to the past. I often dream over that face, and perhaps my lonely musings upon the original have had more to do with my oddity, as you call it- my love for my recollections, and my dreams-than I know of." 
                  "You speak in riddles." 
                  "I am a poor Sphynx-I am not stone!" he said, sadly. 
                  "Speak then without enigmas." 
                  Sansoucy passed his hand across his brow, and the sad, wistful smile came to his countenance again. 
                  "Well, I will," he said. 
                  "I listen" 
                  "Will a fairy tale, with real personages, suit you?" 
                  "Perhaps." 
                  "Listen then; but first take a look at the drawing, and tell me what you think of it." 
                  Incledon obeyed, and after gazing for some time at the picture, said: 
                  "I have seldom seen a face of greater or fresher beauty. The child must have been about twelve years old." 
                  "Only eleven!" murmured Sansoucy. 
                  "Her hair was probably auburn-her eyes grey,"said Incledon, smiling. 
                  "No, no!-she had the most beautiful golden tresses, and her eyes were as 'azure as the heavens'-as Pope said of Swift, you know," he murmured. 
                  "Ah? she must have been beautiful. There is a frank look of candor and innocence about it, like a French study of La Salle's I have somewhere seen." 
                  "In fact, that was the distinguishing characteristic of her countenance." 
                   
                  "Well, now we have seen the portrait, let us have the story." 
                  "The story?" 
                  "Did you not promise a fairy tale, with real personages?" 
                  "True, true! Listen, then." 
                  And Sansoucy smiled in his old sad, wistful way. 
                  "There was once a country where the roses always seemed to bloom," he said, sighing, "where the winds were always May-day breezes-where the streams ran far more merrily than elsewhere-and where the birds sang more sweetly than the nightingales of Cashmere. You see, I commence in the Oriental fashion; but I shall go on less poetically. Well, in this beautiful country, which you may call, if you choose, the Virgin land, a boy was born, and a girl-the boy was older. The name of the boy was Ernest-the name of the girl, Aurelia." 
                  "Ernest!" said his friend smiling. "why that is your name." 
                  "Yes." 
                  "A striking coincidence." 
                  "Yes, very striking." 
                  "Well." 
                  "Well," continued Sansoucy, smiling dimly, "the boy and the girl, it happened, lived very near each other-indeed their fathers' houses were in sight of each other, and they often wandered down to the clear stream which separated the domains." 
                  "Yes." 
                  "The girl was a mere child, but very beautiful: and they wandered on so long together through the fairy-land of youth, that one day Ernest found that his poor heart had gone from him and had come into possession of the child who wandered with him. He did not realize this as a thing familiar to the world-the old experience of all since Adam-but regarded it as his own dear secret-what the children of men had never felt before. He cherished it in his heart of hearts as his boyhood's treasure, and all his life was changed and glorified by it, and he felt the throb which preludes the strong passion of the full-grown man." 
                  "Who knows but his feeling was all the purer," said Incledon. 
                  "Perhaps it was. In truth, no sentiment could have been more innocent, and disinterested, and elevated, than his love. In the child's presence he was happy; away from her, life seemed nothing to him but a poor, sad phantasmagoria, where no sun shone, no pure music filled the air for him. 
                  "Wandering along the banks of the brook, hand in hand, they advanced not over material, gross earth, but on a carpet, softer and more splendid than that fairy tissue unrolled by Aladdin for his beloved princess. The landscape was not ordinary meadow, hill and forest, but the land of illusion and romance, with a boundless horizon of verdure and delight." 
                  "He must have been in love." 
                  "He was; and when he took the child in his arms, to carry her across the brook, or wove the pure, faint, wild-flowers into a crown for her, and placed it on her forehead, he thought that heaven had sent to bless his life, one of those pure angels of our dreams, which never alight and stay on earth." 
                  "Poor fellow!" said Incledon, smiling. 
                  "Oh, no! not poor!-he was rich! Rich as the lord of Potosi, or the fabulous splendors of the Caliphat! He never lived when absent from her-in her presence all the birds of spring seemed singing, and the world was dead for him-she only in his existence!" 
                  "What a strange feeling towards so mere a child!" 
                  "He was but a child himself-but she was far beyond her age. She was one of the most perfectly finished characters I ever knew- 
                  "You knew her then!" 
                  "Yes, yes!" said his friend, smiling, wistfully, "and never have I seen such loveliness. She had the tenderest and softest voice I have ever heard; and when she sang, you paused to listen as to a bird of the tropics singing from a land of unimagined beauty. I have seen a room full of persons stop talking to listen to her; and the frank kindness of the child's face made every one her friend who knew her. She had the most perfect simplicity and gentleness; and when she laughed you thought that she had uttered the wittiest and most brilliant speech imaginable. Poor Ernest!-what wonder that he loved his little Aurelia! To know her was to love her; and her friendship was a 'liberal education.' See how I prose upon the subject, wearying you with all this tirade. Well! the day came at last, as it always comes to children, when the world stretched out its hard, mailed hand, and pushed them asunder." 
                  "They parted!" 
                  "Yes; and their last interview was by the stream where they had been so happy. Ernest drew well-and sitting down, he outlined that picture, which he afterwards filled up." 
                  "He gave it to you?" 
                  "Perhaps!-the word that expresses the genius of France-from which country my family originally came, for we are Huguenots. Well, well; the boy placed the picture on his heart, and for a moment he held to that poor beating heart, the tender form of one who cried and shook, and would not part with him. Then he tore himself away, and went to Bordeaux, and thence to Nantz, visiting his numerous relations, who had never forgotten their American branch. He returned in three or four years, having travelled and 'seen life'-poor life, which was nothing to him, without a heart. He came back then, and found the family had gone to another part of the country. He went thither-and saw Aurelia, and was met with cold embarrassment, as though memory to her was only a regret. "From the double blow he did not rise.' He returned home, and burying himself in his chamber, reflected on the miserable texture of human things, which made him thus a stranger to the only heart he coveted, and which he thought was his own. She had grown indifferent, he did not return, and so they remained apart-but not wholly. She lived doubly-in his heart, and yonder, before his eyes!" 
                   
                  Sansoucy smiled sadly, and pointed to the picture. 
                  "You have related a very pretty little fairy tale for my amusement-" 
                  "A chapter of real life, which is quite as full of magic as the Arabian Nights." 
                  "And I should return you my thanks," added Incledon, "What became of your friend Ernest?" 
                  "He went away and became a poor journalist, and had a friend named Incledon, who laughed at his romantic folly." 
                  "That was very wrong in his friend. Now let us leave these things of the past and return to real life. Do you go to the ball to-night?" 
                  "I don't know." 
                  "You know the scheme?" 
                  "What?" 
                  "That the dresses worn by the ladies are to be duly given to the poor to-morrow." 
                  "Truly!" 
                  "That is it." 
                  "I'm glad I'm not a paterfamilias, with a brace of party-going daughters." 
                  "Oh, the dresses will be very plain." 
                  "Good." 
                  "And persons who would not go to these assemblies at other times, will attend." 
                  "That is easily understood." 
                  "I, you know, have very little fancy for such things, which are best avoided by professing Christians, though there is no deadly sin involved." 
                   
                  "Good! I agree with you." 
                  "You will go?" 
                  "Why, yes; it will be a pretty spectacle." 
                  "I wish to introduce you to some lady friends." 
                  "Thanks-with pleasure!" 
                  "Very well," said Incledon, "the evening is drawing on, and I must go and dress. Don't fail," he said, rising, and putting on his overcoat. 
                  "Count upon me." 
                  "There will be a press; come early." 
                  "I am one of the press-I live in and by it. There, my dear fellow, admire my brilliant witticism. You must go? Well, good-bye for the present. I shall finish my pipe!" 
                  And they parted. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  DOCTOR FOSSYL AND THE DANCE OF DEATH. 
                  WHEN Mr. Sansoucy entered the ball room, the company had fully arrived; and with the philosophic interest of a sight-seer, the journalist embraced at a glance, the brilliant and imposing spectacle. 
                  The ladies were clad in the plainest and most comfortable dresses, but were decorated with their customary "finery," in the shape of pearl necklaces, and diamond breastpins, and jewelled coronals. So striking was the contrast between these decorations and their dresses, that Mr. Sansoucy inwardly made the brilliant remark, that they resembled, every one, a beautiful beggar-maid newly adorned by King Cophetua, for queen and mistress of the royal heart. "It is fortunate that the present fashion is not like the old," he muttered, smiling: "and that makes it all the better." 
                  With which words, Mr. Sansoucy plunged into the undulating and sparkling throng, exchanging jests and compliments with everybody, with which personage he seemed to be intimately acquainted. 
                  Of course the novel idea so successfully put into practice, was the almost universal topic of conversation; and it is almost safe to say that every gentleman who made new acquaintances on that evening, commenced the conversation with some gay or solemn, brilliant or dull observation on the subject. 
                  Having heard the subject discussed some hundreds of times, in making the circuit of the rooms, Mr. Sansoucy conceived the eccentric fancy to be original, and abstain from all allusion to the topic, unless it were introduced. And this resolution he carried out in full by closing his eyes to the novelty, and conversing upon every other subject. 
                  Passing on thus, distributing smiles and jests, compliments and laughter, the journalist finally stopped before a man, who, leaning against the wall of the apartment, was surveying the brilliant spectacle with a sardonic smile, which made his face anything but pleasant to behold. 
                  He was a man of sixty or sixty-five, of small stature, and with a lofty and peaked forehead, around which a few lingering gray hairs strove to meet and join their extremities. His eyebrows were heavy and rugged, his skin the color of soiled parchment, and his lips, which were a mere straight line in his furrowed countenance, seemed habitually to wear the satirical and disdainful smile which they now exhibited. He was dressed in black from head to foot; wore black splatterdashes, which were tightly buttoned around his spider-like legs, and carried in his hand, as though to be consistent at all points, an ebony snuff-box, from which he occasionally helped himself to a pinch of snuff. 
                  Sansoucy stopped in front of this man, and arresting his wandering eye, said: 
                  "How do you do, Doctor? You seem entertained." 
                  "I am," said the Doctor, in a harsh and satirical voice; I scarcely recollect when I have been so much amused." 
                  "Amused! you! Why you are never amused." 
                  "I am, to-night." 
                  "How?" 
                  "Looking at this fine spectacle." 
                  "I thought the great savant, Doctor Fossyl, found his amusement elsewhere." 
                  "In sick chambers, hospitals and dissecting rooms, eh?" 
                  "Well, you are right. I did think your genius lay in that direction, doctor." 
                  "Humph! I don't deny it, and still I enjoy this." 
                  "Come! the philosophy of your enjoyment, monsieur?" 
                  "I am not a philosopher." 
                  "Well, you are the next remove-a physician." 
                   
                  "I am, and in that capacity, I regard this fine assembly as quite amusing. Look at the chandeliers-" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "The laughing, sparkling, noisy crowd!" 
                  "Very noisy." 
                  "Listen to the music," continued Doctor Fossyl, with his sardonic smile: "and mark the delight it gives!" 
                  "Why, certainly-that is natural." 
                  "See that gay dance they are dancing yonder-look at the bright faces, the moving forms, the sparkling eyes, the rapid and excited motion." 
                  "I do." 
                  "It's a pretty dance of death, is it not?" 
                  "A dance of death?" 
                  "Come! do you pretend to be a scholar, and are yet ignorant of the middle ages?" 
                  "I don't pretend to be a scholar, but I have heard of the dance of death. I only wish to know-" 
                  "How this is such?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "You have only to look at that graceful skeleton, yonder-waltzing." 
                  "Skeleton!" 
                  "Yes," said Doctor Fossyl, tapping his box, and coolly taking snuff; "that gentleman has got heart-disease, and in from ten to fifteen days from this time he will be dead." 
                  "You are jesting." 
                  "Of course I am-I always am. Everything is a jest. And one of the most amusing jests is the appearance here of that young lady there, with the japonica in her hair." 
                  "What do you mean?" 
                  "I mean that I shall be called in at half-past seven o'clock to-morrow morning, before I have eaten a mouthful of breakfast, to draw a gallon more or less of blood from that handsome arm, which is now raising the nose-gay up so gracefully, and that life and death will wrestle over her body." 
                  "Death, doctor?" 
                  "Certainly. She has had the most dangerous type of inflammation of the bronchial tubes and lungs, for three weeks, and I told her this morning, that if she came here to-night, she would be attacked by pneumonia. What do you think she said, in her little, mincing voice?" 
                  Sansoucy shook his head in silence, gazing sadly at the young girl. 
                  "She said," continued Doctor Fossyl, smiling, satirically, "that I was a monster, a bug-bear, a spoil-sport; and that even medicine was not seldom mistaken. How could she miss the charming, the delightful ball, for which she had an engagement. She talked so prettily that her father was convinced that I am an ignoramus-a raw head and bloody bones:-and an hour ago, I passed her coming in, in her satin slippers, over the snow. Poor thing! poor thing!" muttered the sallow cynic, almost inaudibly: but this expression soon disappeared and the former satirical smile returned. 
                  Sansoucy was silent, and sad, for he had found too often that the predictions of Doctor Fossyl, based upon profound erudition, and life-long experience, were too apt to turn out truly. 
                  "I have a few more friends here," said the doctor, offering the snuff-box, which Sansoucy refused, "and I shall probably be very busy for the next few months. The Dance of Death is not so disagreeable a thing to us physicians as the world imagines. An admirable spectacle!" cried the cynic, whose yellow teeth appeared as he spoke between his thin lips, "hear the music-ta! ta! ta! ta!-like your favorite opera of Lucretia Borgia, which I remember hearing when I was young and in love-just before I was attacked with the measles. Don't you remember the scene? The last, I think it is. They are all revelling, drinking their wine, cracking their jokes, making the walls ring with the laughter. Wit, and merriment, and jollity are supreme. But comes the invisible chorus. Listen! always nearer, while the merriment grows madder-always louder, though they do not hear it, under the flaming chandelier, and clashing together their wine cups. Listen! it is there at the door-terrible and mournful and despairing like a death-wail-and then the doors glide open, and the white phantoms enter, and a cold arm passes round each reveller, and they glide away to where the row of coffins wait for them. A pretty opera, is it not?" 
                  And the cynic pointed with his fleshless finger to the crowd. 
                  There was something so sinister and coldly contemptuous in the accents of the strange physician-his livid countenance was so expressive of scorn, and satire of the bitterest description that, habituated as he was to the humors of the speaker, Mr. Sansoucy remained silent, involuntarily, with his eyes fixed upon his companion. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  THE APPIAN WAY AND THE CATACOMBS. 
                  BUT the emotion of the journalist soon passed: it is true that he passed his handkerchief over his most brows, but that might very well have been caused by the heart of the rooms. 
                  "You have a terrible habit of analysis, doctor," he said, at length, "but you have also the fatal error in your calculation, which puts all this in quite another light." 
                  "What error?" 
                  "You regard life and happiness as the sworn foes of pain and death." 
                  "Foes! are they not?" 
                  "I don't know that I have put my idea in the right words," said Sansoucy, thoughtfully, "but it seems to me, doctor, that there is something more-some greater happiness than any earthly thing. If that be so, death is the portal to the good and pure, by which they enter into this larger happiness!" 
                  For a moment the doctor looked at his companion with a sort of disdainful surprise; then his former sardonic smile returned. 
                   
                  "I thought you were a philosopher, and had rejected these superstitions!" he said. 
                  "Superstitions?" 
                  "Yes-belief in another state of being." 
                  "Thank God I have done nothing of the sort. I am neither an atheist, a pantheist, nor an infidel." 
                  "I am all three." 
                  "I am sorry," said Sansoucy, coolly. 
                  "Don't be sorry for me!" cried the physician, almost scornfully, "be sorry for yourself-for the dominion which this tradition still retains over your mind. It absolutely makes me angry to see men of your intelligence taking up with the miserable cant of the age, and rejecting those noble lights of reason, Paine, Voltaire, Rousseau, and Michelet." 
                  "I detect everywhere in Paine the poorest materialism, and the narrowest range of thought," said Sansoucy, bracing himself for the struggle. 
                  "Materialism!" said the physician, scornfully; "and what of Voltaire?-perhaps you-" 
                  "Do not admire that brilliant and wicked genius? Well, no, doctor, I find in Voltaire, wit, political genius, the revolt of intellect against feudality, and a heart like a dry crucible. He was the type of the nation he has caricatured-half-tiger and half-monkey." 
                  "And Rousseau-pray, what do you think of him?" said Doctor Fossyl, curling his lip. 
                  "I think he was a bad citizen and a depraved man, who did not know his own obliquity of moral vision, and thought the whole world squinted. As to Mr. Michelet, 
                      
                        DOCTOR FOSSYL DISCUSSES THE DANCE OF DEATH. 
                     
                     
                      who admires the 'advent of justice,' which had such pretty points in the Reign of Terror, and deifies the philosophers of that corrupt age, I tell you frankly, doctor, that his book makes me sick. He has refused his "French Revolution," so often in his "History of France," that if his present philosophy were not repulsive, it would be ludicrous." 
                  The doctor smiled disdainfully, and said; "Well, now that you have got through your fine criticism, tell me what more you have against these powerful geniuses than your own ipse dixit-then we will weigh your respective intellects." 
                  "I will submit to no such test. I reject it in advance." 
                  "You reject it!" 
                  "Always. I do not pretend to measure my intellect against your friends, Rosseau and the rest-though I could find in them the most lamentable discrepancies. I reject absolutely, wholly, unhesitatingly, the philosophy which submits these profoundly spiritual questions to the test of a cold, unvarying, mathematical analysis. I refuse to recognize the dry hard reason of the trained dialectician, as the proper scales to weigh these matters of life and death-of time and eternity. 
                         
                           'Sages prove that God is not, 
                           But I still adore Him,' 
                        
                      sings the poet; and there I stop. I am content to say, 'I feel this.' There is my platform, doctor. The poor human reason faints before these problems, and the heart speaks as God intended it should." 
                   
                  The physician looked at Sansoucy as if he had uttered a fatuity which reason should disdain to combat for a moment. 
                  "And so you believe there is divinity in the vital principle, do you?" he sneered. 
                  "Yes." 
                  "That with the severed head, the pierced heart, this principle departs, and goes to a larger universe?" 
                  "Yes, doctor." 
                  "Poor human nature! how pitiable!" said the physician, half to himself; "here is a man who has a clear and accurate mind, an apprehensiveness really remarkable, and his intellect is shackled still by the poorest superstition." 
                  "What did you say, doctor?" 
                  "I say, I wish to know if you label this package of ideas, Faith or Reason?" 
                  "The former, I trust." 
                  "Faith?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Faith in what?" 
                  "In God, immortality,-the atonement of Jesus Christ." 
                  "You! you have this last weakness! the atonement!" 
                  "If it is a weakness, doctor, I wish to live and die in my deception." 
                  "A pretty faith! Why don't you act up to it?" 
                  "Because I am human, and consequently weak." 
                  "Bah! and I suppose if I asserted that all men were gods-" 
                   
                  "I should say there was one exception-myself-a worm with a spark of divinity within me:-a light-worm, which has in itself what the whole earth has not, and must take from the sun-light!" 
                  "A pretty reasoner! Why not unite yourself to the Church?" 
                  "I hope I shall, some day." 
                  "You would make a fine and consistent member!" 
                  "That is a bitter taunt, doctor, but a very just one." 
                  I am not taunting you: you are no Christian." 
                  "That is true, doctor. But as far as my historical faith goes, it is strong and complete." 
                  "What is it?" 
                  "It would take me a month to present it." 
                  "One point, then!" said Doctor Fossyl, satirically. 
                  "Well, here is one. A man named Jesus Christ, appeared in Judea, a province of the Roman Empire, about eighteen hundred years ago, did he not?" 
                  "Granted." 
                  "He was a pure man, was he not?" 
                  "Who knows certainly anything about it?" 
                  "I will tell you. Jefferson, the pupil of the French sceptical philosophers, said he was the sublimest philosopher who ever existed, and that men would finally rank him above Socrates." 
                  "Well?" 
                  "Jean Paul Richtei, the greatest and mightiest development of German intellect-greater than Goethe, I think-although he was an infidel, almost worshipped the moral purity and sublimity of Christ, and loved him as the supreme type of human greatness and goodness." 
                  "Very well." 
                  "Well, this man, who is acknowledged to have been the purest and most truthful of men, went about saying that he was the promised Messiah, that every one was looking for-you cannot question the historical fact of this expectation in Palestine then-and he further said, and that repeatedly, that he was the Son of God, equal with the Father." 
                  "Your conclusion?" 
                  "It is this. That if this supreme type of human truth and purity, systematically uttered a falsehood, then earth and heaven are a gigantic delusion, and the universe a lie. Nothing is true-and existence is a mockery, a degraded farce. That is my conclusion." 
                  "What a pretty syllogism you make. I suppose you will say next that the spread of Christianity proves its divine origin." 
                  "I have no hesitation in saying so." 
                  "Bah! what do you do with Mahomet, the impostor and false prophet. I believe he founded a somewhat similar affair which lasts still. 
                  "Yes; but, my dear doctor, you are arguing very weakly for a man of your perspicuity." 
                  "Weakly!" 
                  "Yes; and I have only to point you to the two systems to show you as much. Mahomet, with the Koran in his left hand and the scimetar in his right, said to his wild hordes, 'Go forth in my name and conquer. If you are victorious, the scimetar makes you lord of all the riches of the earth, subjugates nations, and makes you conquerors and princes. If you fall, the word of God is pledged to you in this book, that you shall go to a paradise of murmuring streams and verdurous plains-to the embrace of beautiful houris, fairer than your dreams, and all the ecstacies of sense, sublimated and made supernaturally susceptible of bliss by the pure atmosphere of this sunny paradise.' I think that I should have been a Mahommedan-I wonder that all men, with this splendid bourne for their dim yearnings, are not." 
                  "You had better become one." 
                  "No; but let me finish. I say that this was Mahomet's creed-these his promises. What were those of Christ? He said, 'They have persecuted me, and they will also persecute you. The time is coming when whoever kills you will think he is doing God service; in the world you shall have tribulation; while the world is rejoicing you shall weep and lament; you shall be persecuted, beaten, despised; you shall suffer hunger and thirst, and poverty and nakedness; the world shall be your enemy, and shall place its heel upon you. Remember all this, and then sell your goods, leave your father and mother, sister and brother, and wife and child, and follow me!" There is the Christian and the Mahommedan system. Judge if the spread of Mahommedanism was not natural-the spread of Christianity supernatural!" 
                  "Have you finished?" said Doctor Fossyl, with a curling lip, "or have you any more philosophic contrasts?" 
                  "Contrasts!" said Sansoucy. "You want contrasts, Doctor? Well, I give you one more: see the difference between Christian and anti-Christian deaths, and the epitaphs upon their tombs. Would you see the pagan character in a nut-shell? Go to the Appian Way at Rome-that vast high-road of hewn stone, upon which the spoils and captives of the world flowed into Rome, and her legions thundered out-where the silken litters of courtezans passed, on the backs of Nubian slaves-courtezans, such as Messalina, the enchantress, Faustina, the Empress, the sisters of the Emperor Commodus, and the most highborn and beautiful daughters of Rome: the Appian Way, where the witty and corrupt Horace waved his perfumed hands, covered with rings; where the poor philosophies of Greece were discussed by the glittering crowd of splendid young patricians; where riotous pleasure reigned supreme, the sole real god of that multitude, who, men and women, given up to luxurious and sensual delights, passed to and fro-a splendid and deplorable carnival-in the eternal race for a new passion, an unknown excitement. Cast your eyes upon this crowd, thronging the Appian Way, and then pass across to the immense tombs of Etruscan marble, where those who fainted in the carnival, and were called away, laid down to rest-where the millionaires of Rome cut their ostentation and their philosophy in stone. Those tombs are there to-day-look at the epitaphs. "To the shade of Claudius Secundus; on earth he enjoyed everything-baths, wine and women: these ruin the constitution, but they make life what it is. Farewell!" Go a little further and you find another. "I came from nothing-I return to what I was: my fortune will be 
                     yours!" A step further and you find, "While I lived, I lived well: my play is ended, yours will soon be-farewell and applaud!" There is the pagan life and death, doctor: life a passionate carnival of fiery and corroding lusts and passions; death a hopeless and shuddering relapse, as they thought, into eternal annihilation; for that man never lived who went, as he believed, into the dust, without a shudder, though, like the old Greeks, he might crown himself with flowers, and distort his lips into a smile. Well, close by all this galvanic excitement, while this gay crowd flowed on, living for sense, and reaping its reward of splendid misery and despair-all this, while the dark Catacombs beneath their feet were filled with the believers in what Tacitus called a 'pernicious superstition"-with Christians-the followers of an old man called Paul, who, in hunger and thirst, in spite of stonings and stripes, and the threats of a thousand enemies, had preached, and now preached to them, what you may call, if you choose, another philosophy only: the philosophy that those who listened to him, and the glittering crowd of Roman patricians-the courtezan passing above in her litter, and the child kneeling at his feet-the Jew and the Greek-the slave and the freedman-the rich and the poor-were all under a supreme curse, from which only faith in Jesus called the Christ, and crucified at Jerusalem, could preserve them. This was the philosophy taught by Paul to a few miserable and hunted outcasts, who knelt around him in the dark dungeon of the Catacombs, and sang their hymns of joy, and faith, and hope. When the beloved eyes of some little child were closed by its mother's kiss, or when some faithful spirit of the elders took its flight, what was the spectacle? What were the epitaphs which these Christians of the Catacombs placed upon the sacred graves, while the solid earth overhead shook with the thunder of splendid chariots, and the desperate orgies of that revelling multitude, hastening to death and, as they vainly thought, extinction? You know those epitaphs well-but listen; listen how like angel-voices! like sweet benedictions!-"Valeria sleeps in peace!"-some little child, perhaps,-a tender flower, which Jesus took from its mother's bosom to his own. "Florentius peacefully!" "Vigilantius sleeps in Christ!" Sleeps, it may be, after a long life of toil, and suffering, and agony-perhaps after fighting as a gladiator in the amphitheatre, or struggling breast to breast with wild beasts, at the festivals: all, the child, the gladiator, the apostle, 'sleep in Christ,' awaiting his glorious coming. These are the pagan and the Christian systems, Doctor-the infidel and the believer-their lives and deaths. For myself, no word of yours is necessary to tell me that I am little better than that crowd upon the street above-that I resemble in nothing the company beneath them. I lament and deplore, sir, the truth of the charge, and I will try to change. But one poor merit I have-a naked belief; and so conclusive is this conviction with me, that a doubt of the divine origin of Christianity seems to me monstrous-I must say it-and the man who conscientiously believes the system only a fiction, appears to me blind to that extent, that a million of dazzling suns would be but darkness to him!" 
                   
                  Sansoucy paused, and looked thoughtfully at the crowd; then interrupting the physician, who was about to utter one of his disdainful replies, he said: 
                  "This is a singular conversation for a ball-room, doctor, farce as you considered it. I am not a proper preacher of Christianity, and I deeply regret that my faith is only a speculative and historical faith, which does not guide my life, now let us change the subject and talk about something else. How is Joe Lacklitter? You saw him?" 
                  "Yes," growled the doctor, who seemed to be utterly careless about any reply in words to his opponent, "he is better." 
                  "Get him up as soon as possible, my dear doctor." 
                  "Very good-but you pay?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I can trust you without a written obligation," he muttered. 
                  Sansoucy looked at him with a smile; and his countenance thus returned to its habitual expression of careless good humor. 
                  "I am much obliged to you: I hope any one in the room would." 
                  "Butterflies!" 
                  "Just now they were skeletons! Ah, my dear doctor, you make a double blunder. They are neither-they are men and women with a thousand good and bad qualities going through their Life-Drama. There is Incledon-I promised to meet him-good bye." 
                  The physician uttered a surly growl; and Sansoucy disappeared in the undulating and uproarious crowd. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  PHILOSOPHY OF THE "DANCE." 
                  IN a few moments, Sansoucy had joined Mr. Incledon, who was conversing with some friends, and they exchanged a smiling greeting. 
                  "Well, here I am," said Sansoucy, "in good health and spirits." 
                  "You always are." 
                  "Nearly." 
                  "Are you prepared for the ordeal?" 
                  "Your friends?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I don't expect anything dreadful! Where are they?" 
                  "In the next room." 
                  "Let us go there." 
                  They penetrated the crowd, and passing through, gained the threshold of the next room. 
                  "Here is a little dance going on," said Sansoucy, "the great spectacle of modern times-dancing." 
                  "Do you like it?" 
                  "Do you mean waltzing?" 
                  "If you choose." 
                  "Well, yes and no. I have no sister, or probably I should have omitted the first part of my reply." 
                  "How carelessly you regard everything, Ernest." 
                  "Because everything is ridiculous-almost." 
                  "Somethings are serious." 
                  "That is true." 
                   
                  "And this abominable German usage we have imported-the polka and the schottish too-seems to me just of that description." 
                  "Ah? serious? 
                  "Yes," said Incledon, "is it not monstrous that a young lady should stand here on this floor and permit a man-I do not say a gentleman, for any one who procures an introduction is insulted by a refusal-permit a man, a mere stranger I say, to press her body to his own-his arm around her waist-and this just in the fashion it may suit him! Look at that couple whirling up to us! With the merest motion of his head he might touch her lips with his own-there they pass us! See her partner's arm! I am not prudish, Sansoucy," said Incledon, sternly, "but I agree with a very bad authority, Lord Byron, that it is revolting!" 
                  "Revolting!" 
                  "Yes: I know how ridiculous such 'Puritanical' ideas are thought-and that child yonder to whom I gave sugar-plums last year, would twirl her fan, and look at me with affected surprise if I would presume to say this dance was objectionable. It is very outre, very prudish, very severe, to find fault with the 'harmless amusement' of young people, I would be told, and then with a laugh, I am dismissed." 
                  Sansoucy smiled, in his old way. 
                  "What would you have, my dear friend?" he said, "we must take the world as it is-Caira! What is the use of being solemn? Those fascinating young ladies like to be embraced in this pleasant way; and assuredly you would not break their tender hearts, by interdicting this delightful pastime! If the present season clings to the waltz, don't you know that they will all waltz? If next year it is the fashion to embrace with both arms, can't you comprehend that many will find the amusement still more piquant, and obey implicitly the fashionable dictum? They like it, my dear Incledon, and instead of arguing upon the subject in a heated way, why look at it as I do, philosophically. These charming damsels like to be embraced;-ask Mr. Fantish, yonder, and he will tell you that as the music grows faster, and the arm tighter, they absolutely laugh out their delight-why quarrel, then? The waltz and polka present an 'eligible opportunity' for this warm interchange of feeling, and they embrace-it." 
                  Incledon's face had assumed so cold and haughty an expression at the name of Fantish, that Sansoucy gazed at him with curious interest; but this expression of coldness soon passed, and Incledon said, 
                  "I am sorry your philosophy is so careless, Ernest." 
                  "Careless?" 
                  "You assuredly are." 
                  "Not at all." 
                  "You defend waltzing." 
                  "Not in the least." 
                  "Why this very moment-" 
                  "Come, now, you are going to arraign me. I don't defend it, my dear friend. I only observe that I have no female relatives present." 
                  Incledon nodded. 
                  "I am a sphynx-I speak in riddles as you know. I mean that I have no sister, cousin, niece, or other charming baggage here. If I had, I think I should issue my orders-I beg pardon of the ladies-my requests-" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Not to waltz," added Sansoucy. "I go with gentlemen of Mr. Fantish's style upon that subject. When you see the sister or cousin of a 'fast man' waltzing, come and tell me, and I will put it under the head of 'notable occurrences' in the Journal. No, my dear friend, I have known some very eccentric gentlemen of fashion, and, but for the fear of seeming harsh, I would say some very coarse and disagreeable companions, but I have never known one who liked his sister to waltz. Now we have been moralizing enough, and I know I am telling you nothing new. Let us get in. What a charming little Christian yonder." 
                  "Where?" 
                  "Waltzing." 
                  "What a pity," said Incledon. 
                  "Pity? It's a shame!" said Sansoucy, but checking himself, he added, "now I am growing moralist. Where are your friends?" 
                  "Over there," said Incledon, gazing sadly at the excited crowd, "let us get through." 
                  "That tall full lady?" 
                  "Is one of them." 
                  "And the other." 
                  "There: come, let me introduce you." 
                  And Incledon smiled. As he did so, Sansoucy drew back, almost blushing. 
                  It was Aurelia. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  HOW SANSOUCY WAS DEFEATED BY MR. HEARTSEASE. 
                  SANSOUCY'S surprise lasted but for a moment, yielding almost instantly to an expression of radiant delight. Advancing quickly two steps, he imprisoned in his own both hands of the young lady, and gazed with the ingenuous smile of a boy into her blushing and smiling face. 
                  Aurelia Ashton was a young girl of the freshest and most delicate beauty, and the description of her appearance as a child, might almost have suited her still. There was the same kindness and sincerity in her countenance, and the large blue eyes, and auburn hair, might have explained the raptures of our friend; or at least caused them to be regared with indulgence. There was one change, however, and this soon made itself felt. Aurelia had grown very gay, and a certain air of laughing stateliness still further marked the changes her character had undergone. 
                  Sansoucy found in place of a timid and affectionate child, a lovely and brilliant young woman; and for a moment a shadow of melancholy flitted across his brow. It was not long before this disappeared, however, and the happy smile came back in its full force. 
                  "How glad I am to see you, Aurelia," he said, still holding her hand. 
                  "And I to see you again, Mr. Sansoucy," said Miss Aurelia, ceasing to blush, and smiling. 
                  "Mr. Sansoucy! Have we grown so formal?" 
                   
                  "What would you have me say?" she asked, releasing her hand, with a smile. 
                  "Call me by my old name," he replied. 
                  "How?" 
                  "Ernest." 
                  The shadow of a little blush came again to Aurelia's fresh face, and she replied: 
                  "No, indeed, I will not, Monsieur, the travelled gentleman and journalist." 
                  "Ah, you forget old times." 
                  "No." 
                  "When we were such friends." 
                  "Great friends. We were a great deal together when we were children." 
                  "It was the happiest portion of my life." 
                  "Was it?" 
                  "Yes, indeed!" 
                  Aurelia made a little movement of her head, as much as to say that this was a highly flattering and gratifying announcement. 
                  "Childhood is generally the most hopeful portion of life," she said, smiling. 
                  Sansoucy looked sadly at her. Could she have meant that any hopes he entertained were attributable to childish mistake? This anxiety about the young girl's meaning ought to have taught so acute a student of motive causes as Mr. Sansoucy, that a highly inflammable atmosphere existed in his heart, which was gradually growing more and more so still. 
                  "Let us speak like old friends, if nothing more, Aurelia," he said, with sad courtesy; "and if that name is not proper in my mouth, I will change it. But do not meet me as a stranger, whom it is necessary to address in the stereotyped language of the ball room. Come, let us talk frankly-we are old friends, are we not?" 
                  "Oh, no doubt of it!" said Aurelia, laughing gaily 
                  He sighed. 
                  "Well, as we are friends, will you allow me to address a reproach to you?" 
                  "A dozen!" 
                  He sighed again. It was plain that Miss Aurelia Ashton was in excellent spirits. 
                  "One will be enough-and it shall not be even a reproach. When I returned from Europe, you met me with constraint. Had I offended you?" 
                  "Offended me? No, indeed!" 
                  "Why then-?" 
                  "Have answered you in monosyllables, and went out while you were talking to my mother, and not returned-do you mean, why did I perform all these naughty things?" 
                  "Yes," he said, smiling. 
                  "Because I was a school-girl," she replied, with the merriest laughter; "did you ever know one who did not feel a terrible fear of being devoured by her visitors? I was dreadfully afraid of you." 
                  "Is that a fair explanation?" 
                  "As fair and honest-indeed it is-as anything I could possibly say. Indeed you must pardon the awkwardness of a child, who was just old enough to be abashed in 'company.'" 
                  And with a smile and a sigh, Miss Aurelia gazed frankly and kindly at her companion. 
                  "Oh! that convinces me without another word, that you are not jesting-your bright smile! How much you are like yourself in old times, when you smile!" 
                  "Am I?" she said, with another smile, full of softness and sweetness. 
                  "Yes, and I would have you always smiling. Tell me when you reached town, and everything." 
                  "Everything is too comprehensive. But I have been here a week." 
                  "A week!" 
                  "Are you surprised?" 
                  "Yes. It seems to me that there must have been something in the atmosphere to indicate your presence-see how poorly I turn my poor compliment." 
                  "Oh, how nice it is! I see the reports I have heard of you are quite true." 
                  "What reports?" 
                  "That you have become a terrible flatterer, and that you boast of being able to win any woman's heart in six weeks!" 
                  "Who could have uttered such folly-or attributed to me so silly a speech?" said Sansoucy. 
                  "I shall not tell you, sir," said Aurelia, laughing. 
                  "Very well-but I never was guilty of the folly of uttering it." 
                  Aurelia seemed to question the sincerity of Mr. Sansoucy soucy in this denial; but dismissed the subject by saying: 
                  "I was about to tell you that I have come to visit cousin James-Mr. Ashton, you know. I shall certainly expect you to call on me." 
                  "You will not be disappointed." 
                  "Are you sure you will not?" 
                  "I?" 
                  "I mean in me: you know I can't talk literature or politics with your lordship." 
                  "Ah, you laugh at me! Do not be so unfriendly, Aurelia-excuse me. We're old associations and habits! Let us be, if not Ernest and Aurelia on the banks of the old stream, at least not so indifferent." 
                  The warm blush which covered her face showed that the old days had rushed to her memory in a moment. 
                  "I hope we shall always be friends," she said, laughing and blushing, and looking more beautiful than his dreams of her; "'in peace, friends,' you know." 
                  "Peace-?" 
                  "Yes, we may declare war: I am growing very unamiable." 
                  "Impossible! your sweetness of nature was your greatest charm," he said, sincerely and seriously. 
                  "Thank you, sir! Then I had no others?" 
                  "Many," said Sansoucy, sighing at being repulsed thus by Miss Aurelia's gayety, in every advance he made toward the out-posts of tenderness. As he spoke the young girl inclined her head to a gentleman who was standing behind Mr. Sansoucy, and said, "Good evening, Mr. Heartsease." 
                  "I trust my bow was a la mode, Miss Ashton," lisped a mild and languid voice. "Ah! how are you, Sansoucy, my dear boy? charmed to see you!" 
                  With which words Mr. Heartsease advanced into the conversation. Who shall undertake to describe Heartsease, the beau, Heartsease, the fop, Heartsease, the most serious of butterflies, and the king of Epicurean philosophers! Even his costume defies description. We may say, indeed, that he wore the tightest of pantaloons, the largest coat cuffs, the smallest patent-leather boots, and the most enormous "tie:" but these things scarcely convey any idea of Heartsease, that prince of pococurantes. Words faint and fail before him, and from his dark ambrosial hair an influence radiates, which paralyzes the pen of the historian. When he glances at you with his mild dark eyes, from his great height-for he is very tall-you feel that not the hair and "tie," and coat and boots, and watch-chain, full of charms, are Heartsease. There is behind this the real man, and he strolls still through ball rooms, a mystery, a myth, almost a superstition. 
                  Heartsease is always smiling, and languid without weakness-and lisps. He says, now: 
                  "What a charming spectacle, Miss Ashton. Would any one believe that these were our finest girls. 'Pon my word, they look like peasant girls in the operas." 
                  "Thank you, sir." 
                   
                  "Those beautiful little dames-they always put me in a good humor. I admire them so." 
                  "That is a very adroit addition to your former speech, Mr. Heartsease." 
                  "Is n't it? I was admiring my own tact in producing it at so short a notice." 
                  Everybody ended by laughing at Heartsease, and this ceremony was now performed by Miss Aurelia very heartily. 
                  "You are to give the dresses to the poor, eh?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "I like the poor." 
                  "Do you?" 
                  "Yes, very much." 
                  "Have you seen much of them?" 
                  "Oh, yes-a great deal. In-a-novels." 
                  "Oh! not in reality?" 
                  "I have never met any-out of novels." 
                  Having uttered this reply, Mr. Heartsease paused. 
                  I know some in real life, Heartsease," said Sansoucy, smiling, "and I am going to make a request of our friend, Miss Ashton." 
                  "Oh! what is it?" said Aurelia. 
                  "That you will give your dress to a little proteg of mine." 
                  "Indeed I will!" 
                  "Thanks." 
                  "I forgot to ask-is it a girl? I hope so!" 
                  "Scarcely a boy," said Sansoucy, smiling. 
                   
                  "A boy!" said Heartsease, bowing approvingly, "a boy!-not bad!-ha, ha!-very good!" 
                  And having uttered this mild laugh, Heartsease played with his "charms," and gazed gravely at the crowd. 
                  "I meant a grown woman," Aurelia explained, with a smile. "I like little girls best." 
                  "This is a little girl." 
                  "I am very glad," said Aurelia, "will you please tell her to come to cousin's and get it." 
                  "To-morrow morning, faithfully. And now, this little piece of business being ended, come let us-" 
                  "'Have the pleasure of dancing this cotillion, Miss Ashton?" said Heartsease, interposing his head, with a gentle smile. 
                  Never had Mr. Sansoucy been so completely defeated by the hostile fates. The words were actually "taken out of his mouth," to use the common saying; and Aurelia, after a moment's hesitation, glided away. 
                  Sansoucy watched her graceful form gliding through the set, and seemed exceedingly dull to the elderly lady who had come with Aurelia, and who had been conversing with Mr. Incledon. As this lady is not to be a character of our chronicle, we do not enter further on her feelings or opinions. Sansoucy once or twice took his eyes from Aurelia, to gaze with astonishment upon Incledon. 
                  Why did his friend's brow cloud, and, in spite of the most terrible efforts, his dark eyes flash with haughty fire? Could the simple fact of his cousin Silvia's waltzing with Mr. Fantish, cause this extreme exhibition of emotion? 
                  Sansoucy gave the question up in despair, and returned like a true man to his own hopes and fears, and their synonyme-Aurelia. 
                  Mr. Heartsease seemed so much pleased with Miss Aurelia's society, that he remained with her nearly the whole of the evening. When Heartsease made the effort he was very entertaining; and Aurelia seemed to enjoy his society very much. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy retired on that night with a variety of feelings-and in his dreams he thought he saw Aurelia open her arms toward him with an angelic look of tenderness and goodness, like the picture, when suddenly a gigantic butterfly swept up and bore her away between his wings. To the reader such a fear seems wholly groundless and superfluous under the circumstances. But there was a circumstance which not even Mr. Sansoucy knew-he was in love. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  HEARTSEASE CRITICISES MISS GOSYP AND THE BANKS. 
                  WITH the bright morning sunlight shining on the snow, all Mr. Sansoucy's fears, however, passed away, and he laughed heartily as he tied his cravat at the mirror, reflecting upon his dream and his jealousy. 
                  "The truth is," he muttered, with his careless smile, "that I am by no means free from danger in that quarter; and this proves it. What a strange influence these childish sentiments retain over a man, and how difficult it is to see the old, old face-however young it is-and not be moved by it. As to Heartsease, let him be my rival in a game which I have no idea of playing. I suppose I shall go to see her, and we shall drive out together, and go to the opera, and laugh and talk about old times, and be 'given to each other' duly by the world. Then some day a little white enameled missive will be handed to me, and I'll read that Mrs. Ashton will be pleased to see me on Thursday next, which invitation will be duly endorsed by Miss Aurelia, and Mr. Heartsease, or some other. And I'll go, and smile, and jest, and find my 'illusion' lighter than the bride's white veil of that material, and come back, and smoke, and work, and dream, and go my ways. So wags the world!" 
                  Having taken this highly philosophical and cheerful view of things, Sansoucy finished his toilette, and went to breakfast; and returning, set to work. 
                  His article on the marriage of the emperor filled six yellow slips, and blazed all over with the utmost gaiety of humor. It was read next day with laughter by ten thousand persons-after which it lit a number of cigars, and passed away. 
                  As Sansoucy finished the last line, a knock was heard, and obedient to permission, a young being with a smutty face came in, and uttered the words, "Copy, sir?" 
                  "Who are you?" said Sansoucy. 
                  "I'm the new boy, sir." 
                  "Ah, indeed?" 
                  "Yes, sir. I bin runnin' errants-" 
                  "Knight errands, perhaps?" 
                   
                  "No, sir; by day, sir: I greased the wheels and done a heap o'things, and so they made me a devil, sir." 
                  "That was very just and proper," said Sansoucy, "and I congratulate you on your good fortune. There's the copy." 
                  And so the young promoted went away. 
                  Sansoucy lay back in his chair, and gazed at the snowy roofs opposite, on which the cold, bright light was shining-vainly attempting to make some impression on the frozen crust. 
                  "The fact is-" said the philosopher: but what the fact was, remains to this day a profound mystery. As he spoke, another step was heard ascending the stairs, and Mr. Sansoucy's thoughts were diverted from Aurelia, by the entrance of no less a personage than Mr. Heartsease! 
                  Heartsease was in all the glory of his morning toilette-his overcoat sleeves were heavy with velvet; his yellow gloves were supernaturally tight; his cravat extended its fringed bows to his shoulders on either side. 
                  Heartsease was smiling and gay-he always was. When he spoke, his drawl was more smiling than ever-when he sat down, his shining boot was gaily extended straight in front with graceful ease. 
                  "Charmed to see you, my dear Sansoucy!" said Heartsease, "how goes it, this fine morning, after the ball? But I needn't ask you-you are as bright as a lark." 
                  "We young fellows, you know, Heartsease, always are." said Sansoucy, "come, what news?" 
                  "Absolutely none. But do you know I begin to feel deuced old?" 
                   
                  "No." 
                  "Fact: and during my tour, things seem to have changed. But I am consoled at finding that everything has greatly improved by my absence-of course I mean during my absence." 
                  "Of course." 
                  "What a handsome ball, last night: I regretted, however, seeing no new modes in the dresses. I'm glad we went in our own-I like the new fashions-pantaloons tighter-it shows the leg, you know." 
                  "Certainly," said Sansoucy, leaning back, and surveying the Heartsease legs, with deep admiration. 
                  "In fact," continued that gentleman, smiling, and drawing, "we are a progressive nation. We carry to their utmost possible development, all the novel ideas and sentiments, which spring from an expanded and comprehensive view of the reciprocal relations existing between men and things! That's a fine sentence-I was struck with it this morning, in reading the Palladium of Liberty, and got it by heart." 
                  "It is equal to Macaulay-almost," said Sansoucy, smiling. 
                  "Yes," replied Heartsease, twirling his cane, "and I regard the ball last night as a proof of it." 
                  "How so, my dear philosopher?" asked Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  "Why, the girls." 
                  "The girls?" 
                  "I mean their dresses." 
                  "What of their dresses?" 
                  "So 'finely demonstrative,' as I heard a friend say the other day. The young ladies, he added, 'are getting more and more communicative.'" 
                  "Bah! he's a cynic!" 
                  "So he is." 
                  "To quarrel with a young lady for showing her shoulders." 
                  "Abominable!" 
                  "It would be as unreasonable for a man to find fault with a girl for being 'fast,'" said Sansoucy. 
                  "Certainly, my dear Sansoucy; and that would be ridiculous. Our two belles from-where are they from-what state?-I don't know: but our belles last night showed how ridiculous such criticisms are. I don't know which was the fastest, but I rather think the maiden with the japonica in her hair outstripped the other." 
                  And Heartsease gently smiled. 
                  "Bah!" cried Sansoucy, "what an improper speech; and the worst of it is that such speeches are constantly made without young ladies knowing it. Besides it's not original." 
                  "Not original?" said Heartsease, with an innocent air. 
                  "No: it's in the Journal of last week." 
                  "Well, it's good: but we are getting away from the ball." 
                  "So we are." 
                  "You enjoyed yourself?" 
                  "Yes, my dear Sansoucy, I always do for that matter. My friends were as kind as any reasonable man could possibly desire." 
                  "Were they?" 
                   
                  "Quite: and I was overwhelmed with congratulations on my safe return. There was one thing, however, which gravelled me." 
                  "And that?" 
                  "That was the attack made upon me, by Miss Gosyp. You know the antediluvian, Miss Gosyp? She actually introduced herself to me, winter before last, by an unfavorable commentary on my shirt studs. She assailed me again, last night, with a criticism of my waistcoat." 
                  "What was the result?" 
                  "Why, there is an end to human patience, like all other things of this world, as I have somewhere, seen it remarked. And yet, will you believe me, my dear fellow, I was paralyzed by that abominable woman-driven to frenzy, and loss of temper. All I could do was to smile, and ask her if a young lady, who came with her, was her neice-and so we parted." 
                  "What a terrible and heartless attack, Heartsease!" 
                  "Wasn't it? But revenge is fair. What do you think she said to me last winter?" 
                  "I can't guess." 
                  "Why, she squeezed my hand, in a friendly way, and whispered, 'You are the hope of America-'" 
                  "You don't quarrel with that?" 
                  "Listen-she added with an affectionate and winning smile-'the hope against hope.' And then she nodded and left me. It made me melancholy for a week, and I have only regained my spirits since I have got revenge!" 
                  Sansoucy applauded this happy consummation, and said: 
                   
                  "All your friends, however, are not so severe?" 
                  "Oh, no!-almost everybody has been pleased to see me-particularly fellows I owe money to." 
                  "Ah?" 
                  "Yes: and I now perceive the truth of a remark made lately by a friend of mine-that nobody takes any interest in a man who don't owe money. I remember when my governor took me to the watering places, a long while ago-when I was a young fellow-that scarcely anybody took the trouble to enquire how I had been, on my return. Now it is different, my dear fellow-the solicitude about my welfare is most flattering. I met my coatartist the other day, and he was quite warm in his congratulations, enquiring, as we walked on, about all the fashions I had seen, and, as I owe him a pretty little amount, he seemed rejoiced to see me. The fact is, my dear boy, if you owe money, you are a gentleman, and a man of consequence-the more you owe the better, for all the more interest is taken in your welfare. I know that my aforesaid coat-artist, and the rest of my friends, are glad to find me back again, looking well and hearty; they like to see me smiling, and well-dressed, promenading in the afternoon, and are anxious to keep up friendly relations with me." 
                  "Nothing could be more philosophical," said Sansoucy. 
                  "I think so," continued Heartsease; "now if I looked seedy, and had a long face, they would regret it, and call on me to inquire about my health-possibly just recollecting their little bill, and bringing it along to save the trouble of another call. This would distress them, and, consequently, they rejoice to see me looking gay and well pleased with myself, and everybody: and take pleasure in waving their hands to me as I stroll along in my new coat sent home on Saturday. If they miss me in my accustomed walk, they are grieved, and institute enquiries as to my whereabouts. If I leave town, they are more interested still, and express sincere anxiety lest I should grow pleased with some other place of residence, and not return. When I reappear, they meet me with smiles and congratulations, as I have said-and all this good feeling and popularity, I attribute to the interest taken in me as a money-owing man. I do, indeed!" 
                  And Mr. Heartsease contemplated the end of a cigar he had lit, with smiling interest. 
                  "You reason like a philosopher, Heartsease," said Mr. Sansoucy: "and I bow to your views. There is only one objection that I see to your philosophy." 
                  "What is that?" 
                  "Your coat-artist may be poor." 
                  "Poor?" 
                  "Yes: and his children may rely for bread upon their father's labor." 
                  "His children?-ah-yes." 
                  "And the money-owing general favorite may be the cause of their having none of this necessary of life." 
                  "Why, that is true-strange it never occured to me," said Mr. Heartsease, reflecting, with much interest, upon the new view thus presented to him. 
                  "Therefore," said Sansoucy: "it seems to me better not to be in debt-and if it is a necessity of human existence-" 
                  "It certainly is, my boy." 
                  "Why, choose your creditors from other walks. If absolutely essential to existence, get the money, and make the Banks come to your relief." 
                  "The Banks?" 
                  "Certainly." 
                  "That reminds me that I couldn't get a discount yesterday. There is that collection of pictures going at an awful sacrifice, and that institution yonder, positively refused to let me have some money, though I took the pains to explain my situation to the president." 
                  "Absolutely heartless!" 
                  "Wasn't it?" 
                  "What will you do?" 
                  "Why, go to my friends, the Jews. I have set my heart especially upon a portrait of Count D'Orsay, and a Psyche, which I am going to present to that charming Miss Ashton." 
                  "Oh, indeed!" 
                  "Is n't she exquisite?" 
                  "Very." 
                  "Do you know, my dear fellow, I half think of paying my addresses in that quarter. I have had some encouragement." 
                  "What! encouragement?" 
                  "You seem surprised, but why should you be? Answer me candidly, my dear boy; am I a monster?" 
                  Mr. Heartsease accompanied this question by a caressing ing movement of his hand around his chin, so self-satisfied and complacent in its way, that Sansoucy began to laugh. 
                  "You are a perfect star of fashion, my dear Heartsease," he said, "and doubtless you might have good fortune; why not try? Miss Ashton is a prize worth having-and that reminds me that I engaged to send somebody to her this morning. Will you stay and smoke? I must set about my engagement." 
                  And Sansoucy, suddenly thinking of Ellie and his promise, rose. 
                  "No, I have an engagement too, my boy. Come, and see me: What! so busy that you can't?" 
                  "I am up to my eyes." 
                  "Well, let us trust to luck. I shall go up and see Miss Ashton-ta la!" 
                  And Heartsease kissed his fingers, and strolled out and down the street. 
                  "There goes the most perfect butterfly of our times," said Sansoucy, smiling, as he donned his overcoat, "a man who believes life was made to trifle in-time made to be 'killed,'-and everything else to be laughed at. I am a careless man, but I should shudder did I believe my character was growing into such a mould. Life is a battle-field, not a flower-garden. Let me go now and forget Monsieur Heartsease, in the presence of my valiant little 'soldier and servant.'" 
                  And putting on his gloves, the journalist went out and descended the stairs, and issued forth into the cold, bleak, brilliant streets, which glittered as though decorated with a thousand icicles. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  CONTAINS A CHARCOAL SKETCH OF CAPTAIN TARNISH. 
                  A FRENCH proverb avers, that although a man may know the exact time he sets out, he cannot know when he will arrive. Mr. Sansoucy found this true, and we shall proceed to show in what manner. This will involve a brief and hasty sketch of a new figure, in addition to those which already occupy our canvas; and scarcely one which is calculated to improve and exalt our opinion of humanity. But why should our attention be confined to the beautiful flowers, and the noble and straight trees, to the exclusion of the weeds and stunted undergrowth? All is human, and why not look at them, and weigh them? The best man has something in his nature which would be apt not to please himself or his acquaintances, if it were laid open to the light; and the worst characters have doubtless tender points, where the sting of conscience still penetrates, making them human. 
                  Captain Tarnish, who met and stopped to talk with Mr. Sansoucy, was a gentleman of unprepossessing appearance, though, undoubtedly, what is called by ladies a "fine looking man." He had the longest and handsomest black moustache which any gentleman "about town" could boast, he swaggered when he walked, and wore a bran new suit, decidedly military in its cut and buttons. He carried a gold-headed cane, and his rich waistcoat resembled an emerald lawn, across which a stream of gold meanders-this comparison being suggested gested to the historian by his massive and brilliant watch chain. The Captain wore further, a hat which fairly dazzled the eyes, it was so glossy; and his somewhat large hands were decorated with numerous rings, which probably made his purple kid gloves a misery to put on or off. He had served formerly in the army, and "when I was in the service" generally preceded his narratives of gay adventures in foreign capitals, and under other skies. He had broken many hearts in those places, and had evidently been a very dangerous character to the fair sex. Husbands, indeed, had frequently fallen victims to his prowess, and with the code of honor he was so familiar, that his authority was supreme with all young gentlemen who paid allegiance to that gentlemanly and respectable tradition. The Captain was accustomed, indeed, to speak carelessly and incidentally of "my pistols," and to make the duels of the day his prominent subject of discourse. You experienced a sensation of respectful admiration as you listened to his views upon these topics; and were generally impressed with the idea that Captain Tarnish was a dangerous fellow at ten paces-which might possibly have been the precise opinion intended to be produced by the Captain. Add to this, that Captain Tarnish frequented billiard rooms, the shooting gallery-before which he stopped Sansoucy-and a number of saloons where stimulating drinks were vended, and our sketch is quite complete enough for all our purposes. 
                  "Why, where the devil are you driving so, Mr. Sansoucy?" said the Captain, with a genteel carelessness; "saw you at the ball last night." 
                   
                  "Did you?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "It was very handsome." 
                  "So it was, only I didn't see many of my friends there." 
                  "No?" said Sansoucy, laughing; "is it possible?" 
                  "I did not, and it is possible," said Captain Tarnish, with a side-look at Sansoucy; for it was the impression of this gentleman that everybody was hostile to him. 
                  "That's a very unfortunate circumstance," said Sansoucy; "one don't enjoy himself when he knows nobody. But you mean among the ladies?" 
                  "Yes, sir. Among the men I knew a plenty of fellows." 
                  "Ah! Captain! permit me to express the opinion that perhaps you are only half-mistaken in your views. The ladies knew you, whether you knew them or not-why that mustache of yours is 'killing.'" 
                  "I flatter myself it's not bad," said the Captain, looking dignified. 
                  "Bad! I should say not! It is splendid-only it's dyed, you know," said Sansoucy, laughing. 
                  "Dyed!" 
                  "Certainly it is." 
                  The Captain assumed a terrific frown, and said sternly: 
                  "Mr. Sansoucy!" 
                  "Eh?" 
                  And Sansoucy contemplated the Captain's countenance with smiling curiosity and interest. 
                   
                  "I mean to assert, sir, that my mustache is not dyed. I am surprised at such an assertion on your part, sir." 
                  "No? Are you really? But then, you know, you must have dyed it some time since, for it was brown-ha! ha! Well now, my dear Captain, as we have dismissed this subject of the mustache, let us talk of more important things, or rather, don't let us talk at all, for I must get on" 
                  "Mr. Sansoucy!" said Captain Tarnish, with an ominous frown: "do you shoot?" 
                  "Shoot? Shoot what? Folly as it flies? Certainly, my dear Captain." 
                  "I mean pistols, sir!" 
                  "Why, certainly," said Sansoucy, smiling. "Have you never seen me at the gallery, there?" 
                  "No, sir!" 
                  "Possible?" 
                  "No, sir: and if perfectly agreeable to yourself-good morning, Fantish! This gentleman and myself are talking about shooting." 
                  "Ah?" said Mr. Fantish, who had come up behind Sansoucy, and now interchanged a distant greeting with that gentleman; "and what is the point at issue?" 
                  "Our respective skill?" 
                  "Does Mr. Sansoucy know," said Mr. Fantish, in his satirical and sneering voice: "that you are the king of fencers and marksmen, my dear Captain. He shows a great deal of courage by calling your skill in question." 
                  "I do not boast," said Captain Tarnish, arrogantly. 
                  "Oh, no," said Sansoucy, magnanimously. 
                   
                  "But I believe it is conceded in the city of New Orleans, sir, that I was more than a match for Labordere, the French marksman. A little affair grew out of it, and he received a ball through his shoulder for his pains." 
                  "A duel?" said Sansoucy, with lively interest 
                  "Yes, sir! a duel: and it was not my first affair. I hold myself at all times responsible," said Captain Tarnish, grandly: "and consider myself entitled to the privilege of holding others. I shot Labordere, as I said, sir, and I mentioned this slight incident to remark, that I told him beforehand I should strike him in that exact spot, in the joint of the shoulder, between the bones. When the ball was extracted, half was found flattened on one bone, and half on the other!" 
                  "I hope his arm was saved," said Sansoucy. 
                  "No, it was not, sir; it was amputated and lost. 
                  "The thing was kind in you." 
                  "Kind!" 
                  "Yes, my dear captain-you know you might have taken his life." 
                  "I might, sir-as I did that of Seor Bocca, in Naples." 
                  "I have never heard that particular story, Captain." 
                  "Do you desire to, sir?" 
                  "Well, I have no objection-" 
                  "Seor Bocca insulted me one evening in a caf-" 
                  "You forget, it was in Paris." 
                  "No, sir, in Naples." 
                  "Good: go on: I thought from the word caf-" 
                   
                  "Well, sir, if I am permitted to proceed-I was insulted by Bocca in a cafe. He said in the Italian language that my coat was too long in the skirt-this to a friend. I challenged him, and killed him!" 
                  "Is it possible!" 
                  "Yes, sir-it is. He sent a private agent to me, and offered me one-half of his magnificent fortune, and his daughter Julia, in marriage, if I would sign a paper, and publish it, declaring that the quarrel was amicably adjusted, and in a manner highly honorable to himself." 
                  "You refused-?" 
                  "Yes, sir! He brought his daughter with him finally, and they both fell upon their knees, and besought me to have mercy." 
                  "And you were unmoved?" 
                  "I was: my honor was involved; and, though the Senorita Julia was the picture of the Venus de Medici, I was unmoved. I had my duty to perform, and I performed it. I insisted on my rights, and I met the man who had assaulted my honor, on the next morning, and I shot him, sir!" 
                  Sansoucy regarded the captain with a species of respectful admiration, and said: 
                  "Did you ever meet any of the poor fellow's relations in your Spanish travels, captain?" 
                  "His relations!" 
                  "You said Seor, and I naturally supposed that he was Spanish. Signor, you know, would have been his designation in Italy." 
                   
                  Captain Tarnish frowned, and stroked his mustache with a menacing air. 
                  "Seor, or Signor, I shot him at ten paces, sir!" he said, "and I am not out of practice!" 
                  "No?" 
                  "I am not, sir!" 
                  "But at ten paces," said Sansoucy, "you know it is so easy." 
                  "Easy!-to do what, sir?" 
                  "To strike so large an object as a man." 
                  "Easy, sir!" repeated the captain, with threatening emphasis. 
                  "Why, certainly!" 
                  "Can you, sir-?" 
                  "Strike you at ten paces? Yes," said Sansoucy, with an engaging smile, "your watch-chain alone, captain, would make it easy for a child to strike you." 
                  Captain Tarnish was so astounded, or pretended to be so astounded, by this observation, that he made not the least reply. 
                  "I could easily prove to you, that I am not boasting, my dear captain," said Sansoucy, "but where would be the advantage? It would only mortify you to show you that I am a much better shot than you-but if you still doubt it, I will come up there some day and show you how to turn an ace of clubs, into a ten-I have frequently done it. Pshaw! my dear captain, you are a tyro in shooting, and I will take you as my pupil. At present, I must get on-retreat-retire-abandon my ground and my boasts. I have an engagement, which even your fascinating cinating society, and that of your pistols, can't make me neglect. Good morning, gentlemen." 
                  Having uttered which words, with a suppressed chuckle at the expression of the captain's countenance, Sansoucy, buttoned his coat and set forward again toward the abode of Joe Lacklitter and Ellie. 
                  "What a disagreeable animal the captain is becoming," he said, carelessly, "he is absolutely growing intolerable. These men stalk about the community, twirl their mustaches, and talk about 'my duelling-pistols,' until they really make one sick of their cant. If there was a spark of animal courage in that great lubber, it would not be so bad; but he is absolutely and entirely deficient in that somewhat common quality, and endeavors to hide the fact by eternally asserting his heroism. I don't believe the story about his New Orleans Frenchman-I consider his Neapolitan romance almost amusing: I deduce from these narratives, not the conclusion that Captain Tarnish is a terrible fellow, but that his Lordship is a sneak. Ancient Pistol is not dead, and one might laugh at these gentlemen, if they were not guilty of things which are far from being laughable. There is Tarnish, who does not believe in any of the traits which make the character we call gentleman; and he has as little faith in anything like purity in women. He would ruin a child, as carelessly as he would cheat at cards-the only difference being that in one case he would be kicked out, in the other, be exterminated as one of those dirty vermin of society, who are trodden out by those they have outraged, as a spider is,-leaving a most detestable odor behind them. They laugh in the sunshine meanwhile, and I absolutely believe this great bully and coward-I am sure he is-considered me a dupe to his fine boastings. Bah! how disagreeable he is, and I almost regret that I have soiled my mind with his voice. How can we prevent it, however? We meet these men everywhere-eynies whisper that the ladies admire them, and fall into a delightful flutter when they speak of their adventures. Men like this Mr. Fantish walk arm-in-arm with them-though, faith! I think Mr. Fantish is scarcely capable of being soiled. Well, the race of Tarnishes will proceed upon their way, I suppose, and boast, and swagger, utter falsehoods and menaces, and play their parts and be rewarded duly. Let me not judge them-but try to play a worthier role myself. I think the sight of Ellie will relieve me of my spleen!" 
                  So having arrived at this happy conclusion, Mr. Sansoucy stopped thinking and muttering, and went on with a cheerful smile. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  MR. SANSOUCY DESCENDS INTO LOW LIFE AND MAKES HIMSELF AGREEABLE. 
                  FROM the scenes in which figure Doctor Fossyl, Heartsease, Captain Tarnish, and the other "good society" personage of this history, the winter passes with much pleasure to that humbler and quite different sphere, illustrated by the virtues and tenderness of Ellie, and the kindness and hearty goodness of the poor. Not without pleasure does he turn even to the consideration of Aunt Phillis, that best of Africans, and prospectively to those other characters, Captain Schminky and his mysterious foe, "Sam"-or as his intimates were in the habit of styling him, "Wide-Awake." 
                  'Tis a pity that in real life we so seldom take these excursions into the abodes of the poor; and that this ignorance causes us to lose a thousand beautiful spectacles and valuable lessons which ever rise like rainbows over that bitter gulf called Poverty. Could we banish for a time the habitudes which shape our lives, and casting aside the schemes and pleasures which absorb us, seek this strange life in its remote haunts, the admirable and touching scenes which would reward us, might do much to show us what the Saviour meant, when he said, "the poor you have always with you." 
                  For a time, then, let us return to Ellie and her associates, who live with much difficulty that life, whose philosophy we have heard discussed in theory. Since we last stood in the presence of Joe Lacklitter, nearly a month, as we have said, has passed. That month has made many changes in the situation of Uncle Joe and Ellie. They no longer occupy the hovel in which they then lived. Mr. Sansoucy has faithfully performed the promise he gave Ellie, and they now occupy two small and comfortable rooms in the large dilapidated dwelling, in the basement of which Aunt Phillis plies her trade of washerwoman and ironer. 
                  This old house is one of a class which must have frequently quently attracted the attention of the reader, if he is of an observant and curious turn of mind, for such edifices are found indifferently in all cities of the old and new world. Occupied first by the family of its owner, it had advanced through its first stage of existence as a respectable dwelling-house, with tall mantel-pieces, huge old staircases, and carved balustrades, down which the young of several generations had slided gaily, making the old walls ring with laughter. Then, like all human things, the old house changed. The town moved away, and spread itself abroad in verdant pastures, and over forest slopes; and trade took up its abode where domestic life had so long reigned. The front door was widened, the partitions were knocked down, the floors pierced by square openings, through which passed ropes with pullies up and down, and from the caves a sort of dormer-window roof protruded, from which hung a dozen ropes, used to raise barrels and all species of produce. The second era of the building lasted longer than the first-but gradually this, too, passed away. The floors became shaky beneath the great piles of barrels, the plaster crumbled, the roof let in some rain; and the enterprising firm who did business there abandoned it, and went away to their new granite front; and the question occurred to the proprietor, what use could be made of the old edifice? But one thing remained-to convert it into a sort of lodging house for poor families, and this was accordingly done by restoring the partitions, nailing up the floors, and fastening some new shingles on the roof. 
                  When we find ourselves before the old house, it has been occupied for this last named purpose many years. The new shingles are quite as old-looking as the rest-the stairway is full of cobwebs-the floors are rotten, and shake. Let us ascend. We are in Joe Lacklitter's room. 
                  Joe has profited by the attendance of Doctor Fossyl, and sits up now in an old easy chair, prepared by Ellie. There are a few additions to his former scant and poor furniture, and a small but comfortable fire burns in the wide, old rusty fire-place. Opposite to the invalid sits Charley, woefully inclining his feet, as though from habit, over the fire; and in one corner of the room sits Ellie. 
                  The cold wind sweeps around the tottering old house, and the chill glare of snow falls through the window. The invalid draws the blanket closer around his shoulders as the wind whistles beneath the door, and puts a brand upon the fire. As he stoops to do this, Ellie rises quickly and comes to his assistance, with the sweetest smile which anybody can imagine, and makes up the fire in a moment. As she rises, her brown hair falls around her face, so tender and pure, and her deep blue eyes dwell upon the invalid's face with a softness and love which makes her countenance inexpressibly beautiful. 
                  With her uncle's improved health, Ellie seems to be regularly recovering her spirits, and her smile possesses no longer that uncomplaining sadness which made it so touching during his illness. Her cheeks are not so thin, and when she goes back to her work in the corner, she sets about it with the most delightful little housewife-air that you ever saw in all your life. 
                   
                  The invalid looks in the fire, smiling faintly; Charley inserts the little finger of his left hand into the right corner of his mouth; and Ellie sets to work most assiduously upon some garment she is making. 
                  The silence continues for some time, when a step is heard ascending the stairs; and Ellie's face rises from her work, the needle is poised in her hand, and she listens. The step continues to ascend, and a happy color comes into the child's cheek: with the marvellous instinct of love and gratitude, she has recognized that step, and when a knock is heard, she no longer thinks of her work, but, throwing it down, runs to open the mouldy old door. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy enters, smiling-and Ellie in a moment has taken his hat, and set a chair for him, and is standing gazing at him, with tears of pleasure and gratitude in her eyes, which make them swim in happy light. 
                  "Well, Joe," says Mr. Sansoucy, "how are you to-day? As to asking this young lady how she is, I have not the least intention of making a goose of myself. She is distressingly well, and in good spirits-eh, madam?-but how are you, Joe?" 
                  "I'm a deal better, sir. I'm beholden to you for everything; and its like your kindness to call." 
                  "Like my kindness? Bother! where is any kindness?" 
                  "Comin' to see a poor sick creature like me." 
                  "I wonder if I didn't want exercise 'on this fine morning?" 
                  "I dunno' any another gentleman would a' come through the snow to see poor Joe Lacklitter, sich a day, sir." 
                   
                  "It's nothing to me whether you know any such man, or not-here I am: and I am glad to see you all, even down to that scarecrow, who is putting his foot in the fire. Stop, sir!" added Mr. Sansoucy to Charley, who drew back, thunderstruck, at this terrible address. 
                  "I called this morning scarcely to do more than inquire how you are." continued Mr. Sansoucy; "have you seen Doctor Fossyl to-day?" 
                  "Yes, sir-he's jist gone." 
                  "A great bear!" 
                  "He's rough, sir, but he's done me a deal o' good." 
                  "Has he? Well I'm glad of that, I can give you that much assistance, at any rate." 
                  "Oh, sir! you're too good all along." 
                  "Come! no compliments, Joe. I can wish you health and happiness, and I can send my physician down. That don't cost anything-physicians are an admirable set of fellows, for they scarcely ever ask for money. But beyond this I can't do much. If I was only a millionaire!" 
                  "Yes, sir," said Joe, smiling weakly. 
                  "But I am not, unfortunately," continued Sansoucy; "I am editor and poet-consequently I reside in a garret, and feed chiefly on the sweets of fancy. It is unfortunate that you are not a poet, Joe Lacklitter." 
                  "Me, sir!" 
                  "Yes: for then you might imagine that you were a hearty young fellow, with all the illusions and romance of youth, strolling after a splendid dinner, with some angel, through the woods of fancy-and that sort of thing. Now -there you are again, sir!" added Sansoucy, with indignation, to Charley; "there you are, putting your toes into that blaze! A pretty sight you'll be with burnt toes, won't you!" 
                  Charley was too completely overwhelmed by this terrific apostrophe, to reply to the interrogatory addressed to him. He quailed before the eye of Mr. Sansoucy, and with a movement of helpless awe, removed the little finger of his left hand from the right corner of his mouth, and inserted the same finger of his right hand in the left corner. 
                  "Never mind, Joe, you will be a jolly young fellow yet," continued Mr. Sansoucy, regarding Charley with cruel triumph: "and this young woman, here, will help you to get about again." 
                  "Ellie, sir? she's a dear good girl, sir-the Lord bless her-a good child-so's Charley. Yes, sir, a good girl!" 
                  "Does Ellie go to school ever, Joe?" 
                  "No, sir: it takes a power o' money to git schoolin'. But if the Lord spares me, she shall-and Charley too." 
                  "I will take that boy to my Ragged School!" 
                  Charley, who had been extending his toes toward the blaze again, from habit, drew them back with dreadful apprehension, when the eye of Mr. Sansoucy rested on him. 
                  "Your Ragged School, sir?" 
                  "Yes: I teach." 
                  "Oh, you are so good, sir!-so good and kind!" said the low voice of Ellie; and turning toward the voice, Mr. Sansoucy saw two blue eyes fixed timidly on his face, and filled with such a wealth of sweetness and gratitude, that he paused involuntarily, and gazed at the child as he would have done upon a touching picture. 
                  "Good, Ellie!" he said at last, with a low sigh; "no, indeed, my child, you are very much mistaken. I am very far from being good, and these things are no proof of it. It is a selfish thing with me-it amuses and entertains me. I learn there and elsewhere much more than I teach." 
                  And he looked for a moment so kindly and sadly at Ellie, that his countenance was scarcely recognizable as the same careless face it had been but an instant before. The expression passed, however, and he said, with his old smile: 
                  "Wouldn't you like to go to school, madam-and have a carriage and horses-and silver have to spare, as the poet says?" 
                  "Oh, no, sir!-but I'd like to go to Sunday School," said Ellie. 
                  "Did you never go?" 
                  "A little, once, sir." 
                  "And why did you stop, Ellie?" 
                  Ellie hesitated, and a slight color came into her cheeks. 
                  "Because-I did not like to-the other scholars were neat, sir-and uncle said-indeed I would have gone, sir-" 
                  And Ellie stopped. She could not bear to seem to beg. But Mr. Sansoucy understood at once. 
                   
                  "Ragged!" he cried; "I knew it was ragged! In a Christian land young ladies throw away dresses half worn, when these little ones need them! Now Ellie, listen to me! I have a friend who has made me a singular present. Can you guess what it is?" 
                  Ellie smiled, and said: 
                  "I'm afraid not, sir-a present?" 
                  "Yes, and I do not know what to do with it. She is so good and soft-hearted, that I really have not the heart to refuse to accept it. But what can I do with it?" 
                  Mr. Sansoucy enjoyed Ellie's perplexity, and said: 
                  "It's a dress!" 
                  "A dress, sir?" 
                  "Yes, indeed!" 
                  "A lady gave you a dress?" said Ellie, smiling. 
                  "Precisely-and I'm not jesting. I give it to you." 
                  "Oh, sir-indeed, indeed, I'd rather not-please do not think I meant to ask you for anything; you have been so good-" 
                  "That's enough, my little friend. I am determined you shall have it, and you shall. Do you understand that, child?" 
                  Ellie bowed her head, and said not a word. 
                  "It is at Mrs. Ashton's, and you are to go there for it this morning," continued Mr. Sansoucy. "What are you making there?" 
                  "Some shirts, sir," said Ellie. 
                  "For whom?" 
                  "Mrs. Brown, sir!" 
                   
                  "You shall make me a whole set when they are finished, and I will pay you just at any moment you 'draw'"- 
                  "Oh, sir! I will be so glad! If you will only let me do them for nothing. I would work all night for you." 
                  "And I should quarrel all day! No, Ellie: I know you work well, and I will pay you well. Now get your bonnet and shawl, and go up at once for your dress. You think I am jesting." 
                  "Oh, no, sir." 
                  And Ellie went with childlike obedience, and got the old shawl that Mr. Sansoucy had made her keep: the shawl was wrapped well around her, and the old wadded bonnet tied around her chin, and she looked quite comfortable. 
                  "I am going part of the way with Ellie, Joe," said Mr. Sansoucy, "and I'll try and come down and see you in a day or two. There is what I promised to advance to you for support during your sickness. You're a handy fellow, and I have no doubt about the repayment. There! no thanks! You'll be well by Christmas, and we'll go to church-children and all-in my fairy chariot, drawn by mice and made out of a pumpkin, like Cinderella's, in the opera. Farewell!" 
                  And with that odd, wistful smile, which neither the present historian, or anybody else, could ever understand, Mr. Sansoucy went out, followed by Ellie, and was soon once more in the freezing street. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  AURELIA'S DRESS. 
                  "I THINK I will accompany you all the way, Ellie," said Mr. Sansoucy, as they took their way along the slippery, and snow covered streets, "the lady who presented me with the dress I have given to you-I have deceived you slightly in the matter, but have few compunctions-is a particular friend of mine, and I like her very much." 
                  "Then I am sure she is good and kind, sir," said Ellie, with her simple and sincere look. "I do not think you would like her, if she was not." 
                  "Why so, my little friend?" 
                  "Because you are so good, sir." 
                  "There you are beginning to flatter me again." 
                  "Oh, no, sir-the flattery of a poor child like me would be a very trifling thing. Indeed, indeed, sir! you have been so kind and good to us, and I can't help saying how grateful I am." 
                  "Pshaw! you amuse me. You are such a little hop o' my thumb. How old are you?" 
                  "Eleven, sir." 
                  "That was just the age of-well, of Aurelia-when we parted." 
                  "Of who, sir?" 
                  "Aurelia: the lady we are going to see." 
                  "Is her name Aurelia?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "It is a very pretty name." 
                   
                  "So it is-and I think you will say that the face of the lady who bears it is not disagreeable." 
                  "Oh, I am sure of it, sir. She is kind, I know!" 
                  "Very kind-but also very gay." 
                  "I like to see gay people," said Ellie, smiling, "it looks as if they were happy and thankful, and loved God." 
                  "I wish some of my friends could hear you say that: they would put you down immediately as a little heretic." 
                  "How so?" asked Ellie, wonderingly; "I know what a heretic is-" 
                  "They say Christians ought not to be gay." 
                  Ellie shook her head. 
                  "I don't think that is right, sir," she said; "I suppose it is better not to be too light and thoughtless, but God does not forbid our being happy and cheerful, because we are Christians. I think it ought to make us happier than ever, for this is the only sort of happiness which cannot be taken away from us." 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I think happiness is the absence of anxiety and care and pain-a sort of peace of the heart, and you know what the Bible says-"the peace of God which passes all understanding.' He would not speak of it in that way-I believe it was Paul-if he had not felt that he could not describe it, or explain it." 
                  "You are right, Ellie, and you are a thousand times happy to possess so warm and living a faith. I envy you, and long for it. When you pray, Ellie, ask God to give me this peace-will you?" said Mr. Sansoucy, sadly. 
                  "Oh, yes, sir! But I do every day. I pray for all my friends, and all I love; and you cannot think I leave you out. Oh, no, sir!" 
                  Sansoucy has since told us, that the look which went with these words, was that of a guardian angel; so full of purity and love and goodness did it shine on him. 
                  "Ah, Ellie," he said, "it was some such one as you that a great poet thought of when he said: 
                         
                           'Thrice blest whose lives are faithful prayers, 
                           Whose loves in higher love endure- 
                           What souls possess themselves so pure, 
                           Or is their happiness like theirs!' 
                        
                      It was an English poet, called Tennyson, who is, however, not equal to Lord Byron-I am told. Now let us hasten on. The day seems to grow colder and colder." 
                  They traversed the glittering streets thereafter in silence: and after a while reached Mr. Ashton's comfortable house. 
                  "You are very punctual!" said Aurelia, who ran forward, laughing, and holding out her hand, "and is that your little friend?" 
                  "Yes, my dear Miss Cinderella," said Sansoucy, smiling, "and she is come to get your every-day dress, before you went to the ball in your fairy chariot and costume." 
                  "What a satirical way you have; you know it was just the contrary-for my every-day dress is much better than my ball costume. Witness my elegant morning wrapper!" 
                  And smiling gaily, Miss Aurelia smoothed the folds of her handsome morning dress. Indeed, she looked like a princess, although that dress was simple. Her auburn curls, shaken around her rosy cheeks, were as bright as sunlight, and her blue eyes danced with health and pleasure. 
                  "Very well," said Mr. Sansoucy, "go and get Ellie's dress-" 
                  "Oh, her name is Ellie!-how do you do, Ellie?" said the young girl, frankly and kindly, holding out her white hand, "your name is so pretty." 
                  "Ellie has just been admiring yours." 
                  "Indeed." 
                  "Yes; and she hazarded the observation that you must be a very 'good and kind' young lady." 
                  "Did she?" 
                  "Because he said you were his friend, ma'am," said Ellie, tenderly. "He has been so kind to us." 
                  "Pshaw!" said Mr. Sansoucy, "I was in a good humor-that was all, Miss Aurelia. I had a visit from Mr. Heartsease, and he made me laugh!" 
                  "Laugh?" 
                  "Certainly; he is a most amusing fellow. Didn't you find him so?" 
                  "He entertained me very much at the ball." 
                  "Yes, when he got the dance which I wished." 
                  "The dance?" asked Aurelia, with a delightful expression of inquiry. 
                  "Yes, my dear madam. Is it possible you were not aware that I coveted, and was about to petition for, your lily hand in the cotillion which you danced with Mr. Heartsease?" 
                  "Ahem!" said Miss Aurelia, laughing, and driven into a corner by this home question. 
                   
                  "And the rooms were so warm, you said, that you could not dance again. What an abominable disappointment!" 
                  "You are laughing at me." 
                  "No, indeed; I was laughing at the ridiculous idea which occurred to me." 
                  "What was that? Is it possible that ridiculous ideas ever occur to Monsieur Sansoucy, traveller and journalist?" 
                  "Sometimes; and the idea which struck me last night was the absurdity of Ernest and Aurelia not being able to secure each other for a single cotillion." 
                  Aurelia received the hit full in front, and colored. 
                  "Oh, yes!" she stammered, laughing, "I have heard of those personages!" 
                  "Heard of them?" 
                  "Yes, I know two intimate friends of these young people." 
                  "Whom?" 
                  "Mr. Sansoucy and Miss Ashton!" 
                  And having thus taken her revenge, Miss Aurelia laughed gaily, and turned to Ellie. 
                  "What a thin dress you have, Ellie," she said, "are you not cold?" 
                  "No, ma'am-this shawl is-" 
                  "Oh! he gave it to you!" 
                  "Yes, ma'am." 
                  "He seems to be a very amiable gentleman," said Aurelia, "and now, if you will come up stairs, Ellie, I will give you his dress." 
                   
                  With which words Miss Aurelia ran up stairs, beckoning Ellie to follow her. The child followed, and in a quarter of an hour they both returned-Ellie having the dress securely tied up in a newspaper. 
                  "What are you doing, Monsieur?" said Aurelia to Sansoucy, for that gentleman was seated at the piano. 
                  "I am trying the accompaniment of this-you know I play, or may be you don't know." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy pointed, with a smile, to the open music, which Aurelia had been playing when they entered. 
                  "A very interesting query the song addresses to the company generally," continued Mr. Sansoucy. "'Where are the friends of my youth?' What a pity that the 'cherished ones' don't ring the bell, and make a morning call!" 
                  Aurelia uttered quite a merry little laugh at this, and looked more rosy and good-humored than ever. 
                  "Or perhaps you were singing this song beneath," said Sansoucy, "'Tis better to laugh than be sighing'-from Lucrezia." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy uttered something very much like the ceremony indicated in the last word of the title. 
                  "I do think so," said Aurelia, "and I think of having an opportunity of carrying out my opinion. I am going to the fair this morning." 
                  "Are you?" 
                  "Yes; and of course I shall laugh heartily at somebody. Such ridiculous persons go to fairs sometimes." 
                  "That's true-I attend them frequently." 
                  "Oh! you mean to force my words-" 
                   
                  "By no means: I am made ridiculous, madam, by the young ladies. To know what I want, they ask if I am married or single, for they know I am good-humored. And you must be aware that such a question is a terrible thrust at a bachelor!" 
                  "A thrust? Why?" 
                  "Because there is always a great deal of sarcasm beneath it. The opinion of ladies upon this point is incredibly ill-founded. They imagine that bachelors are the most unhappy creatures in the world." 
                  "Well, sir, are you not?" 
                  "Just the contrary." 
                  "I do not believe it." 
                  "Well, I nevertheless assert it. Why, my dear Miss Aurelia, you really cannot imagine the state of careless happiness in which the devotees of single blessedness live. I mean, of course, the male devotees." 
                  "Oh, yes, sir! Now you are laughing at old maids!" 
                  "No, no-I have many excellent and admirable friends among such; and, not seldom, is the purest lily left upon its stalk, because the common roses flaunt before them-and as often do they remain there from choice. I do not assert that they are unhappy-but I know we bachelors are not." 
                  "Poor creatures!" 
                  "Yes, very unhappy! We are compelled to have nothing to do with trouble, and toil, and care-we are forced to be gay and merry-we are condemned to enjoy the world, and cull 'joy and beauty' from everything. The fact is, we are in a dreadful state, and having no wives to take care of us, are absolutely compelled, in selfdefence, to be happy." 
                  "Pshaw! even Ellie, there, knows that this is pretence, sir." 
                  "She knows nothing of the sort, my dear Miss Aurelia. It is necessary to have your philosophical invention, to see the 'struggling sigh' under my tirade." 
                  "Ah, you acknowledge it, do you, sir? Well, that satisfies me, and I will not continue the subject." 
                  "We will return to it at the fair. Shall I escort you?" 
                  "If you please." 
                  "Having found one of the 'friends of your youth,' you know-" 
                  "I will no longer ask where they are gone," finished Aurelia, laughing, and closing the piano. "I go at twelve." 
                  "That is my dismissal, I suppose, for the present." 
                  "No, indeed: I am going up stairs to get my work. You have my full permission to remain." 
                  "No, thank you-I have some business. I will return. Come, Ellie-you stand there like a little statue, though not like Mr. Poe's heroine, your namesake-the 'agate lamp within your hand.'" 
                  "Strange!" said Aurelia, looking at the child: "I must have seen Ellie somewhere." 
                  "Seen her?" 
                  "Yes: her face is quite familiar. One of the common coincidences, I suppose. 
                  "Doubtless." 
                   
                  "You must come again to see me, Ellie-you may be able to do something for me-I have a load of sewing." 
                  Ellie thanked the young girl, and followed Mr. Sansoucy, who took his departure with a gallant bow. 
                  "Well, my little friend," said Mr. Sansoucy, when they were once more in the street: "does Miss Aurelia impress you favorably? I am anxious to have your opinion." 
                  "Oh, yes sir! She is so beautiful!" 
                  "But good?" 
                  "I think she must be, sir-I am sure of it." 
                  Sansoucy shook his head. 
                  "She is getting too light," he said, dolefully; and she understands too well, I am afraid, that all my flourishes about the felicity of single life, were prepared for the occasion. What a terrible load of falsehood we bachelors have upon our conscience. Here I am, by no means averse to matrimony-tired of bachelordom in a word-and I find myself continually declaring that nothing could force me to change my condition! In fact I know but one person who possesses that power," Mr. Sansoucy said, sighing and smiling; "and it is altogether problematical whether she will exercise it! Well, here I am, growing despondent, as I was at the ball; an honest fellow, like myself, has no cause to fear repulse from any woman, it seems to me. I will go home, and light a cigar, and lay out my campaign!" 
                  Having arrived at this determination, Mr. Sansoucy's countenance recovered its sunshine, and taking Ellie's hand, he went onward gaily. After a little while he took the bundle, which wearied the child; and thus deprived of his hands, was not able to bow as elegantly as usual to his lady acquaintances. It is to be hoped, however, that they pardoned this in consideration of the circumstances. 
                  They reached the corner near the shooting gallery, at last, and Mr. Sansoucy delivered up the bundle, waved his hand in a friendly way to Captain Tarnish, who nodded as he passed, and with a promise to the child to come again soon, repaired to his office. 
                  Ellie continued her way, and soon reached home. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  ELLIE MEETS A CYNICAL VISITOR. 
                  ELLIE hastened in with her bundle, and not heeding the chill wind which blew to the door behind her, and whistled through the deserted passages of the old building, ran up to her uncle's room, and entered smiling. 
                  "Oh, look, uncle!" she said; the lady was so good to me! and gave me this!" 
                  "Gave you what?" said a harsh voice behind the invalid: and Ellie raising her startled eyes, saw Doctor Fossyl crouching on Charley's stool. 
                  "There now! you pretend you didn't see me!" said the cynic satirically; "you pretend you didn't see my carriage standing at the corner, held by that rascally boy I have engaged! A pretty young person, you are!" 
                   
                  Doctor Fossyl uttered these words with so much harshness, that Ellie colored and looked down. 
                  "Where have you been?" he asked, triumphantly. 
                  "To-to-Mrs. Ashton's, sir." 
                  "And what lady was so good to you?" 
                  "Miss Aurelia, sir." 
                  "Aurelia what?" 
                  "I don't know, sir-but she is Mr. Sansoucy's friend." 
                  "Hum! and so that Sansoucy makes himself the prince of a fairy tale, does he?" 
                  "Sir?" 
                  "I say your Mr. Sansoucy is a goose." 
                  "Oh, no, sir! no, sir! he is good to us." 
                  "There it is! And you believe he don't expect something in return. I suppose you think he don't go and tell everybody how magnanimous he is, in aiding you!" 
                  "I am sure he does not, sir," said Ellie, firmly. 
                  "And who are you to have an opinion?" 
                  "I am only a child," said Ellie, firm in the defence of her friend, "and what I say is very little praise. But Mr. Sansoucy is as good as he can be-Oh, indeed he is!" 
                  "Bother! and what is that in your bundle?" 
                  "A dress, sir." 
                  "Who gave it to you?" 
                  "Miss Aurelia." 
                  "Oh, yes! that's the meaning of your can't about being 'so kind' to you. Bah! this angling after 'good report,' sickens me. The world is growing rotten." 
                  Ellie sat down without reply, and the cynical physician looked satirically at her. 
                   
                  "And I suppose you consider Miss Aurelia the instrument of Providence?" he said, at length. 
                  "Yes, sir," said Ellie, simply. 
                  "And because I give you nothing, I am not. You hate me, I suppose." 
                  "Oh, no!" 
                  "Don't be hypocritical! You know you consider me a bear, and a morose curmudgeon, and make mouths at me behind my back." 
                  "Oh, no, no, sir! I never did." 
                  "Very well, madam, you had better not! But I'm tired of you-go play with your doll. And you, sir, do you understand the directions I gave?" he added, to Uncle Joe. 
                  "Yes, Doctor," said Joe, who seemed to have grown used to the physicians' surliness. 
                  "And have you money for the medicines? You have? That is most probably untrue-this foolish pride of the poor! There, sir-and now I am rid of you." 
                  With which words Dr. Fossyl threw down some money and rose. 
                  "Don't be saying you won't have it-I choose you shall," he said, "that is my choice; and you, Miss, I suppose, are very glad you are not sick to be doctored by such a tiger as me." 
                  "Oh, sir," Ellie said, "indeed I did not think so harshly!" 
                  "You pretend you are not angry, maybe?" 
                  "Indeed, I am not." 
                  The Doctor looked piercingly at her for a moment, and a sardonic smile flitted across his face. 
                   
                  "Well," he said, "if you are in trouble, come to my house, and I will help you-if those rascally rich fellows pay me my honest dues. They haggle about paying me a thousand dollars for a complete cure, when they have no more constitution left than I could take up on the end of a needle. Let 'em try it! I'll let 'em die. I'm not to be tricked. I say I will help you, if you want it; and I will not expect you to tell everybody of my 'goodness'-who are you glowering at, sir?" said Dr. Fossyl, suddenly, to Charley, who was contemplating his spindle legs and sallow face, with curiosity and terror, "who are you staring out of countenance, you young villain!" 
                  This terrific address completely upset Charley's equanimity, and his head sank. Doctor Fossyl seemed to be pleased with this triumph, and with a parting scowl took his leave. 
                  "He's mighty rough," said Joe Lacklitter, looking after him, "but he's a great doctor, Ellie, and I s'pose ain't used to waitin' on the likes o' me. But where's your dress, daughter?" 
                  "Here, uncle," said Ellie, and she unrolled the comfortable frock. 
                  "Why it's elegant! but it's too big for you." 
                  "I can easily alter it, dear uncle, and have some stuff left-you know I don't care for long skirts-my stockings are thick and warm. Oh, how happy and kind the lady looked!" 
                  "Did she? Well, I'm much beholden to her on your account, daughter." 
                  "I wish you had the dress, uncle," said Ellie, smiling, "but you know I couldn't make it into anything for you. Now I must see about dinner." 
                  And Ellie bustled about with a hopeful and smiling face, and made the fire burn up, and set the kettle for some tea, and got out the table, and put it with the best plate, at her uncle's elbow. 
                  "Oh, me!" she said, as she reached on the shelf, "we haven't a bit of sugar. I must go and get some." 
                  And Ellie quickly wrapped her-old shawl around her shoulders, put on her wadded bonnet, and went out. At the door she met Doctor Fossyl coming up out of Aunt Phillis' cellar, and swearing at the lowness of the crossbeam, which seemed to have taken the liberty of knocking the Doctor's head jocularly, as he emerged from the low cellar of Aunt Phillis. 
                  Ellie drew back; but the Doctor saw her. 
                  "A pretty sort of houses you have in this miserable street!" he said, making Ellie the recipient of his complaints; "here I am going down on a visit wholly 'charitable,' as the cant is, to this negro woman, who is 'poorly,' as she mutters; and I am repaid by having my head knocked off. 
                  Perhaps Doctor Fossyl meant his hat, for he now steadied that article of attire upon his head and scowled. 
                  "Where are you going?" he said to the child. 
                  "To get some sugar, sir," replied Ellie. 
                  "And what do you want with it? To make a sugar-rag for that baby up there, who stared at my legs?" 
                  "No, sir-for uncle." 
                  "Oh, 'uncle'-he is the sugar eater, is he? Uncle this, uncle that, here, there and everywhere! You pretend to love him." 
                  "I do, dearly, sir." 
                  "Bother! you depend for your support upon him, and flatter him!" 
                  "Oh, no, sir!" 
                  "Don't be breaking into your protestations with me, child. I am not to be taken in. The whole world is banded together to make me believe a lie-that there is something pure and disinterested on this miserable earth. I know better. Life is a farce; and the only difference is that the leading clown is called President or King. Bah! I am sick of it; and if it goes on much longer, I will commit suicide, and leave my property to found a hospital for invalid dogs! Don't answer me! We are all fools together, and I don't pretend to be one jot or tittle better than the rest-except that I know I am a fool and knave, and don't conceal it, while the rest pretend that they are mighty fine!" 
                  So saying, Doctor Fossyl ground his teeth at the wind, which took a few liberties with his cloak, and went toward his open carriage, which stood at the corner of the street. 
                  Here a new cause of wrath presented itself, and always watchful for a chance to explode angrily, Doctor Fossyl promptly availed himself of the occasion. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                  WIDE-AWAKE AND HIS ENEMIES. 
                  THE 'rascal' who had been engaged to act in the capacity of driver, and holder of his horses when he dismounted in his rounds, was no other than our friend, Sam Beau, or, as his intimates were accustomed in friendly playfulness to style him, "Wide-Awake." 
                  It will be remembered-at least we trust it will-that this young gentleman was the same who came to Ellie's assistance on that morning when the crowd of boys were trying to lead Charley into evil courses, and prevented this design by overcoming, in pitched battle, the leader of the enemy. Since that time, Wide-Awake had tried, as usual, every sort of employment, and in turn had left all. He had worked at jobs upon the lighters-assisting in unloading or loading those crafts-had run, like a newspaper picture of the god of news, all over the city, crying in a strident and jocose voice, the names of a dozen papers; he had further aided in the circulation of those journals in the morning, for subscribers-and had seriously contemplated becoming a devil at the office of the journal which was the exponent of his opinions in politics and letters. He had, however, abandoned this project, and accepted the office of bar-tender in a fashionable drinking saloon, in order, as he said, to study human nature there by gas-light. He had soon grown tired of the study, however, and one morning frankly suggested to the proprietor that he ought to close his "concern," upon the ground that it was not respectable. This suggestion, however, only caused him to become the recipient of a torrent of abuse; and he had jocularly launched a bit of cracker at the orator, and gone away singing. Just a week before the day of Doctor Fossyl's visit to Joe Lacklitter, Wide-Awake had entered into his service, upon the ground of the perfect sympathy on his part with the Doctor's views of life and things-and thus studying human nature across a foot-board, had been much entertained and instructed thereby. The versatile genius of the "assistant," however, had been fretting for "fresh fields and pastures new," and on this day a favorable opportunity was presented to him for a change. 
                  When Doctor Fossyl came out of Aunt Phillis' cellar, he described Wide-Awake standing upon the pavement at the corner and dancing, for the purpose, probably, of keeping his feet warm-while, with his hands in his pockets, and his face radiant with interest and pleasure, he looked down the street, quite past the Doctor. 
                  Now, the carriage of Doctor Fossyl was drawn by two splendid horses, whose necks were curved magnificently, and who champed their bits, and pawed the snow impatiently. They were evidently not of that milky disposition which renders it safe to leave the possessor standing anywhere; and this made the neglect of Wide-Awake more flagrant and worthy of punishment. 
                  Doctor Fossyl hastened forward, drawing his old cloak around his slender legs, and coming up to Wide-Awake, who was still dancing, caught that gentleman by the collar and shook him wrathfully. 
                   
                  "What do you mean, you scoundrel!" he cried. "What do you mean by leaving my horses standing there alone?" 
                  Wide-Awake made a leap backward, which disengaged his collar, and replied, jocosely: 
                  "I say, Doctor, ain't that a fine turn-out?" 
                  With which Mr. Wide-Awake pointed to a company of volunteers, in brilliant uniforms, who were visible some way down the street. 
                  "Turn-out, you rascal? You dare to talk about a turn-out when I am speaking about my horses!" 
                  "They're a turn-out too, you know, Doctor," said Wide-Awake, with an independent and disrespectful gesture. "I'm goin' to leave you, and join the Yagers?" 
                  "You rascal! let me get hold of you!" 
                  "What for, Doctor?" Wide-Awake demanded, with a cautions avoidance of Dr. Fossyl's approach; "that wouldn't do any good." 
                  "I'll thrash you!" 
                  "Where would be the use? I never did see any doctors that were reasonable. Now, I told you that I went about with you to see human nature. I've seen it, and I'm goin' somewhere else." 
                  "Wretch!" 
                  "Oh, no, I ain't a wretch, Doctor-I'm a philosopher, I want to see life. I ain't like you. You are rich enough to drive about in a coach with four horses with two drivers, and two footmen-taking prescriptions out o' your pocket with one hand, and putting money in with the other,-and keeping the footman lumberin' at the knockers on both sides o' the streets till the people think its fire, and cause the machines to start a-runnin'. I ain't independent, but I'm a philosopher, and I am goin' the rounds." 
                  The Doctor made a movement to grasp the collar of Wide-Awake, but that gentleman ducked his head, thrust his right forefinger over his left shoulder, and took his departure, with the friendly caution to the Doctor to "take care of himself and not bile over." 
                  Doctor Fossyl was so much enraged at this summary proceeding that he stood perfectly still for some moments, gnashing and grinding his teeth. Finding that this, however, was not in itself a gratifying proceeding, he at last got into his carriage, and drove off, lashing his fine animals furiously. 
                  "What a jolly old coon," said Wide-Awake, "I'm almost sorry I left him-but I'm tired. Besides yonder's Captain Schminky and the Yagers-hurrah! go it! here we are!" 
                  And uttering a shrill whistle, Wide-Awake jumped ten feet, and ran toward the abode of Captain Schminky, before which the company were drawn up in military array. 
                  During the conversation between Dr. Fossyl and his assistant, Eilie had made her way toward the shop of Captain Schminky, and passing through the martial-looking Yagers, and the children who swarmed to see them, entered the shop. 
                  She found herself in presence of the Captain of the Yagers himself, who was resplendent in his brilliant uniform, and carried his gilt-handled sword with warrior-like grace. 
                   
                  Within two paces stood the Lieutenant of the Yagers, with his hand upon his hat-brim, receiving orders. 
                  "You vil traw up de koompany in right line, Lefdenent," said Captain Schminky. 
                  "Yes, Gaptain." 
                  "You vil den call me and de roll." 
                  The Lieutenant signified that he would call the personage and the thing. 
                  "An' you vil disburse de crowd, Lefdenant-de vagabones." 
                  The Lieutenant made a respectful sign, and wheeling round went out in a military walk, which was in the best style. 
                  "Now, young 'oomans," said Captain Schminky, good-naturedly; "what do you want?" 
                  "Some sugar, if you please, sir," said Ellie, "a pound." 
                  "Your name ees Elley?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "You is young frent-I geef you de pound zugar"-I geef you doo pount." 
                  And Captain Schminky made a dignified sign to his shop-keeper, who hastened to wait upon the young friend of his master. 
                  "We will now brocede to gall de names," observed Captain Schminky. 
                  And raising his head still higher, the worthy Captain issued forth, and stood in presence of his admiring company. The "Yagers" were, as their name signifies, of German blood, and, indeed, this was a pre-requisite to admission into the company. They were clad in very handsome uniforms, for this class of the community are generally men of great thrift, and are consequently well to do in the world, as they deserve to be; and are well able to gratify any of their fancies. The band of the "Yagers" was especially fine and striking. In addition to the ordinary number of wind instruments, of brass and wood, it embraced a drum which seemed to be made for Goliah, and a pair of cymbals which might have served for Chinese hats. 
                  Everything about the "Yagers" was martial and warlike-down to their mustaches, which were huge and terrible. When they marched, if they did not exactly shake the ground, they produced an enormous clatter-and the drum and cymbals out-roared and tingled any other drum and cymbals which had ever promenaded in the van of gallant warriors. 
                  Captain Schminky took up a position in front of the company, extended his arm with dignity, and commanded the eyes of the warriors to roll toward the right, for the purpose of "dressing." 
                  This was done, and then the sergeant opened his book, and called the roll. He had nearly got through, when Captain Schminky, who had for some time been directing uneasy glances up the street, exclaimed: 
                  "That'll do! glose up! here comes that tam Zam Peau!" 
                  The gentleman thus spoken of was Wide-Awake, who now advanced, with dreadful satire in his countenance, toward the captain, beating an imaginary drum, and singing in a mighty voice: 
                     
                         
                           "When you 'ear the great big drum, 
                           You may be sure the Yagers come!" 
                        
                      to which chaunt he added a vocal imitation of the drum, which was eminently true to life. 
                  We will not record the expressions used by Captain Schminky under this provocation,-it is enough to say, that they were so energetic, that Wide-Awake was filled with uproarious and enthusiastic delight, and invented, on the spur of the moment, the additional couplet: 
                         
                           "Gaptain Schminky, ton't you see, 
                           Your tam ugly koompance?" 
                        
                      which was also decorated with the drum accompaniment for a chorus-Wide-Awake leaning far backwards, with his chin up, and striking vigorous blows upon an imaginary drum. 
                  The shouts of the urchins, in support of Wide-Awake, mingled with the furious objurgations of Captain Schminky; and the affectionate solicitude of his intimates, caused the young gentleman to verify immediately the truth of that proverb which declares that a man in any emergency should first be preserved from his friends. They closed around Wide-Awake so effectually in their deep admiration, that when Captain Schminky made a rush at his enemy, Wide-Awake found the means of retreat wholly cut off. 
                  His presence of mind, however, did not desert him, and leaping on the window sill of the shop, he evaded the blow directed at him. Captain Schminky, however, was not thus to be disappointed. He drew his sword and made a lunge at Wide-Awake, which caused that agile youth to rapidly mount the shutter-perching himself on the summit of which, he looked down triumphantly upon the Yagers. 
                  A cheer rose from the vagabonds, and Captain Schminky, panting, and red in the face, tried in vain to reach up, and prick the audacious satirist with the point of his sword. 
                  "No, my dear Gaptain," said Wide-Awake, chuckling, "you gan't do it-you gan't! Your zord ees not one spear, vat you call one sticker! Goot mornin', gaptain, I 'ope I zee you well, and your goot koompany! ha! ha!" 
                  Captain Schminky made desperate efforts to thrust his sword into the dangling legs of Wide-Awake, but that youngster drew them up with astonishing agility, all the time balancing himself upon his hands. 
                  "Now gaptain!" he cried, "I geef you goot day-I love your koompany-I no make fun of the gallant Yager band of jolly poys!-I zay every where I admire the Yagers-I zay Gaptain Schminky is a great gommander, and hees men putiful! No you didn't that time, gaptain! Eh? Don't you think it, gaptain. I ain't a comin' down!" 
                  The Yagers growled, and some of the mustaches curled in spite of the insult to the corps. Wide-Awake perceived this favorable sign. 
                  "My frents," he cried in a friendly tone, "h'ist me up one glass of lager bier, and I will trink your fery goot helf. I will make my gildren and my grandgildren trink your fery goot helf-you is fery grand koompany! Oh, gaptain! what a purty zord! Hans Doffendaffer, Sauerkraut, Dopenfinger, and Heislinger, I geef you fery goot tay!" 
                   
                  With which words Wide-Awake swung the shutters round, caught the pipe which ran down in his reach, and swinging to the ground began again to beat the drum, and clash the imaginary cymbals. 
                  It was some time before Captain Schminky recovered his equanimity, after this attack of his enemy. He glowered at Wide-Awake, who from a distance answered him with smiles; and more than once shook his fist in that direction. His ire died away, however, after a while, and then his fine company absorbed all his attention. 
                  He placed himself at their head, made a sign to the drum and the rest, and crying "march!" stepped gallantly out, and stared at vacancy with determined vigor. 
                  The huge drum roared, the cymbals clashed, the brass instruments rent surrounding ears, and the gallant Yagers passed onward, wrapped in terrible and soul-inspiring music. 
                  Wide-Awake was left in a hopeless minority, but he consoled himself with the hope of having more entertainment in the future. As he turned round, with a grin upon his careless countenance, he saw Ellie. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                  WIDE-AWAKE MEDITATES FELONY IN BEHALF OF LUCIA. 
                  WE have stated that Ellie and Wide-Awake were not strangers-on the contrary were on very good terms with each other, and had frequently stopped to interchange salutations and friendly greetings. 
                  There was, in Wide-Awake, much good and honest feeling, and this Ellie knew very well; and she was disposed to look leniently upon his failings. As he joined her now, however, and walked by her side, in his careless, independent way, the child took him to task for his treatment of Captain Schminky, telling him that it was very wrong, and that he ought not to have done it. 
                  "Why not?" said Wide-Awake, laughing. "That's just like you, Ellie. You would n't tread on the tail of a dog!" 
                  "Why should I?" said Ellie. 
                  "To make him jump and holler!" exclaimed Wide-Awake, with ready logic. 
                  Ellie shook her head. 
                  "Indeed, that is not right, Sam," she said-"it is not kind." 
                  "Oh, bother, Ellie! My eyes! how hard you are on a feller!" 
                  "I have no right to be hard on anybody, but indeed, Sam, you ought not to make fun of Captain Schminky and the company." 
                   
                  "I can't help it-I can't! Did anybody ever see such a pack of bull-dogs?" 
                  "They'll treat you badly some day." 
                  "Let 'em try! I'm not afraid, and I expect to have lots o' fun with 'em yet! Good, that 'Captain Schminky, don't you see?' was n't it?" 
                  "Oh, no, no, Sam! It was not kind!" 
                  "Kind! There you are, Ellie, with your kind. If a thing ain't kind, a feller's brought right to law, and gits the cat-o'-nine-tails." 
                  "I think if a thing is not kind, it is not good," said Ellie. 
                  "Well," said Wide-Awake, with some ill-humor, "I'm catchin' it-I am. Couldn't you pour it in a little hotter 'n' stronger-pr'aps I'd bile over into cheers." 
                  With which observation Wide-Awake stuck his thumbs into his waistcoat and elevated his head with easy sangfroid. 
                  "Indeed, Sam, I don't intend to say anything I ought not to-only people will think you are worse than you are. You are good and kind, and I know how good you have been to Lucia." 
                  At the name of Lucia, Wide-Awake's lofty demeanor underwent a sudden change, and a slight color tinged his brown cheek. 
                  "Good to her!" he said, earnestly, "I ain't good to her!" 
                  "Oh, indeed you are!" 
                  "Not that I might n't be," added the boy, blushing, as he looked at Ellie, "she's as pretty and good as an angel." 
                   
                  "I love her very much," said Ellie. 
                  "And so do I!" blustered Wide-Awake. "There, it is out!-and I'm rid on't! Go it!-hurrah!-I b'lieve I'm in love!" 
                  And having uttered this tremendous speech, Wide-Awake looked sheepish, and hung his head. 
                  "In love!" said Ellie. "Oh, yes-you mean-" 
                  "Bless you, Ellie, I mean I'd give my life to keep her little finger from achin'." 
                  Ellie smiled at what she considered a very extravagant speech. 
                  "I ain't nobody, I know," said Wide-Awake, earnestly, "and she's a angel-a angelic little organgrinder's daughter," he added, with an odd appreciation of the humor in his poetical description. "It's too good in her to look on the likes o'me." 
                  "To look on you?" 
                  "Yes, Ellie." 
                  "Why, she likes you, and says you are so good." 
                  "Does she?" shouted Wide-Awake; "you ain't jokin'?" 
                  "No, indeed." 
                  "She says that?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Then, hoora! go it! My fortune's made, and I'm a goin' on my travels in a six-horse chariot, with footmen and a driver, with a gold lace hat!" 
                  Having thus disburdened his mind in a degree, Wide-Awake finished by improvising a dance, which was executed with astonishing agility, and was of range so extensive that it brought him to the door of Ellie's dwelling. 
                  "I say!" he said, growing calm again: "is Lucia in there?" 
                  "I believe she is." 
                  "I'm goin' in." 
                  "Oh, yes," said Ellie: "come up." 
                  "I want to, but if she begins to say anything about my 'bein' good to her,' I'll back right out." 
                  "Why, Sam," said Ellie, softly: "you know you are." 
                  "What did I do?" said Wide-Awake, apparently desirous to refute Ellie; "all I did, was meetin' Lucia, and talking' with her, and tellin' her to cheer up-that a good time was a-comin', and the Spring would make everything bright agin! I had a hard time sayin' it, for Lucia looked so bad-and when I got her to talk, will you b'leve it, Ellie, that she was weak for want of something to eat! She was hungry!-Lucia was hungry!" 
                  And, overwhelmed by this monstrous idea, Wide-Awake remained silent. 
                  "I had a little money, and we went into the shop, up there, and got something to eat. I don't have much money, but I had enough, you know, Ellie, Lucia was hungry!" added Wide-Awake, as though there was a hidden and strange enormity in the state of things which produced such a result. 
                  "And you helped her," said Ellie; "and ever since you have been coming and leaving papers of things at her door, and sometimes money. Oh, that was so good in you, Sam!" 
                  Wide-Awake shook his head. 
                  "Yes, it was, and Lucia told me all about it-and-and-it was very kind in you." 
                  The hesitation in Ellie's voice arose from the fact, that Lucia, with the sensitive pride of her strange character, had keenly felt the utter poverty which made her thus dependent upon the bounty of the boy for her daily sustenance; and had complained bitterly to Ellie of the fate which made her thus a burden upon one nearly as poor as herself. In fact, Lucia's misfortunes, and her friendless condition had made her deeply melancholy, and not even the encouraging words and assistance of Ellie could relieve her. Ellie had been upon the point of telling Wide-Awake how sensitive Lucia was; but she thought it best not to;-and after a few more words, they both went up stairs to Lucia's room. 
                  It was a miserable sort of closet at the end of the passage, and was entered by a small door, which did not fit into the opening cut for it, and thus allowed the wind to have free entrance at the sides and beneath. 
                  At this door, Ellie and Wide-Awake knocked, with that respect which is paid to grief and suffering: and hearing a faint voice bid them come in, they entered. 
                  The apartment, if such it could be called, was miserable indeed. A tattered pallet, two benches, a rude table, and an old chest, were its entire furniture; and the cheerless fire-place was filled with ashes, and totally without fire. 
                   
                  Lucia lay upon the poor bed, and was endeavouring to ward off the freezing cold by wrapping around her the worn and tattered covering. Her long dark hair fell around her face in dishevelled curls, and her large eyes were nearly concealed by their heavy lashes. The girl's cheeks were covered with a faint hectic flush, and a sad smile, full of gentleness and uncomplaining sorrow, curved her melancholy lips. 
                  "Oh, Lucia," said Ellie:"how could you stay here without any fire? You promised me to come and sit with us when you had no wood, and you know you could have some of ours! Oh, Lucia!" 
                  And going to her friend, Ellie knelt down, and smoothed her hair, and kissed her. 
                  Lucia returned the caress, and sad tears came to her eyes, which she could not repress. Then looking up through her tears, she said: 
                  "Well, Sam. It was very good in you to come and see me. I never can thank you for all your goodness." 
                  "Me good, Lucia!" cried Wide-Awake. "I'm a rascal!-to be leaving you in this way here without wood. I'll git some, and make a fire right off, if I have to tear down some part of this old rattle-trap-I will!" 
                  With which words Wide-Awake, in the heat of his indignation, rushed indignantly at the door as though it were his purpose immediately to tear that article from its hinges and use it for fire-wood. 
                  "Wait, Sam!" said Ellie; "stay with Lucia and I'll get some wood-there is some in my room." 
                  "I won't! wait! I'll get it!" 
                   
                  And making a rush at the door of Ellie's little room, adjoining her uncle's, which he was familiar with, Wide-Awake soon returned with a supply which he arranged upon the hearth, kindled with a match taken from his pocket, and blew into a blaze. 
                  Wide-Awake then requested the company to await his return, and taking the stair-steps six at a time, vanished in the direction of Captain Schminky's. He quite terrified the shop-boy there by his loud and indignant demands for what he wanted, and in an incredibly short space of time, had returned to the old house, and laid his spoils at the feet of Lucia. 
                  They were sundry eatables, among which figured cheese, biscuit, sausage, and sugar and tea. Wide-Awake did not mention the fact that the purchase of these articles had completely exhausted the remainder of his week's salary, paid on that morning by Dr. Fossyl. On the contrary you would have imagined from the manner of Wide-Awake that he was sole proprietor of a gold mine at the very least, and didn't mind such trifles-that foolish, merry Wide-Awake! 
                  Lucia was soon seated before the fire, with her long hair falling on her shoulders; and her beautiful face more than ever filled with that sad sweetness which generally characterized it. 
                  Ellie made some tea for her friend, and Wide-Awake busied himself with the hopeless attempt of improving the flavour of a Bologna sausage by broiling slices of it upon the stones of the fire-place. The fact is that Wide-Awake was very far from verifying his name upon that occasion- he behaved in a way so very awkward and ridiculous. You really wondered if his name was not Fast-Asleep, and how he didn't stumble over Lucia, or set Ellie upon the table in place of the cheese, or do some other foolish thing, so evident was his confusion of mind. At last the tea was made, and a few broken cups being produced, and as many cracked plates, the company sat down to make themselves comfortable. 
                  It was a long time before Lucia could repress her agitated feeling of gratitude at such kindness. Ellie forced her to eat, however, and the hot tea seemed to give her strength. 
                  "Now, Lucia," said Wide-Awake, "I consider myself treated bad-I do. Here you are a sufferin' for fire and all, and you don't drop a line to me, when you know you promised" 
                  "Oh I couldn't, Sam!" "Lucia said, "I was ashamed-I am old enough not to be a burden to-" 
                  "A burden! who says you are a burden! why you don't eat more'n a sparrow; and as to the old, I suspect you ain't upwards of seven-are you?" 
                  This was so obviously a witticism that a sad smile came to Lucia's face. 
                  "I'm double seven, Sam," she said, "I'm fourteen; and that is too old to be begging. Oh, I can't!" she said, with touching earnestness, "it makes me miserable!" 
                  "Well don't, then," said Wide-Awake, "and we'll say no more about it. Some mornin' I'll read in the papers that you froze here in this old trap; and the day I read it, I'll go and spend my last money in a razor, and draw the same across my throat, and be took up and laid out straight. That's what I'm goin' to do." 
                  "Oh, Sam!" said Lucia, coloring- 
                  "I will!" 
                  "Kill yourself! Oh, that is a dreadful sin-but you are jesting. Ellie showed me what a dreadful sin it is-it is flying in the face of the Almighty-I read in her Bible. Oh, if I only had a Bible!" 
                  "What would you do with it?" said Wide-Awake"-read it?" 
                  "Oh, yes! It would be such a consolation to me. It seems so sweet ever since we had that talk together, Ellie," said Lucia, sadly. 
                  "Very good," said Wide-Awake to himself; "she shall have a Bible if I have to steal the money. I wonder if stealin' one out o' the store would be a sin?" 
                  This problem proving too deep for Wide-Awake, he gave it up, and again struck into the conversation. 
                  The reader may imagine how much Lucia was encouraged and strengthened by this warm exhibition of regard upon the part of her kind child-friends. For Wide-Awake was a mere child-a poor child, like the two girls-and the three represented not inaptly that singular league which the poor so often enter into, for mutual defence against the wind and cold and storm, and the grim demon want. Let it be said of the poor in simple words, which yet embrace all that is necessary, that they help each other with heart and hand-and are not repelled by the cold atmosphere which so often chills the charity of others. 
                   
                  So the children comforted the child, Lucia; and when they left her, promising to come soon again, she was not so sad, and her heart relieved itself in tears of thanks, with which were mingled silent blessings. Sitting upon the low bench, she leaned her head upon her hand, and her tears flowed again; and if that ever recurring pride erected its head, she turned away from it, and longed for one thing only-a Bible, only a Bible! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XV. 
                  AUNT PHILLIS IN HER CASTLE. 
                  IT is a strange thing when a poor child's first and most earnest want in the wide world is a Bible-only a Bible. Yet this was Lucia's want. Since that morning when Ellie had put her arms round her neck, and cried, and said to her, "Not believe in God! Oh, Lucia! how unhappy you must be!" her heart had felt a new and strange warmth, a singular and unknown yearning, for that full belief which was a defence against all woe, and poverty and suffering. She could not understand the strange sensation which had accompanied her through wind and cold, through hunger and grief-the sensation which burned in her heart like a mysterious fire which nothing could extinguish;-she could not understand that a higher voice than any on this earth had spoken to her;-she could not know that those words "When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion we were like them that dream," described scribed the state of those whose captivity to a greater enemy is broken: and who seeing a light, feeling a vital warmth, are yet doubtful of their meaning, and cry out for more, more light! more light! 
                  That light which her heart longed for was to be found only in the Word of Him who had spoken to her-in his Bible. Oh, if she only had a Bible! Ellie came and read to her often, and she would take Ellie's volume, and read it, shivering in the cold, for hours, with nothing but the tattered counterpane around her; she would retain it often until Ellie came to get it, sobbing and crying and praying, as she read-but that was not enough. Oh! for a Bible of her own, to carry in her bosom always, and never put away from her-to read, and study, and hang over day and night, consoled by its promises, and by its tender words of pardon and forgiveness! Oh, for a Bible of her own-only a Bible! 
                  She rose and looked around her poor room, as if some magic would supply the object of her longing. Then raising her hands to her face, she wiped away two tears which hung upon her long silky lashes, and uttered a deep sigh. 
                  Then suddenly a thought seemed to occur to her, and she turned toward the door, and went out, and descended the stairs. 
                  The bitter wind made her shiver and shrink, for the child had scarcely anything but the old worn frock, thin and flimsy, to protect her from the cold. She uttered no sound, however, and continued her way toward the steps, descending into Aunt Phillis' cellar. She paused here a moment, raised her eyes toward the chill sky, where the sun was now struggling through mist, and sighed again. Without further emotion, she then descended the steps, and knocked at Aunt Phillis' door. A faint voice bade her come in, and she pulled the latchet, which was made of a strap, and entered the abode of Aunt Phillis. 
                  Aunt Phillis was sick. 
                  Since the day, when following Ellie through the snow, we entered with her the humble dwelling of the old negro woman, Aunt Phillis had continued to go through her regular occupation of washer and ironer, with little care for the cold, little regard for the most biting wind. With that industry which characterizes her class, she had labored assiduously, and not eaten the bread of idleness-perhaps, because if she had essayed to do so, she would have been without any bread at all. In her small room she had carried on all those numerous ceremonies, which are practised in the profession of those who prepare the articles of clothing, in which all classes of the community present themselves before the world-and, singing at her toil, had passed the long, gloomy days with hope and content, and that sunshine which never fails to pour in on the active spirit, busy at its appointed toil. 
                  But one day, when Aunt Phillis rose up in the morning, a sort of mist seemed to pass before her eyes, and she felt a faintness, as she set busily about her morning task, which she had never experienced before. On the preceding evening she had been far up to the other end of the city, with her large flat basket full of clothes, and had nearly been blown away by the wind upon her return. The cold blast had penetrated into her blood, and chilled her through and through-and that old blood, thinned by so many years of toil, had arrested itself in its flow, and lingered, and debated whether it should go on as before, feeding the subtle and invisible essence of life, or flow no more forever. 
                  A close observer might have seen that the old woman was treading upon that verge which separates life and death; going from the real world, in which she had lived nearly the appointed time, given her by God, to that other land where there is no appointed time-where there is neither poor nor rich-neither black nor white; where the smile of the Saviour welcomes all who are true of heart, who come to him for refuge. Sitting down, the old woman thought long, and falling into a waking dream, saw all her life pass before her-and who knows what throbs of genuine love and happiness made the old heart leap again. She remembered everything, but thought chiefly of her days in church, when the warmth at the old heart seemed to make her young again, driving back all the creeping shadows of age and weakness. 
                  For some days her weakness remained much as it was, and, in spite of all her struggles, she was almost unable to do any of her accustomed work. She received many visits from sympathizing friends, and they duly performed her washing and ironing-for this branch of the poor cling to each other with peculiar tenacity. So the days had passed, and Aunt Phillis had each morning risen, and dressed herself with feeble hands, and set about her work, and then desisted: and it was just as she had taken her seat, one day, that a sour-faced old gentleman entered without ceremony, and asked if any one was sick there. This was Doctor Fossyl-and Aunt Phillis had promptly replied that nobody was sick, though she was "poorly, thank God!"-that being the African mode of exhibiting resignation, and returning thanks for all dispensations. Dr. Fossyl had rudely made his diagnosis, declared the patient decidedly unwell, and informed her, that unless she took care of herself, she would not need him any more. Then promising roughly to call again, he had departed. 
                  The reader will observe that this was but an hour or two before the meeting in Lucia's chamber, and accordingly, when Lucia descended to Aunt Phillis' apartment, she found that lady still reflecting upon the apparition of Doctor Fossyl. 
                  Aunt Phillis was seated by the fire, with a white handkerchief bound around her head, and was regarding from time to time a clothes-horse, upon which hung a very, very few clothes-all she had been able to prepare that morning. Overcome by weakness, she had been compelled to sit down. From time to time her eyes would wander from the clothes-horse to the appurtenances of the room; and this investigation seemed to be for the purpose of convincing herself that everything was in its place. The truth is, that Aunt Phillis prided herself upon the adornments of her apartment. 
                  Over the fire-place and the tall mantel-piece, which boasted a miscellaneous collection of hymn books, pepper pods, clothes-pins, cups, saucers and jars-over this mantel-piece, hung two pictures in veneered frames, the said pictures being in the most brilliant style of art, and very striking in design. One represented St. Catherine taking an riel voyage, with the assistance of two chubby and rosy-faced angelic beings-the other depicting Peter, up to his knees in the sea, and stretching out his hands for help. In the corner an old press was sacred to the thousand pet articles which Aunt Phillis set most store by, and this was never opened in the presence of her most intimate friends. This was the old lady's mystery-and she guarded the cracked glass and china, and the old mugs and knives and forks there-to say nothing of the apples, cakes, preserves and pickles-with a jealousy which often caused her to be considered quite "a trial" to her friends. As to the clothes adornments of Aunt Phillis' chamber, we have already declared our inability to describe those miscellaneous articles-which is perhaps a very fortunate circumstance, inasmuch as we should be compelled to attempt a sketch of all, which would involve an examination of those mysteries of the female toilette, which it is not proper for the profane to consider. 
                  All these objects were embraced by Aunt Phillis' careful and housewife-like survey; and then her thoughts returned to the rough winter, and were about to busy themselves with that unpromising topic, when Lucia's knock attracted the old lady's attention, and raising her voice, she had bidden the visitor enter. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVI. 
                  THE OLD DAYS AND THE NEW. 
                  LUCIA availed herself of the permission accorded by the old woman, and coming in, closed the door carefully, and approached the old woman, whose sight latterly had begun to fail her. 
                  The child held out her hand, which the old woman pressed in her own, and said gently: 
                  "Good morning, Aunt Phillis-I am Lucia, you know." 
                  "Lord bless you, chile!" said Aunt Phillis, heartily. "I knows you, and many times have I laid my eyes on you. Poor chile! you look sorry!" 
                  "I'm not very well, this morning-but I thought I would come down and see you, Aunt Phillis-I heard you were sick, and I thought I might read some to you, and I would like it, too. You 'are not much sick, are you?" 
                  "Well, de Lord knows-God knows my breast do ache! Well, well! I hope I ain't a complainin' The work's the thing which makes me mortified." 
                  "The work?" 
                  "The washin' and ironing', chile! Bless de Lord! I ain't been able to do nothin'. You know what I does, chile, is common work, though I has some nice things, too. I done in my time all sorts o' work, but 'taint everybody that can plete and flute-'bleeged to have flutin'irons to run in the little hollers, you know. I reck lect," said the old woman, with her head on one side, and counting on her fingers: "I recklect' in old times there was a mighty heap o' pletin' goin' on. I thought master never would get enough o' shirts pleted-he!-he!-seems to me, had mor' a' half-a-hundred! Sich pletes! we was at de Springs, and I made twelve dollars by pletin! Soon as they see my pletes, they send to me-all the gentlemen-whole hamper baskets, crammed and crowdin' to be pleted! Well, well! We was young people then, and we didn't think 'bout nothin' but dancin' and 'stravagance, and vainty! Wonder if white people is so now? Sich things the ladies weared! Dresses all covered with silver spangles, and high rows o' curls, and stockin's all flowered over-I thought I never should a' got done washin' and ironin' o' ladies' stockins'! They mos' put on a pair at breakfas', dinner, 'n' supper-for the skirts was short, and the gentlemen see 'em-and they all was silk! Sich a washin' and a ironin', with frills an' pletes, and flutin', and doin' up lace collars, and inside hankshaws, I never did see-no, never, God knows, long as I have been livin'!" 
                  And Aunt Phillis shook her head in depreciation of the times and personages she had been speaking of. 
                  "That was in the old, old times, wasn't it, Aunt Phillis?" said Lucia, who had taken her seat, opposite the old woman. 
                  "Yes, indeed, honey! A sight ago-mos' a hundred years, I reckon! What fine times they was!" said the old woman, with the logical inconsistency of the negro character; "but they was mighty little religion, chile- they didn't think o' nothin' but parties and balls, and sich like things. The Lord forgive me, we cullered folks wern't no better'n the rest! What a time it was! Well, well, the Lord be thanked, them times is all gone, and joy go with 'em." 
                  "You must be very old, now, Aunt Phillis," said Lucia, who experienced a sad pleasure in hearing the old woman run on. 
                  "I guess I is, chile! De Lord, he knows how old I is! I bin see generation after generation come up, and git cut down like the grass that's dried up. I'm goin' on my long journey, chile." 
                  "Oh, no, Aunt Phillis-you are very hearty, ain't you?" 
                  "No, de Lord knows I ain't, chile. I is done thinkin' 'bout anything in this world. I is beginnin' to think 'bout t'other worl', chile. Dis is a mighty wicked worl', de Lord, he knows, and I'm done with it, an' all dat's in it, chile-I'm goin' home!" 
                  With which words Aunt Phillis began with great feeling to croon a hymn to herself. 
                  Unfortunately for her argument, however, and as though to prove that as long as we are in the world it is proper to attend to the material things of existence, Aunt Phillis heard, as she concluded, the cry of "charcoal!" without, and requested Lucia immediately to go out, and stop the vender of that article. Lucia accordingly left the cellar, and in a few minutes the loud cry of "charcoal, ladies, charcoal!" ceased, and the charcoal merchant appeared at the head of the steps. 
                  He was a young African, with a smutty face, and a complaining expression, as of one against whom the world was banded in hostility. He carried his stock in trade in a rectangular cart, constructed of strips of timber, after the manner of a hencoop, and this machine was drawn by an ancient and solemn looking donkey, who seemed to have some time since reached that age when donkeys, like men, cease to wonder at anything. That donkey was evidently past surprise of any description, and would have stabled himself in a cathedral, without once looking at a single object, if the Pope himself had been erected on the altar. 
                  The charcoal vender ducked his head, and entered Aunt Phillis' presence-that lady receiving him with inflexible dignity. 
                  "Now young man," said Aunt Phillis: "don't you be a-deceivin' me, and sayin' charcoal's high, for I know it's no sich thing. How much a bar'l?" 
                  "It's-" 
                  "Don't say mor'n eight in pence!" 
                  "Oh, ma'am," said the charcoal boy, quite overcome by this energetic address: "its fifopence, ma'am." 
                  "Fifopence!" cried Aunt Phillis, in great horror; "did anybody ever! Now, young man! jest listen to me, while I tell my mind to you!" 
                  "Leastway ma'am its a eight in pence," said the charcoal martyr, who trembled before the irate judge. 
                  "G'ime a bar'l," said Aunt Phillis; "and next time young man, look sharp, before you go about deceivin' the commun'ty!" 
                  The charcoal vender disappeared-unhitched his donkey key, and turned him with his head into the cart, his body being between the shafts, which position is considered absolutely essential to a valid sale of charcoal-and this ceremony being gone through with, proceeded to fill the barrel which he afterwards brought in and emptied in the box prepared for it. 
                  The expedition with which this was done highly pleased Aunt Phillis, who set a plate of cold bones and corn-bread before the youthful charcoal vender, whereat his countenance lit up with radiant satisfaction. 
                  "Now you set there, up on them steps, 'an eat," said Aunt Phillis, "an' thank the Lord, not me." 
                  Whether the thanks were returned or not remains a mystery-but certain it is that the last morsel was devoured, after which the smutty youth ducked his head with an injured air, and soon was crying again in the distance. 
                  "Charcoal!" cried Aunt Phillis, in derision, "I hear a parrot cryin' 'charcoal' to'ther day, down there jest by the market, and a-sayin', 'Julia!' tell I thought I should a laughed myself away a-listenin' to him. They was too on em, chile, bless you, and one try to sing like that crow 'ut used to live down on the bridge, and roll his eyes and holler out to 'Bob,' when Bob come back from market, shakin' of his wings, and makin' b'lieve he wasn't hungry, only playin'! I hear them parrots singin'. One singed a song, and to'ther cried 'that's mighty purty singin'!' and I never see sech ugly things as I'm a livin' bein'. Split ther tongues, and crows kin do the same as I am toll. He! he! 'that's mighty purty singin'!' and I thought I should 'a dropped my basket full of clothes there right down in the street, they made one laugh so, chile-the Lord have mercy!" 
                  With which account of her experience in the parrot line, Aunt Phillis turned to other subjects, and surveyed the charcoal. 
                  "It's Providence sent that boy," said the old lady, "I'm jest out, and you, child, was down here for to run out and git it. But yit, de Lord knows when I'll git to usin' that there charcoal." 
                  "You mean washing and ironing, don't you, Aunt Phillis?" 
                  "Yes, chile." 
                  "Let me help you, wont you?" 
                  "You, chile?" 
                  "Yes, Aunt Phillis. I will help you-go for water-and wash and iron, and do anything," said Lucia, tremulously; "I will ask nothing but a little to eat:-I-I-that is I hardly know what to do, and I-don't like to be a burden to my friends." 
                  "Why that's right, chile; but kin you wash an' ir'n?" 
                  "I think I could, Aunt Phillis." 
                  "Poor little hands-poor chile! you ain't got nothin'!" 
                  There was so much kind and motherly expression in these words that Lucia's eyes filled with tears. 
                  "You shell have somethin' as long's I's got anything," said Aunt Phillis; "an' if you choose to help me, de Lord knows I will take it as a 'commodation. Come down in de mornin' an I'll fin' the things. Them lace undersleeves there 'longing' to a little lady jest about your age, as rich as golden guineas, will jest suit you, chile, and you kin do 'em up better'n I kin." 
                  "Oh, thank you, Aunt Phillis," said Lucia, who caught at this means of procuring her daily bread without accepting Sam's or Ellie's assistance, which was as we have said, bitterly repugnant to her pride: "Oh, thank you, and I'll come down early. Now, Aunt Phillis, would you please to lend me your Bible-I haven't got one, and I do so long to read." 
                  "My Bible! that I will, and bless the day you come a-askin' after 't. It's a lovely sight to see the young a-seekin' of the Lord. Read some to me, chile! There's the Bible on the shelf-read, read it-anywhere, anywhere, chile! it's all good." 
                  And Lucia got the Bible and opened it, and read the Psalm which commences, "Lord thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations." 
                  As the child read on in her low earnest voice, the old woman nodded, and bent about, and drank in the words with a pleasure and satisfaction which made the old face glow. 
                  "For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past," read the child, "and as a watch in the night. Thou carriest them away as with a flood, they are as a sleep; in the morning they are like grass which groweth up. In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up, in the evening it is cut down and withered." 
                  "Cut down and withered," repeated the old woman, in a low voice, "bless de Lord, but we grows agin." 
                  "For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled," read Lucia. "Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told." 
                  The child's head drooped as she read those words, and she murmured something which the old woman did not hear. 
                  "The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away." 
                  "And we fly away!" repeated Aunt Phillis, in a low voice. 
                  The child read the whole, and then closed the book. 
                  "The sound o' that makes me feel a blessed feelin'," said the old woman, "no matter how dreadful it is, we knows it is washed away!" 
                  And Aunt Phillis began to sing to herself, in that low touching tone, which those who have heard it once never forget. Lucia thought she had better leave the old woman in this happy mood-and so taking the Bible, which she knew Aunt Phillis did not want at the moment, she stole softly out, and ascended to her poor chamber with her treasure. 
                  A bran new Bible already lay there on the table. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVII. 
                  ELLIE'S DRESS DOES NOT FIT HER. 
                  LUCIA could not doubt for a moment who had sent her the Bible, and she knelt down and prayed, and poured out her whole heart fervently, and rose with a lighter heart. 
                  All that despondency which had preyed upon her spirit, was passing away, and the light of that new life, which dawned upon her, flooded her heart with unspeakable gratitude and thanks. God had heard her. And if, with the pure gratitude of the child to heaven, some tender gratitude toward the rough, but kind-hearted and true boy were mingled, none will find fault with her for that-even though this exhibition of his love for her, made her cheek flush with pleasure. 
                  She did not know that Wide-Awake had gone and entered-contrary to his wishes and fixed principles-once more into the newspaper business; and drawn a week's salary in advance, and hastened to purchase the Bible with the whole of it, trusting to Providence for meat and bread, for those seven days! And such faith never is in vain. Oh, friend, that readest these unworthy lines; for heaven watches over those who love so truly, and give nobly; and the invisible messengers of air and earth bring food to them. 
                  So Lucia had her own Bible, and her warm tears fell upon it, for her heart was melted in her bosom, and she cried-a lonely child, but not alone with that most precious cious friend. Stronger than stormy winds and biting cold, and all the arrows of adversity, it filled her heart with warmth and happiness. 
                  She repaired on the next morning to Aunt Phillis' cellar, and commenced the task she had undertaken. She brought water from the old pump, some distance down the street, and fixed the irons, and then with Aunt Phillis looking serenely and kindly upon her, applied herself to the momentous task. Aunt Phillis was scarcely able to leave her bed, by now, but managed to rise, and iron a shirt at intervals, as though she wished to persuade herself that she was not incapacitated from work. But even one shirt was a hard task to the feeble old woman, and Lucia insisted on her sitting down. 
                  The child performed her work so well, that by noon she had accomplished an amount of work, which Aunt Phillis declared really astonishing. And then the simple dinner was prepared, and, thereafter, Lucia got ready to carry home the clothes which were "due" that evening. 
                  Aunt Phillis gave her the most explicit directions, and she had no difficulty in finding the houses. Going from street to street over the frozen snow, in the dim afternoon, the child found herself thrown with a new and strange class of persons, whose homes she had never before entered. The lace undersleeves, to which Aunt Phillis had referred, seemed to be ardently expected by the rosy child, who ran forward to receive them from Lucia, in the rich home of her mother. 
                  "Oh!" the little maiden cried, "it ain't Aunt Phillis! Who are you?-you are prettier than Aunt Phillis." 
                   
                  "My name is Lucia," was the smiling reply; and unconsciously the eyes of the child wandered to the splendid furniture of the wealthy mansion. 
                  "Lucia! Oh, what a pretty name! And you are very pretty, Lucia, prettier than I am-only my frock's nicer than yours!" 
                  And the little maiden smoothed down her beautiful, rich frock, and gazed with pride upon its embroidered flounces. 
                  "We're going to have a child's party to night, Lucia," said the little damsel, going up to Lucia, and looking at her curiously with her great eyes; "don't you wish you were to be here?" 
                  "No-I think not," said Lucia, softly; "I hope you will be happy." 
                  "Oh, we are sure to have a delightful time. Mamma has made a lovely cake, and it's all covered with icing-and Uncle Robert's coming to play games for us, and make tableaus-I wonder what they are-and Cousin Lucy's coming, too; and we're to have a dance, and-oh! we'll be so happy!-can't you stay and eat some cake, Lucia. I am sure you are good, because you are so pretty." 
                  "I don't think I can stay," faltered Lucia, whose heart was touched by the kind mirth of the little girl, "I have my work at home to do." 
                  Work! Oh, what a pity! Do you work? Oh, yes! you mean your French lesson-how I hate my French lesson! But I haven't got any to-night! This is my new dress, and we're to be so happy! Mamma's given me a new lace collar, and she says we may light the chandelier delier, and-oh! how foolish I am! All this time I've been forgetting my undersleeves. How nicely they are done-how nice I'll look. Good bye!" 
                  And running up stairs with the coveted articles of clothing, the child disappeared, the kind smile still upon her face, turned toward Lucia. 
                  The closing door shut out all that warmth and happiness; but Lucia had in her heart a larger and truer happiness still-which no cold could deprive her of. No bitter or repining thought for a moment entered her mind, and she said only, "What a happy little girl, and what a tender voice she has!" And so the child went back to her cold, bare room, and lighting her piece of candle, read her Bible, shivering as she read-while under the brilliant chandelier, the kind little maiden romped, and laughed, and played, and told her friends what a sweet looking girl had come "just before dark, to bring her things." And then Uncle Robert fixed the tableaus, and they were as merry a parcel of happy children as the light of joy had ever shone upon. 
                  When Lucia covered herself with the old tattered counterpane, and sank to sleep, with a last murmured prayer, her heart was full of warmth, and joy, and love, such as no words could utter. Sleeping, her parted lips still smiled, as infant lips do in the downy cradles, which fond mothers, bending down above until the balmy breath is on their cheeks, press to their own with whispered blessings. Sleeping, the hand of love seemed pressed upon the eyelids, and the dews of slumber softened the tender features, rounding every line-and peace was in the heart which dreamed of love and beauty, and the light of heaven. 
                  The child rose early and repaired to Aunt Phillis' cellar. But that indefatigable matron was already up, and had made her own fire, and set the kettle on for breakfast. 
                  "Bless de Lord, honey," said Aunt Phillis, feebly, "I's quite strong yit, an' I kin do all but wash an'ir'n. The strength in the arms is gone, and bendin' over makes my back ache-God knows my back do ache-but I kin see to breakfas'." 
                  "I am glad you feel so well, Aunt Phillis," said Lucia. 
                  "I ain't well, chile-I'm poorly, thank God, an' to his name be the praise, amen! Stop, chile!" added the old woman, "don't you be a-gittin' out that clothes-horse." 
                  "Why, Aunt Phillis?" 
                  "There ain't a-goin to be no washin' here to-day." Lucia's look asked the reason. 
                  "'Cause sister Marthy and the rest is comin' to hold a little pray'r meetin'," said aunt Phillis, understanding and replying to the look, "brother Wilkison's comin', too, an' I want you to set right about gettin' ready the things." 
                  "The things, aunt Philis?" 
                  "The very things, chile-de Lord he knows it would'nt be a right pray'r meetin' if de bretheren had'nt somethin' after all thayr singin'." 
                  With which aunt Phillis gave Lucia sundry directions-and after long and dubious reflection, entrusted her with the keys of the mysterious press, the opening of which she narrowly and jealously watched 
                   
                  Lucia soon got out the things which aunt Phillis desired: and then she set to work, under the old lady's directions, and prepared the material for the collation to be laid before aunt Phillis' visitors. 
                  "Them's all mine," said aunt Phillis, with satisfaction. "I ain't come on the 'sociation yit." 
                  "The what, aunt Phillis?" 
                  "The 'sociation, chile. De Lord help us! ain't you hearn 'bout the Social Band?" 
                  Lucia said she had not. 
                  "We dresses," said aunt Phillis, plunging boldly into the middle of things, "we dresses in white bonnets, trim' wid black-white cuffs an' cape, and dress of black likewise. We pays a eight in pence 'bout ev'ry month or so, an' sister Beel is cash-er. When we's sick they comes an' sets up with us, an' the 'sociation pays, don't care what it is. They does all nice-so nice! an' buries you wid pleasure-they does;-its mighty pleasant now, I do assure you, chile!" 
                  Lucia said that the association must be a great assistance to the sick, and then finished the preparations, and asked aunt Phillis if she needed her farther. 
                  "No my chile," said the old lady, "sister Beel 'll do the rest, an' you oughtn't to make your young cheeks thin a-workin' all the day. Set down now an' eat a good breakfas', an' then the brethren will be 'bout comin'." 
                  Lucia drank some tea and ate a biscuit, and then told aunt Phillis good-bye, and went up to her room. Just as she sat down before the small fire of splinters, a knock came at her door, and Ellie entered, smiling sweetly, and carrying in her hand a bundle. Her face was full of pleasure, and the hand which she placed on Lucia's head, gently caressed the dark hair. 
                  The children kissed each other, as their custom was, and then Ellie held up the bundle and placed it in Lucia's hands. 
                  "Look what a pretty present a lady gave me, Lucia!" she said. 
                  "Oh!" said Lucia, unrolling it, "why, Ellie, it is a warm, good dress." 
                  "Yes, it is warm and good, and I am so glad! You know your old one is so thin, Lucia!" 
                  "My old one!" 
                  "The one you have on. I had that dress, and it is a great deal too large for me. Miss Aurelia gave it to me-and I want you to have it, dear Lucia. I will not." 
                  And Ellie's face was radiant with pleasure and goodness. 
                  Her pleasure in offering her only comfortable dress to her friend was as evident as anything could possibly be, and for a moment Lucia remained overcome by her question, and remained silent. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVIII. 
                  DOCTOR FOSSYL AND HIS THEORIES. 
                  LUCIA, as we have said, could not speak for some moments; but then recovering her voice, sat down, and, bursting into tears, sobbed: 
                  "Oh, Ellie! how much better you are than I am!" 
                  She cried more than ever as she spoke, and Ellie felt like crying, too. 
                  Lucia wept on and covered her face, and shook with emotion. 
                  "Oh, what are you crying for! what makes you cry, Lucia!" she exclaimed, throwing her arms around the child's neck, "please do not cry!" 
                  "It is because you are so kind," murmured Lucia, "you and everybody. Oh, I cannot, cannot take your dress. 
                  "Indeed, indeed you must, Lucia," said Ellie, "I do not want it, and I know you do. I saw you going out in the cold yesterday evening, and you had no wrapping, and I thought you would have frozen. Oh, indeed, indeed, Lucia! it makes me happier to give my dress to you than to wear it myself; and you will not make me feel badly by refusing it! It is much too large for me-I am so small-but it will just fit you with a little off of the skirt. Dear Lucia! indeed, indeed, I do not want it!" 
                  And Ellie smoothed the disordered hair of her friend and leaned her own brown locks against the dark curls of the child. 
                  Lucia could as yet only sob and utter inarticulate expressions of thanks: but she soon raised her head, and looked at Ellie with her sad smile, which, indeed, seemed to be a peculiarity alike of both the children. 
                  "You are a dear kind girl, Ellie," she said, "but, indeed, I cannot take the dress. Ellie, I don't know if it's pride-maybe a sinful pride-or if it is my love for you: but nothing could make me take from you the only warm dress you have. The one you have on is very thin; and this will be so nice and comfortable. Indeed, I do not want it, Ellie-I am not-very-cold. Please do not ask me any more, and don't think hard of me for not taking it!" 
                  With which words Lucia leaned her head upon Ellie's shoulder and pressed the hand she held to her lips. 
                  As they sat thus a great artist would have rejoiced to have seen them, and to have made them beautiful forever upon canvass. If love and tenderness and goodness filling every feature-eyes and lips, and brow-make faces beautiful; then the countenances of Ellie and Lucia were more fair and lovely than the happiest dreams. 
                  This tenderness and affection was so unmistakeable that it caused something like a faint tinge of color to enter the cheek of the sallow individual who, looking through the crack of the door, witnessed the scene, and heard the conversation of the children. 
                  Doctor Fossyl had come up stairs with his "shoes of silence"-a not unusual circumstance with him; and hearing voices in Lucia's room, had softly approached, and without ceremony, looked and listened, with the cynical desire to hear something to support his theory of human meanness and selfishness. As the struggle between Lucia and Ellie proceeded, the physician's sneer had faded, his eye-brows had retreated from each other, and his yellow cheek had almost turned to comely red. Surely this man must have had in his heart, when young, some stuff which had long since been smothered, or trodden out by his poor cheerless philosophy of scorn, suspicion, and incredulity in human motives. 
                  The expression of his countenance as he listened, was not at all such as those who knew him were accustomed to find in it. An almost tender smile rose to the thin and bloodless lips, and the eyes, under their shaggy brows, grew soft and pitiful. 
                  In a moment, however, this expression disappeared, and his face assumed its habitual coldness. He knocked rudely at the door and said, with an affectation of having just reached the spot: 
                  "Who is in this room! what voices are those?" 
                  Ellie rose and went to the door, and curtseyed. 
                  "This is Lucia's room, sir," she said; "Lucia is my friend." 
                  "Your friend! hum! Let us see this Miss Lucia!" 
                  And the surly physician thrust his head in at the door and scowled at Lucia. She replied to this stare with a look so soft and humble that the cynic drew back growling. 
                  "Well, very well!" he said, "that's all mighty fine! Friends! what right have the poor to friendship. That is a luxury of the rich, who, as everybody knows, are very tender and friendly and disinterested! Come, you, madam-Ellie is your name, I believe-I have no time to lose. Where's your father?" 
                  "He's my uncle, sir-he's in the room here." 
                  And Ellie went before the physician, and entered the apartment of Joe Lacklitter. 
                  Uncle Joe was sitting as usual before the small fire, with a blanket around his shoulders, and Charley was painfully struggling with the assistance of a slate and pencil to arrive at the solution of the problem:-What would fifty lady-cakes, two for a cent, come to in money? This sum had been "set" for him by Ellie, and the youthful brains of Charley were in a state of lamentable confusion on the subject of the solution. The sight of Doctor Fossyl did not aid him, and in the terror of the moment he dashed down an answer which raised the price of lady-cakes astonishingly in the market. 
                  "How are you to-day, Lacklitter?" said the Doctor, "as to that young man there who is staring at me with his mouth open, like a stuck pig, he's always well!" 
                  And Doctor Fossyl scowled at Charley in so terrible a way, that the young gentleman dropped his slate and flew for refuge to Ellie's apron. 
                  "Oh, yes, I'm a monster and an ogre," said the Doctor, "I feed on children-I eat 'em whole! I'd like to broil you, sir, and serve you up at breakfast!" 
                  Having thus annihilated Charley, Doctor Fossyl turned again to uncle Joe and growled. 
                   
                  "I'm obleeged to you, Doctor," said Joe, "I think I'm better 'n' better." 
                  "Why don't you get well?" 
                  "I think I will soon, sir!" 
                  "Soon! Let me see your tongue!" 
                  Joe extended that member. 
                  "Furry and bad," said Doctor Fossyl, "you're going entirely too fast. What do you eat?" 
                  "Mighty little, sir-I ain't got any appetite yet-least-ways-" 
                  "You'd better not have one, or if you do, you'd better curb it;" said the doctor. "Does this child cook for you?" 
                  And he pointed to Ellie, who sat quietly in the corner. 
                  "Yes, sir," Joe said, "she is a good, loving girl, and we're gittin' on very well. Mr. Sansoucy's very kind, and the Lord be thanked." 
                  This speech seemed to anger Doctor Fossyl, and he growled contemptuously, 
                  "Mr. Sansoucy! a shallow fellow, who knows nothing! He thinks it mighty fine, I suppose, to be 'charitable!' I suppose, you, Miss," he added, turning to Ellie, "are going to fall in love with this fine Seigneur, and set your cap at him?" 
                  "Sir!" said Ellie, quite bewildered. 
                  "You pretend you don't understand!" 
                  "Understand, sir!" 
                  "Bah! what affectation! How old are you?" 
                  "I'm eleven, sir." 
                  "It don't attack 'em till they're older," said the cynic. 
                   
                  Ellie gazed with a puzzled look upon the doctor. 
                  "Very well," he said, "that's mighty fine-what noise is that? What terrible sound is that I hear?" 
                  "I think it's Aunt Phillis, holding her prayer meeting, sir." 
                  "Her prayer meeting?" 
                  "Yes, sir!" 
                  Doctor Fossyl's sallow countenance grew absolutely livid with disgust, and he seemed to wish that an earthquake would swallow the hypocrites whose noise annoyed him. Nevertheless, no earthquake came, and the hymn resounded from Aunt Phillis' cellar, louder and louder, until the old house was filled with it. 
                  "Is that the old woman I went down to see?" the doctor gasped. 
                  "Yes, sir," said Ellie. 
                  "She is holding a prayer meeting?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Then I renounce her," said Doctor Fossyl, stretching forth his hand, wrathfully; "she may change her physician. I'm sick of hypocrisy, and yet this is no worse than that of your fine Mr. Sansoucy. Bah! how sick it makes me! What are you staring at the door and listening for, Miss?" he growled, looking at Ellie. 
                  Ellie did not reply, but, rising, looked more intently at the door, with a joyous light in her eyes. A step was then heard, a knock came to the door, and Ellie, running forward, met upon the threshold, with her sweetest smile, the gentleman, whose merits were in progress of discussion-Mr. Sansoucy. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIX. 
                  THE HYMN. 
                  "Ah, Ellie! my good little Ellie! always glad to see me," said Sansoucy, entering, "and Doctor Fossyl! How do you do, Doctor? and you, Joe, and Charley?" 
                  Having distributed which comprehensive salute, Mr. Sansoucy sat down. 
                  "I do well," growled Doctor Fossyl. 
                  "That is an agreeable circumstance," said Sansoucy. "How's the patient?" 
                  "Getting better." 
                  "He'll soon be out?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I'm glad." 
                  "And I don't care!" 
                  "Oh, you don't care for anything, my dear Doctor, you're a philosopher." 
                  "And, therefore, you despise me." 
                  "No, I'm nearly one myself." 
                  "A pretty philosopher!" 
                  "Who don't believe in the lights of the Eighteenth Century, you would add. Well, Doctor, don't let us resume that subject-you are right, however, I don't!" 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy smiled. 
                  "Here is a little philosopher, who strikes me as superior to D'Alembert, Voltaire, Diderot, and the whole crowd." 
                  "Who are you talking about?" 
                   
                  "Ellie." 
                  "That child?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "A philosopher, forsooth-of the Sansoucy school, doubtless!" 
                  "Why, Doctor, what a biting wit you have, this morning! No, Ellie is not of the without-care school-she is rather of the earnest persuasion." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy applauded his jest with favorable laughter. There was, as we have said, about this gentleman, a good humor that was better than wit; and certainly no wit, however fiery and brilliant, ever produced the cheerful influence which his good nature did. Even Doctor Fossyl seemed to feel that, judging by its fruits, his own philosophy of life was narrower and less true than this opposed to it-but like all men convinced against their will, he refused indignantly to be persuaded. 
                  "Yes," he said: "you've got a very enthusiastic follower in this young miss, who, it seems, is the paragon of perfection and human goodness. I wish you joy, and advise you to train her up in the way she should go, and bestow your lordship's hand upon the maiden." 
                  "My hand!" 
                  "Yes, marry her!" 
                  The idea seemed to tickle Mr. Sansoucy very much, and he laughed heartily. Then apparently reflecting that this exhibition of merriment might be misconstrued by his opponent, he said: 
                  "Faith! Doctor, I really do not think your advice so bad, after all." 
                   
                  "You acknowledge then-?" 
                  "That I love Ellie? Yes, my dear Doctor. Don't I, Ellie?" 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy smoothed the child's hair with a kind hand, and smiled. 
                  "Indeed, sir, I love you for all your goodness," Ellie said, simply. 
                  "Mighty pretty!" sneered Doctor Fossyl; "coo-coo! coo-coo! two doves! Come, let me see how people make love!" 
                  Sansoucy smiled, and said: 
                  "I really can't oblige you, Doctor-the affection Ellie and myself feel for each other is already made, though not perhaps in the mould you think. I'm afraid that Ellie scarcely stood a fair chance there!" 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy again laughed, but this time with something like a sigh. Ellie caught the imperceptible sound, and looked up into the kind face. 
                  "See here, Doctor," said Sansoucy; "here is the proof of Ellie's regard. She heard me groan, just now, and it troubles her." 
                  "Nonsense!" muttered Doctor Fossyl: "really the greatest trifler I have ever known, and seems to be proud of it! Well, sir," he said aloud: "am I to go on visiting here?" 
                  "Go on?" 
                  "Yes, I say go on." 
                  "Why, certainly-until Joe is well." 
                  "You pay?" 
                  Sansoucy laughed, and said: 
                   
                  "I pay." 
                  "Very good," replied Doctor Fossyl, rising. "I'll come again to-morrow, and prescribe-this patient may have a month before him yet." 
                  "So long!" 
                  "Yes-what are you surprised at?" 
                  "Why, at the failure of the great Doctor Fossyl in-" 
                  "Raising a man instantaneously from a fever, you would say, I suppose. Well, sir, be surprised. I have no time to talk. I have a hundred visits to pay before the opera." 
                  And Doctor Fossyl rose. 
                  As he did so, the loud resounding hymn from Aunt Phillis' cellar, commenced again, and the walls fairly shook with it. 
                  "Who is singing, Ellie?" said Mr. Sansoucy; "I heard something as I came in-what is it?" 
                  "Aunt Phillis has a prayer-meeting, sir," Ellie said. 
                  "Oh!" said Sansoucy: "the old woman down there!" 
                  "The old hypocritical hag down there!" growled Doctor Fossyl. 
                  "Hush, Doctor, let us listen to the incantation ceremony," said Sausoucy: "listen!" 
                  And the company were silent. 
                  The hymn, which had paused in its flow for a time as though to gather strength for a more resounding burst, now soared aloft, and made the windows shake with its full flood of strange and touching harmony. It was one of those rude devotional lyrics which seem to have had their birth and cradle in the great pine forests, among simple people-often among negroes-though this was not of the latter description. A fit accompaniment to its wild and triumphant cadences would have been the solemn murmur of those haughty tufts which throw their shadows on the homely meeting houses buried in the forests, and surrounded by the simplicity of nature. 
                  As it rose now, it seemed to speak of the country, of the solemn depths of ancient woods, and its rudeness made the general effect more striking. 
                  The disconnected words which reached the ears of the silent auditors, were something like this: 
                         
                           "O! what ship is this that will take us all home 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           O! what ship is this that will take us all home? 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           'Tis the old ship of Zion-halleluia! 
                           'Tis the old ship of Zion-halleluia! 
                        
                         
                           "Do you think she will be able for to take us all home? 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           Do you think she will be able for to take us all home? 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           O yes! she will be able-halleluia! 
                           O yes! she will be able-halleluia! 
                        
                         
                           "She has landed many thousands, and she'll land as many more! 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           She has landed many thousands, and she'll land as many more! 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           She will land them over Jordan-halleluia! 
                           She will land them over Jordan-halleluia! 
                        
                         
                           Come along! come along!-and let's go home 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           Come along! come along!-and let's go home! 
                           O! glory, halleluia! 
                           Our home it is in heaven-halleluia! 
                           Our home it is in heaven-halleluia! 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  The mournful melody of the negro manner of singing, gave a strange effect to this hymn, and when it paused, there was silence in the chamber of Joe Lacklitter. Before the cynical physician could utter any of his usual commentaries, however, the voices commenced again; and again the solemn hymn resounded. This time it was one, the burden of which, constantly repeated was: 
                        "Come to Jesus, just now!"
                      and this was sung with the same deep devotion which had characterized the former. It had its effect even upon the physician, and when it ceased, he stood for some moments without speaking, with a strange impression in his deep-set eyes. 
                  "Well," he said at last, "I suppose I have remained long enough listening to this: I have something else to attend to." 
                  "A moment," said Sansoucy, "tell me first, my dear Doctor, whether you don't think those rude people down there happier than you and me?" 
                  "I think nothing!" said Doctor Fossyl, with a sharp look, "good morning, sir!" 
                  And he went out. 
                  "There goes a man who has fed on food which poisons us," murmured Sansoucy, "what a pity!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XX. 
                  CONTAINS AN ACCOUNT OF MONSIEUR GUILLEMOT'S BANKRUPTCY. 
                  SANSOUCY stood thus for some moments, gazing after the physician, with that wistful, almost melancholy smile, which gave at times so singular an expression to his countenance; and then, as though returning once more to the realms of reality, turned round, and smiled, and patted Ellie's head, and took his seat beside Joe Lacklitter. 
                  One of Mr. Sansoucy's peculiarities, as we have said, we believe, already,-or at least should have said-was a habit of interesting himself in simple things, and unpretending objects. He might have said, with a great writer, "I have seen too much of success in life, to take off my hat and huzza to it, as it passes in its gilt coach, and would do my little part with my neighbors on foot, that they should not gape with too much wonder, nor applaud too loudly. It is the Lord Mayor going in state to mince-pies and the mansion-house! It is poor Jack of Newgate's procession, with the sheriff and javelin-men, conducting him on his journey to Tyburn? I look into my heart and think I am as good as my Lord Mayor, and know I am as bad as Tyburn Jack." Sansoucy had seen so much in his journeyings, and from that singular part of journalist, that he had grown incredulous of the judgments which the world formed of the men and things which figure on the stage of life, and so making for himself an unique philosophy, had accepted that alone to shape his conduct by. He had seen so many reputations rise aloft like rockets, startling the beholders, and then fade and die-so many "celebrities" had blazed before him in his day, and then gone out, that, young in years as he still was, life scarcely possessed for him those mysteries and illusions, which it has for the greater part of the world. This feeling had driven him, as it drives every man who loves the truth, to a fervid admiration for simplicity and goodness: and it was in simple scenes, and honest motives, that this gentleman found his greatest pleasure. He liked to be with children, and would throw his pen aside, and dismiss his wearying meditation, to cater their amusement. Their innocent prattle pleased him, and when once this softer influence had made itself felt, he became the most delightful companion for the young-sharing their sports, and growing young again himself. 
                  Sansoucy had found in Ellie, that simplicity and goodness, which he bowed before, saluting it as worthiest; and thus, perhaps, there was more truth than the contrary in his declaration, that he deserved no thanks for his assistance. He found in the child, and in Joe Lacklitter, too, companions such as he desired; and, perhaps, his greatest pleasure was his visits to the humble abode of the poor paper-carrier. The reader will judge, in due time, whether there was not still another hidden and mysterious bond, which drew him toward Ellie, and the child to him. But we will not anticipate. 
                  After the departure of Doctor Fossyl, a feeling of comparative unrestraint and freedom was visible in the countenances tenances of all; and then commenced a cheerful, friendly conversation, in which even Charley had his due part. 
                  When Ellie looked at, or answered Mr. Sansoucy, her face was full of a happy light, and her soft eyes beamed with that tender gratitude, which perhaps is the most beautiful expression of the human countenance. Ellie had in her hand the dress which Lucia could not be prevailed upon to receive; and this at last became the subject of one of Mr. Sansoucy's smiling remarks. 
                  "You liked Miss Aurelia, did you, Ellie?" he said; "you should have seen her when she wore that dress at the ball the other night! What a mistake young ladies make when they suppose that gentlemen prefer them decked out in silks and satins, pearls and diamonds! They do not believe that men believe-the better portion-that 
                         
                           "A simple maiden in her flower, 
                           Is worth a hundred coats of arms." 
                        
                      Or coats of cloth of gold! You see I'm quoting from the poets, Miss. And so you liked Aurelia?" 
                  "Oh, yes, sir," said Ellie. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy smiled, and said: 
                  "What feature of her face struck you as the finest?" 
                  "I did not take notice of anything, sir, very well," Ellie returned, "it was her goodness I liked so." 
                  "Then her eyes were the prominent subjects of your admiration-were they not, Ellie?" 
                  "Her eyes, sir?" 
                   
                  "Yes, I believe the eyes contain more expression than any other portion of the face." 
                  "She had lovely blue eyes, I remember, sir." 
                  "So she has!" said Mr. Sansoucy, sighing and smiling. "Do you know, Ellie, I am going to fall in love with Miss Aurelia?" 
                  "In love, sir? Oh, yes-I understand," Ellie said, laughing and blushing; "are you, sir?" 
                  "Am I! There you are with your simplicity! I am very much afraid that I have already done so, madam. Do you approve of the match? But how I jest!" laughed Mr. Sansoucy. "What were you doing with your dress?" 
                  "I-I-was-Lucia was looking at it," said Ellie, not wishing to tell Mr. Sansoucy of her offer. 
                  "Lucia?" he said. 
                  "Yes, sir-the organ-grinder's daughter, who lives in yonder-" 
                  "An organ-grinder's daughter!" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Why, this house is a real hive! Aunt Phillis in the cellar-you here, Joe-Lucia yonder-and, as I live, there's some one walking in the room above!" 
                  "That's Mr. Gillymore, sir," Joe said, "and there, he's a-comin' down; I heard his door jist now, as he opened it." 
                  As Joe spoke, steps were heard upon the stairs, and then steps came down the stairway, and stopped at the door of Joe's apartment. 
                  "He's comin' here," said Joe. 
                  And so it proved. 
                  As he spoke, the door was opened slightly, a head thrust itself through the aperture, and a polite and polished voice uttered the monysyllable, "ha! ha!" 
                  "Faith!" cried Sansoucy, if it isn't Guillemot! you live here, Monsieur, mon ami! Is it possible!" 
                  "Monsieur Sansouci!" cried the head, with a strong French accent, and an unmistakeable emphasis upon the latter syllable of the journalist's name. "I 'ave ze plaizir of see Monsieur Sansouci!" 
                  "Certainly," said Sansoucy, laughing. Come in-we're all friends." 
                  Monsieur Guillemot opened the door and entered, bowing and shrugging his shoulders, with a profusion of polite exclamations. He was a little man, of about forty-five or fifty, wore a wig elaborately powdered, exhibited a profusion of frill at his bosom, and his feet were covered with list slippers of the gaudiest appearance. One hand was thrust into a boot, which Monsieur Guillemot had apparently been cleaning; the other now pressed the heart of the owner of the boot, and waved itself politely in general salutation. 
                  "Sainte Marie!" cried Monsieur Guillemot, as he entered and received a cordial shake of Sansoucy's hand; "I see my friend Mossier Sansouci! Ha! ha! ze worl' is strange-bien etrange!" 
                  "What's strange, my dear friend?" said Sansoucy. 
                  "To come so on one friend-one ver' good friend! nevare sink to-" 
                  "Well, my dear fellow," said Sansoucy, "no matter what you think; the world is full of surprises-a fact I need not take the trouble to prove to Monsieur Guillemot." 
                   
                  "Mon Dieu c'est vrai!" replied the old Frenchman, shaking his head, and consequently his foot. 
                  "Who would have thought to see the elegant Monsieur Guillemot, maitre d'armes at the shooting and fencing gallery, in slippers-like an ordinary man! It's positively amazing!" said Sansoucy. 
                  This turn of the conversation seemed to please and interest Monsieur Guillemot, and he evidently appreciated the adjective "elegant," to its full extent. 
                  "Non non Monsieur," he said, shaking his head and shrugging his shoulders; "I was elegant long time ago-I was garon, beau garon, my friends say. But all that is pass, mossieu; I grow veillard." 
                  "You, Monsieur Guillemot! you astonish me. You are still a beau-and I often hear my friends of a certain age say that not ten years ago you were quite a child and kept the best and most elegant establishment in town." 
                  "Ah oui!" cried Monsieur Guillemot, "I was young once; and I keep one ver fine house. I 'ave dominoes, I 'ave cafe-I 'ave canoees back duck-deliceuse! I 'ave faisant, I 'ave oystare-I 'ave de canoees back duck, mosdelicieuse-Oh! delicieuse! delicieuse! mossieu!" 
                  And Monsieur Guillemot shrugged his shoulders and closed his eyes in ecstacy. 
                  "That was in the good old days, was it not?" said Sansoucy, smiling; "you got tired of that life, eh? Late hours, and so on." 
                  "I tire!" cried Monsieur Guillemot, "Oh, non! non, Mossieu Sansouci: I break! 
                   
                  And the old Frenchman's head sank, and with it the foot-a melancholy shadow passing over his countenance. 
                  "I no get tire, Mossieu!" he said, mournfully, but with a fantastic sort of resignation which made his countenance a pleasant sight to see. "I no get tire, mon cher, Mossieu! I break. Ze ole compaynie come no more to see me-zey grow up-I keep my house all ze same. Ze ole compaynie in ze ole times drop in of evenings, and say, 'Bon jour, Mossieu Guillemot! Some cafe s'il vous plait, some oystare-Ah, Mossieur, one canoeese back delicieuse!' An' I say, 'Messieurs, ze honneur of Guillemot is pledge to you, and all shall be sur la table, in one instant. Bon-and so zey set down and play dominoes, and smile-so elegant-and say, what nice house, Mossieu Guillemot conduct-and so ze cafe come-zey drink-zey pay-and smile, and bow, and say, Bon jour Mossieu, mon ami-good day, my dear sir and friend. What polite gentlemen! Ah ha! this no last all ze time. Ze young men come-zey no say Mossieu Guillemot! some cafe, if you please! Non! zey cry out, cocktail! smash! oystare! vite!!! mak' 'aste! 'an then zey no pay nothing, Mossieu. Ze long bills break me, Mossieu Sansouci. Poor Guillemot is bank-a-root-he is bank-a-root, Mossieur Sansouci-c'est tout!" 
                  And pausing with a flush upon his countenance, Monsieu Guillemot's head drooped. Before Sansoucy could speak, however, this flush passed away, and the old Frenchman's face grew smiling and cheerful again; and glancing at his boot, he cried with all the vivacity of a veritable garon; 
                   
                  "Sainte Maire! quelle betise. My botte! Mossieur, my neighbors," he added, to Joe Lacklitter," 'ave you, per'aps some blackeeng?" 
                  Joe shook his head, and said he was very sorry, but he had not; at which Monsieur Guillemot's countenance was seen to assume an expression of decided gloom. 
                  "Nevare mind! nevare mind!" he said, however, in a moment; "I clean my boots ver well. I 'ave much plaisir in 'aving seen my friends-and mam'selle Ellie's face is always like ze sunshine." 
                  With which elegant speech Monsieur Guillemot was going out of the room. 
                  "Are you fixing to go to the gallery, Monsieur Guillemot?" said Satsoucy. 
                  "Sur l'instant! in one moment, Mossieur!" said the old Frenchman. 
                  "Well, I will wait for you. Come by as you descend, and we will go together. 
                  This arrangement seemed to please Monsieur Guillemot, and ten minutes after ascending he came down, wrapped in his old travelling cloak, and carrying under his arm a bundle of foils. 
                  Sansoucy with a last kind word to Joe and Ellie, and a promise to bring Charley a present of gingerbread in a day or two, left the humble room with the fencing-master, who muttered as he went with a smile, "Poor Guillemot is bank-a-root, Mossieur Sansouc, bank-a-root!!' 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXI. 
                  RECOLLECTIONS OF AUNT PHILLIS. 
                  LET us now return to Lucia and her friends, from whom we have been diverted by the appearance of Doctor Fossyl and Monsieur Guillemot. 
                  As soon as the "company" left Aunt Phillis' cellar, and scattered themselves on their various paths homeward, Lucia went down to the old woman's apartment, and assisted her in performing the various household ceremonies which are necessary to the comfort of those who are fond of neatness and order. In a little while, the remains of the feast which Aunt Phillis had laid before her friends were removed, and the old woman and Lucia sat before the fire, and saw the gloomy evening descend gradually, wrapping the streets and everything in its chill cloud. 
                  "Lord knows I b'lieve that hymn is made me stronger," said Aunt Phillis: "bless de Lord, I'll git sail in the ole ship o' Zion over Jordan-I'm goin' over Jordan, chile-now don't you say I ain't; de Lord do so to me, and more also!" 
                  With which Aunt Phillis relapsed into thought, and remained for a long time silent. At last she said in a low, feeling voice: 
                  "'Seems to me all the ole days comin' back agin'. They was a little boy ole master had, and I think I never see a boy so smart. 'Mammy Phillis! Mammy Phillis!' he say: 'Mammy Phillis, what a pretty moon it is!' and then he say, 'Papa, up there-bright, bright as day!' 
                   
                  An' he not three years ole, de Lord have mercy! Well, well, this is a strange worl' I think-I think it is! 'bright, bright as day!'" 
                  And Aunt Phillis laughed in a low tone. 
                  "He was a mity pretty boy," she went on; "prettier an' any I mos' ever see: his face mos' shine! and I'm seein' of him now a-playin' with his baby-house, and toddlin' along, and makin' ev'rybody come and see it! Well-well-well, de Lord, he knows it was a trial when he was took down-an' when de flowers was tied upon his coffin, 'seemed to me I liked to cried. Poor little thing-but Jesus took him home! 'Mammy,' says she-his mother, my own blessed mistuss, says, my chile: 'mammy,' says she a-cryin', with her hair all hangin' down, and leanin' on the cradle': "mammy, he ain't cold, is he, O! don't say he's cold!'-and when I say, 'Now, mistuss, you go right back whar you come from!' how she shaked and cried! poor thing! The fust goes hard with em!-but Jesus took him home!" 
                  There was a strange pathos in the old woman's voice, and in the gloom it sounded infinitely pitiful and touching. 
                  "Dey buried him jis' when the sun was goin' down, and never did I see a coffin that was littler! The flowers was over it, and when they let it down thar in the e'rth, it seemed mos' like he was a flower too. 'Consider the lilies of the field,'-and mistuss set a-cryin' in the carridge-yes, she did!-poor mistuss! 'Mammy,' says she, that night: 'they didn't cut me any of his hair,' says she 'Oh me!' says she: 'why, why did God take all I have away from me?' says she. And then she go and fall down on her knees, and cry and say, 'Thy will be done-thy will be done, not mine,' says she. Poor mistress, she's in heaven now, 'long with the baby an' ole master. Jesus took 'em home." 
                  And Aunt Phillis rocked herself about, and began to croon in a low voice: 
                         
                           "The lamb, the lamb, the bleeding lamb, 
                           The lamb on Calvary; 
                           The lamb that was slain, but lives again, 
                           To intercede for me." 
                        
                     
                   
                  Lucia was silent-only in the darkness her tears begun to flow; and her heart was melted by the poor old woman's memories. These memories seemed to possess an infinite tenderness, and the voice of the old negro woman penetrated to the subtle and hidden fountain of tears. She seemed, thus, in a waking dream to see the past defile before her with its thousand scenes of every description-and even when those scenes, as now, were sad. Still the sadness seemed to be removed from them in some way, and they shone with a light brighter than that of earth. Memory like a tablet covered with signs, but crusted over by the thousand cares of life, seemed now to be made whole again-to be cleared from the obscuring material, and to shine in all its virgin purity. Was it approaching death which thus removed the mould from those impressions, and brought them out again so plainly? 
                  The old woman rambled on with many such memories as this one we have set down in her own words; and Lucia listened with a sad pleasure to the feeble words. 
                   
                  "Well, well, my chile," Aunt Phillis at length said, "I'm tirin' of you with my talkin'. Young folks don't know what ole folks is seen. I'm thinkin' it'll be all right in the end. 'Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.' I wont live long, and ain't afeard to go. My blessed Lord is callin' of me home, to glory. Yes, my chile, I'm goin' home. Oh, Lord, my strength! I'm comin' home!" 
                  With which the old woman crooned to herself the lines of a hymn, and taking a candle from the table lit it, and asked Lucia to read some for her. 
                  "What shall I read, Aunt Phillis?" said Lucia, in a tremulous voice. 
                  "Anywhere-everywhere-chile-De Lord, he knows I like it anywhere-jist where you choose." 
                  Lucia opened the Bible, and her eyes fell on those verses in which the great monarch of the Jews points as a warning to youth, the drooping days of age, and the shadows of approaching death. 
                  "In the day," Lucia read, "when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the window be darkened." 
                  "Be darkened," murmured Aunt Phillis, "and the light shineth in darkness." 
                  "When they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in their way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail, because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets." 
                   
                  "And the mourner goeth about the streets," repeated Aunt Phillis, in a low voice. 
                  "Or even the silken cord be loosened, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern. Then shall the dust return to the earth, as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it.' 
                  "Oh, yes, my chile! return to God! Oh, yes," said the old woman, solemnly, "that'll do, don't read no more, my chile-don't read no more." 
                  Lucia closed the book, and leaned her head upon her hand, gazing sadly into the fire. As she sat thus, she presented a strange contrast to the old negro woman, trembling upon the verge of life, and passing slowly into that darkness, which wraps from human eyes the mysterious future. Young, of delicate and touching beauty, and with that sad sweetness of eye and lip, which marks a high nature, thrown, unprepared and weak, on the rude surface of the world, Lucia could scarcely have presented a more perfect contrast to her companion. There was one thing in common, however, between these two beings-one tie, which has bound together, nations and tongues and peoples, in all ages-and this tie was stronger than any earthly difference. 
                  Lucia sat thus for some moments, gazing into the fire; and then raising her head, said, with a sad smile: 
                  "Aunt Phillis, I think I should like to die while I am young-I would not like to live a long, long time." 
                  "Leave it to God, my chile," said the old woman, "his own appointed time is bes'; and none of us ain't got no right to 'spect health always, or to 'scape ole age." 
                  "Oh, I didn't mean that?" 
                  "Didn't mean what, my chile?" 
                  "I didn't mean I was afraid of sickness or old age for the pain: but it might make me impatient and rebellious. I might think God had deserted me, because I suffered." 
                  "That ain't right, my child. We ain't got no right to have sich feelin's. He doeth all things well, an' like as a father pitieth his children-that's the way he sends down weakness and sickness and sufferin', bless de Lord." 
                  "Oh, yes: and indeed, indeed, I did not mean to say I would think God did not love me. Does he love me, Aunt Phillis?-oh, does he love me?" 
                  And Lucia covered her face and suppressed a sob, which came to her lips. 
                  "I know he does, my chile," said Aunt Phillis, "I know he does! Only believe!" 
                  "Oh, yes, I do believe! indeed, indeed, I do! I have been sick and sorrowful; but I am not sorrowful now! I didn't know if I believed, before I saw you, Aunt Phillis, but now I do!" 
                  And the child bent and sobbed and murmured. 
                  "Ellie made me think how sinful and rebellious I was, and I thought I heard God speak to me, and often since I thought he spoke to me! Oh, yes, Aunt Phillis, I believe-with all my heart!-I am only a child-a poor child-full of sin!-but-he will-not refuse me, when-I kneel and pray to him!" 
                  And overcome by emotion, the child's head drooped still lower, and only a few broken sobs revealed the depth of her agitation. 
                  Let us pause here. 
                  There are words which should not be repeated here for the indifferent, perhaps the sneering, though for such we care nothing-there are scenes which the writer lays down his pen in presence of, and passes onward with respect and silence as he gazes at them. Surely the pure emotion of a child, in whose innocent heart the first seeds of a sublime faith are sown, should not be laid bare, and dissected in the cold, material spirit of the anatomist, who thrusts his scalpel, with like carelessness, into whatever lies before him. No art can adequately portray such scenes-the infinite beauty of faith, and love, and singleness of heart, has never yet been cut in marble, or placed upon canvass, or described in words. 
                  Lucia sat with the old woman until the long hours of the night deepened and glided towards midnight: then she rose and assisted Aunt Phillis, who tottered feebly, to her bed: and then, with an affectionate good night, the child sought her own poor chamber, and was soon buried in sleep; the prayer she murmured, as her weary eyelids closed, still on her lips-still on her lips, but elsewhere heard and answered! 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXII. 
                  HOW AN UNKNOWN FRIEND SENT LUCIA A DRESS 
                  LUCIA was just opening her door to go down, on the next morning, when suddenly she heard a rapid step upon the stairway, and with one bound the feet which caused this noise reached her door, and a quick hand burst it open. 
                  Lucia found herself face to face with Wide-A wake. 
                  Wide-Awake was triumphant, resplendent, full of pride and happiness. He carried in his hand a bundle, which he threw from him immediately upon Lucia's bed. 
                  "There it is!" cried Wide-Awake; "it's my opinion that there's magic in the world; and if there ain't, there's what's jest as good-kind people!" 
                  And having disburdened himself of this observation, Wide-Awake took both of Lucia's hands in his, and gazed into her face with a singular mixture of mirth and bashfulness, of ease and awkwardness. 
                  It seemed suddenly to occur to him, however, that this proceeding was ambiguous-the position he had assumed presumptuous-and, in order to remove any appearance of strangeness, he pressed the hands he held, and said: 
                  "I say, Lucia-how d'ye do?" 
                  "I am very well, Sam," said Lucia, with the sad, sweet smile which characterized her; "what is that bundle? You quite frightened me." 
                  "Frightened you?" 
                  "You came in so suddenly, you know," said Lucia. 
                   
                  "So I did! The fact is, I'm a fool and a villain, Lucia, and nothing else." 
                  "Oh! how can you say such-" 
                  "Cause it's true. Here I am, frightenin' a young 'ooman who's a friend-you're my friend, ain't you, Lucia?" said Wide-Awake, with a bashful look. 
                  "Oh, yes-indeed, I-like you so much, for your kindness-and goodness." 
                  There was quite as much bashfulness in Lucia's voice as in Wide-Awake's; and it was not difficult to see that the affection of the boy was returned by the child. 
                  "Goodness!" cried Wide-Awake, "don't say it no more! Don't, Lucia! Oh, my eyes!-leastways," added Wide-Awake, "that's not the sort o' talk for you, an' so I take it back! What a low fellow I am, Lucia!" 
                  And Wide-Awake stood in horror at his own character. 
                  "Don't say nothin! he added. "I am! and you can't make me b'lieve I ain't. But I'm gittin' 'refined,' as I hear the swells say. Think o' Wide-Awake gittin' refined-and all along of you!" 
                  The idea seemed to tickle Wide-Awake, and he laughed so merrily that Lucia almost laughed too. 
                  "Here's a fool for you!" continued Wide-Awake. "Here I am a talkin' 'bout myself, an' there's that bundle-" 
                  "Oh, what is it?" 
                  "It's a dress-look there!" 
                  And Wide-Awake tore open the parcel, into which he had already peeped, in his quality of friend-perhaps to convince himself that it contained no infernal machine, 
                      
                        WIDE-AWAKE BRINGS A PRESENT FROM AN UNKNOWN FRIEND. 
                     
                     
                      directed by some rival of the peerless Lucia against that lady's life. 
                  "It's a warm, nice frock," he said, "just look!" 
                  Lucia opened the bundle and took out just what Wide-Awake described-a warm, nice frock. 
                  "Oh, me!" she said, "there's some mistake! where did you get it, Sam?" 
                  "It was giv' into my hands jest now" said Wide-Awake, "there at the bottom of the stairs." 
                  "At the door?" 
                  "Yes. I was comin' to see you, Lucia, sayin' to myself, I was a fool to stay away so long-most two days-because the people would be thinkin'-well, never mind, that ain't no matter," Wide-Awake said, breaking off, "I was comin' to see you, an' when I got to the bottom of the steps, I see a black fellow lookin' round as if he couldn't see no perfessional sign, and didn't know where anybody lived. 'Now, uncle,' says I, 'don't be hurtin' of your eyes; but if you'r lookin, for lawyer Wide-Awake, say so, an' no more.' 'I ain't,' he says, 'I'm lookin' for a little gal o' name o' Lucia.' When I heard that, I told him I was goin' up, and what did he want. He said this bundle was for you, an' he was not to say who sent it-an' I jerked it out of his hand, an' brought it up, an' peeped into it, an' it's such a warm, nice dress-hoora!" 
                  And Wide-Awake took the frock, and opened it and gazed at it with pride and delight. 
                  "Who could have sent it!" said Lucia, with a look of deepest surprise, "who could have thought of me?" 
                   
                  Wide-Awake seemed to consider the circumstance much less extraordinary than it appeared to Lucia. 
                  Suddenly he uttered an exclamation, and caught, as it fell, a note which was wrapped in one of the folds. 
                  "Here's the owner's name-here it is! He gives it to you!" 
                  And Wide-Awake tore open the note, and with inborn politeness held it without looking at it, toward Lucia. 
                  The child took it, and read: 
                  "For the child, Lucia, from one who cares nothing for her, asks no gratitude, and would receive no thanks." 
                  Lucia's hand sank down, and she looked at Wide-Awake with so much astonishment and bewildering surprise, that he held out his hand for the letter; and took it and read it. 
                  "It's my opinion," he said, at length, "that this here dress has fallen down from the skies!" 
                  "Oh! some good person has given it to me." 
                  "I don't know that," said Wide-Awake, sapiently, "I believe its magic!" 
                  And he read the letter again, but could, of course, make nothing of it. The boy and girl could speak of nothing else for an hour; and yet, at the end of that time, they were quite as far from the solution of the mystery as ever. 
                  "Oh!" Lucia cried, suddenly, "could it have been!-could it-!" 
                  "Who, Lucia!" 
                  "The old doctor who comes to see Ellie's uncle." 
                  "Who? Doctor Fossyl!" 
                   
                  "Yes." 
                  Wide-Awake laughed in derision. 
                  "That man's a perfect tiger, he is," said the boy, "he screws out every cent he can get, and would see you freeze before he'd open his hand to help you. What could 'a' made you think of him, Lucia?" 
                  "I thought-when Ellie-that is, I think he heard Ellie offer me her dress-a new one-he was at the door-and he might have heard Ellie say how thin my old one was-oh yes! I think it was Doctor Fossyl! I know it is!" 
                  Lucia uttered these words with an accent of such deep conviction, that Wide-Awake found himself staggered. 
                  "Well," he said, "nothin's impossible, I've heard people say, and Doctor Fossyl may be the man! But if he is, I'll go and git down on my knees and ask his pardon for my treatin' him so badly!" 
                  Wide-Awake seemed to be seized with the deepest contrition, as he uttered these words, and hung his head. 
                  "Treating him badly?" asked Lucia, "you treat Doctor Fossyl badly?" 
                  "Yes, Lucia! don't consider me a villain! I done so at him," and Wide-Awake extended his finger over his left shoulder, "and told him to take care of himself an' not bile!" 
                  The recollection of this enormity seemed to plunge Wide-Awake into the depths of remorse. 
                  "Never mind," said Lucia, "that was only a jest, and if he is so good and sent me this frock, he will not think badly of you for such a thing." 
                   
                  "I'll go and beg his pardon, and tell him after all his goodness to you, Lucia-" 
                  "Oh! no, no!" said Lucia, "you know the letter says he wants no thanks, and maybe you had better not. How good it was in him! My old dress is nearly gone!" 
                  And Lucia gazed simply at her thin and worn old frock. 
                  This observation made Wide-Awake perfectly miserable; and with this misery was mingled the jealousy he felt, at seeing another relieve the suffering of his Lucia, while he was unable. 
                  "Oh, me! why ain't I rich!" he said. 
                  "Rich! Sam?" 
                  "Oh, yes! I can't do nothin' for you." 
                  Lucia smiled, and looking at the honest face with her kind and tender eyes, said: 
                  "Maybe it's better you are not rich, Sam; you would have other things to think of, and we wouldn't be such friends." 
                  "Wouldn't be! Oh, my eyes! Lucia! I'd come in a chariot an' carry you away-and-and-and-leastways I would ask you-you will soon be grown, you know-" 
                  And overwhelmed with agitation at this near approach to an avowal of his love and hopes, poor Wide-Awake's countenance was covered with crimson, and his eyes fell to the ground. 
                  Lucia understood his meaning, and a faint color came into her cheeks, and she was silent. She soon regained her self-possession, however, and said softly and sadly: 
                  "It is a great comfort to have such a kind good friend; but don't talk so, Sam. You are so kind-but you must not think I want anything-I'm very well off now-I work for Aunt Phillis, and you must not spend any of your money as you have been doing for me." 
                  Lucia then folded up the dress, and laid it away; and recalled to her duties by the name of Aunt Phillis, opened the door, and, accompanied by Wide-Awake, went down. 
                  As to Wide-Awake, his feelings seemed to choke him, for he uttered not a single word; and only gazed at Lucia with a sort of vague wonder, as if she was a curious and astonishing problem which he could not solve. His glances took in all the details of her face and figure-the dark liquid eyes-the raven hair-the sad, innocent lips:-lastly they fell upon her thin and flimsy dress, through which, as they descended, the freezing wind cut pitilessly, into the shivering person. This last spectacle brought a groan from Wide-Awake; and all he could do was to wring Lucia's hand, and groan again, after which he departed, with his head over his right shoulder, into the bleak distance. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIII. 
                  WHAT BETTER EPITAPH! 
                  LUCIA stood for a moment gazing after him; and something like a sigh issued from her parted lips. She suppressed the feeling, however, which produced this exhibition of emotion, and descended into Aunt Philis' cellar. 
                   
                  Aunt Phillis had taken in that one dim night a long stride toward the land she was rapidly approaching. She seemed now lying in her bed, to pass away in thought from the real world around her into the world of memory, or forward to that brighter universe where there is no death, or suffering, or sighing. 
                  "Peace to me, my chile, I'm goin' over Jordan," said Aunt Phillis, feebly, as she handed back the cup from which she had drank a little tea; "I see a vision in the night, and I'm a-goin'." 
                  "Oh, Aunt Phillis," said the child, "You distress me so by talking in that way! You are only a little sick, and you'll soon be well." 
                  Oh, no, I won't my chile! Oh, no, I won't-don't think I will! De Lord is bin a-callin' me, and I'm a-goin!" 
                  After uttering these words, the old woman clasped her hands outside of the counterpane, and closing her eyes, seemed to be praying. 
                  "Read me a little o' the good book, my chile," she said, at length," 'pears to me it sounds like music-oh, yes! like de blessed music ob de skies-oh, yes! read-'bout it, chile!" 
                  And the old woman closed her eyes, and sank back, murmuring a prayer. 
                  The child, with a sort of awe, opened the Bible, and wiping away the tears which obscured her eyes, and made the words swim before her, commenced reading those words, in which the beloved disciple closes up his sublime revelation. 
                  "And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God, and of the Lamb. In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations." 
                  Aunt Phillis murmured to herself in a low voice, "For the healing of the nations! Oh, yes! for the healing of the nations, black an' white!" 
                  The child continued in a low voice. 
                  "And there shall be no more curse; but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him: and they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads. And there shall be no night there: and they need no candle neither light of the sun, for the Lord God giveth them light; and they shall reign forever and ever." 
                  The old woman repeated the last words in a low tone, and sighed. The child read on, and came to the words: 
                  "And behold I come quickly, and my reward is with me to give every man according as his work shall be. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last." 
                  "Oh, yes, he's comin' quickly to me," murmured Aunt Phillis: "I can hear him comin' quickly-oh, my God! I see him comin' like the mornin' in the sky!" 
                  "I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star," read the child; "and the Spirit and the bride say come. And let him that heareth say come-and let him that is athirst come, and whosoever will, let him take the water of life, freely." 
                  These words seemed to cause the feeble old soul a pleasure and content too deep for words: and when the child read, "He which testifieth these things saith, surely I come quickly, Amen. Even so come, Lord Jesus," the weak lips repeated the words in a murmur, and the thin hands were clasped in deep content and hope. 
                  All that day the old woman lay in a sort of ecstacy, her thoughts busy with the past and the future. Again her memory seemed to grow preternaturally vivid, and from the broken words she uttered, she seemed to be again thrown actually back to the far past, and to live it over again, with all its emotions, pleasant or bitter, glad or sorrowful:-and then all these reveries would melt and fade, and surging forward like a tide, which has retreated only to collect its strength, the heart and soul, and being of the dying woman poured upon those far mysterious shores, wrapped for us in an impervious mist, but dimly seen by those who are passing slowly from the present to the future. 
                  Who knows how far the eyes of the dying penetrate into that hidden universe-or who can tell what visions the soul, nearly divorced from matter, is capable of beholding, even before the parting with its prison-house, the body? Often upon the countenance of a dying child may be seen an expression of intelligence most startling, and the eyes will be full of a light which never illumined them before. As often will a smile, brighter than anything on earth, light up the little countenance, and scarcely a tremor of the lip, a movement of the frame, will interpose between those two mysteries, Life and Death. It is not a sorrowful belief-the conviction that the infant sinking thus, pulse after pulse, into the glory of heaven, sees something of that glory as he passes from the shadows of this world:-that before his eyes the "pure lilies of eternal peace," wave in the light of a new universe, where the snapped earthly flowers will grow again-that heaven opens before life has closed, and that the lover of little children bends down, taking in his arms the soul thus balanced on its wings, ready to take its flight. 
                  If the old dying woman saw not with the actual eye, she still saw by faith. And this faith was perfect enough to cover her face with a happiness which made Lucia gaze wonderingly at her. 
                  Lucia remained with her until a number of her friends came; and then she went up to her room, and kneeled down and prayed for her. 
                  All that day Aunt Phillis' friends came and went with the strange curiosity and interest which characterizes the African mind, on such occasions. It soon came to be known that sister Phillis was dying, and her children, who lived all about the city, in different capacities, gathered around her dying bed, and listened to her last words. 
                  Just as the sun was setting, the old woman murmured lowly, "Jesus, my Lord, come quickly,"-and then her spirit took its flight; and a wail rose from the poor cellar, which had in it something so wild and solemn, that the careless passers by, stopped and looked down, and then went on their way in silence. 
                  Lucia lay on her bed and cried, until she was weak and sick: thinking of the hundred kind things the old woman had done for her-of the words of hope and comfort she had uttered. Struck thus by another affliction, so soon after the death of her father, the child's spirit sank within her; and she sobbed and cried, and could only utter broken words of prayer. 
                  The night passed away, almost without slumber on her part, and only toward morning could she snatch an hour or two of slumber. No one can tell what a tempest of thought and suffering raged in the child's heart, through those long and weary hours. Her heart had begun to twine its delicate tendrils around the affectionate old woman-and, long deprived of a mother's care and love, the child had found in the hearty goodness of Aunt Phillis, that sympathy which she needed, and which nothing but a child, or those who remember the feeling of their childhood, will adequately realize. Now she was taken from her, just when she was becoming a solace to the child; and with her passed away also, that means of support-of procuring daily bread-which Lucia knew not elsewhere to seek. 
                  But of this she did not think. Her whole heart was full of weeping for her poor old friend: and when she rose in the early morning, it seemed to her that the sunshine had grown dark, the world colder and more weary, that she was once more thrown alone and friendless into the bleak, pitiless world, without a hope of happiness or consolation. 
                  She tried to read her Bible, but she had not learned to surrender her whole heart and being at that altar, and the tears in her eyes made the words swim. She closed the book, and went mechanically to kindle her small fire-for the room was bitter cold. She forgot that her last piece of wood had been used-and gazing at the empty corner, with a sort of dumb and vacant surprise, she went and lay down on the bed again, and covered her head, and sobbed. 
                  Hour after hour passed away, and the silence was broken by no sound but the stifled sobs of the child. Ellie came in once, but seeing Lucia sleeping, as she thought, went softly out again. 
                  About noon, a voice was heard from the cellar, where a great concourse had gathered:-and the solemn tones of this voice indicated that the speaker was praying. Lucia rose and put back her hair, and went out on the stairway, crying. 
                  Leaning upon the railing, cold and solemn, Doctor Fossyl listened to the prayer, and muttered to himself. 
                  The speaker ended, and a hymn followed-one of those simple hymns, which have scarcely any prescribed words, but a fixed chorus, which all are acquainted with and sing: 
                         
                           "Come and will you go, 
                           Will you go? will you go? 
                           Come and will you go 
                           Where pleasure never dies!" 
                        
                     
                   
                  The strain rang out-loud, solemn, and impressive-and then it ceased: and the mourners seemed to be preparing to follow the body to its long home. 
                   
                  One of the negro women came out and entered the door, and stood looking on, as the concourse entered the carriages, and moved on. 
                  It moved on slowly, and turned into a side street, and disappeared. 
                  The woman covered her face with her hand, and seemed to be crying. A cynical smile flitted across the face of Doctor Fossyl, as he gazed, and descending the stairs, he touched her shoulders, and said: 
                  "Why are you crying?" 
                  "For sister Phillis, bless de Lord!" said the woman, "she done, gone." 
                  "Did you know her-have you lost anything by her death?" 
                  "Oh, no, sir; but I bin see heap of her, an' it makes me sorry to be thinkin' of her. She come in my house-she did-an' sot down to'ther day, an' I thought she look 'sif she was a-goin'. But I say, 'how well you is a-lookin', sister Phillis;' but I didn't think so, only said it like to make her easy. 'No, I ain't a-lookin' well, says she; 'I ain't long for this worl', sister Jane,' says she. I tole her not to be talkin' so-she'd soon be well, if she stopped ironin' in the draught, with her door open, an' she weak an' poorly. 'No, I ain't goin' to git well,' says she; 'I know my time's a-comin', fast, an' I'm a-goin. You won't b'lieve it till you see me on the coolin' board,' says she, 'I'm goin', fast.' I tole her, she was gittin' down-hearted, but she said, she wasn't. 'No, sister Jane,' says she, 'I ain't long for this worl'-I'm goin' over Jordan, soon.' She ironed a shirt for me, but she got so weak an' sick-like, I tole her she must stop-she wasn't fittin' for no work-no, not at home. 'I'm 'bleeged to do my customer's clothes,' says she; an' after a little she got up and went away. Soon after, she was took, an' went to bed, and yesterday mornin' she knowed she was a-goin' home. Her children wouldn't b'lieve 'cause she talked sense-but she called 'em to her, an' shook hands with 'em, an' tole 'em good-bye. 'I'm good as gone,' says she; 'I'm goin' over Jordan,' bless de Lord.' Her son jes' fell back, same like he was dead, an' she turned round, and soon they found her dead. Poor Phillis, gone!" 
                  And the speaker covered her face, and began to cry again. Then without waiting further she went away-returning to her work, which had prevented her from following her friend. 
                  Doctor Fossyl looked after her for a moment-gazed coldly at Lucia, who stood crying on the steps-and then pushing by the child, went hastily to the apartment of Joe Lacklitter. 
                  Lucia sat down upon the steps, and covered her face, and sobbing as if her heart would break, uttered the words "Aunt Phillis! Oh, Aunt Phillis! why, why, can't I go with you! Why can't I go with you!" 
                  What better epitaph. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXIV. 
                  IN THE ARENA: WITH SKETCHES OF THE GLADIATORS. 
                  LET us now pass from these scenes on which our history has essayed to delineate faintly something of the life which forms the annals of the poor, to those other scenes and personages of the narrative which we have not been able to attend to, busy as we were in tracing the emotions and relating the adventures of the child Lucia, and her friends, Wide-Awake and Ellie. 
                  The difficulty in a narrative like the history we have made the attempt to write, is not the detail of the particular scenes, or the representation of those characteristic traits which make a picture of some value. The connection of the incidents is the great task. The writer finds no difficulty in embracing at a glance the personages, the incidents, and the end to which the whole group moves:-but there is another element of the problem which must never be lost sight of-and that is the reader. For the reader, however intelligent and sympathizing, there must always be a more or less literal explanation; for careless, indifferent, and unsympathizing readers there must be more-a demonstration. If the links of the history are not forged completely and wrapped up in flowers, all at a single blow, these latter say that it is awkward, hastily composed, a bad work of art;-if anything is left to the imagination, it is obscure;-if everything is explained, and dwelt upon, and turned in every light-then it is tedious. There never has been a writer whose greatest bugbear was not an unsympathizing reader. 
                  This is the explanation of our fear, in passing from a series of scenes and characters, to another wholly different:-and we can only ask the reader to follow us, convinced as we are, that in the end the connection of every page of the narrative will be conclusively shown. 
                  We return to Mr. Incledon and his fortunes. 
                  Since the morning when, in the presence of Ellie, this gentleman and his cousin held that singular conversation, so filled with coldness and irritation upon the one part, and so calm and self-possessed upon the other-a hundred things had happened, which had still further tended to place in an attitude of hostility these two personages, who sustained toward each other such singular relations. 
                  Miss Incledon had spoken truly in charging her cousin with an affection for herself, amounting to a warmer sentiment than fraternal regard. Placed under his care by her father-thrown with him at almost every hour of the day-he had, indeed, dreamed for a time that she could make him happy as his wife; and he had shown her that she was more to him than any other woman. Beautiful, winning, possessed of those traits of mind which enable some women to throw themselves at a moment's warning into any mould, to assume any character, Miss Incledon had easily convinced her cousin that the sentiment he felt for herself was not more than she experienced for him; and this had been the position of things, when one evening, at a ball, Miss Incledon made the acquaintance of Mr. Fantish. 
                   
                  There must be a magnetic sympathy between persons of a like mould of character, and although we do not mean to intimate that the characters of Miss Incledon and Mr. Fantish were similar, yet they had no sooner met than they were mutually struck with each other, and had thus commenced an acquaintance, whose further progress quite drove from the lady's heart any lingering sentiment of dubious regard she might have had for her cousin. Ambitious, and avid of all that enters into the daily life of a professed votary of fashion, Miss Incledon saw in Mr. Fantish a complete embodiment of what she worshipped; and learning speedily that his father was a man of large wealth, and he himself by no means without fortune of his own, she had assiduously addressed herself to the task of winning his admiration-and so of becoming his wife. 
                  It would be too much, to say that Miss Incledon loved Mr. Fantish. She was scarcely capable of any sentiment so exalted and pure as genuine love: and the miserable idol she had erected for her worship-Fashion, first, last and always-had corrupted, slowly but surely, any freshness of heart which she retained. To become the wife of a man who was regarded as the very light of fashion in its brightest and most glaring form-to be the mistress of a fine establishment, and drink to satiety of that intoxicating draught which bubbles up in the heated atmosphere of balls, and festivals, and splendid entertainments-this was Miss Incledon's ambition; and the steps by which she thought she could arrive at such a consummation were those to be taken to the altar, with her hand in the delicate kid glove of Mr. Fantish. 
                  The feelings of the gentleman, upon whose hand this adroit attack was destined to be made, may be described quite as briefly. Mr. Fantish liked what he was accustomed to style a "splendid woman"-that is to say a woman whose physical development was admirable, and whose society enabled him to kill a portion of his time to his satisfaction. Mr. Fantish did not acknowledge the presence of character, good or bad, in women: they were pleasant figures, more or less well dressed, to wile away an hour with; and when he met a figure, to carry out the illustration, more than commonly imposing and well decorated, he admired it with perfect sincerity and honesty. He was in the habit of saying that women reminded him of leopards, such as he had seen in menageries; and he showed the analogy between them, by declaring that both were handsome, had sharp claws, and obeyed only those whom they feared. You felt a desire to caress both, he would add-to pass the hand over the beautiful hair of the one, or the velvet fur of the other-and if a man had the nerve to indulge in these dangerous amusements, he would add, then he was a very lucky fellow, and deserved to be envied. These opinions were no secrets from Mr. Fantish's friends, and, indeed, the expression of such views contributed in no slight degree to the amusement which his acquaintances derived from their association with him. There was another species of conversation very popular in the select circle of this gentleman's friends, which we forbear from touching upon. We may however say, that it dealt in a philosophy not favorable to the strength of female character; and found its most frequent illustrations in quotations from the works of my Lord Byron. 
                  When Mr. Fantish made Miss Incledon's acquaintance, he immediately applied the leopard philosophy, and found the result eminently satisfactory. He had not seen such a "splendid woman" for a long time-and indeed the lady's brilliant complexion, bright eyes, and coral lips, fresh from the healthful airs of the country, easily gave her the precedence of the great majority of town beauties, painfully reduced in "good looks" by the season, ending far in the spring. Mr. Fantish had admired Miss Incledon quite honestly, and had paid her many compliments, which she had heard of course, and was perfectly sincere when he said that she was much the finest woman he had seen for years. When a man has this opinion of a woman and the woman wishes him to have a still better opinion, it is needless to say that she generally finds means to give him an opportunity. It soon happened that Miss Incledon was "at home" to nobody but a gentleman who drove the most splendid pair of horses in the city-and who descended daily almost from his vehicle at her door. 
                  When our history opened, this had been for some time the state of affairs between Miss Incledon and her admirer-though not entirely this. Mr. Fantish was not a refined man-his taste was not very fastidious-but he had seen a great deal of good society, knew by heart everything connected with the "properties of things," and really could not, no! he could not stand-he told his friends-the desperate affection of Miss Incledon. He had known many women-many of them had acted most extravagantly, for instance, that little danseuse who was distracted about him-but really a more desperate attack than that of Miss Incledon, he never had been yet subjected to. He had heard, he said, of unhappy lovers, weeping and sighing, and lamenting the obduracy of their lady-loves, but his was an opposite fate. He was destined to be smothered with embraces-if he would allow it-to be stifled with kisses-if he did not resist: his fate, in a word, was to be wooed and won by a woman, and he really did not know where all this would end. And then a good deal of laughter would ensue, and Mr. Fantish would be regarded as a persecuted saint, and Miss Incledon as a young lady who wished to throw herself into the arms of a man who repulsed her. 
                  The reader will now be able to understand the position which Mr. Incledon's cousin had been made to assume, by these base and ignoble accusations, which the thoroughly corrupt man of the world, uttered in the most public places. When we have briefly spoken of the character of Mr. Incledon, which as yet we have barely touched upon, the rebound of these degrading jests upon that gentleman, will be also comprehended in all its terrible force. 
                  The son of a country gentleman of great strength of character and chivalric feeling, Ralph Incledon, had early developed a character, which made many persons say he was destined to live over again the life of his grandfather, the most violent and dangerous man of his time in all the country side. He seemed to inherit a passion for every-thing in which an enormous and superabundant vitality and energy could find vent. A passionate hunter, he would ride his horse nearly to death after a fox, or remain out whole days and nights, deer hunting-and thus he passed his boyhood, in exercises which developed his frame into a bundle of steel tissues, and his natural energy into a devouring passion for excitement. 
                  From the fields and forests he passed to college, where, in the midst of a new life and new associates, he became noted for precisely the same animal traits which had brought forth the hostile predictions of the wiseacres of his native county. He could ride more vicious horses, swim more turbid streams, and fence with more dangerous adversaries, even after a few lessons, than any other young man in the place. He had struck the fencing master him-self after his fourth lesson: and the plain explanation of all this was that strength which he had trained so assiduously, and the restless energy of his temperament, which must eternally be struggling with something, as though this were the only condition upon which it rested from tearing its master. To this character, he added the most extreme sensitiveness and pride. Of powerful will with a resolution wholly indomitable, he would tremble at a jest directed at his honor, and risk his life to punish it. He had more than once engaged in affrays of the bloodiest description, against great odds, and nothing but a blind chance, it seemed to him, had preserved him from the bullet or the knife. This sensitiveness amounted almost to a mania; and it seemed nearly a miracle that a man so ready to resent the least supposed slight, had not long ago fallen in some desperate encounter. His great personal strength, and resolution were so well known, however, that he had been avoided by his companions: and it was the conviction of this fact which made him one day set down and reflect coolly upon his own character, and the direction in which it was leading him. By one of those sudden revulsions which not seldom happen to men of powerful organization, he passed from one extreme to the other, and forswearing all his former habits applied himself night and day to the mastery of all the fields of thought which extended themselves before him, inviting him to come and take possession. Feeling an inborn and extreme hatred of mathematics, he attacked that first; and then passed to the languages and belles letters. In all, his great energy carried him forward over difficulties which his previous neglect of study had rendered a thousand times more repulsive. Persisting in his resolution, he went on in the course he had marked out for himself, and before the session ended, he had acquired a devouring passion for the most intense study. His vigorous and close mind found its true element in those conflicts which go on from generation to generation among the forces of adverse philosophies and systems; and, grappling now with the most acute dialecticians, his mind seemed to live its normal life so to speak, of sustained and powerful action. 
                  Returning home with this change in his character, he went on in spite of the astonishment of his associates- turning his attention to the profoundest analysis of the strongest thinkers, on all the great questions of human concern-a contest in which he spent three years. At the end of that time he had become a free-thinker-for his studies latterly were among the dry dogmas of conflicting theological systems. In this state of mind, he threw aside his tomes, went to that greatest fruit and treasure of the Reformation, an open Bible; and thenceforth made it his study, not his reading only-his intense, exhausting single study. For a year, he scarcely took another volume in his hand; and the result of this, as we believe will always be the result, was a profound conviction of the eternal truth of Christianity. With this logical conviction came that other mystery, which would be like the shadow to the substance, were it not the substance itself, and the logical conviction but the shadow. He united himself to the church, and then this man's life was forever changed. From that time he had but one aim in life-to subdue his passions; to go through an immense conflict, and finally to apply himself to some work which should seem to him worthy of a faith and energy such as he felt himself possessed of. 
                  He determined to go from the scenes which had witnessed so many outbursts of passion; and to remain for a while among the crowds which people streets. He would apply himself during this time to some study-law, or any thing he determined-and all this he did. His father had put his cousin under his charge, and said to him-"Ralph, watch over her as a brother,"-and this he had done, passing his days thus in study, observation, and the half-formed shadow of love. He had met Mr. Sansoucy upon his arrival-they were old friends, in the country; and Mr. Fantish, too, was no stranger. He had known that gentleman at college. 
                  This then, was the man to whom suddenly came the vague, mocking rumor, he scarcely knew whence, that the young girl over whose welfare he had promised to watch, had become the jest of society, the subject of gossip, nay, of positive calumny, by the base agency of a man of his acquaintance. The entrance of the very thought into his mind, caused a crimson flush to come over his countenance-and his eyes flashed. He rose to his full height, and cast downwards, as though towards this man, a glance of disdainful incredulity. Then this expression passed, and he grew deadly pale. 
                  The words he had heard struck him doubly:-in his pride, and his love. Dishonor! Could actual dishonor ever approach him, and from such a source as this man whom he well knew? For a time he gave way to his fury, and broke everything which stood in his way, as he paced his room; then he sat down, and pondered, and grew calm, and prayed; and from that moment held such a curb upon himself as few men have ever been able to do. 
                  We have seen how, even in his interview with Miss Incledon, he spoke with the utmost calmness-and again, how, at the ball, only a shadow and a contraction of his brows had indicated the existence of the slumbering volcano of passion beneath. 
                  Since the ball, some scenes of which we touched upon, the reports of Mr. Fantish's speeches, and the jests they produced, had been more and more terribly trying to Mr. Incledon's pride:-and it is just at this time, that we again resume the thread, which we lost sight of for a time, in the consideration of those things which befel Aunt Phillis, Lucia, and their friends. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXV. 
                  THE OPERA OF DON GIOVANNI. 
                  SITTING in his room at midnight, Mr. Incledon leaned back in his chair, and allowing the law volume he had been studying to fall upon the floor, gave himself up to the flood of thought, which had been distracting his attention for hours. 
                  It was seldom that he yielded in this way; and one of his rules was to repel any such thoughts, and bend his mind down to the writer he was studying. But the match which his brain had set fire to burnt slowly until it reached the train of inflammable thought, and then it ignited, and the dead speaker whom he had been listening to, was no longer heard-the present claimed the student's sole attention. 
                  For a moment he remained silent, his brows curved into a frown; his mouth full of melancholy and menace, his eye lowering and dark. 
                  Chancing to raise his eyes to the mirror over his mantelpiece, their expression attracted his attention; and with a sigh, the curve of the lips relaxed-the brow became smooth again, and the eyes grew calm. 
                  "Well, well," he said, "it has come to this at last. Force against force, body to body, the only difference being that one of the combatants is fully armed, the other naked and deprived of every weapon. Of every weapon? No! how weak my faith! There is a strength in my weakness, a power in my disarmed condition which makes me stronger than any earthly adversary." 
                  He paused, and remained for some time silent: his countenance gradually growing more and more calm and collected. 
                  "What a singular thing," he said, at length, "that I should thus refuse the weapon placed in my hand,-that I should disarm myself-and draw back from the contest to which I am defied. If I chose, I might easily delude myself into the belief that I was the proper instrument to punish this crime-and were I to kill the criminal, society would hail me with applause, as one who had legitimately acted in defence of a most sacred thing-my honor, and my cousin's honor. But this poor thing, the world's applause! this froth upon the tide of human life, which so many persons grasp at-God be thanked, I do not look to it in shaping my own acts. I look higher! Oh, yes, infinitely higher!-even to thee, O, my God!" he murmured, solemnly, "to thee alone. In thy hands are the issues of life and death-thou judgest, I do not-thou claimest vengeance as the prerogative of thy divinity! If the stars of heaven in their courses fought against Sisera, I can trust to that heavenly aid to-day! Yes, yes! all these poor passions of wrath and jealousy and rage soon pass, and fade, and God alone remains-the creature is alone with his Creator-above all earthly things-above father and mother, children and native land-alone with God!" 
                  And raising his eyes toward heaven, his looks seemed to penetrate into the sublime empyrean, which stretches clear and calm far up above the mists and clouds, and agitation of the earthly atmosphere beneath. 
                  "It may be a hard trial," he murmured, gazing again into the fire: "but I think I am equal to it-I am not so weak and passionate as I was-and look more and more to duty. My duty is now plain, and I will perform it." 
                  As he spoke, a step resounded on the stairway, and in a few minutes the door opened, giving entrance to our friend, Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  "Ah, Ralph! Ralph! what a student you are!" said Sansoucy, with his clear, good-humored voice. "You really ought to take some recreation, and not mew yourself up thus-though, faith! you may have been abroad, and returned, considering the hour." 
                  With these words Sansoucy shook his friend by the hand, and sitting down, threw back his overcoat, and stretched himself. 
                  Having performed this ceremony, he rose, took a cigar from the mantel piece, and commenced smoking with the air of a man who has a long evening before him until bed-time, and is determined to take his leisure. The explanation of this circumstance was that in right of his membership of the editorial army, Mr. Sansoucy was eccentric in his hours, and, indeed, preferred the shades of night for study, toil, or friendly interchange of thoughts. "Proof" is an enemy which keeps terribly late hours, is partial to night forays, and must never find the sentinel asleep:-perhaps his frequent contact with this adverse force at late hours, had given Mr. Sansoucy his bad talent of retiring and rising late. 
                  To-night, however, he had a perfectly valid excuse for calling on a friend toward the hour of one:-he had been to the opera, came in, in passing, and he informed Mr. Incledon of the fact. 
                  "I, on the contrary, have been studying," said Mr. Incledon; "less amusing, but more profitable." 
                  "I deny that," said Sansoucy, laughing; "there is much profit in good music-it refines the character." 
                  "Well-perhaps." 
                  "It elevates the spiritual and poetic portion of the mind-" 
                  "And never the sensuous?" 
                  "Hum! as you have just said-'perhaps.'" 
                  "There is no perhaps upon the subject, Ernest," said his friend; "there is an absolute fact which admits of demonstration; and if the Grecian Lais, or the Roman Messalina could stand there before us, and reply to my interrogatories, I could soon persuade you that the lyrics of Ionia, with her dames, intoxicated both these lands, and ruined them. You are a philosopher, and I need not therefore point you to old Burton." 
                  "I a philosopher! why, you are mistaken." 
                  "Well, I will not argue that subject with you. What was the opera?" 
                   
                  "Don Giovanni." 
                  "Oh-indeed? Well, I have seen it, and the music is wonderful." 
                  "What a splendid dramatic conception Leporello is, and his music." 
                  "What a scoundrel he is," continued Sansoucy; "but I never can refrain from laughing, when he enters singing the glory of his master. What diabolical music! It is the scapin of French comedy set to a tune! And when he points to the roll of ladies' names in his hand-all of whom have been in love with the Seor, his master, what a soul of scoffing Mozart's music possesses-you begin to feel convinced that dishonor, knavery, and that fraud upon woman which is as miserable a thing, says some one, as to cheat a child at cards-that all these things are really amusing and admirable, and delightfully entertaining. You really begin to admire the successful Don, before whom no fortress stands-and when Leporello sang his triumphant song, I saw old Doctor Fossyl shaking with cynical delight-a terribly bad sign, and unmistakeable." 
                  "Is this the music which you consider spiritual?" 
                  "Faith! that isn't fair, Ralph!" said Sansoucy, with the air of a man who is very badly used. 
                  "What, Ernest?" 
                  "Why to lead me thus into a free and friendly expression of opinion upon the opera I have seen to-night, and then to clamp down on me, like a steel trap, for some chance word I uttered on the general topic! It's always thus, however, with you logicians," added Sansoucy, smiling; "you can't converse, and allow a man to contradict himself in silence. You must argue, forsooth! and when you get the better of the argument, you are satisfied, and triumph-without thinking of the thousand agreeable things your argument has strangled! There it is! deny that the portrait is your own." 
                  In spite of the great good humor of Mr. Sansoucy's accent, a shadow seemed to have settled upon Mr. Incledon's face, and he was silent. 
                  At last he raised his head, and said: 
                  Excuse me, Ernest, I am dull to-night. Who was at the opera?" 
                  "Oh, everybody." 
                  "Some names." 
                  "Faith, ask me some, and I will tell you." 
                  "Was my cousin there!" 
                  "Miss Incledon?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Certainly she was-with that delightful Mr. Fantish, who really is the most disagreeable man in the world-to me, at least." 
                  And Sansoucy smoked his cigar without looking at his friend. A deeper shadow had settled upon his countenance and he was silent. 
                  "Miss Incledon looked beautiful," continued Sansoucy, gazing into the fire, "and I really could not wonder at the attention she attracted. She was the centre of all eyes." 
                  "Was she?" said Mr. Incledon, with a pallor which made his eyes resemble two coals set in the face of a spectre. 
                  "Yes," Sansoucy said, "and Mr. Fantish also was quite a lion. He seemed to enjoy the opera, I think-in fact, Zerlina's song was admirably done. Why, Ralph," said Sansoucy, turning round, "you are as white as a sheet! Are you sick?" 
                  "No-I felt badly-sitting so long here;-how did the opera end-with the catastrophe, as usual?" 
                  And having uttered these words with an affectation of indifference, which would have deeply touched Sansoucy if he had known all, Mr. Incledon leaned back, and gradually grew calm, as his friend spoke. 
                  "It ended admirably," said Sansoucy. "The statue of the commander came in duly; the Don went through his 'doom-stagger,' as I remember seeing it styled in some high-flown critique, and it ended with the tableau of his descent into hell-represented by red fire-light on a huge cavern-of pasteboard." 
                  Having achieved this accurate description of the opera, Sansoucy smoked again. 
                  Incledon was silent for some time, and then said, with perfect calmness: 
                  "That is a scene capable of very effective management, Ernest-what do you think of the strange conception of the originator of the plot?" 
                  "I think with you, that it is original and strange." 
                  "And the retribution?" 
                  "Why, just, of course." 
                   
                  "A singular idea in the author-was it not?-to make a spirit instrumental in the punishment of this man." 
                  "Very." 
                  "If a man had punished him?" 
                  "Why," Sansoucy said, "it is plain the idea would be greatly inferior to the present. There is more interest felt by an audience in the appearance of a statue walking, and a visible descent into hell, than in a common duel with swords. Cut, thrust! cross over-thrust, cut! cross back again! Beat tin swords together duly for fifteen minutes, approach the foot-lights, fall in an attitude, and there's a stage death; very noisy, but scarcely as striking as the divine retribution in the opera." 
                  "No, you are right!" said Incledon, "and now let us leave the subject. Have you seen Aurelia, your 'friend of youth,' lately?" 
                  "Have I seen her!" said Sansoucy, laughing and sighing; "I think I have." 
                  "Frequently?" 
                  "Every day." 
                  "Recalling old times?" 
                  "No; they seem to be forgotten." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy sighed again. 
                  "The fact is, Ralph," he said, at length, "I am afraid I was mistaken in Aurelia, and that I knelt to a goddess of my own imagination. I thought she was tender and soft, and she's a very ball of fire; her wit corruscates like lightning, and generally leaves me dazzled, if not struck-moon-struck would probably be the better word," added Mr. Sansoucy, smiling, and rising, "and I foresee that the picture will come down from my mantel-piece, or remain there as a veritable 'fancy sketch!'" 
                  Having uttered these melancholy words, Mr. Sansoucy threw away the end of his cigar, and wrapped his coat around him. 
                  "You are not going?" 
                  "Yes, indeed." 
                  "Shall I see you soon again?" 
                  "Perhaps to-morrow-I'll come and whisper my grievances to your friendly ears. I don't conceal from you that I am dreadfully jealous of a gentleman called Heartsease, who escorted Miss Ashton to the opera to-night. Aurelia attracted general admiration-but I am bound to say, was not gazed at as attentively as Miss Incledon." 
                  With these words, and a friendly good-night, Sansoucy departed, smiling. 
                  How often do a man's friends torture him, without dreaming of the effect produced by their words, uttered so carelessly, and in such deep ignorance of the tender spots they pierce like barbed arrows! 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXVI. 
                  HOW MR. INCLEDON CALLED ON MR. FANTISH, AND WHAT PASSED. 
                  AT ten o'clock on the following morning, Mr. Incledon presented himself at the door of Mr. Fantish's residence, and giving his card to the servant, demanded speech of his master. 
                  His master had just sent for his carriage, the servant said-indeed the open vehicle, with its fiery horses, drew up as he uttered these words-but he would take up the card. 
                  Mr. Incledon was shown into an elegant sitting room, where Mr. Fantish was accustomed to receive his friends, at all hours of the night and day, and ten minutes after his entrance Mr. Fantish appeared, accompanied by Captain Tarnish, whose waistcoat, watch chain, cane, and mustache were in their full splendor. 
                  Mr. Fantish was elegantly dressed, and smoothed carelessly his glossy hat, as he bowed superciliously to Mr. Incledon. 
                  "Good morning, sir," said that gentleman, rising and bowing with great calmness, "can you give me a few moments of your time?" 
                  "Yes, sir; though I am just upon the point of going out." 
                  "Alone, sir, I should have said." 
                  "I have no secrets from my friend, Captain Tarnish." 
                   
                  "My business is private." 
                  "You need not be afraid of me, sir," interposed Captain Tarnish, grandly, "I am secrecy itself." 
                  "I do not question it, sir," Mr. Incledon said, "but I repeat that my business is private." 
                  Captain Tarnish assumed his most imposing swagger, and measured him who uttered these calm words, with a look which he in vain endeavored to make dignified. Probably the inspection did not satisfy him of the fact that his opponent was impressible to menace; and he turned on his heel and said: 
                  "Well, I will go, sir." 
                  After which, Captain Tarnish curled his mustache, hastily, and strolled into the passage-leaving the door open behind him, no doubt by inadvertence. 
                  Mr. Incledon rose and shut it, and then turned to Mr. Fantish. 
                  For a moment these two men, who concealed beneath the stereotyped forms of etiquette, a mutual hostility, gazed at each other in silence, and without motion. They seemed to be measuring each other for the struggle-to test their relative strength. 
                  "Well, sir," said Mr. Fantish, at length, "the motive of your visit. It can scarcely be a friendly call." 
                  "Why not?" said Mr. Incledon, with that perfect calmness of voice and look which denotes the man sure of his position, and quite prepared. 
                  "Because I am a very great reprobate, and-" 
                  "I am not? Is that your meaning, sir?" 
                  "Mr. Incledon!" 
                   
                  Mr. Incledon inclined his head in the manner of one who listens. 
                  "It is idle to affect, sir, that we occupy a position of hostility toward each other!" said Mr. Fantish, with a cold look, "I therefore explicitly request you to explain your motive in calling upon me." 
                  "I will, certainly," said Mr. Incledon. "Are you aware, sir, that Miss Incledon, whom you visit, is my cousin?" 
                  "I believe so, sir." 
                  "Are you aware, sir, of the relations I sustain toward her? Further relations I mean." 
                  "No, sir." 
                  "I will explain these. Miss Incledon was entrusted to my care by her father, who requested me to watch over her welfare, and I have done so faithfully, and have found no subject for disquiet until lately. Lately, sir, I have, at different times, heard of jests which you have uttered at her expense. Whether these jests are true or not I do not stop to inquire. The nature of these jests, however, are quite unmistakeable, and they consist in the allegation, upon your part, that she persecutes you with a fondness which is disagreeable to you, and ridiculous. Am I right, sir, in believing that you have uttered words to this effect, in numerous places, and on different occasions?" 
                  The look which accompanied Mr. Incledon's words was so calm and cold, his whole manner so collected, and measured, that Mr. Fantish, who would have received a burst of anger, with one of laughter, for a moment lost his self-possession, and colored with irritation. 
                   
                  "Your purpose, sir!" he said, at length, "in asking this question! Your purpose, if it please you, sir!" 
                  "That is not necessary, sir." 
                  "I consider it essentially necessary, sir!" 
                  "Why?" 
                  "Mr. Incledon, I am not to be catechised-I am not a child to be brow-beaten!" 
                  "I did not suppose such a thing, sir." 
                  "If you did not suppose it, you have acted as you would have done with such a supposition, sir! and I ask again what your purpose in holding this interview may be. If you wish to throw me a defiance, sir-!" 
                  "I may?" 
                  "Yes, sir!" 
                  "Thank you, Mr. Fantish, I do not purpose defying you, though this will not seem to you to arise from a deficiency of nerve for that ceremony. We were well acquainted at college, I believe, and you can scarcely think me lacking in the commonest and poorest courage-that of the animal." 
                  "I think nothing, sir-I say only that this interview is disagreeable." 
                  "I expected it would be, sir." 
                  "Your purpose, if you please, sir-for the last time." 
                  "Do not grow heated, sir: I see no reason why you should, unless you are angry with me, for preserving my temper. Your failure to deny the charges against you, which I have repeated, convinces me, Mr. Fantish, that you are not able to deny them, and that public rumor has not falsified your words. That is the position in which things now stand. You concede by your silence, that these things are not the blind calumnies of a false public speech, but actual utterances of your own. And now, sir, I ask you-in what attitude are you placed by this, which you do not even pretend to deny. I will tell you, sir," said Mr. Incledon, with cold dignity. "I will tell you, sir, what you have accomplished by this jest. You have made the name of a young girl the laughing-stock of the place in which she lives, at least for the time: you have given to men, like this person who just left us, the power of coupling with the mention of a lady who bears the name of an honorable and unspotted family, the rudest and most degrading jests-you have placed yourself, in all the strength of your manhood, with all the advantages of your knowledge of the world, opposite and in hostility to a young girl, who has left her home for the first time in her life, and who will soon find her punishment in the titter, which will greet her appearance in every ball-room. What chivalry, sir! And it is no palliation of all this, if even what you assert is true, that she has persecuted you with her attention-nay, her fondness-that you find yourself in a reversed position, followed by the woman. It is no excuse, sir, that you have been treated thus;-none, absolutely none. Nothing prevents you from retreating from this foolish infatuation-there is absolutely nothing to excuse your visits to that house, or what you have been pleased to say about my cousin. No, sir! do not grind your teeth and point to your duelling pistols-they are a poor plaster for a young girl's reputation, wounded by your unmanly jests, and I have much to say to you, sir. You know I do not look upon your weapons as the arbiters of such a question-I do not even utter these words as Miss Incledon's cousin. I do not wish to have any portion of my own feelings mixed with this-I ask nothing, resent nothing, attack nobody-I only defend those I have said I would defend!" 
                  "Well, sir! well! defend them-I offer you the means!" 
                  "Your pistols, sir?"- 
                  "Yes! there!" 
                  And seizing the box containing the weapons, Mr. Fantish burst it open, and taking out one of the pistols cocked it, and pointed Mr. Incledon to the other. 
                  "I have said already," continued that gentleman, calmly, "that I do not recognize this tribunal." 
                  "You say, sir, forsooth, that you are displeased with me!" 
                  "Yes, sir, 
                  "I am very naughty, a bad child," said Mr. Fantish, with a sneer-"I suppose I am to be whipped. This is folly and insult, sir! There is your pistol,-take your stand and I will give you now, the opportunity of chastising me." 
                  "I will not take up that pistol," said Mr. Incledon, calmly, "I refuse for the third time." 
                  "Am I to take your life, sir?" said Mr. Fantish, pale with rage, and raising his pistol. 
                  "No, sir, there is no obligation upon you to perform so foolish an action. Come, sir, let us throw aside these puerile contentions-lower that weapon; such menaces, sir, only frighten children. I think you would like to kill me, Mr. Fantish, but you are not prepared to murder me-your eyes reveal your indecision;-and if you are not prepared to pull that trigger, which your forefinger does not touch, your attitudinizing is a farce. You cannot suppose, sir, that it will frighten me, for you know me, and are perfectly well acquainted with the fact that fear is not an element of my character." 
                  Mr. Fantish, with a cold sneer, lowered his pistol, as if convinced of the folly of his action, and said: 
                  "You talk very well, sir, and are very eloquent on the subject of your courage!" 
                  "No, sir," said his opponent; "you are mistaken. I do not boast of the power I possess of looking into the muzzle of a pistol without trembling. I no more boast of this faculty than I do of my height, or strength, or the color of my complexion. It pleased God to give me animal courage, and I affect nothing. It is you who are affected in offering me a weapon which I cannot and will not touch-a fact perfectly well known to you, and no doubt, one that subjects me to your pity and contempt. Well, well, sir! I can endure that dreadful infliction, and am not affected by it, for I have a purpose quite beyond all this. I did not come to insult you, sir-to taunt you-to utter reproaches or complaints: I came to ask nothing for myself, or for any other person-nothing, sir!" 
                  An expression of astonishment, which he could not repress, mingled with the white rage in Mr. Fantish's countenance, and grasping the back of a chair until it cracked, he said between his clenched teeth. 
                   
                  "Well, sir! having finished your moral discourse, perhaps you will condescend to tell me what you really came for!" 
                  Incledon looked at Mr. Fantish for a moment without speaking, and such was the dignity and calmness of this look, that it produced even some effect upon his adversary. 
                  "Mr. Fantish," he said, "do you remember our acquaintance at college? I see you do,-well, sir, at that time you had not become the reckless and selfish man that you are now. You had vices, but they were mingled with much that was such as all men might respect. You think me guilty of an unpardonable piece of rudeness in speaking to you with such brutal frankness-perhaps I should not, but it is necessary for me to say this much, in order that I may convey to you my meaning in what follows. You left college at about the same period with myself-you became a man of the world, I became a man of books. I grew better, I am sure-you, sir, grew worse. It is shocking, repulsive, insulting, for me to speak thus; your face says, and you are angry enough to strike me down with that chair you hold. But that is not to the purpose, sir. I know that you possess undeniable courage, even perfect recklessness, and a heart which is completely closed to anything of remonstrance, which comes from a man holding the position that I do in relation to yourself. You despise me for regulating my actions by the law of God, instead of by the prejudices of man-you consider me a puritan, and a Pharisee; and any remonstrance that I could utter, I repeat, would fall from you like water from a rock-your only reply would be a scoff. That is why I have spoken thus, sir-that is why I continue to address you without ceremony or preamble. I repeat then that you have deteriorated since you left college; you have nearly lost all the purity that you once possessed; but I do not believe that you have lost it entirely. I address this small portion of good remaining in you, it is true, but I address myself rather to your common-sense as a man, when I ask you, if you are not performing an action, in the matter we are talking of, which is unworthy of you if a spark of honor remains in your composition; which is dangerous to you if a particle of respect for the opinions of men directs your actions. You go upon a dangerous path, sir, when you array yourself against a girl, and that public execration which visits such things sooner or later, will strike you and overwhelm you. Oh, sir! you are tired of your expression of wrath and menace, you begin to curl your lips in derision of the very idea of your feeling any regard for public opinion. That is an evidence that you do not despise it, Mr. Fantish; as your new emotion is an evidence that you do not know where to attack me. I see, sir, that you scarcely know how to reply to me; that you only await my shaping my few remaining words into a request, to throw it from you with contempt. I make no request, sir-I finish what I intended to say when I entered here, by adding, that if you are not completely lost to all sense of honor and chivalry, you will no longer visit, or mention the name of a young lady whose only defence will be an abandonment of the town in which you persecute her. Your refusal to discontinue your advances will only have the effect of driving a young lady from the city. Choose your course, sir, and exert all your chivalry!" 
                  Mr. Incledon would have gone after these words, but a gesture, so coldly menacing that it made him frown, arrested him. 
                  "It is true, sir," said Mr. Fantish, white with concentrated passion, "that you acted with a rare knowledge of my character in speaking, to use your own words, with this brutal and insulting frankness-it is true that I would have rejected any remonstrance from you with contempt, and that I now compliment your eloquence with undoubted anger in place of contempt; but that is not all, sir! You have presumed to charge me with dishonorable conduct toward Miss Incledon-to catechise and reprimand me as though I were your pupil, you my schoolmaster-and this because I refuse to 'discontinue my advances,' as you word it, toward Miss Incledon, who has taken anything like advances wholly on herself. Well, sir, you shall learn now that I am not a child! You have refused to give me the satisfaction due from one gentleman to another, and I will publicly brand you as a man recreant to all the dictates of gentlemanly honor!" 
                  "Pshaw, sir," said Mr. Incledon, wholly unmoved by this outburst, "you will do nothing of the sort-for your only reward will be the admiration of your friend, Captain Tarnish and his associates. If you were to do so, however, sir, you would state a truth which I never scruple to express, that I do deny completely my allegiance to the 'dictates of gentlemanly honor.'" 
                  "You mentioned my name, sir!" said a threatening voice, as the door opened quickly-so quickly, indeed, that it seemed not improbable that Captain Tarnish had been listening. "Be good enough, sir, to repeat your remark, sir!" 
                  Mr. Incledon wheeled round and surveyed the martial Captain with as much indignation as contempt. Then, unable to repress something of his old nature, he said in a tone of freezing hauteur: 
                  "I have not the pleasure of your acquaintance, and I will not repeat my words, sir!" 
                  "Then, sir-" 
                  But Captain Tarnish was not an object in his adversary's mental horizon-he had turned his back upon the military gentleman, and drawn two steps closer to his real adversary. 
                  "Mr. Fantish," he said, speaking in a voice so deep and solemn that it seemed to fill the whole apartment, and grew almost painful in its low and distinct coldness; "Mr. Fantish, there is still a last word which I wish to say to you before I go-before I go, for you will scarcely try to murder me before I leave this room. That last word, sir, is one that you will doubtless listen to with contempt; but that is little. My last word is-take care! Yes, sir, beware of the path you advance upon, treading down faith, and truth, and all which God, who made you, has erected over you! Beware how you tread too carelessly upon the dizzy verge which you are standing now upon! I, who have followed evil like yourself, though not such evil, or as far-I tell you that the God you laugh at, sir, is not a bugbear of the nursery, to frighten children dren! I tell you that my intellect is as strong as yours-my sight as good, and that I am not blinded by a mockery and a delusion. I tell you that God reigns above you-that you are a worm beneath him-that, if you go on in your present career, he will one day stretch out his hand and crush you like a dangerous and venomous insect! I tell you, sir, moreover, that your very sensual delights will become your poison-that your worn-out body will break down and burst beneath the strain upon it-that the things you now regard as brightest, will be curses to you when you die, amid the execration of all men who hate impurity! I tell you that the God you laugh at will have no pity for you, living and dying thus!-that if you ever had a mother, she will never look again upon your face! I tell you that the scoff you throw toward God will bound back on you, and be torture to you when you fall, struck down by one who awaits his time, and will not spare you! That is the warning which he utters in your hearing, sir, through myself, his poor and humble instrument. That you despise it, or obey it, is not my affair-it is yours! And now, sir, I take my leave of you. I expected nothing from this interview; I am not disappointed. I had my duty to do-that I have done-and we go separate ways. Good morning, sir!" 
                  And with a bow as calm and cold as upon his entrance, Mr. Incledon passed by Captain Tarnish, who drew back before him, and passed out, leaving Mr. Fantish trembling with rage and menace, and a self-contempt that made him paler that a ghost. 
                  Yes, self-contempt! 
                   
                  Yes, there was that much good left in this man, worn out with evil passions, by debaucheries, by orgies, where the mention of anything not wholly impure, was met with laughter and derision. Yes, this man shook, when his mother was recalled to him, recoiled from the picture of himself, felt his heart sink and fail with a sick loathing of himself, and human life, and the whole universe. 
                  He would have struck down and annihilated the man who thus degraded him, if his weak nerves had been obedient; but this could not remove that terrible and infinitely humiliating fact-the fact that he despised and loathed himself! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVII. 
                  HOW A MAN WAS TREATED BY A WOMAN-A CHAPTER OF INTEREST TO PHILOSOPHERS. 
                  AS he had stated, Mr. Incledon expected nothing from the interview with Mr. Fantish; and his visit had been prompted solely by the feeling that it was his duty to do something of this description, before speaking to his cousin again upon the subject. 
                  Perhaps the impression made upon Mr. Fantish was as great as possibly could have been made under the circumstances, by his adversary; and as he had himself acknowledged, any mere remonstrance would have been received with derision. Upon a man of high feeling, Mr. Incledon's calm representations would have made a deep impression pression-but his adversary was not a man of this description-he had almost extinguished any such emotion in his bosom long ago-and this Mr. Incledon knew, and acted as with the knowledge of. 
                  The result of the interview was such as he expected:-a great deal of anger, an immense hostility, and a small portion of shame, upon his opponent's part. But this latter would scarely lead him to abate his insulting conduct:-and what Mr. Incledon now had before him was the preparation of his cousin for departure. 
                  Once this man's old nature rising up, had whispered to him, "Take your vengeance in your own hands; strike, and rid yourself of this scoffing persecutor." But he had repelled this suggestion of his anger, without considering it further, and had said to himself, calmly, "This is not for me-I am not the avenger:-I will do my duty." 
                  Perhaps some feeling of this description assailed him as he left the house of Mr. Fantish, where he had been met with insults such as would, a few years before, have caused that gentleman to lose his life. But if such thoughts really came to him, they did not linger long in his mind. He went on repeating, calmly, to himself-"My duty is quite plain, and every purpose will be accomplished by Sylvia's departure-more terrible things may be prevented." 
                  He reached the house, and knocked, and entered. 
                  Miss Incledon was surrounded by several gentlemen, and was singing gaily at the piano. 
                  Mr. Incledon bowed low, and exchanged salutations with the visitors; and took his part calmly in the conversation. 
                  He remained thus, without any visible purpose, until every gentleman had departed; and then closing the door, took a seat opposite to his cousin. 
                  She seemed to feel that there was something more than a common visit intended by Mr. Incledon; and with a vague disquiet, gazed into his collected countenance, endeavoring to fathom its meaning, and drag up the thoughts of her adversary-such she regarded him-buried beneath that calmness. 
                  But Mr. Incledon's countenance defied her most piercing scrutiny-it betrayed nothing; and beating the carpet impatiently with her small foot, the young lady assumed for Mr. Incledon's benefit, the air of an irritated queen, who was waiting to be addressed by a rebellious subject. 
                  The comparison was not so fanciful as it may seem. As we have said, Miss Incledon was a woman of rare and commanding beauty, and when she chose, she could mount, as it were, her throne, and assume, to admiration, all the royalty of a queen. She had not that delicate and tender loveliness which takes the heart captive, and "lends the knee desire to kneel," as to something pure and beautiful, and more closely allied to things heavenly, than anything else on earth, except it be childhood, which such loveliness resembled-Miss Incledon had not this beauty, which Mr. Sansoucy's friend, Aurelia, certainly possessed in a degree: but still she was a young lady of striking beauty, and her brilliant eyes, and cheeks, and lips, and the graceful outlines of her splendid figure, gave her undeniable claims to admiration. 
                  As she sat now opposite to Mr. Incledon, she was evidently conscious of the possession of this advantage, and her beautiful head was thrown back haughtily. With one hand she fixed a bracelet on her dazzling white arm-and having fixed it to her satisfaction, smoothed down the folds of her rich silk morning dress, which swept with its changeable sheen, the carpet at her feet. 
                  Mr. Incledon gazed at her for a moment, and an expression almost of sadness passed over his brow, and dimmed his eyes. All the sensibility of his nature was aroused within him by the unfortunate and deplorable array of circumstances which placed him thus in hostility to a woman whom he had loved. But there was his duty, as he understood it, and his face very soon grew calm again. 
                  "Silvia," he said, calmly: "I have just been to see Mr. Fantish." 
                  The young woman could not repress a slight start, and a faint tinge of color in her cheeks. 
                  "Mr. Fantish!" she said, with an affectation of coldness, which was belied by the eager expression of her dark eyes. 
                  "Yes," said her visitor: "I have been with that gentleman for an hour nearly." 
                  "Well, sir!" 
                  And by a powerful effort she drove back the rebellious blood to her heart, and gave him look for look, and braced her resolution for the struggle. 
                  Mr. Incledon, however, did not seem to feel that he was called upon to gather any strength of this description for himself. On the contrary, his eye and voice were quite as calm and soft as ever when he spoke, and he exhibited no emotion of any description. 
                  "I was led to call upon Mr. Fantish," he continued: "by a recurrence of the reports which caused me so much grief on your account; and which I had supposed Mr. Fantish would not permit to occur again. Of these base jests at your expense, Silvia, I will not speak. It is enough to say that in the exercise of my discretion, based upon my promise to your father, it seemed proper to me that I should call on Mr. Fantish." 
                  Again the blood came to her cheek, and she said, bitterly: 
                  "Well, sir-I suppose you are my guardian, and that I am a child to be directed and regulated. I am not surprised!" 
                  "You should not be," he returned; "and I regret deeply that you should regard what I have done, Silvia, as an impertinence, and an insult. Do not deny it, Silvia-that would be useless: your eyes speak." 
                  "I do not deny it, sir!" she said, carried away by her anger. 
                  He only bowed, and then said: 
                  "Mr. Fantish and myself discussed at length the subject of these reports, and the interview was far from being a very friendly one-" 
                  "As I suppose, sir!" 
                  "Your supposition, Silvia, is quite correct. Indeed how could we speak as friends?" 
                   
                  "I can understand why you could not, sir! Mr. Fantish is a friend of mine." 
                  "How unjust you are." 
                  "Unjust!" 
                  "Yes-terribly. It is a bitter injustice to thus hurl in my teeth, Silvia, such a charge as this-that I am your enemy." 
                  "Are you not, sir?" 
                  "Oh, no: a thousand times, no!" 
                  "I do not like such friends, sir." 
                  He looked at her cold and disdainful countenance for some moments and an expression of softness and pity came to his calm face, and he sighed audibly. 
                  "Such friends?" he said; "you do not like such friends, Silvia? what have I done to make you hate me?" 
                  She did not deny the feeling imputed to her by look or word, but said, angrily, and with a flushed countenance. 
                  "I will tell you, sir, what you have done! You have placed yourself before me, sir, at every turn-you have chosen to regard the commonplace speech made by my father, when I left home, as an authority to watch, and spy out, and misconstrue all my movements! You have treated me-a grown woman-as if I were a baby! and have affected through all this, the greatest magnanimity and nobleness forsooth! and talked about your duty, making that your apology for your insufferable persecution!" 
                  The flushed face and burning eyes were turned full upon him, and the young woman's hands trembled with anger as she extended them in the heat of speaking, toward ward him whom she addressed. Her voice was full of insult and hostility-her white teeth for a moment closed; and her eyes glared as only those of a woman thoroughly aroused, can. 
                  But he remained calm. The sad expression deepened: and his voice was softer and more pitying than ever when he said: 
                  "Insufferable persecution?" Do you, then, regard my brotherly regard and solicitude for your welfare, Silvia, as an insufferable persecution?" 
                  "Yes, sir, I do!" she said, "I do! Your brotherly regard and solicitude, as you are pleasad to call it, sir, is a very convenient sentiment, and adapts itself without difficulty to any action you perform in relation to myself. Perhaps, it would be better to say-if I am forced to speak, sir,-that your 'regard' for me was something more than 'brotherly'-and that 'solicitude' you speak of caused by something else than duty!" 
                  "Something else?" he said, softly-"by what else, Silvia?" 
                  "By jealousy, sir! You affect to pity me, and you will end by making me hate you, sir!" said the young woman, with burning cheeks, and carried away by rage, at what she considered an exhibition of contempt upon her visitor's part: you affect to pity me! and you reply to my defence of myself against your calumnies, by an affectation of pity,' and-with an injured air-and then you drawl out 'Silvia,' to make me think you are not moved! Be good enough, sir, added the young woman, completely aroused, and trying to affect haughtiness; be good enough to call me by my proper name-Miss Incledon! I am not aware of any right you have to address me as you do!" 
                  "I will not, if it is disagreeable to you-" 
                  "It is, sir!" 
                  He bowed his head. 
                  It is, and you will oblige me, sir, by ceasing to address me thus from this time forth!" 
                  He bowed again: the old expression of softness and pity had never left his face for a moment. 
                  "It is a little thing to ask," he said, "I only grieve to think that, trifle as it is, however, it is prompted by a sentiment of hostility which I deeply lament, but cannot help. I have only striven to do my duty." 
                  "Duty! there it is again, sir-your duty!" 
                  "Oh, yes!" 
                  "And this prompted, doubtless, that fine 'brotherly solicitude' you spoke of, sir!" 
                  "Indeed, it did!" 
                  The beautiful lip curled, and she said, with a sneer, which was painful to see. 
                  "I repeat, sir, that your solicitude was anything but 'brotherly!' You condescended to place your affection upon my humble self; and when I chose to exercise my right as a free woman, to prefer another-you became very solicitious all at once about my welfare-and your 'brotherly solicitude' assumed the shape of hostility to Mr. Fantish. 
                  "Jealousy! oh, Silvia! Silvia!-pardon me! You say again that I have acted as I have done from jealousy of Mr. Fantish? What a deep injustice." 
                  "Yes, I do, sir! I assert it plainly, as you drive me to it! I assert that your 'uneasiness' as you were pleased to call it, in a former interview-your uneasiness about me, I say, commenced, just when you found that your addresses were becoming disagreeable-when I preferred, you thought, another person. You came one morning, sir, if you will deign to recollect, and, because I did not leave my hand in your own, as we sat there upon the sofa!-because I drew away the tress of my hair which you curled around your finger!-because I said that our cousinly familiarity must not be gone on with-because I told you that, sir, you must suddenly assume that I am in a dangerous position: that Mr. Fantish is a dishonorable man, and that your lordship must watch over your bond-woman and preserve her from your rival." 
                  Pausing, overwhelmed with bitter and scornful passion, the young woman panted, and trembled, and grew by turns pale and crimson with her rage. 
                  Every word she uttered pierced his heart; and his most cruel enemy could not have devised a punishment more bitter to his high and noble nature. The bitter words struck all his pride, and the recollection of his pure and gentle love. That he should be charged with acting from a base and miserable selfishness, instead of from a large and noble sense of duty!-that he should be accused of such hypocrisy, as he drew back from, in his very imagination, with a shudder!-that, lastly, the woman whom he had regarded as a tender and lovely girl, and so commenced loving purely and deeply, should thus cast in his teeth, with bitter scorn, the scenes in which he had exhibited his innocent fondness! Surely-he thought with a grief and suffering too deep for words-surely, the hand that launched this bitterly poisoned arrow, must be cruel indeed! 
                  Only a flitting shadow, however, betrayed the passage of such thoughts as these, through Mr. Incledon's heart. With that strength of control, which he had struggled for through years, and at last attained, he forcibly suppressed any exhibition of his emotion, and regarded the young woman, when she concluded her bitter speech, with a calm softness, even more marked than before. 
                  "Silvia!" he said, gently, "and I must ask you to pardon me for thus addressing you-for I cannot school myself so soon to that hostility and coldness, which you say we have adopted toward each other-Silvia, the words you have just uttered, would, perhaps, arouse in me some of that ill-temper, which is my besetting sin, if I did not feel convinced that these expressions are the fruits of momentary irritation-an irritation I have had the bad fortune, I am afraid, to cause; and which I lament deeply-from the bottom of my heart. I cannot bring myself to think that in your cooler moments you would taunt me thus with having experienced for you an affection, pure and sincere-and scoff at me for the innocent exhibition of my feeling. You say, that because one day you drew back from my customary familiarity-that because you drew away the hand you gave me always-disengaged the tress I touched-and warned me that you could not suffer me to approach you thus familiarly again-you say that in consequence of this, I became jealous; that I watched your movements-that I acted the spy to find out who had supplanted me; and finding that your preference was given to Mr. Fantish, recollected suddenly your father's charge to me-and used that charge to gain an advantage over one I looked on as my rival! This you accuse me of; and I should be astonished at the ingenuity of your accusation, if it did not cause me so much pain. Your lip curls, Silvia, and you think my tone of calmness proves that I am acting. Oh, I am not, Silvia! You are not able even to conceive the pain you cause me by these cruel and unjust words. A thousand times unjust!-a thousand times more cruel than I deserve! In the presence of my God, Silvia, to whom I owe allegiance, and who reads the secrets of all hearts-before God and man, I declare that this is bitterly unjust! That I loved you then I do not deny-that your affection was the dream and desire of my whole being I will not deny-that the repulse you gave me, caused me many hours of suffering and melancholy, I will not conceal. But never, on my honor, as a gentleman! by my faith as a Christian gentleman, never did I follow you, or watch your movements, or endeavor to supplant the man who took my place, or thwart you! Had Mr. Fantish been an honorable man, he never even would have known that the poor gentleman he passed coming out sorrowfully, as he entered with a smile, had been made miserable by his appearance! He never would have known that he had made me suffer-never! I would have yielded you to an honorable gentleman, without a word, and gone away and left you to your joy and happiness! But, Silvia, I am forced to say again-to repeat always, for the fact is my sole vindication-I am forced again to say that Mr. Fantish is not an honorable man! that he looks upon women as his playthings! that he is utterly incapable of pure affection,-and that what he has done has proved the truth of this a thousand times!" 
                  Mr. Incledon's calm face grew dark as he spoke, but he suppressed this evidence of feeling quickly, and went on, without regarding the looks of burning anger which the young lady cast upon him. 
                  "And now, Silvia," he said, "I have brought my vindication to the time, when driven by my duty-by my promise, sacredly given to your father-I found myself compelled to take up a position of hostility to this gentleman. I heard everywhere that he was in the habit of making speeches about yourself which no honorable man could bring his lips to utter! I heard in the street, at entertainments, in my evening visits to my friends, those stories which a certain class of persons spend their lives in whispering through society, and you were the heroine of them! I heard that Mr. Fantish made your love for him the subject of his gayest and most brilliant jests! I heard, that in the circle which he frequents, the utterance of your name had become the signal for a burst of laughter! I heard that your very entrance into party rooms, would soon become the occasion of a suppressed titter! and that every person would deride you, and say of you, further, what my lips will not utter-what my brain cannot conceive, but draws back from, sick and incredulous, and scornful! Do you understand now! Do you comprehend the state of things I was forced to measure, coolly and calmly, with fiery eyes-to brace my strength, collect all my coolness to grapple with! Do you see now that some other sentiment than jealousy aroused my fear and anger, and what you have styled my persecution, my impertinence! If you do not see this-if you still close your eyes-you are stone blind, or wilfully blind-and I can only tell you, that you walk upon a slumbering volcano!" 
                  The suppressed excitement with which Mr. Incledon uttered these words, was more impressive than the most passionate outburst; and for a moment the young lady's eye fell before his fixed look-for an instant her lips grew pale; and she pressed her hand upon her heart as though she were about to faint. 
                  Had this suppression lasted a few moments longer, Mr. Incledon would have lost his self-possession-melted from his stern feeling-and besought her to forget his words, the painful facts they dealt with-everything but her old country home, and those who loved her-and so come with him-and pardon anything in his words which had offended her-and going to her parents, never look upon his face again, if it was painful to her. All his tenderness of heart was aroused by the position he sustained-a position to which a vortex of fate had hurled him without any exercise of will on his part-a position of hostility to, and contest with a woman. Convinced as he was, that every step he had taken was forced on him by uncompromising duty-that he could not have done differently-that his honor, and his cousin's, both called out for this-nothing but this-still his chivalry of gentleman made him tremble at the thought of using even what resembled sembled force toward a woman:-and if at that moment Miss Incledon had shed a single tear; if the least tremor in her voice had shown that she was overcome by the terrible array of facts-Mr. Incledon would have lost his calmness wholly-begged for her forgiveness, and besought her, on his knees, if necessary, to go with him, home to her parents, from the town in which she had experienced such sufferng! 
                  Mr. Incledon did not know his cousin. Instead of raising her eyes in tears, she erected her head haughtily, and looked at him with a fire which would speedily have dried up any moisture in her brilliant eyes. Her manner was more defiant than ever-her beautiful lip curled with more bitter scorn-she resembled nothing so much as a beautiful tigress, ready to spring upon her enemy. 
                  "Well, sir," she said: and her words were almost exactly those of Mr. Fantish an hour before. "Well, sir! if you have finished your fine discourse upon propriety, perhaps you will deign to inform me of the purpose of this visit!" 
                  He gazed at her with an expression impossible to describe, and was silent for some minutes. Then gradually, and, as it were, one by one, all these complicated emotions disappeared, and his perfect calmness came back-very soon, even his old softness. Perhaps no day in his whole life presented so fine an exhibition of this man's high dignity and delicacy of temperament, as the few moments in which this change took place. 
                  When he spoke it was with as much calmness and gentleness, as if he had not been insulted, outraged, scoffed at;-as if he had been taking part in a pleasant and agreeable conversation with a cherished friend." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVIII. 
                  THE LETTER. 
                  "SILVIA," he said, gently, "I commenced this interview by saying that I had been to see Mr. Fantish." 
                  "You did, sir!" 
                  "If, unhappily, we had not fallen into this discussion-" 
                  "Say this quarrel, sir!" 
                  "No; I have not quarreled with you, and will not. If, I say, we had not been betrayed into this melancholy discussion, I would have explained to you at once the purpose of my visit. 
                  "Well, sir, you can do so now." 
                  "I will proceed to do so; and if any word of mine is worth your attention, let me beseech you not to load me with those reproaches and bitter speeches, which you seem to think-" 
                  "You deserve, sir! Is that your meaning?" 
                  "No, Silvia," he said, sadly. 
                  "Well, sir, I will endeavor to forget the causes of complaint I have against you, and listen calmly." 
                  She looked so dignified as she spoke thus, and assumed an expression of so much injured innocence that it might have made a great actress envy her. 
                   
                  "I called on Mr. Fantish this morning," said Mr. Incledon, "and informed him that I had heard all the details of these unhappy matters." 
                  "Indeed, sir!" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "No doubt he was entertained by your visit!" 
                  "How scornful you are, Silvia." 
                  "Because you compel me to be, sir." 
                  "I would not." 
                  "You do." 
                  "I deeply regret that my very voice should have this effect upon you then: but let me proceed." 
                  "I listen, sir." 
                  "I informed Mr. Fantish of our relationship-" 
                  "Which he knew already." 
                  "Yes-and that made it a greater trial." 
                  "Indeed, sir!" 
                  "Yes; an insult to a gentleman's friend may anger him-an insult to his cousin cuts him like a sword." 
                  "I am flattered at hearing you retain so much brotherly regard for me!" 
                  "Ah, Silvia! Silvia! how you wound me. You are not content to hear that my interview with Mr. Fantish was a great trial-" 
                  "You brought it upon yourself by your own act, I believe, sir! Did Mr. Fantish request the interview?" 
                  Mr. Incledon shook his head sadly, and gave up the discussion without further words. 
                  "I said, Silvia," he continued, "that Mr. Fantish was cognizant of the fact of our relationship throughout the interview-and, at the risk of exciting your feelings, I must add that he knew of the charge which your father gave me." 
                  "The charge-" 
                  "Yes, Silvia." 
                  "Of your lordship's quality of guardian!" 
                  Arrested incessantly thus by these bitter and scornful taunts, Mr. Incledon nevertheless did not lose his temper. 
                  "I informed Mr. Fantish," he said, calmly, "that I had called in right of my relationship, and in further right of my charge from your father, to say that the continuance of the jest in relation to yourself, Silvia, would make it necessary for you to abandon the city." 
                  "You presumed to threaten that!" cried Miss Incledon, in a perfect rage. 
                  "Yes," was the reply, "it was my only course, Silvia." 
                  "You presumed, sir, to say that my movements would be coerced by yourself, in case-" 
                  He went on thus: "Yes, Silvia, that is what I felt it my duty to say to Mr. Fantish, though not precisely that." 
                  And Mr. Incledon gazed sadly at the countenance, whose beauty had all fallen away, and been swallowed up in the storm of passion. 
                  For a time Miss Incledon glared at him-one can find no other word-as though she would have struck him to the earth with her eyes. Then finding her speech, she cried passionately: 
                  "You are most brave, sir! most courageous! You are exceedingly chivalric and disinterested! How I admire and respect you, and look up to you for your noble and devoted courage! I despise you, sir!" she cried, losing her affected irony, and yielding to a mad rage. "I call you a dishonored gentleman! I say you have not one spark of that honor which your family expected of you-that it is a taint to be connected with you as I am, sir! You would run away with me, forsooth, sir! You would take me away! try it, sir! Yes, sir, you have acted nobly! You say that my honor required this visit-you say that Mr. Fantish has uttered slanders against me, which is false!-you say that I will be the laughing-stock of society, if something is not done in this terrible and dreadful emergency! Did it not occur to you, sir, that there was something possible besides running away-besides threatening to carry me away, a threat, sir, which you will not dare to perform!-did it never strike you, sir, when you went to see Mr. Fantish, that if you are a gentleman, and possess a spark of courage, there is the ordinary means of gentlemen, to right your honor and my own! No, sir! I will answer for you! You never thought of it! you shrunk from the thought of meeting Mr. Fantish!-you know he would shoot you, sir, and you have an especial regard for your life! You refused to meet these charges, if they existed, like a gentleman, and you now wish to carry me away, and go yourself!-you will not take the pistol which a brave gentleman offers to you!-in a word, you are a coward, sir,-a craven! I despise you from the bottom of my heart!" 
                  There are moments when the calmest man becomes heated-times when the coldest blood boils up-the palest cheek flushes-the most quiet eyes flash like lightning. 
                  It was this change which took place in Mr. Incledon's appearance:-these evidences of emotion were visible upon his face as he rose to his full height, and looked down on the woman who was thus guilty of the unpardonable and degrading offence of offering insult to a gentleman. All this man's old nature, which had been the very echo of chivalric sentiment, recoiled before the corroding flood of insult poured upon him-and with flashing eyes, heaving bosom, and haughty attitude, he stood for a moment, grinding his nails into his hands and shuddering with rage. 
                  The expression of his face awed the young woman, and in presence of a nature stronger and more largely moulded than her own, she drew back, and half wished she had never uttered what excited this terrible emotion. 
                  She looked half fearfully at the man she had insulted, and saw his countenance pass rapidly from rage to deep contempt-and then her anger flushed back to her face, and every nerve was braced to meet the trial-the rebound. 
                  The rebound never came. 
                  Mr. Incledon's passion was no match for his vast self-control; and like the waves of a troubled sea after a storm, his rage and contempt grew gradually less; and holding down the least evidence of adverse feeling, his countenance settled into repose. 
                  He tried to speak, but no words issued from his lips; and standing thus dumb before the young woman, whom he looked down upon from the height of his collected calmness, Mr. Incledon presented an appearance of such grandeur and nobility, that the eyes of the weak woman sank again before him, and the sullen words she was about to utter, died upon her lips. 
                  It was in the middle of this silence, so profound that the fall of a leaf might have been heard, that Mr. Incledon again spoke. 
                  His voice was not yet under his command, but it gathered strength as he proceeded, and grew perfectly calm at last. 
                  "Silvia," he said, "the words which you have just uttered, are such as no lady, even under any circumstances, should be led to address to a gentleman. I do not say this angrily, as you may see by looking at my face; and not as a reply to your own bitter and unpardonable speech. I say it that you may never in future address such words to a gentleman-for nothing will more completely ruin you in every honorable person's estimation, nothing will be instrumental in causing so much bloodshed as a habit so terrible as this. Had you spoken thus to me, some years since, the result would have been unfortunate to some one of your family, or to myself:-I should have made you a low bow and taken my departure; but blood would have flowed to wash out these expressions. Of course it is irrational, ludicrous, and monstrous, that your brother's blood should flow for words you have uttered-but I tell you, Silvia, that nothing arouses in a certain class of men, the devil of blood, more certainly than just such words as you have spoken, only a few minutes since, to me! You will not disregard my advice, even coming as it does from one whom you heartily despise. A few words more, however, before I go-they are proper, even necessary. I will not refer to your imputations upon my courage-imputations which were worded with such bitterness, that my old nervous temper carried me away at first-you saw it; I will not speak of this, further than to say, that you are quite correct in thinking that I would not send a challenge, to fight a duel, to Mr. Fantish. He offered me a pistol already loaded, and I refused it-would not take my position. That is the simple fact. The interview was quite peaceable-few criminations were exchanged-and I have only to regret that I came away with the certainty that Mr. Fantish will continue to abuse your name, and possibly-it may be-even add to his offence from hatred to myself. I have only to say then, that I shall this evening do what I am driven to do by my sense of honor, by my sacred promise, and by my absolute conviction of my simple duty,-I shall write to Runland, telling Mr. Incledon, my uncle and your father, that his presence is needed here, on business of importance. He will come at once, and then I shall be freed from this responsibility, and it will lie with him. You start! Why should you? Surely, if I have been foolishly sensitive in this affair, and Mr. Fantish is the model of propriety you think him-surely, you cannot fear to tell your father, Silvia, everything." 
                  And with perfect calmness, Mr. Incledon, bowed put on his hat, and went toward the door. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXIX. 
                  DELILAH. 
                  THE singular interview between these two persons had lasted so long-so many various passions had modified and changed the aspect of the scene, as it passed through all its agitated steps-that one might very readily have supposed that the words uttered by Mr. Incledon would have sealed up any further discussion, ended all contest; and left silence in possession of the spot, which had been visited with all these clashing and discordant passions, raising each its head, and trying to hiss loudest, or strike deadliest. 
                  Such, indeed, might have been the event, if Mr. Incledon only had been consulted. But there was another: the beautiful woman who had been beaten at every turn, foiled with far sharper weapons, and overwhelmed by a last blow as sudden as it was conclusive. 
                  A rapid thought, which now occurred to Miss Incledon, prolonged the interview: and we shall proceed to show the result of this thought, as well as what it was. 
                  For an instant Miss Incledon remained overwhelmed before the announcement of Mr. Incledon that he was going to dispatch that letter;-then all the consequences of such a proceeding seemed to flash upon her. 
                  She rose to her feet, and uttered a suppressed moan, as though an arrow had pierced her side. 
                  "Do-not, write!" she said, almost inaudibly. 
                   
                  "I must, Silvia," was the reply. 
                  "Do not write-to-day, then." 
                  "Why not? Oh! Silvia!" he said, with melancholy earnestness, "do not look at me so coldly, as if I were some enemy arrayed against you! I am not an enemy! but a thousand times your friend! Do not imagine that I triumph in this blow which leads you to thus change your tone from menance to supplication. Oh, no! heaven knows, Silvia, I would see your face covered with smiles of joy and happiness, not full of gloom as it is now. I am a weak man when a woman looks at me; and in spite of all your terrible attacks, of all the insult you have addressed to me, I feel toward you far more of pity than of hostility." 
                  She looked strangely at him, as though measuring his strength, and the probability of moving him: but she said nothing. 
                  He misunderstood her look, and thought it one of despair and submission; and his noble nature, losing sight of all the outrages which this woman had been guilty of, made him pity her, and commiserate the unhappy position in which her passion had placed her. 
                  "You doubt my sincerity, perhaps," said Mr. Incledon, pausing on the threshold of the door, and gazing at her with noble kindness-"you cannot believe that I have forgiven you-you think that I have told you of my intention to despatch that letter with a sentiment of triumph at the stroke I played-of joy at having my revenge. Oh, no, Silvia! that is not so. I do not triumph-you are not an enemy-you are a woman. I would not see you suffer, though you have made me suffer much. From the bottom of my heart, I lament the fatality which drives me to thus oppose you, but I have my duty to perform!" 
                  During the utterance of these words, Miss Incledon had continued to gaze upon her visitor-a thought seeming slowly and gradually to unfold its mysterious wings in the depths of her subtle mind. As though dazzled by this thought; subdued by its very conception, her eyes sank at last, and the long lashes concealed the tell-tale orbs, and that expression of a resolution formed, what they contained. 
                  Mr. Incledon came to the end of his speech, was bowing, and had nearly turned away, when the young woman covered her face with her hands, bent down almost to her knee, and, as if under the impression that her visitor had departed-burst into a torrent of passionate sobs, which seemed to be the irrepressible expression of an opposition broken down and humbled to the dust. 
                  Her dark hair fell in disordered tresses on her cheeks-her beautiful neck was shaken with sobs as she bent down to her knee-and taking one hand from her face, she in vain endeavored to find her handkerchief, which lay at her feet, but seemed to be concealed from her by her tears. 
                  Mr. Incledon turned;-paused;-advanced a step dubiously, then paused again; and ended by returning quickly to the young woman's side, and picking up the handkerchief she sought. 
                  "Tears, Silvia!" he said-"in tears! what pain you give me! There is no reason for this weeping-you exaggerate all this. You must not weep!" 
                  And his softened gaze fell upon the weeping woman-a gaze, mild, and full of pity and kindness. 
                  "Here is your handkerchief which you seem to be seeking," he said, placing the lace-ornamented cambric in her hand; "come, Silvia, dry your tears, and do not pain me by thus yielding to a groundless fear." 
                  "Don't mind me-I am weak and foolish-you must despise-me-but-" 
                  And sobbing more than ever, the young woman bent still lower, and shook from head to foot. 
                  "Despise you, Silvia!" he said-"despise you-Oh, no, Silvia! You are greatly deceived." 
                  "You must!" she sobbed. 
                  "Why should I?" 
                  "I have-been so-weak and-silly and-insulting! I have uttered such insulting words to you-forgive-me-oh, forgive me!" 
                  "From my heart," said Mr. Incledon, with noble simplicity. 
                  "I have tried your patience-so-I have been-" 
                  "Forget it, Silvia! we have all quick tempers in our family, and it is scarcely strange that you should have felt some irritation at what you were led to consider interference." 
                  "Oh, it was not-it was-brotherly kindness!" 
                  Mr. Incledon gazed at the young woman in astonishment; for he could scarcely comprehend the possibility of so complete an abandonment of her ground. He knew Silvia well, and was perfectly well acquainted with her sure determination and persistence in any course she had adopted-another trait of the Incledons. His astonishment, thus, was for a moment very great; but his pleasure was still greater: and taking kindly the hand which hung down at her side, he pressed it in his friendly grasp, and said: 
                  "You make me happier than I can express, Silvia, by thus assuring me that you do not really regard my agency in this unhappy affair as out of place, or prompted by a spirit of hostility. Oh, let me confess to you now what I never could have said before, that your suffering is mine-that I tremble when you tremble-that my affection for you is deep and sincere, though wholly unlike what I once experienced for you. You are my cousin-my blood flows in your veins-you cannot think your unhappiness a matter of indifference to me!" 
                  There was so much kindness and simplicity in the voice which uttered these words, that a for a moment Miss Incledon's sobs ceased, and she quickly drew away her hand. 
                  "'Mr. Fantish cannot feel for you so pure and brotherly a kindness," he added: and to his great astonishment the hand which she had drawn away was placed again in his, and her sobs recommenced with greater violence than ever. If this were not the genuine promptings of a better nature, the reader will not fail to agree with us, that subtlety so deep and perfect seldom dwells in a woman's bosom. 
                  "Yes," he said, "we can now speak frankly and plainly about all this-though perhaps it would be better to dismiss the subject. But do not weep, Silvia." 
                  "You are so good!" she said. 
                  Again his astonishment was extreme; but it disappeared as quickly. Great minds have little room in them for mistrust; and Mr. Incledon's nature was as unsuspecting, when thrown off its guard, as that of a child. 
                  "My motives are good, Silva," he said, "but I fear my manner of acting is very faulty and ill-advised very often." 
                  "Oh, no-it is noble-like yourself-I do not deserve all this goodness-Ralph!" 
                  And having uttered his name thus, in a timid and hesitating voice, she gradually grew calmer, as though she had thus accomplished the last act of submission. 
                  It is strange how a trifle such as this affects a man. She had spoken to him throughout the former portions of their interview, with a cold "sir," as frequently as she could drag this exhibition of ill-humor in; and her whole manner had been shaped in such a way, as to convey to him the impression, that his very presence was an offence against her. Now, however, her broken sobs indicated weakness and submission-her flattering testimony to his kindness, showed that she repented of her rudeness-lastly, her use thus of his Christian name, completed the evidence of her change of feeling, and made him once more the kind cousin and companion he had been to her in the past. 
                  Her manner and address conveyed all this, and even more; and Mr. Incledon was not philosopher enough to steel himself against the change in her tone. 
                  "We were-happy once. Oh, why cannot we be again!" she said, "how unhappy all these bickerings are.' 
                  "You are the good, sweet Silvia of the past, now," said Mr. Incledon, smiling kindly. "Oh, remain always so." 
                  "I will try," she said, "but how-how can you-pardon me for-not giving up Mr. Fantish!" 
                  And she sobbed again. 
                  "You will forget him, Silvia," was the reply; "this is merely a passing fancy. Do not think I have any idea of renewing my pretensions to your hand-I speak as an elder brother; and I assure you this unhappy affair will never cloud your young life-never." 
                  "Oh-I-I-how can I acknowledge it?" 
                  And she covered her face with her hands, as though overwhelmed with confusion; and ashamed to meet his eyes. 
                  "You love him?" 
                  "Yes," she murmured. 
                  "You deceive yourself, Silvia," he said, calmly; "you do not know your feelings. You think that the pleasing impression Mr. Fantish has produced upon you is genuine love-but you are mistaken." 
                  "Oh-can I be?" 
                  "Easily. This man cannot fill the capacity of your heart-he is different from what your fancy has painted him. He is shallow, and selfish, and depraved. There is the simple truth-I know it wounds you and offends you-but I think it best to speak to you with the plainest frankness." 
                  "Oh, no, I am not offended." 
                   
                  "He would never make you happy." 
                  "Do you think not?" 
                  "Never." 
                  Miss Incledon sighed as though she were beginning to be convinced by her companion's reasoning. 
                  "But I ought to give him a trial-I ought to be more guarded than I have been in my manner. I ought to act carefully-ought I not to-Ralph?" 
                  And she raised her beautiful eyes, still moist with tears, to his face timidly, then lowered them again. 
                  "Act carefully, Silvia? Assuredly you should," he said. 
                  "I should see him again." 
                  "I see no objection to your receiving him before you go." 
                  She colored, but suppressed this emotion instantly. 
                  "Ralph," she said, softly, and turning her face up toward him with a winning smile: "do you know that your goodness made me for a moment think that you would yield to a request I thought of making you?" 
                  "A request, Silvia?" he said, with an admiration of her beauty, which he could not prevent his eyes from revealing. 
                  "Yes, Ralph, a simple favor." 
                  "What is it?" 
                  "You will not be angry?" 
                  "Certainly not, Silvia." 
                  "Are you sure?" 
                  "Quite sure." 
                  "Whatever it may be?" 
                   
                  "I do not think you could make me angry by requesting me to do you a 'simple favour,'" he said, smiling. 
                  "Don't you?" 
                  And her beautiful eyes dwelt softly on his face. 
                  "Indeed, no, Silvia" 
                  "I have offended you so much already," she murmured, with an air of self-reproach. "I am so weak and passionate, and bad." 
                  "No, no, Silvia! you do not make allowance for quickness and impulse. You must not slander yourself." 
                  "Ah!" she sighed, gently. 
                  "I will take your part against yourself," he said, smiling kindly. 
                  "Then I shall have a very noble knight." 
                  And again her look stole softly and admiringly to his face, and she was silent. 
                  "But your request?" he said: and if Miss Incledon's intention in this eye-manoeuvring was to throw her visitor off his guard, the fact of his thus returning to the subject was a proof of her success; "you wished to request something of me, Silvia." 
                  "Yes." 
                  And she sighed. 
                  "I listen." 
                  "Again, you will not be angry?" 
                  "No, indeed. 
                  "Nor think it strange?" 
                  "Why, how can I tell that? But I suppose not." 
                  "And you'll-grant it-Ralph?" she said, more softly than she had yet spoken: indeed, very tenderly-flooding him with her softest, saddest, fondest, and most winning smile; "you'll grant it-Ralph?" 
                  For a moment it seemed to Mr. Incledon that he had heard a voice more than human in its wondrous music; and he listened still to its metallic vibration when she had done speaking. His admiration was quite plain to her, and she laid her warm hand upon his own, and pressed his fingers in a cousinly way, and said again: 
                  "You'll grant my little favor, won't you, Ralph?" 
                  "What is it?" Mr. Incledon said, smiling. 
                  "Say you'll grant it." 
                  "No, indeed, Silvia, that would not be honest: for I certainly will not if it is anything dreadful and terrible." 
                  He smiled again as he spoke, and gazed at the beautiful face admiringly. 
                  "Well," she said, concealing her disappointment and displeasure at the ill-success of all her pleading; "well, Ralph, it is not so terrible or dreadful-and I'm sure you will not think it wrong in me to ask you-not to-write that letter!" 
                  There it was at last: and if Mr. Incledon had taken the trouble to cast his memory back over the last ten minutes, he would have been struck with wonder by the admirable adroitness with which the request was gently edged out, so to speak, from the lady's lips. 
                  "Not write that letter, Silvia!" he said; "but really I must." 
                  "Oh, no, you will not, I am sure." 
                  "Indeed, I will." 
                  "You do not care anything for me!" 
                   
                  And the beautiful face turned away with an expression of ill-humor and displeasure which was far from being affected. 
                  Mr. Incledon looked at her in silence for some time, and then sighing, said: 
                  "It seems our fate, Silvia, always to have opposing wishes and opinions. You ask me not to write this letter-but think what it is. It is very simple. You are placed under my charge by your father-you are persecuted by Mr. Fantish-you think Mr. Fantish a better man than I consider him; and there is, upon the point of his conduct toward you, the most serious difference of opinion between you and myself. In this state of things I prefer yielding up a charge which places me in a position hostile to the wishes of a lady, who is my cousin-I wish to say to your father, and my uncle, 'here, sir, is what you delivered to me-my responsibility-take it back!'-I wish, in a word, Silvia, to end what you even now consider a very singular sort of guardianship, and go back to my studies. I am too young to judge of the species of match suitable for you-I have not scrupled to declare that Mr. Fantish is the last man I would see approach you, spite of the fact that you prefer him to all others: and so you have the reasons, fully expressed, why I must, as an act of justice to myself, write to your father, and demand his presence." 
                  The young lady listened in silence to these calmly-uttered words, and, as the speaker concluded, gazed keenly at his countenance to see if there was any hope of shaking his resolution. The scrutiny drew from her a sigh of ill-humor, amounting almost to anger, and she turned away. 
                  Then came to her eyes again that strange expression, which seemed to denote the conception of some hazardous scheme; and slowly her face grew calm and smiling again, and her eyes soft. 
                  "Well, Ralph, she said, "I cannot dispute the propriety of your resolution, and I know you will always act nobly. I always knew that." 
                  "Did you?" 
                  "Yes-you smile!-but do not think too harshly of my bad, rude words." 
                  "Do not speak again of them, Silvia. I have forgotten them." 
                  "You are so kind!-and this gives me courage to ask of you, as a favor, Ralph, that-but you will refuse me. You are in the mood for refusing everything." 
                  "Indeed, no, Silvia!" 
                  "Not even me?" 
                  "You less than any one, almost-for you deserve to have this granted, as your other was denied." 
                  "Then, Ralph, I wished to ask," she said, with her softest and most fascinating smile, and in the gentlest voice, "I wished to ask if you would please delay writing for three days-until I have an interview with Mr. Fantish, to determine whether I should ever see him again. I would not like, you know, to think every moment that my father would walk in, and-and surprise me. Does that seem ill-advised to you?-I hope it does not-Ralph." 
                   
                  He was silent for a moment, and in that time turned the young woman's request over, viewing it in every light-why, he could scarcely have explained. 
                  "I see not the least objection, Silvia, to granting your request," he said, "and I will not write until Thursday morning." 
                  "Thank you, Ralph-thank you-I am eternally obliged to you." 
                  "Are you?" 
                  "Yes-how can I thank you?" 
                  "I do not know; I hope in no possible way, however, for I have some business to attend to, and have been here all the morning. Yes, Silvia, I willingly accede to your request-and on Thursday morning I will see you again. The shorter your interview with Mr. Fantish the better, I think. For heaven's sake forget him, Silvia-as you love your parents, home, your name, and all that is pure and honorable; he is not your peer-and now, good bye." 
                  She pressed his hand warmly-looked at him with a smile of triumph, which she could not conceal, and as he disappeared, closing the door, shook her hand at him, and rubbing in disgust the spot upon it which his own had touched, muttered triumphantly: 
                  "Fool! shallow fool!-tricked after all your boasting, by a woman you dared to offend!" 
                  These were the events of a morning. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXX. 
                  THE NIGHT PRECEDING THURSDAY MORNING: THREE SCENES OF THE COMEDY. 
                  IN Mr. Fantish's elegant domicil and in that portion of it which has the honor of frequently beholding Mr. Fantish in a state of repose, or in his dressing gown, or shaving-namely in that gentleman's bed-chamber, preparations seem to be going on for something like a journey. 
                  Two gilt gas burners fixed to the wall on each side of the Psyche-mirror in whose polished surface Mr. Fantish is accustomed to survey his manifold graces and elegances, cast their steady glare on the rich chamber, with its luminous appointments-on the closed shutters through which shines the white light of the cold snow-and on the owner of the mansion, clad in his gorgeous dressing gown, and busy stuffing clothes into a portmanteau. 
                  On the table lies an open volume of the French school of literature-by it flutters an open note of satin paper elegantly written in a woman's hand-and on the hearth a refractory cigar, which Mr. Fantish has abandoned in disgust, sends up its faint blue acrid smoke. 
                  Mr. Fantish has nearly filled his portmanteau with all the conveniences of a traveller, when a knock is heard at the street door, the always wakeful servant gently opens it; and soon a step is heard upon the stairs, and the door of the chamber opens, giving entrance to the valiant Captain Tarnish. 
                  Captain Tarnish is not as elegantly made up for public inspection, as he usually is. His neckcloth is awry-his waistcoat gapes and shows his linen somewhat soiled-his hair is all disordered, as if angry fingers have been plunged into it. One thing about the captain is unchanged, however, and is more conspicuous than ever-his boastful swagger and supercilious look. As he enters with his half-smoked cigar between his lips, with his red cheeks which indicate recent and deep potations, and his eyes surrounded with dull circles, and quite bloodshot, he is the same swaggering, disagreeable bully, as when standing finely dressed and 'set up' with his morning draught of brandy, at the shooting gallery. 
                  The worthies salute each other with that nod which passes between men who understand each other. 
                  Then the following observations are exchanged. 
                  FANTISH, stuffing a pair of velvet slippers into a remaining crevice of his portmanteau. Well, Tarnish, what's stirring besides your great carcass? 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Nothing but the cards. 
                  FANTISH. The cards? 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Yes, sir, the deuced cards-they're stirring. 
                  FANTISH, lighting a fresh cigar. Bad luck? 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Ruinous! 
                  FANTISH, with a sneering laugh. You won't listen to me, and give them up. I tell you, cards will ruin you-you haven't got the nerve-you drink too freely also Mon Capitaine. You cannot resist the brandy bottle, and I tell you again, what I have told you a thousand times before, that brandy ruins a man who makes cards his profession. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, sullenly. Well, that is true: but how the devil can a man resist a glass of brandy, when he's going his whole pile upon a card? 
                  FANTISH, lounging in a rocking chair and wrapping his silk gown about him. Well, it is hard. But take my advice, captain, and abandon one or the other. Playing faro any to-night? 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, with an imprecation. Yes! all the evening. 
                  FANTISH, indifferently. Did they clean you out? 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Exactly. 
                  Mr. Fantish burst into a fit of laughter, and leans back in his chair to reap the full benefits of his entertainment. Meanwhile Captain Tarnish, with a very bad grace, mutters that it is nothing, and helps himself to another cigar from the mantel-piece. His eye then wanders to a side table, where a bottle stands, and going to it, he pours out nearly a tumbler full of brandy and empties it, without water, at a single draught. 
                  FANTISH. How is that? Good, captain? I ask you, because you're a connoisseur in drinks. You know you have tried the liquors of all nations-like the hero of Bon Gaultier. Stay, here is the volume-listen. Fantish opens the book and reads. 
                         
                           "Widely o'er the earth I've wandered where the drink most freely flowed, 
                           I have ever reeled the foremost, foremost to the beaker strode; 
                           Deep in shady cider cellars I have dreamed o'er heavy wet, 
                           By the fountains of Damascus I have quaffed the rich Sherbet. 
                            
                           Regal Montepulciano drained beneath its native rock, 
                           On Johannis' sunny mountains, frequent hiccuped o'er my hock: 
                           I have bathed in butts of Xeres, deeper than did e'er Monsoon. 
                           Sangareed with bearded Tartars in the Mountains of the Moon. 
                           In beer-swilling Copenhagen I have drank your Danesman blind; 
                           I have kept my feet in Jena, when each bursch to earth declined. 
                           Glass for glass in fierce Jamaica, I have shared the planters rum; 
                           Drank with Highland dhuinie-wassels, till each gibbering Gael grew dumb. 
                           But a stouter, bolder drinker-one who loved his liquor more, 
                           Never yet did I encounter than our friend upon the floor." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "A clever fellow, Bon Gaultier-is he not?" 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Yes, I knew him in London-lived in Grub street, and gets a penny a line. 
                  FANTISH. Really? 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Yes, sir: and has often drank with me. 
                  FANTISH. You ought to have told him to put in the Italian and Louisianian wines. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. What sort? 
                  FANTISH, with a sneer. Those which you drank with your friends Labordre and Seor Bocca. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, sullenly. Well, I suppose you don't deny that they are real people. 
                  FANTISH. Not in the least-nor your indomitable bravery, Captain. You are a Csar, an Antony, a Hercules; you have seen the whole world, and that accounts for the perfection in drinking, which is, after all, the finest trait in your character. 
                  Captain Tarnish doubts whether this remark should be received with dignity, hauteur, or anger. In consideration, however, of the fact, that neither of these attitudes are likely to have any effect upon one so well acquainted with himself as Mr. Fantish, he decides upon indifference, and says, smoking through his nose: 
                  "Well, let us get away from drinking and books. I hate books--" 
                  FANTISH, entertained by the oaths expressed by the above lines and sneering. I suppose you do. Well, talk of what pleases you. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, looking at the portmanteau. You are going on a journey? 
                  FANTISH. Precisely, Captain. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Where? 
                  FANTISH. Parts unknown. I am taking a leap in the dark. There is only one objection to the move-I am encumbered with too much baggage. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, glancing at the portmanteau again. Too much! It's little enough. 
                  FANTISH, sneering. That is the way you take everything, Captain-literally. You are not a logician, or you would be acquainted with the use made of figures. By too much baggage, I mean a woman. I am encumbered with a woman. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. Running away with you. 
                  FANTISH. Eloping-exactly. These little affairs generally cost the gentleman a good deal of trouble, but in the present instance all worry and annoyance is taken off my hands. That letter there would prove this-but honor bright, you know, Captain-I am a man of honor! 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, indifferently. Of course. And so you go in the morning. 
                   
                  FANTISH. In the morning early, as the ballad says. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. When do you return? 
                  FANTISH. Really can't say. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. You take things coolly. How will you leave everything? There seems to me to be a number of valuable articles in this room. The frame of that picture there, over which a curtain is drawn, is itself worth a cool hundred or two. 
                  FANTISH, with a sudden flush. No matter; I will arrange it. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, rising, and going toward the picture. Strange, that as many times as I have been in this room, I never laid my eyes upon that picture, or drew back the curtain. Is it a French affair? Let's see it. 
                  FANTISH, rising quickly, and seizing the arm stretched out to raise the curtain. You shall not, sir!-you touch it at your peril! 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, stupefied with astonishment. What the devil! Are you going to eat a man because he wants to see your pictures! 
                  FANTISH, pale, and speaking in a tone scarcely audible. I repeat, sir, that you do not raise the curtain of that picture-that is enough, sir! 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH, sitting down, and smoking indifferently. Well, that's all correct. If you won't have it seen, you won't, I suppose-though, curse me, if I know what it can mean. 
                  FANTISH, pale, but growing calm, and returning slowly to his seat. It is a portrait of my mother; no one ever touches even that curtain; and when I go, no one will enter this room. 
                  CAPTAIN TARNISH. You're a devil of a fellow, Fantish. I know there's something bold about this journey-that suits me. Come, let me into your confidence, and I may assist you. 
                  FANTISH, regaining his sneering manner. I don't want assistance; but if you choose, you may come to-morrow morning to-but stay, here is a copy of my note: I spoiled it, and wrote another. Wait! why should'nt you read this, first, in which the damsel asks me to "take possession of her fate," and disappoint a noble and chivalric guardian who told her she was naughty for preferring me to him. There is the letter, my dear fellow, and you may read it, and mine, too, and come to-morrow morning and see how it goes. 
                  SERVANT, entering silently. The driver's come, sir, to get orders. 
                  FANTISH. Tell him to come in: and lock up everywhere. 
                  The servant goes out; Captain Tarnish reads the note; and Mr. Fantish, unconscious of his having carried human baseness to the last perfection, smokes, and sneers in silence. 
                  So the scene ends 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXXI. 
                  SCENE THE SECOND. 
                  SEATED upon the sofa, in her chamber, Miss Incledon, while Captain Tarnish reads her note, leans her fine head upon her hand, and ponders. 
                  Her figure is enveloped in a loose robe, which conceals a complete travelling dress, and looking intently into the fire, her gracefully curved eyebrows meet together in the middle, and her gaze is almost wild in its intense excitement. 
                  Peeping from the fringed edge of the counterpane behind her, is visible, the corner of a small travelling trunk, of yellow leather, such as are carried in the hand by both handles, fixed upon the side. 
                  Midnight has passed, and her candle burns low, spattering the silver candlestick with the hard, white spermaceti-which is, nevertheless, unheeded, as it patters, drop after drop, in the deep silence of the night. 
                  The young woman's head bends lower, and her large, white arm, upon which a golden bracelet is clasped, seems scarcely able to support the weight imposed upon it. 
                  The red firelight streams upon the woman's figure, and every detail of her appearance is made visible-almost painfully so. 
                  She remains silent for a long time, then, with a cold smile, her brows relax; and she raises her proud eyes, in which the expression of haughty triumph is unmistakeable. 
                   
                  "He thought to force me to bend to him!" she murmurs, clenching her hand, "he thought that I would suffer him to watch and spy, and sneak, and find out everything about me, and then make me obey him as his slave! Fool! he did not know, with all his boasted knowledge of life and books, that one wronged woman is a match for a hundred men! My guardian, forsooth! a pretty guardian, that wished to make love to his ward, and go back home, and say, 'I have performed my part so well, that I have got my ward an excellent husband! Oh, yes! excellent! He would have made me an excellent husband, no doubt! 'My dear, have you seen the theological work I have been reading?'-'My love, don't you think it would be best to go to fewer parties, and not waltz so much?'-'Sil-vi-a! I am afraid you are sadly given to the vanities of life-you think too much of this world!' How I hate him!" 
                  And resuming with these words her bitter and scornful tone, which she had dropped to assume, with the ease of a great actress, Mr. Incledon's mild manner, she clenched her beautiful hand more tightly and frowned again. 
                  "So he thought to marry me, did he!" she continued, "he thought to wheedle, and cajole, and trick me into accepting him! And when I chose to exercise my right of choosing freely, he must shake his head forsooth! and say I am running into danger! How I despise him!" 
                  And she tosses her head and curls her lip with such derision, that her beautiful countenance grows painfully repulsive. As she speaks, a door opens on the passage leading by her chamber, and a step is heard approaching her apartment. 
                  Miss Incledon starts from her seat-springs to the mantel-piece, and extinguishes the light; and then falls back upon the sofa, covering her travelling dress with the robe. 
                  She has scarcely finished these preparations when the door opens, and an elderly lady enters, smiling. She wears a loose, evening robe, in which she has been attending to her household matters, and carries on her arm a basket of keys. This is Mrs. Incledon, the young woman's aunt, and she says in a kind voice: 
                  "What, Silvia? are you awake yet? You'll spoil your roses, my daughter." 
                  SILVIA, repressing a tumultuous throbbing at her heart with one hand, while she rubs her eyes with the other. Yes, Aunt Fanny-I am afraid I will-but really that novel there is so attractive that it kept me up until now-and I have just blown out my candle. 
                  AUNT FANNY, pressing down a lump of coal upon the fire for safety. What novel, Silvia? Ah! that is a great waste of time, and calculated to injure many persons. What is it? 
                  SILVIA. The "Mysteries of Paris." 
                  AUNT FANNY, shaking her head. I have heard that these French works are not what they should be. 
                  SILVIA. They are so horrible, Aunt Fanny; but have you been down stairs again, since you came up. 
                  AUNT FANNY. Yes; I had a jar of pickles to see to which I forgot, and it has kept me busy for an hour. 
                   
                  SILVIA. I hope you will have a good night's rest;-I do always-I have everything so comfortable. 
                  AUNT FANNY, looking around with pride. Yes, I arranged everything myself. But what is that yonder-your trunk? 
                  SILVIA, hastily. Oh, yes!-I ought to have put it in the closet with my larger one. 
                  AUNT FANNY, going to the trunk and pulling it out. These are very convenient, are they not, for-why, it is packed! 
                  SILVIA, with her hand upon her heart. Some things I thought I should n't have any use for until I set out to return. 
                  AUNT FANNY. Ah! you young women! You have a thousand things which were not allowed us when we were young. Let me see what you have stuffed in there. Where is the key? 
                  SILVIA. in a voice scarcely audible. The key? 
                  AUNT FANNY. Yes, I want to see the arrangements of the trunk inside-I may want one. 
                  SILVIA. I don't think-I hardly know-it's somewhere-to-morrow I will- 
                  AUNT FANNY. Never mind. Do not trouble yourself. 
                  SILVIA, regaining her voice. Oh, it's no trouble, aunt; you may have that trunk, as you say you like it. I really don't want it. 
                  AUNT FANNY. Don't you? Well, I think I will borrow it for my visit to sister Jane, in two or three days. I will take it now, and you shall come and unpack it. 
                  SILVIA, darting towards the trunk. No! don't take it! 
                   
                  AUNT FANNY, in astonishment. You frighten me, child. Why, who would have thought?-well, well! this is a strange generation. 
                  SILVIA, smiling on her as she rises and is going. You mus'nt mind my folly, Aunt Fanny. 
                  AUNT FANNY. Oh, it's nothing, daughter. Come, go to bed-why, what is that you have on? Your pearl-colored travelling dress! 
                  SILVIA, nearly fainting, but gathering courage immediately. Yes, ma'am, I thought I'd see how it looked, and put it on this evening-and I haven't taken it off yet. 
                  AUNT FANNY. How odd you are! 
                  SILVIA, turning pale and murmuring inaudibly. How base, and false, and miserable I am! 
                  AUNT FANNY. What did you say, my daughter? 
                  SILVIA, covering her face. Nothing, Aunt Fanny. Do you love me, Aunt-oh, can you love me?" 
                  AUNT FANNY, astounded at this outburst. Certainly, I do, child! What on earth can you mean? 
                  SILVIA, suppressing a rising sob. I mean, Aunt, that I am not strong like you-and that some day I may commit something which would not seem right to you. You would not think hardly of me, if I did-at least you would forgive me; would'nt you, Aunt? 
                  AUNT FANNY, in deepest astonishment. Forgiveness is a bounden duty, Silvia. If one be overtaken in a fault, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness. I read that in my Bible, and I try to make the Bible my rule of conduct. 
                  SILVIA, growing calmer. Well, Aunt Fanny, when you write home-if you write before I do-give my deepest love to every one, and say that I would have written, only I am in such a whirl. 
                  AUNT FANNY, completely stupefied by the confusion and want of connection in Silvia's discourse. Certainly, I will, daughter. But Ralph writes to Runland, and they know all about you and your doings. 
                  SILVIA, with wide eyes-they know? 
                  AUNT FANNY. -Why, assuredly, it is Ralph's place when he writes, to tell them especially of you-that you are well and happy and enjoying yourself. What more natural? 
                  SILVIA, in a murmur. Yes-very natural. 
                  AUNT FANNY, counting her keys. Ralph is very fond of you. 
                  SILVIA. Is he? 
                  AUNT FANNY, looking for the key of the tea caddie. Yes, he ought to be proud of his guardianship, over such a brilliant young lady, as Miss Silvia. You ought to follow Ralph's suggestions in everything, daughter; he is one of the most intelligent and high-minded young men I ever met in all my life-and if you wished to do one thing, and he wished another, it would be better for you follow his suggestions than your own. 
                  SILVIA, with a cloud upon her face. I do not think so! That is, I mean, there may be things-but I am keeping you up, Aunt. 
                  AUNNT FANNY, pouncing upon the key and easy in her mind again. Yes, so you are: good night 
                  SILVIA. Good night, ma'am. 
                   
                  AUNT FANNY, closing the doors and disappearing. Pleasant dreams! 
                  SILVIA, rising and looking after her with a frown. If that man's name had not been uttered, I might have yielded to this silly regret at leaving a house where I have been treated kindly. But that name has steeled me-I am resolute again. He thought to choose my husband, did he! Fool! I foiled him with his own sickening mildness. Yes, I am once more determined; and not all the 'intelligent and high-minded' Mr. Incledons in the world shall drive me from my purpose One!-so late; I will soon hear the signal! 
                  And Miss Incledon resumes her seat, and gazes again into the fire, with her brows joined together into the "bar of Michael Angelo." 
                  The stroke of one! dies away, and all is silent. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXII. 
                  SCENE THIRD AND LAST. 
                  MR. INCLEDON-stirring the fire, and pointing to a cigar, which Mr. Sansoucy refuses with a shake of his head. But you are wrong, Ernest. The human intellect has something of the Divine in its grandest manifestations-but its powers are circumscribed. What you allege would make a man more than human. 
                  MR. SANSOUCY, with an argumentative movement of his hand. Not at all. It is only an act which long training has perfected the student in. Look at Kean. Did you ever see him? 
                   
                  INCLEDON. No. 
                  SANSOUCY. I did once, in London, just when he retired. If you had seen him, you would not dispute, what I say. Yes, Ralph! There are men born with such a ductility of mind and feature, that they end by believing themselves really the characters they act. You should have seen Edmund Kean in Richard. A fiery little devil-so to speak-blustering his words out, scowling, and with every muscle swollen with passion: no, he thought himself really Richard-and on the night I saw him, he was as near killing the unfortunate Richmond, whose rle, you know, is to lay the proud usurper low, as a man can come without actually running his adversary through. 
                  INCLEDON And that proves-? 
                  SANSOUCY. Simply one thing. That certain natures are gifted with this extraordinery genius, which enables them to throw themselves into a part, and forget their own identity. This end once reached, they ride upon the whirlwind of art and direct it. It is more than the keenest eye can see-the fact that all they utter has been gotten by heart-that every gesture is the result of previous arrangement-that they are only acting. Think of the stories of Garrick, Mrs. Siddons, Miss O'Neil, and Kemble.- 
                  INCLEDON, smiling.You knock me down with names. 
                  SANSOUCY. They are high authority, and present powerful illustrations. 
                  INCLEDON. Well, possibly. 
                  SANSOUCY, gratified at having triumphed. Look even at Macready. Did you see him in Macbeth? You have seen him? Well, do you recollect the great 'dagger scene,' as my friends the actors call it in their jargon? In that scene I defy any one to see the actor's terror-stricken features, his brow bathed in sweat, his hands clutching at the air, without looking for the dagger, even as he looks. 
                  INCLEDON. Very well. 
                  SANSOUCY. Well, what does that prove Mr. Logician? Simply this, that the actor feels that he is not Mr. Macready, but the Thane of Caudor-and as a consequence of that belief, and the further conviction that he is going to murder the sleeping king-actually feels that there is an air-drawn dagger, and expresses that feeling in his eyes, and makes you look for what he evidently sees-Q.E.D. You are wrong and I am right. 
                  INCLEDON, smiling at his friend's good humored air of triumph. Well, you may be, but still I believe that such ductility of imagination is given to but one man in a million-scarcely ever to a woman. 
                  SANSOUCY, quickly.Oftener to women than to men. 
                  INCLEDON. I don't believe it. 
                  SANSOUCY. That's because you are as obstinate as a block of granite. Women, Ralph, have this impressibility of temperament a thousand fold more fully than men. Where one man is a great actor, a hundred women might be great actresses. And do not think that this is a cynical speech on my part. Not at all. I yield to no man in chivalric feeling toward woman, and I bow before a little girl even, for she is purer and more innocent than I am. But the fact remains. Believe me, Ralph, there are greater actresses in private life than on the stage. 
                   
                  INCLEDON. What a cynic! 
                  SANSOUCY. Just as I expected. A man cannot look at woman, as they are, and say, 'This is good-that bad,' without having some such speech made to him. You are to think them angels, on penalty of being branded as a woman hater! Very well! that shan't affect me in the least. I will go on as I always have gone on, honoring women for a thousand qualities far nobler than the same in men-endurance, disinterestedness, tenderness, and devotion-I shall go on attributing all this to women, my dear Ralph; but I will not take back what I have said, that half the women a man meets have smiles and tears, and frowns and tenderness as much at their command, as the keys of the pianos which their fingers play on without effort! 
                  INCLEDON, thinking of Silvia and frowning. Very well-that's just what I expected, Ernest. Take care you never find out the truth of what I say. There's Aurelia. Tell me is she an actress? 
                  SANSOUCY, sighing. Really I haven't made up my mind; but who knows? Ah, my dear Ralph! the fact is that my philosophy is a very dangerous one, and has too fine an edge to apply practically-like a razor used to cut open the leaves of a book, it is too keen, and runs out of its track-and slash! there's your fine copy, with its steel engravings sliced in two! But let us dismiss the subject, or I will recant all I have said! 
                  INCLEDON. Willingly. 
                  SANSOUCY, rising. Well, I am going. No, I can't stay. I have a thousand things to do in the morning, besides a visit to my little friend, Ellie, to pay. Good-night night: come and see me, to-morrow. I shall have from twelve until dinner on my hands. You will come? 
                  INCLEDON. Willingly, again. 
                  SANSOUCY, disappearing wrapped to the eyes in his overcoat. Good-night. 
                  INCLEDON, gazing after him. A mind rioting in discussion!-but all editors have just such characters. I suppose it becomes habit with them-and they take pride in their skill at dialectics. He is half right about actors and their capabilities, no doubt-but doubt a young girl like Silvia! Impossible: my faith in woman, which I cling to as my treasure and blessing, only second to my faith in a higher than all earthly things, would leave me-I should doubt the earth I tread on-I should sicken at the thought of living in a world so poor and mean! Grant, O my God, as I raise my eyes solemnly to thee and yield my heart to thee as a little child-naked, and poor, and humble, but with faith and trust--grant, O my God and Father, that I may not lose my treasure, even my faith in human nature-in the beings whom I am thrown with-whom I love-and loving cannot look upon as wholly base, and fallen and untouched with the sublime light of heaven!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXXIII. 
                  THE ELOPEMENT. 
                  WE have given at length all the details of the interviews between the three personages who played the chief part in this contest of passion and principle; and this was necessary, in order to convey a clear impression of the relative positions occupied by each. 
                  We shall now be able to speak more briefly of the events which followed the scenes we have described. 
                  Morning came slowly and gloomily: and where a red streak in the East would, on a clear day, have gone before the dawn, a faint, dubious half-mist tint scarcely made any impression on the darkness. 
                  It was one of those mornings when the world seems to be buried inextricably in a sea of fog; when the eye pierces scarcely six feet from the spot on which a man stands:-and when the idea of anything like sunlight ever again, appears wholly ridiculous. 
                  In a word, the city was enveloped in one of the heaviest fogs which had ever descended upon it; and the early wayfarers resembled spectres as they glided onward. 
                  Among these spectres were two who made a low signal before a house, in an upper chamber of which a faint sheen of fire light was visible, flickering on the curtains, 
                  These figures were those of men, wrapped in cloaks, and in spite of the deserted state of the streets, they drew down over their brows their hats with wide rims, and seemed to await the answer of their signal with impatience. 
                   
                  It soon came. The window of the room in which the faint light flickered, was cautiously raised, and a woman's head was thrust out into the biting air. 
                  The low whistle was repeated, and the window immediately descended. 
                  In five minutes the door of the house opened noiselessly, and the woman, carrying her small trunk with difficulty, issued forth, and hastened toward the men. 
                  "Who is that?" she whispered, looking at one of the men, as she placed her hand in that of the other. 
                  "A friend, Silvia-come, we are too late." 
                  And taking the trunk in his hand, he gave it to his companion, and followed with the lady. 
                  In five minutes they reached a carriage standing at the corner of the street, and all got into it. 
                  "Whip your horses, and be out of town in fifteen minutes, and I promise you double pay!" said Mr. Fantish to the driver. 
                  "Yes, sir!" 
                  And mounting to his seat the driver flourished his whip, and laid the lash at one stroke over the backs of both horses. 
                  They jumped in the traces half-reared, and starting forward over the slippery street, went onward at a pace hazardous in the extreme. 
                  Three squares from the point at which they had stopped, Mr. Fantish found the carriage going slower. 
                  "What is the matter?" he said. 
                  "The matter, sir?" 
                  "Yes! you are crawling." 
                   
                  "We're goin' down hill here, sir, and the ground's covered with ice." 
                  "Ice!" 
                  "Like a pond, sir." 
                  "No matter! take the chances! There is sunrise coming." 
                  "They'll slip here, sir!" 
                  "Take the chances!-double pay at any rate!" 
                  "Very good, sir!" 
                  And the driver struck his horses with his whip, and drove them into a gallop. 
                  It was a suicidal act. No sooner had they entered fairly upon the descent, than striking with their smooth-shod hoofs the slippery surface, they both fell, almost at the same moment, snapping, in their descent, the pole of the carriage. 
                  It fell nearly over on its side, and bursting open the door, Mr. Fantish dragged out Miss Silvia, and-found himself standing within two feet of Mr. Incledon. 
                  Mr. Incledon, by one of those providences which seem, at times, to interpose themselves in the way of the most deeply-laid schemes, had reached the spot where the carriage stopped, just when the fugitives reached it. Accustomed in the country to rise at daylight, make his own fire, and prosecute his studies or walk out, he had brought this habit with him to the city-and had thus been thrown in contact with the fugitives, scarcely a hundred yards from his own door, from which he had just issued. 
                  For a moment the adversaries stood facing each other with a look of stupefaction which they could not repress or resist. 
                  Mr. Incledon was the first to recover his presence of mind. He understood all at a glance; and advancing straight upon Mr. Fantish, he caught him by the throat, and exerting his great strength, threw him backward toward the half-overturned carriage. 
                  The attack was so sudden that Mr. Fantish was wholly unable to resist it; and the blood rushed to his eyes so powerfully under Mr. Incledon's clutch, that he nearly fell back as with vertigo. 
                  Mr. Incledon turned just in time to avoid a blow from Captain Tarnish's bowie-knife-a weapon which that gentleman never went unprovided with. 
                  This was the position of affairs-the two men were just about to throw themselves upon their single opponent, when, in spite of their rage, they paused and drew back. 
                  Coming round the nearest corner, a party of the night-watch, returning to their homes after service, were seen; and the fact of their appearance had a sudden and powerful effect upon Captain Tarnish. 
                  His knife disappeared-he assumed an innocent and highly respectable air; and raised his finger silently to Mr. Fantish. 
                  "Not now," he whispered. 
                  "Why not now?" gasped Mr. Fantish, pale with rage. 
                  "A prosecution!" 
                  And Captain Tarnish's very blood seemed to curdle at the word. 
                  "Well, very well-you are right," was the reply, in a tone of concentrated rage; "besides the ridicule-in a moment we shall be surrounded." 
                  "It's broad day." 
                  "Yes." 
                  And turning to Mr. Incledon, Mr. Fantish went up to that gentleman, and, bending to his ear, hissed rather than said, with his pale lips: 
                  "You shall hear from me, sir! We have not done with each other! I will kill you like a dog, sir, as surely as I live!" 
                  Having made this personal communication, Mr. Fantish stood for a moment gasping with that rage he dared not give way to, threw a last glance upon Miss Incledon, and uttering a deep curse, turned to depart. 
                  "My pay!" cried the driver, in despair. 
                  "There, rascal!" 
                  And he threw a gold piece of large value to him. 
                  "Thankee, sir-that'll mend all." 
                  But Mr. Fantish had disappeared in the fog. 
                  Mr. Incledon was left alone with Silvia, who stood haughtily upon the pavement, from which she had not moved. As to the driver, he paid no attention to him, and the horses and broken carriage soon disappeared. 
                  Mr. Incledon looked for a moment at the young woman with a countenance as pale as death-trembled visibly-and tried vainly to utter a word. 
                  "You need say nothing, sir!" she said, in a tone of the coldest self-possession. "Your voice is not so agreeable to me, sir, that I wish to hear it at the present moment! Coward that you are, sir, to thus persecute a woman!" 
                   
                  He looked at her still with the same deep emotion-uttered a cruel groan, which even his great self-control could not repress-and then advancing to her, said: 
                  "Come back! Oh, come back, Silvia!-poor child! poor, erring and unhappy child! Come home with me!" 
                  And, covering his face, he was silent. 
                  She slowly went with him-and thus they regained the house. He had promised not to speak of what had occurred-she had promised to return home with him on the following morning. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIV. 
                  HOW A WOMAN WAS TREATED BY A MAN. 
                  GOING back to his room, Mr. Incledon sat down, and leaned his head upon his hand, and groaned. 
                  Then what his friend had said was true! Then after all, human nature-woman's nature-was essentially corrupt: unworthy of all trust, and in its fairest showiness, false and miserable! 
                  All his beautiful dreams of human truth and purity were chimeras-he had placed his faith in what was rotten and crumbling-suspicion, hatred and contempt, must henceforth fill his bosom, however it might yearn to feel toward those around him, love and confidence. 
                  The dreadful effect produced upon this man's heart, by the cruel blow of the woman who had so basely deceived him, showed itself plainly in his pale countenance-and in the bitter moan which issued from his lips. 
                  "Falsehood!" he murmured, "terrible falsehood! Can it be? Falsehood in lip and eye, falsehood in voice and manner, falsehood in smile and sigh, and word and deed!-nothing but one gigantic falsehood!-which has darkened everything before me, made me sour and bitter and incredulous of all I see and hear, and meet-the very air seems tainted with it!-pah! it sickens me!" 
                  And shuddering, he crouched lower, and was silent. 
                  In the depth of his soul there then commenced one of those struggles, only known to men who possess powerful impulses, vast strength of organization, and extreme sensibility. For a time he uttered no sound, but remained thus pale and overwhelmed with the thoughts which battled in his bosom for the mastery. 
                  He remained silent thus for nearly an hour, his face still covered, his head bent down. 
                  Then his head rose, and two tears moistened his fiery eyes-tears that would not have bent a violet, but falling on this woman's shoulders, should have weighed upon her heavier than the rocks hurled on the Titans, crushing her with agony, repentance, and remorse. 
                  The struggle, as far as it referred to her, was ended. 
                  "Poor child!" he murmured, in a tone of infinite pity, "poor child, misled by passion, wrath, and evil!-I will not judge her, though her act wrecks my faith and trust, and confidence in woman, the purest as I thought, and now, proved full of falsehood! Oh, Silvia! Silvia! the woman who thus makes an honest gentleman turn with horror and fear from all her sex, assumes a terrible responsibility. But it is not for me to judge-my simple duty is before me, and that I will do." 
                  And rising, he passed his hand across his hrow, and leaning his elbow on the mantel-piece, murmured: 
                  "O! my God grant pardon to this woman: I have pardoned her!" 
                  A moment's silence, a moment's prayer, sufficed to make him calm again:-and summoning his servant, he directed him to send any one who came to see him to Mr. Sansoucy's office, whither he was going. 
                  This caution referred simply to an expected call from a gentleman on some ordinary and unimportant business:-but it was instrumental, in no slight degree, in bringing on the events which followed, as the reader will perceive. 
                  Half an hour after Mr. Incledon's departure, Captain Tarnish presented himself at the door, and asked the servant for his master. 
                  Mr. Incledon had gone out, the servant informed him, and had left word that he might be found at Mr. Sansoucy's office. 
                  Captain Tarnish, who was clad in the most superb suit, and whose mustaches-assisted by Macassar-curled ferociously toward his eyes, received this intimation with a scowl, and for an instant hesitated, looking at a note he held daintily in his purple kid-covered fingers. 
                  "Your master is a sneak, you rascal!" said the valiant gentleman at last, conceiving this a happy expedient for discharging all his pent-up dissatisfaction. Yes, a sneak! and you may tell him so! I'd tell him so, if he was here- I would! Don't look at me, you rascal, as if I would be afraid! Try it again, and I'll cane you!" 
                  This address was so terrible that the negro's eyes, which really had been full of the expression attributed to them by Captain Tarnish, sank before him, and the worthy triumphed. 
                  He inserted the note into the breast-pocket of his surtout-scowled generally at the apartment, and so took his departure-not without hesitating, however, whether it would be advisable to call at Mr. Sansoucy's room with hostile views. 
                  Recollecting speedily the fact, however, that Mr. Fantish would probably "lend" him a good round sum for his assistance; and that there was nothing absolutely calculated to endanger his person in the visit, Captain Tarnish assumed his most noble swagger, and with haughty mien strode down the street toward the residence of Mr. Sansoucy. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXV. 
                  HOW CAPTAIN TARNISH CAME TO AND WENT FROM MR. SANSOUCY'S OFFICE. 
                  SANSOUCY was just finishing his morning task when his friend entered; and without raising his eyes, said, smiling: 
                  "Good morning, Ralph-I knew your step-sit down Another paragraph and I am done." 
                   
                  Mr. Incledon sat down; and for some moments the swift pen of the journalist glided over the yellow slip before him, making only that slight scratching which accompanies the best goose quill. 
                  "There!" he cried, suddenly, "I'm done! The cause of freedom has advanced a mighty league by that production!-as my brother editor and compeer Jefferson Brick would say. How singular, Ralph," he added, holding out his hand, which was cordially pressed, "how singular that Mr. Dickens should believe there is no intelligence or honesty or fairness in American editors! I think the journalists of this Republic are much before even the English, in the greatest and truest elements of their profession: and I think this is plainly the result of what the English scoff at and despise as an enormity-our free atmosphere and youth and vigor as a nation! Old England scowls at Young America!-but, Ralph, your brow is clouded-here I am thrusting politics for ever on you, and-you are troubled about something!" 
                  And Sansoucy gazed at his friend more attentively. 
                  "I am in indifferent spirits this morning, Ernest," was Mr. Incledon's reply, "and I don't think I should tell even you the cause of it. Don't ask me." 
                  "The cause of it? Not tell me!" 
                  "I cannot." 
                  Sansoucy looked at his friend for a moment with great surprise: then nodding, replied: 
                  "Well, Ralph! Then I ask no questions-but your visit is with some definite purpose, more than-" 
                  "Simply friendly? Yes." 
                   
                  And Mr. Incledon sighed. 
                  "I leave town in the morning for a short time," he said, and I wish you to take charge of and the duties which we share-you understand me." 
                  "Perfectly-up yonder." 
                  "Yes-it is double labor, but I will soon return." 
                  "Very well-I ask no questions and I acquiesce without a word. But what in the world could have-there it is! Pardon me, Ralph: I'm a journalist, and in my quality as such, have a mania for procuring the 'latest intelligence' with full details. But my mouth is sealed. 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy fixed his lips firmly, as if determined to preserve his character for resolution, and forbearance. 
                  "It would scarcely interest you, Ernest-the reason for my dullness, and my departure," said Mr. Incledon, "and I have no right to tell even you." 
                  "Perfectly satisfactory." 
                  "To another person I would not even say as much-it is not my affair. Enough." 
                  "A thousand times enough, Ralph-and now say no more about it. I hate your model friend who insists upon having your bosom laid open before him, with its thoughts, intentions, feelings, perhaps even its sufferings all patent. There are things we do not whisper even to our wives," said Mr. Sansoucy, wishing to divert his friend from his low spirits, by a jest, "and faith! I don't think it a bad rule to tell them nothing-when we have wives!" 
                  And having thus given a cheerful turn to the conversation, Mr. Sansoucy, with that good humor which was like a cordial in its effects upon his friends, took up a journal and folded it conveniently to read a number of the "Lorgnette," which was published in its columns. 
                  He had just fixed himself to read aloud one of the admirable passages of that entertaining serial, when a noisy step was heard ascending the stairs, and soon a knock came at the door-a knock full of dignity and authority and swagger-if the things are compatible. 
                  "Enter!" said Mr. Sansoucy, with the air of a man who utters the word, frequently. 
                  The door opened, and the worthy Captain Tarnish made his appearance. 
                  Captain Tarnish looked even more splendid and martial than before: his chin was higher in the air: his hat was more on one side of his head: his boots seemed glossier, and his hat: his nose was elevated at an angle which expressed the consciousness upon its owner's part of a great mission, not without some danger, which he intended to swagger through the performance of, as impressively as possible. 
                  "Good morning, Captain Tarnish," said Mr. Sansoucy, bowing but holding his hand behind his back-"walk in, sir." 
                  "Thank, you, sir," said Captain Tarnish, grandly. 
                  And looking at Mr. Incledon, he said: 
                  "I believe I have a communication for you, sir!" 
                  "For me, sir?" said that gentleman, coldly. 
                  "Yes, sir-I believe your name is Incledon." 
                  "It is, sir." 
                  "Then I have this note for you, sir." 
                   
                  And Captain Tarnish extracted from the breast-pocket, where he had deposited it, as we have said, the note which he had held between his-large-sized-kid-gloved fingers, when we met him at the residence of the gentleman to whom it was addressed. 
                  "This is it, sir," said Captain Tarnish, advancing two steps with a martial swagger; "I'll wait for an answer, and a reference to your friend, sir!" 
                  Mr. Incledon took the note calmly and coolly, gazed for a moment at Captain Tarnish, in a way which evidently rendered that worthy ill at ease, and said: 
                  "What does this note contain, sir, and from whom is it?" 
                  "You will see by opening it, sir," replied Captain Tarnish, with his hand upon his hip, and straightening his shoulders. 
                  Mr. Incledon opened the note and read the following words: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 "THURSDAY MORNING.
                               
                              "SIR: You were guilty of an offence and an insult toward me this morning, which your blood or my own will answer. I told you as much, and I now repeat, that nothing but the amplest satisfaction will suffice. You shall learn, sir, that I am not to be thwarted with impunity-and Captain Tarnish, the bearer of this note, will make the arrangements for the meeting. Should you refuse, as I expect, I will publish your name as coward! coward! coward! mark me, sir! 
                              
                                 "I have the honor to be 
                                 "Your most obed't serv't, 
                                 "MR. R. INCLEDON. 
                                 "A. FANTISH."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                   
                  Mr. Incledon read the note quite calmly, and then stretching out the hand which held it, said: 
                  "You may take this back, sir, to the source it issued from." 
                  "Take it back!" cried Captain Tarnish, with his most terrible frown. 
                  "Yes, sir," said Mr. Incledon, gazing serenely into the Captain's face. 
                  "Take what back!" said Sansoucy, reaching out his hand and grasping the letter. 
                  "A note from Mr. Fantish, the younger." 
                  And Mr. Incledon placed the billet in his friend's hand. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy ran his eye over it rapidly, and frowning, said: 
                  "A challenge!" 
                  "Yes! a challenge, sir," said Captain Tarnish, precisely, sir! a challenge, sir, to fight a duel, sir!" 
                  And never had the Captain looked more terrible and annihilating. Homer would have said that direful war was shaken from his locks, and in his eyes rolled death, and blood, and carnage. 
                  "A challenge," said Mr. Incledon, calmly and coldly: which I refuse, sir. Go back to your friend, and tell him as much." 
                  "Refuse, sir?" said the Captain, in a blustering tone. 
                  "Yes, sir-refuse." 
                  "Would you be good enough to place your refusal upon paper?" 
                  "Why, sir?" 
                  "I prefer it." 
                   
                  "I do not wish to insult you, sir," Mr. Incledon said, "but doubtless your friend can trust to your word." 
                  "Trust, sir!" cried the Captain, who construed Mr. Incledon's calmness into a desire to escape any altercation-and so found his courage immensely increased thereby: "trust, sir! I would have you remember, sir, that I am not in the habit of allowing-" 
                  "Well, sir-then you can't have any objection to my sending Mr. Fantish my reply by you," said Mr. Incledon, calmly. "You may tell him, sir, that I refuse his defiance upon two separate grounds. First, that I do not recognize the right of any man to force me into the field of honor-as I believe your phrase is, sir; and secondly, that if I went thither, I should select some other adversary than Mr. Fantish. Yes, sir," added Mr. Incledon, yielding for a moment to his old excitability: "I request you to inform your friend, distinctly, that I do not recognize his right to place himself upon my level-or the level of any honorable man; and if he attacks my good name, I will chastise him!" 
                  "Sir," cried Captain Tarnish. 
                  "But this is wrong," muttered Mr. Incledon, who had scarcely heard the Captain's interjection; "this is unnecessary, and a mere giving way to passion. Tell your friend, Mr. Fantish, sir," he said aloud and quite calmly: that I will not go to fight with him-that I do not look upon the pistol as my umpire-that his note is sent back to him, as if I had never read it." 
                  And Mr. Incledon inclined his head with great dignity, and turned away. 
                   
                  "Sir!" said Captain Tarnish, who was now more than ever confirmed in his views of Mr. Incledon's courage: "sir! I am not to be received and treated thus!" 
                  "You, sir!" 
                  And Mr. Incledon wheeled round with a contempt, which, however, disappeared in a moment, before his great self-control. 
                  "I have no quarrel with yourself," he added, calmly, sitting down; "let us part in peace, sir." 
                  "Nor any with my friend, it seems, sir!" said Captain Tarnish, preparing to launch a parting swagger at his opponent. 
                  "Not of this description," Mr. Incledon said, as calmly. 
                  "Well, sir! all I have to say is, that I do not permit myself to be treated thus with insult!" said Captain Tarnish, rising on his heels, and scowling terribly. 
                  "I intend none, sir," Mr. Incledon said, with a manifest struggle, and a successful one, to resist any rising anger. 
                  "You give it, though, sir." 
                  "I am sorry." 
                  "Recollect, sir!" cried the Captain, curling his mustaches, and inspired with terrific ferocity by his opponent's mildness: "recollect, sir! that I am Captain Tarnish, and when I come-" 
                  "You know the way back again! Is that your meaning, Captain Tarnish?" said Mr. Sansoucy, interposing in the colloquy, and confronting him 
                  "Sir! my meaning?" 
                   
                  "My meaning, Captain Tarnish," said Sansoucy, who began to flush: "is simply this, sir-that if you are ignorant of the way back, I will show it to you!" 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy advanced two steps toward the Captain, in a way so threatening, that his adversary unconsciously drew back. 
                  "Yes, sir!" said Mr. Sansoucy, carried away by rage: "you shall not vent your miserable threats here upon a gentleman, who only spares you from contempt! You shall not make the atmosphere of my apartment foul with your swaggering, and bluster, and Dutch courage! I say again, sir, and I say it so distinctly that you shall not misunderstand it, or affect to-that unless you immediately descend those steps, sir, I will send your carcass down them in a way you will not relish!" 
                  And giving way to that indignation which he had for some time curbed, Mr. Sansoucy advanced upon Captain Tarnish with the evident intention of immediately effecting what he had threatened to do. 
                  Let us not think too harshly of the worthy Captain for his conduct under the circumstances. Perhaps the philosophers will explain, some day, the modus by which lofty courage, like a machine overstrained, collapses and is useless to the engineer, precisely because pushed to an undue action. 
                  It could scarcely be expected that Captain Tarnish should lay in a stock of heroism sufficient not only to carry him grandly through so trying an interview, but to hold out through a physical and personal contest afterwards. 
                   
                  It thus happened, that when Mr. Sansoucy, with the most brilliant and earnest expression in his eyes, advanced quickly in the direction of the Captain, that gentleman muttered an indistinct and bitter curse, clutched nervously his stick, and going from the apartment slammed the door, and went away down the steps-in the natural and agreeable manner customary with him, and the rest of his species. 
                  Sansoucy gazed for a moment at the door which separated him from his adversary; curled his lip with an elaboration which was powerfully expressive, and then turning to his friend, said coolly: 
                  "What a miserable feeling it must be, to boast and swagger, bluster and utter threats, and then to sneak away, and hide the head, and disappear, like this man!" 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVI. 
                  WHAT TOOK PLACE AT THE SHOOTING GALLERY. 
                  OF the conversation that followed this scene, between the two friends, left thus to themselves, we need not speak; our history, which aims to present results, does not demand a repetition of these details here. 
                  It naturally turned-the colloquy of the friends-upon the subject which had so suddenly thrust itself upon their attention; and gradually passing from a consideration of the actual circumstances, Mr. Incledon and his friend discussed cussed that problem of modern times-duelling-in all its branches. 
                  The reader will thus perceive that we omit nothing necessary to the comprehension of the history, in forbearing to follow the conversation. Abstract discussions are scarcely entertaining, and so the conversation of the friends is spared the reader. 
                  But still, before proceeding with the events which followed, it may be permitted to a solitary writer to express his thoughts upon this subject, in a few brief words-to say that, in his own opinion, what the age calls its code of honor is pitiable, irrational, and bloody-that duelling, in all its ramifications, under any circumstances, is as ludicrous, and pitiable, an inconsequence, as any prejudice by which the minds and actions of men ever have been led, and governed, and enslaved. In the middle ages-with the sword at the side, the leg in the saddle-the highway or the street filled with two classes only, friends and enemies-then there was something to be said in support of the single combat; when often it was reduced to your own life or your enemy's, your own sword through his heart, or his through your own-in a word, self-defence or death. There was then something rational in the clashing of two swords, the breast to breast conflict-and the rationality remains with men, thrown in a similar attitude, to-day. But to perpetuate that bloody fashion of a faulty past-to force into the calm flow of the nineteenth century, the weakness and failing of the ninth-to declare that a tone of the voice, a word hastily uttered, a breach of etiquette, even, shall make it necessary for an honorable gentleman to go in cold blood to a distant place, and take his adversary's life or yield up his own-this is the ludicrous and bloody inconsequence which makes the age silent in applause of it, and yet forces men whose minds and hearts reject and loathe the system, to pour out every drop of their heart's blood in obedience to it. The terrible offence against every law of God and man, in thus appealing to a bloody child's-play, need not even be touched upon; such an argument has little weight. It is the rational aspect of the affair-the coldly rational-that overturns and routs it with a word, and stamps it as the weak and sanguinary prejudice of men who inherit a tradition, and are bound by it in chains stronger than the shackles of a slave. It is the rational aspect which shows plainly that participants in these affairs, fight neither for revenge, or from hatred; but because they depend for their opinions of themselves upon what others say of them-and shrink before the ordeal with a pitiable fear, and go and take a life they do not want-shed blood that cries out from the ground against them to their latest hour, and makes them children-fearful of the very winds and darkness. This is the fatal flaw in all the poor sophistry-the fact that they have suffered none of those terrible domestic wrongs which madden the brain, and make the heart thirsty for the perpetrator's blood-that they would not risk the chance of leaving wives and children to the charity of the world, for all the mines of Peru or Golconda-that nothing in them calls for blood, except the poor whisper of a false self-respect-"take care, they will laugh at you!" It is this which causes so many such affairs to be arranged to the satisfaction of both parties-it is this which makes the world laugh and jeer-this well-known fact that men act without any thirst for blood, with reluctance, with dread: and that this is done in obedience to a narrow and pitiable fear of ridicule; the laughter of worldlings among men, or the whispers of women-of women who forget that God is over them, and that some day they will have a bloody reckoning to settle for their words. We utter what the minds of the best and most intelligent men, of every society of our times, believe and are convinced of: we utter what will be acquiesced in by all classes but the Captain Tarnishes, and those resembling him-the fungi of the times-excrescences which break out on the body social from the working of its purulent and corrupt humors. Some day-to-morrow, or the next year, or the next age-this pitiable and melancholy weakness will be swept away: that public opinion, arising from the noblest and most expanded culture of the brain and heart, will strike it: and the very existence of a system so degrading to immortals, will become a subject for the wonder or the incredulity of men. That time comes slowly-but it will come. 
                  Mr. Incledon promised his friend to call again some time in the course of the day, as he would probably be passing, in making his arrangements for departure:-and making this promise, he rose calmly, and wrapping his cloak around him, took his departure. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy sat for an hour, thinking of the events of the morning-then finding his dinner hour approach, went and performed almost a mere ceremony in that particular ticular-and then returning, sat down as before, and pondered. 
                  "Well, Ralph is a man of resolution, really enormous," he said, with a sigh, at last, and as the result of his reflections, "and I don't know what will be the end of all this. As long as Tarnish is mixed up with the affairs, however, I am second principal in the struggle, and I'll do my part. Bah! how I do despise these two men-and yet they have the power, perhaps, to injure Ralph or myself. It is not ambiguous voices which these gentlemen sprinkle-they do not stop at falsehood! Tarnish, I'll bet, is over yonder now, giving his version of the scene here this morning! Can it be! can he be making up his falsehood, and retailing it! He shan't misrepresent Ralph-I'll go see." 
                  And as suddenly as the resolution was conceived, did Mr. Sansoucy put it into execution. 
                  He summoned his servant, ordered him to direct any one who called on business, to the shooting gallery, which was near at hand: and then wrapping his overcoat about him, issued forth, and soon reached the gallery. 
                  The shooting and fencing gallery, in which Monsieur Guillemot officiated, in the capacity of pistol-loader-foil-straitner, mark-bearer, and fact-totum, generally, in place of the proprietor, was one of those establishments so often met with in cities, and much frequented by young gentlemen engaged in killing time-an enemy which is savagely attacked, and gotten rid of summarily, by billiards, cards, wine drinking, races, and divertisements of a thousand descriptions, more or less partaking of a rapid character. 
                  True, there is little honor or profit to be derived from these pursuits; and they generally make a very large hole in even the most plump and well-stocked purse:-neither is there any especial glory or subject for triumph in causing a bell to ring at ten paces, with a pistol ball; but still the direful enemy, Time, is routed by their assistance, and the chief end of human life is accomplished. 
                  The philosophy of Monsieur Guillemot's connection with the gallery was better founded. His attention to the pistols and the foils, brought him in a moderate, but sure sum of money: and with this money, Monsieur Guillemot assiduously administered to that life which his youthful visitors seemed to be so desirous to get through with. 
                  A sheet-iron board, of large size, marked in chalk, with the figure of a man, whose heart was represented by a bell-a number of tables, upon which were scattered foils and masks-a group of gentlemen, among whom Monsieur Guillemot glided, handing pistols, giving the word, and performing his duties-this was the sight presented to Mr. Sansoucy, when he entered. 
                  Immediately in front of the door, stood Captain Tarnish-and by his side, Mr. Fantish, whose face still wore a cold sneer, from the events of the morning. 
                  Captain Tarnish, who held a discharged pistol in his hand, and was talking to an acquaintance, turned round, as the door opened, and recognizing Mr. Sansoucy, greeted him with a frown. 
                  Having no desire to meet the Captain in combat at the moment, Mr. Sansoucy passed by him without paying any attention to his menacing look, which Mr. Fantish copied; and going to the fire-place, greeted Monsieur Guillemot. 
                  "Ah, Mossieu Sansouc!" said the old Frenchman, "charm de vous voir! what fine day!" 
                  "Very cold, though," said Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  "Very cold, but fine! You see my friends, Lacklitter, to-day?" 
                  "No; I've been busy." 
                  "Ah, Mossieu! nevare work too hard with head. 'Tis bad-'tis very bad, Mossieu Sansouc!" 
                  "So it is, my dear friend, and I have come over here to look around, and listen, and perhaps take a few shots." 
                  "Ah, you will shoot!" 
                  "Yes; come try your hand with me, Monsieur Guillemot." 
                  "I try my hand, Mossieu! You shoot with poor Guillemot, who is bank-a-root, Mossieu! Quel honneur!" 
                  "Honor? not at all. I think the honor will be on your side," said Sansoucy, amused at the modest self-appreciation of the polite old Frenchman. "You"ll beat me." 
                  "Beat you! nevare-ah! nevare Mossieu mon ami!" cried the fencing master, shrugging his shoulders, elevating his eyebrows, and turning out his hands which held two pistols, "'tis too much honneur to 'ave for my friend such gentleman as Mossieu Sansouc. 'Tis true, Mossieu, 'tis very true. Voici le Capitaine Tarnish-he will shoot with you, Mossieu!" 
                  Captain Tarnish turned round upon hearing his name spoken, and scowled at Monsieur Guillemot. 
                   
                  "What did you say?" he asked. 
                  "I say, Monsieur le Capitaine," said the Frenchman, "that you and Mistare Sansouc will shoot together, if it please you!" 
                  "Shoot!" 
                  "Practeese, Mossieu." 
                  "Well, sir, I have no objection. I believe I have heard a good deal of this gentleman's shooting, but I have never seen it." 
                  "Nevare!" said the Frenchman, "est il possible! you 'ave nevare seen Mistare Sansouc-him, Mossieu?" 
                  "No." 
                  "Well see him now-here are ze pistols." 
                  "I am ready." 
                  Sansoucy stood completely thunderstruck at the impertinence and want of delicacy in this man, who had only a few hours before retreated ignominiously from him, under a personal threat. He scarcely seemed to realize that any one calling himself a man, could abdicate so completely all self-respect. 
                  It may thus easily be understood, that Mr. Sansoucy was very far from intending to enter the lists of friendly contest with a man whom he could not refrain from despising. 
                  "I am ready, sir," said Captain Tarnish, with a grand air, as he advanced to take the loaded pistol which Monsieur Guillemot extended toward him. 
                  "And I am not, sir," said Mr. Sansoucy, in a freezing tone, "I only shoot with gentlemen and my friends." 
                  The words, full of unmistakeable contempt and insult, sounded clearly and distinctly in the silence-for at Captain Tarnish's offer to try issues with his opponent, every one in the gallery, who had gotten an inkling of the interview of the morning, drew back, and ceased speaking. 
                  It was then in the middle of a dead silence, that Mr. Sansoucy uttered these distinct words: 
                  "I am not ready, sir. I only shoot with gentlemen and my friends!" 
                  For an instant Captain Tarnish stood like a statue of bronze, gazing at the cold face of his opponent." 
                  "Sir!" he said, at last, with an explosion, "do you mean to insult me!" 
                  "You may understand my words just as you please" replied Mr. Sansoucy, rivetting his eyes upon his opponent's with as much contempt as anger; "just as you please, sir! That is the privilege I grant you." 
                  Captain Tarnish placed his left hand upon his pistol, and sprung the hammer back. As he did so, Mr. Sansoucy felt a hand touch his arm, and this hand which belonged to Monsieur Guillemot, contained the second pistol. 
                  "Are you ready, gentlemen," said Monsieur Guillemot, affecting to regard the conversation as a jest, "the bell is not ring this morning." 
                  "I will shoot with you, not with this person," said Mr. Sansoucy, coldly taking the pistol. 
                  Captain Tarnish's weapon pointed at the floor. If it had been the intention of that worthy to commit a murder, the sight of the pistol in his adversary's hand, caused him to modify his resolution. He took refuge in bravado, and said boastfully. 
                  "I thought I would not see the fine shooting I was promised." 
                  "By me, sir? you refer to our conversation some days since?" 
                  "I do, sir?" 
                  "Well, I'll reply to that, sir?" 
                  "You will much oblige me, sir!" 
                  And Captain Tarnish made a threatening movement with his pistol. 
                  "I will oblige you," said his opponent with a contempt and coldness, galling in the extreme, even to the Captain, "I reply simply, that I will not degrade myself by meeting in friendly contest a man who brings a bullying and insolent swagger to insult my friends with-and finding that his miserable errand is abortive, ignominiously abandons the position he has assumed, at the first word! There is my reason for refusing, sir!" 
                  As Mr. Sansoucy uttered these words, Mr. Fantish advanced toward him pale and sneering: 
                  "A miserable errand, did you say, sir?" he asked, coldly. 
                  "Yes, sir-if I am forced to quarrel, let it be with both, and let it be before everyone. Gentlemen," added the speaker, raising his voice, and addressing the group which had gathered round them: "my friend, Mr. Incledon, tells me that he disappointed an attempt of this gentleman to commit an infamous wrong, this very morning-a mortal defiance, couched in terms of the bitterest insult followed-and it was brought by Captain Tarnish, who retreated from my room before a threat of personal chastisement. You shall judge now, whether I or the officers of the law, are the proper umpires of the dispute. I declare, distinctly, that nothing but the necessity of self-defence, shall force me to have any contest with these persons!" 
                  Undoubtedly an attack would have followed these words in a moment, but just as Mr. Sansoucy concluded, a voice at the door said, suddenly: 
                  "Ernest! Ernest!" 
                  And Mr. Incledon, wrapped in his cloak, entered the apartment, and approached the group quickly. 
                  He had gone to Mr. Sansoucy's room-been directed by the servant to the shooting gallery, and had arrived just at the crisis of the dispute. 
                  No sooner had Mr. Fantish become aware of the presence of Mr. Incledon, than forgetting the new quarrel, he turned like an enraged tiger upon the man he hated so profoundly. 
                  "Good!" he said, seizing the pistol in Captain Tarnish's hand; "this little affair may wait. Ah, sir! at last I meet you face to face!" 
                  And grinding his teeth with rage, he pointed to the table, on which lay a number of loaded pistols. 
                  "Take your weapon, sir! I will force you, sir! now, now! this very instant-here!" 
                  And actually white with passion, Mr. Fantish cocked his weapon. 
                  Mr. Incledon stood perfectly still, and gazed as coldly at his adversary, as he had done on that morning when he stood opposite to him with a similar weapon, giving a similar challenge. 
                  "I will not fight with you, sir," he said: "and that for the separate reasons, that I do not consider myself called to meet you: would not, if I were-and, lastly, that you are better used to your weapon than myself. This is a lesser objection, however, sir." 
                  And Mr. Incledon stood like a statue before his enraged adversary, who twice raised his pistol with the crime of murder in his heart. 
                  But Mr. Fantish never completely lost his reason; and nothing but madness could have led him to fire upon an unarmed man in presence of a dozen witnesses. 
                  "You refuse! do you wish me to strike you, sir, and dishonor you? You refuse," he said, with almost a howl of rage: "you refuse upon the miserable pretence that you are not accustomed to the pistol. But you shall not escape, sir! I have seen you fence, and we are good matches-there, sir!" 
                  And seizing two foils, Mr. Fantish snapped off the buttons, leaving the sharp steel points, and grasping one, threw the other on the table, close to Mr. Incledon's right hand. 
                  "Refuse now! and I will brand you as a coward! yes, sir, as a coward!" 
                  The tone of these words was unendurably insulting, and a faint tinge came to his opponent's cheeks: his eyes flashed. 
                  "Ah, you are not made of iron, I see! Take your weapon, sir, or I will slap your face!" 
                   
                  With a movement, which was perfectly unconscious, Mr. Incledon threw back his cloak, and as he did so, a shudder passed over his frame, and his eyes fell upon the weapon. 
                  "Defend yourself!" cried his adversary, advancing furiously to strike; "defend yourself, or I will drive my foil through your craven heart!" 
                  The cup was full. 
                  Mastered by passion, aroused from the depths of his nature, and yielding to the fiery thought, that, after all, it was only self-defence in him, Mr. Incledon grasped the handle of the foil, and parried the blow which Mr. Fantish directed at his heart. 
                  The contact of his hand with the long unused weapon seemed to change the man into his former passionate self: and losing thought of everything but the adversary before him, he rushed toward him as savagely as he had been attacked. 
                  The two enemies were both excellent fencers, and the hilts of their weapons clashed and held them thus face to face for an instant. 
                  Then the combat commenced really, and the crowd drew back from the spot, frightened by the furious cruelty of the weapons, which flashed like lightning in the powerful hands of the adversaries. 
                  In ten minutes, Mr. Incledon, overcome with fury, and feeling a giant's strength in his wrist, had driven his opponent to the table on the opposite side; and there, parrying a desperate lunge, had closed and driven his weapon full upon his enemy's heart. 
                   
                  
                      
                        AT THE FENCING GALLERY. 
                     
                   
                   
                   
                  One moment would have seen the end of Mr. Fantish-only his thin silk waistcoat and linen protected him from the sharp point, driven by the furious hand-in one moment Mr. Incledon might have ended the contest by taking his adversary's life. 
                  But he did not. He arrested his hand as it was driving the point home: and said with a shudder: 
                  "Take your life-I have no use for it." 
                  The words were not uttered, when Mr. Fantish, livid with rage, drove his sword forward completely through his opponent's shoulder, in which it snapped. 
                  At the same moment, Captain Tarnish seized the weapon of Mr. Incledon, but received immediately a violent blow from Mr. Sansoucy, which cut and brought the blood from his temples, and threw him backward. 
                  Mr. Fantish rose erect; and as he did so, Mr. Incledon dropped his weapon, and leaning one hand on the table, would have fainted but for prompt assistance. 
                  "A murder!" cried Sansoucy, throwing himself toward Mr. Fantish, "I arrest this man for murder!" 
                  But the movement of the crowd separated them, and Mr. Fantish, finding himself unobserved for the instant, shrunk from the group which supported Incledon, and with a curse upon his lips rushed through the door and disappeared. 
                  Sansoucy, with his own hand drew out the broken steel, and staunched the blood. 
                  As he rose, he looked round with his fiery eyes for the man who had caused this-saw that he had disappeared-ran to the window and threw it up, to call on passers by to stop him:-and then suddenly grew motionless and pale. 
                  Mr. Fantish had descended the stairs, and leaped into his open carriage-caught the reins-and struck his fiery horses violently with the whip. 
                  Driven to fury by the cruel blow, they reared, started forward like lightning, and crashing against the stone abutment of the corner of the street, broke the carriage into a thousand pieces. Mr. Fantish, hurled out violently, fell, striking his temple against the stones. 
                  This was what Mr. Sansoucy had witnessed 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVII. 
                  DOCTOR FOSSYL AND HIS PATIENT. 
                  SINCE the scene related in the last chapter, more than two weeks had passed-weeks in which dreary winds have beaten against window-panes, snow-storms fallen silently, and the hard, frozen earth grown colder; and the human passions, whose disastrous consequences we have traced, grown colder too, and died away, and left the brains heated by them, cool once more, and sensitive to all of good in human hearts. 
                  Stretched on his bed, with a countenance so thin and pale, that it scarcely resembles anything earthly, Mr. Fantish lies, breathing faintly, and with the measured movement of the invalid who barely possesses strength enough to expand his lungs, and draw in the element which ministers to life. 
                   
                  On the table a host of medicine-bottles show that the utmost art of the physician has been exerted to retain in the feeble frame the fainting spirit of life, balanced upon its pinions, and ready at any moment to take its flight. 
                  But it has slowly returned to its prison-house of clay-the trance of pain and anguish has passed away-the blood once more begins to move and flow regularly through the nearly stiff channels of the weary frame: and life has come back slowly, and is triumphant over its enemy, death. 
                  In those long hours of agony-agony not only of the frame, but of the mind-the sick man has reflected long, and painfully. 
                  The shadow of death has made him regard in their true light the passions to which he has yielded himself for years:-all that is good in his nature has come back to him, concealed, not choked out, by the poisonous overgrowth of later years. 
                  The curtain is not before the picture now; and from the canvass a face full of love looks down upon him, pities him, and seems to reach towards him hands which rain down tenderness and blessings. Infinite mother's love! which gilds the weary world, and holds the hard man with silken cords more strong than chains of steel, and breaks his heart with memories of the old, old days, and changes, purifies and saves him! 
                  What once he was afraid to look upon, and covered with a curtain, shutting out from that pure presence the associates whose looks and words were sacrilegious almost, in their contrast with the portrait,-fills him now with love, and tenderness, and penitence. Passed from him with a thousand blessings on her dying lips long years ago, she lives again for him in the world of memory; and going out of the faulty and repulsive present, he takes refuge in the past, and feels the dear mother's lips upon his brow, and moans to think of what he was and is, and cries like a child, thinking of all her goodness to him when he was indeed a little child, and knelt at her knee, and clasped his hands in prayer. 
                  Thank heaven, that if human souls are bad and foul, and desperately bent on following the paths of evil, none are wholly so. The man has never lived who has not at some moment felt his heart sink within him, and his eyes moisten, thinking of his childhood and that love which is nearer the love of heaven, than anything else upon the poor corrupt earth. 
                  So he lies for a long time almost dreaming: thinking of his childhood. Then his faint eyes rise to the picture; and the lids moisten, and the man, murmurs, "mother!" 
                  As he speaks the door opens, and his physician enters. It is Doctor Fossyl, who, in passing on the day of his accident, had supported him until he reached the house, and since, attended to him. 
                  "Doctor, he murmurs, "do you think I am out of danger yet?" 
                  "No," growls the Doctor, but with less harshness than usual. 
                  "How long shall I live then?" 
                  "I didn't say you were going to die!-remarkable," muttered the Doctor to himself, "how weak a man's brain becomes by a little suffering!" 
                  The invalid remains silent for a moment, and then says faintly: 
                  "So I will live and recover?" 
                  "Yes-that is, it is probable, though you had a fall hard enough to crack the scull of an ox." 
                  "It was terrible!" the sick man murmurs, closing his eyes. 
                  "Don't think about it," Doctor Fossyl says, "and tell me how you feel this morning." 
                  "Faint and weak, but with less pain-I think the bone is uniting." 
                  "Certainly, it is." 
                  "I shall live." 
                  "Of course." 
                  "Do you know, Doctor," murmurs the sick man, "that I wish to live? I did not think I should have such a desire for life. I never cared for my life, but I do now" 
                  "Hum, sir! a very natural circumstance. That is the way with most men: they don't care for their lives-they'll run into a thousand perils-risk their necks in a chase, or any other desperate amusement: they don't care for life-not they! Well, that's all very fine. Only wait until death reaches out his hand to clutch them, and they find that their life hangs on a thread-presto! they are anxious, terribly anxious for a little more life-a little more time. They wish to renew the note-pay a small discount of suffering and physic-and put miser Death off till a future day. That's the common sight I see everywhere, sir, and you don't surprise me." 
                  The sick man makes a faint movement with his head, as though these words do not describe his feeling. 
                  "That is not what I mean, Doctor," he says, lowly. 
                  "What do you mean, then?" 
                  "I mean that I have lived a miserable life heretofore-and that I wish to break off from it, and go away, and live better." 
                  The Doctor looked at the patient, and muttered, "the old tale!" Then he says, aloud: 
                  "So you are going to reform?" 
                  "I am going to change my habits and associates!" is the faint reply: "Do you know what that man, Tarnish, did, Doctor?" 
                  "Tarnish? Oh! that blackleg! No I do not." 
                  "I will tell you. He came here one morning, just after you had left me, when I was too weak to move or call; and said that my 'cursed folly' had put him in danger of a prosecution; and he was warned by a friend of the intention of the officers of the law to arrest him on suspicion of having been engaged in some crime-an abduction, or something-do not ask me what." 
                  And the invalid pauses, with a faint color in his cheeks. 
                  "Well, growls the Doctor, "what followed this interesting communication of Captain Tarnish's." 
                  "Insult and robbery," replied the sick man, "he loaded me with abuse, until the bandage on my wound dripped with blood-for the excitement caused my blood to flow-and then having relieved himself of all the hatred which my numerous rebuffs had caused him-he calmly went to my secretary there-opened it with the key from my waistcoat pocket-and carried away with him two hundred dollars, in gold, I had procured one day from bank, and placed there in his presence." 
                  "Robbery!" 
                  "Yes, Doctor-simple felony. I could not even raise my voice, and with a last insult, he informed me that it would be useless to inform against him: he would be out of the way, before I could do anything. But I did not wish to-I was willing to let this man depart; too well satisfied to be rid of him." 
                  "What a scoundrel!" 
                  "He was thrown with bad associates, and became depraved by them, and by vice, I suppose, Doctor. Alas! I have no right to judge hastily of him." 
                  And having, by these words, shown how total a change in his character had taken place, the sick man adds, "now you know, Doctor, what I mean, when I say that I am resolved to change my habits, and my associates." 
                  The Doctor looked at the invalid with a dubious expression, and it is plain that the meaning of this look is understood. 
                  "You mean that I am like sick men generally-that I make a number of good resolutions during my weakness and pain, which I will straightway forget, when I recover my health and strength. But I think you are mistaken, Doctor. I have been very ill two or three times, but never formed any such resolutions. I attribute my present determination to the fact that I have reached that point in life and character when a man either sinks into an animal, and dies speedily of drunkenness, or breaks away from his bad life and changes. I wish to live and do this, Doctor; shall I live?" 
                  "Yes," the Doctor says, looking vacantly at the patient, "yes, it is true." 
                  "True, Doctor-what is?" 
                  "I have seen it." 
                  "What, Doctor?-you seem to be thinking of something else. 
                  "Ah? What?" says the Doctor, waking up, as it were, with a troubled brow. 
                  "I asked if I would live, and if so, recover soon!" 
                  "I do not know when you will recover-in two months, may-be." 
                  "So long!" 
                  "Perhaps longer." 
                  "What a time I shall have here, through the long, weary days;-I have no books, or none that I care to read: do you know, Doctor, I have not even a Bible!" 
                  "A Bible! 
                  "Not even a Bible. You think it strange I should want a Bible-but my mother taught me to read in it, Doctor-that is her portrait." 
                  And the invalid gazes with great softness on the picture. 
                  "Hum," growls the Doctor, "there's a child down in the passage who, as I am told, always carries a Bible. Her uncle's sick, and she's come with me to get his medicine from my office." 
                  "A child, Doctor?" 
                   
                  "Yes." 
                  "In my passage?" 
                  "I suppose she is-I ordered her to get out of the carriage, which is a perfect ice-house, and come in while I saw you." 
                  "I wish you would ask her to come and lend me her Bible until she returns-or rather to read me some, as I'm so weak." 
                  The doctor looks doubtfully at the sick man, and growls: 
                  "Do you know who this child is?" 
                  "No, Doctor." 
                  "Her name's Ellen Lacklitter, and I heard your father-" 
                  "Oh, Doctor! I remember without another word! My father forced him from one of his houses, when he was ill! Oh, doctor, don't speak of my father!" 
                  And a frown contracts the sick man's brow. 
                  "Do you want to see the child?" growls the physician. 
                  "Yes, ask her to come up. I do not think she will feel any enmity toward me, because I have the misfortune to be afflicted with a cruel father. You smile in triumph, Doctor, and would taunt me with the bad feeling that remains in me. Well, sir, I do not deny that I retain a sentiment toward the man who is my father, wholly improper-but I cannot prevent it. You ought to tell the child who I am, and then let her come if she will-if she will not, I have no complaint to make." 
                  And the sick man sinks back. 
                  Doctor Fossyl gazes at him for a moment, smiles sardonically donically, and opening the door, descends into the passage where Ellie is sitting. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
                  THE WAYS OF PROVIDENCE. 
                  DOCTOR Fossyl paused for a moment, gazing at Ellie; then taking a pinch of snuff, and looking keenly from beneath his shaggy grey eyebrows, said harshly: 
                  "Child, do you know in whose house you are?" 
                  "No, sir," said Ellie, raising her eyes in astonishment at this strange question, and the strange manner of the speaker. 
                  "You speak the truth?" 
                  "Oh, yes, sir! yes, sir!" 
                  "Well, I will tell you who lives here. His name is Fantish." 
                  "Mr. Fantish, sir! Mr. Fantish who-" 
                  "Turned your uncle into the street when he was sick, like a dog? Yes, the same-or, at least, his son, who is said to be even worse than his father!" 
                  Ellie's cheeks were tinged with a faint color, and she looked toward the door. 
                  The doctor saw the look. 
                  "Ah! you wish to leave immediately, do you? Eh? You bear malice!-you are going!" 
                  "Oh, no, sir!" said Ellie, earnestly; "I do not bear malice-oh, no, sir! But if Mr. Fantish is so bad, I would rather-I would rather go, sir." 
                  "You can't!" said the Doctor, keenly watching every expression of the child's countenance. 
                  "Can't, sir!" she said. 
                  "No." 
                  "Why not, sir?" 
                  "Because he has sent me for you." 
                  "He! he send for me, sir!" 
                  "Yes: he told me to come down and say he wanted you to come up." 
                  "Come up, sir!" 
                  "Yes-and read to him in the Bible. I told him that you were the niece of Joe Lacklitter, who, when he was burnt up with fever, when his lips were parched and his eyes fiery, when his brow was covered with the sweat of agony, and his breath came in pants from his weak breast-who, when he was thus overcome with pain and suffering, was ordered to give up his house, the very bed he lay upon, and go out naked into the snowy streets-all by the elder Mr. Fantish, the young man's father. I told him this, and said that probably you would not come, and that nobody could blame you." 
                  "Oh! I should blame myself, sir, though!" said Ellie, flushing with agitation. "I should never forgive myself if I did not forgive him even if he had done this. Oh, sir! if he wishes me to do anything, I will do it willingly!" 
                  And taking off her old wadded bonnet, which allowed her brown waving hair to fall around her face so soft and pure, Ellie waited for the doctor to lead her. 
                   
                  The doctor stood looking at her in silence; then he said harshly: 
                  "Don't you hate that man?" 
                  "Oh no, sir!" 
                  "Why don't you?" 
                  "It would be so sinful, sir! and I would not be obeying the command 'Love one another.'" 
                  "Humph!" 
                  And uttering this exclamation, Doctor Fossyl preceded Ellie to the chamber. 
                  "Here's the child!" he growled, as he closed the door. 
                  The sick man looked at Ellie, who remained standing near the threshold, and said faintly: 
                  "What is your name, little girl?" 
                  "Ellen, sir." 
                  "Ellen Lacklitter, is it not?" 
                  "Yes sir," said the child, coloring. 
                  "My father treated your father-or your uncle-harshly, did he not?" 
                  Ellie stammered out a few disconnected words, which were neither in the affirmative or the negative. 
                  "Don't think of that, sir," she said more calmly, but timidly; "or speak of it, sir." 
                  "I speak of it in order to ask your forgiveness for being connected with him; and to say that I had no part in such cruelty as this." 
                  "'Oh, sir!" murmured Ellie, almost as faintly as the invalid. 
                  "I understand-you defend him-that only proves that you are a noble child. Now open your Bible, Ellen, if you have one, and read some to me." 
                  He had scarcely spoken when a step was heard upon the stairs, and a low knock came to the door. 
                  The sick man turned paler than before-he had recognized the step. 
                  "My father!" he said. 
                  "You will see him, of course;" said Doctor Fossyl, with all his eyes and ears open for the details of the strange scene which was about to be played before him. 
                  "No!" said the invalid, coloring; "No! I will not." 
                  "He has been here, repeatedly." 
                  "It was, while I was insensible." 
                  "He is your father." 
                  "It is my misfortune." 
                  The knock was repeated. 
                  "What shall I do?" said Dr. Fossyl, whose eyes glittered with triumph-for his theories were in the ascendant again at this evidence of bitter feeling. 
                  "Say, I will not see him." 
                  "Must I!" 
                  "Yes." 
                  The Doctor moved toward the door; but Mr. Fantish, senior, had become weary, and opened the door, as he touched the knob. 
                  His appearance was much changed since we have seen him, on that day when he and his son parted, with mutual defiance. Mr. Fantish, senior, no longer surveys every object around him with hard eyes, gleaming coldly from his brows. He no longer produces the impression of a man who would deprive a widow and her children of their last loaf to satisfy his claim. He is thinner, and even pale. His cheeks have fallen away-his eyes are eager and seem to crave something more than gold. 
                  During his son's fever and delirium, he had come every day, and sat at the bedside, and held the thin, feverish hand in his own; and more than once, when the young man's mind wandered, and he cried out in his delirium, had wiped away something like moisture from his eyes, long unused to weep. 
                  As we have said, this man had one strong feeling, over and above his passion for gain; and that was his love for and pride in his brilliant and reckless son-who had always occupied a singular position of independence and freedom from parental restraint. When the news reached him of the dreadful accident which placed the young man's life in imminent jeopardy, he had felt a shudder run through his heart, and had hastened immediately to his bed-side. 
                  These visits, as we have said, had been frequently repeated, and he had watched the progress of the patient with deep solicitude. One day he was informed that his son's mind had become clear again, and had wished to go up as usual. But this Dr. Fossyl had forbidden. It was necessary that the patient should remain wholly quiet. And the wretched father had gone away in silence. Another day he had been informed that his son was asleep-and thus he had not seen him since he had recovered his reason. 
                  As he now pushed by Doctor Fossyl, who stood against the wall, grim and silent, with that curiosity which was one of the strongest traits of his character; the old man's eyes were full of earnest feeling, and he approached the bed with a manner almost timid. 
                  "God be thanked, you are yourself again, Ashell, "he said tremulously, "you will soon recover." 
                  "Do not thank God for anything, sir," said his son, turning from him with a displeasure which was unmistakeable; "the words sound badly in your mouth!" 
                  The father uttered a sigh. 
                  "You are not glad to see me!" he said, with a groan. 
                  "No, I am not, sir!" 
                  "Why are you so cruel?" 
                  "I am just, sir." 
                  "Oh, no!" 
                  "Yes, just!" said the young man, with a faint color in his pallid cheeks, "and I lie here, because you are my father." 
                  "Oh! Ashell! 
                  "Yes, sir!" 
                  The old man uttered a groan, and sat down as though too weak to stand. 
                  "Yes, sir! said the young man, speaking in a tone of great excitement, in spite of Doctor Fossyl's warning gesture; "yes, sir! this life which I have been leading, which I loathe, and which has brought me here, was caused by you. My mother would have made me pure like herself-she would have suppressed those seeds of evil which my character contained, and which have ripened into this harvest: you developed them! I learned from you to be worldly, and that taught me to be vicious! You taught me that money was a god, and I scoffed at you, and followed my own ways, and laughed at you, but I obeyed your teachings! I came to look on life as a farce, played by contemptible actors-I drank and played, and wallowed in every vice.-I attempted to wrong, bitterly, a woman-and I am justly punished! It was not those wild horses who hurled me on that stone-it was you, sir! It was not the last act of my miserable will which laid me here, it was your hand strangling in me what my mother taught me! And after all this, you think I will love you! No, sir, I do not, and I cannot. I will not be a hypocrite, and I speak plainly!" 
                  Overcome with his bitter feelings, the young man fell back, almost fainting. 
                  The wretched father only said, in a low voice: 
                  "Ashell! Ashell!" 
                  "Well, sir!" his son said, turning away his head. 
                  "I have been wrong!" 
                  "You confess it!" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "It is well, sir: but that does not restore me." 
                  "What can I do to show you how much I deplore the unhappy relations that have existed between us! to show you that I bitterly regret the past." 
                  "Nothing, sir." 
                  "Ah, yes, I can make my confession-" 
                  "It is unnecessary, sir." 
                  "No, it is necessary: and no feeling of pride shall keep me from saying what I have to say. I have lived a miserable life, indeed, if my own son will not listen to me. I have been hard and cruel, worldly and selfish; I have made money my god, and laughed at what other men called pity and kindness, and benevolence! I have been a machine which was useless for any other purpose, than to scrape together coin. I taught you this, too-yes, I tried to make you worldly and selfish. I succeeded in a measure, and I see the bitter fruits of it. Your mother-" 
                  "Do not mention her!" the sick man said, with a groan. 
                  "Oh, yes, I must, to make you see how I loathe my conduct. Your mother would have taught you to be true and pure-I taught you what was different. You and your mother united yourself more closely, and I thought it a conspiracy against me. I ill-treated her-may God forgive me: and here, with her face looking down upon me, I ask her spirit to pardon me, and humble myself before you. Ashell, Ashell! you are not stone to turn away from me." 
                  He looked at his father, with flushed eyes, and said, in a trembling voice. 
                  "If I am stone, it is you, sir, who have made me so." 
                  As he spoke, his eyes fell upon Ellie, who was gazing at him with an expression of wild fear, which made her countenance a spectacle to rivet the attention. 
                  "What are you looking at me so for?" he murmured, "have you, too, turned against me?" 
                  "Oh, sir! do not!-do not!-it is wrong-!" cried the child, carried away by her wild excitement. "Oh, it is wrong, sir!" 
                   
                  And, overwhelmed with emotion, the child was silent, gazing with an affrighted look upon his face. 
                  "What is wrong?" he said, faintly, "speak! do not be afraid! I wish you to speak. What is wrong?" 
                  "Oh, you'll be offended, sir!" 
                  "No! What is wrong?" 
                  "To speak thus to your father, sir!" cried Ellie, trembling with agitation. "Oh, do not, sir! it is not right! Oh, if he has done wrong, you ought not to remember it, sir! Oh, you ought not to!" 
                  And, yielding to her agitation, Ellie covered her face, and sobbed. 
                  Her agitated words made a visible impression upon the young man, who murmured: 
                  "Like her, like her!" 
                  And turning to his father, he said, with feverish eyes. 
                  "Do you know this child, sir?" 
                  "No, Ashell: I have never seen her." 
                  "Her name is Lacklitter." 
                  "Lacklitter!" 
                  "Yes," he said, feverishly, "and you turned her uncle and herself into the street, when he was ill. God has raised up a terrible witness against you, sir-and what a witness! She pleads for the man who caused her wretchedness, who was guilty of the direst cruelty toward her, who is punished now by God, in the person of his son, and in his own remorse!" 
                  The old man gazed at Ellie, for a moment, with a stupefaction which was painful to see. 
                  "But if she has forgiven me, it is all the more cruel in you, Ashell, to remember!" was the painful cry of the old man, "if a stranger I have bitterly wronged, pardon me, the son I have toiled and worn myself out for, should not remain unforgiving. Oh, Ashell, I have done all this for you-I have turned this child and her uncle into the street for you. Yes! God has punished me terribly for this act-and if asking pardon of this child, upon my knees, would avail anything-" 
                  "Oh, sir!" cried the child, raising her head and sobbing, "do not think I bear any bad feeling-I have forgotten all!-and God says we shall not keep bad feelings toward each other-look, sir!" she said, turning toward the sick man, and holding out her Bible, where she had opened it. "Oh, see what it says!" 
                  His eyes fell on the page, and he read not what Ellie had pointed to, but words which seemed to be written there with a pen of fire. 
                  Strange coincidence! These words had been taught him by his mother, when a child; and they now came back to him like a far breath of infancy. It seemed to him that his mother held the book toward him; not the child: he seemed to see the eyes of the portrait fill with tears of tenderness and love, as in the old, old days:-the thought suddenly rushed over him that possibly the spirit of his mother hovered in the air, and waited for the answer which she could not influence as of old. 
                  What would she have him answer? He did not hesitate. He turned, and held out his thin hand toward his father, his eyes filling with weak tears-say rather mighty tears!-and pressing it to his heart and lips, the old man wept and sobbed, and uttered his first prayer of thanks for years. 
                  At the same moment a young woman, seated leagues away, in a dim chamber, bent down to her knees, and sobbed, "How mad and base, and miserable I was-God pardon me!" 
                  At the same moment, a man, with his right arm in a sling, and seated on a bank, which caught the flush of evening, said, "How peaceful! after all these thoughts and struggles, this is pure happiness! O merciful Redeemer make us thine in all things!" 
                  The father and son were reconciled;-the young girl's eyes were opened;-the strong man was again face to face with nature, and his heart. 
                
             
             
               BOOK III. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  IN WHICH THE HISTORY RETURNS TO OTHER PERSONAGES: AND CHRONICLES A SLEIGH-RIDE. 
                  THE great waves of time which ever flow on over joys and griefs, over sorrows and rejoicings-scarcely reflecting in their ever-changing surfaces, the brightest smiles, and absorbing carelessly the bitterest tears-the waves of time have swept onward, since the events we have just detailed; and another month has nearly passed into a thing of memory. Winter faints on the threshold of the spring which comes in, brilliant and rejoicing;-but as though to marshal all his forces for a final struggle, the old Winter has exhausted his entire strength in his last snow storm. 
                  At the door of a handsome and comfortable house in the outskirts of the city, a sleigh is standing; and the spirited horses, held with difficulty by a diminutive African, who is suspended in the air from their foaming mouths, toss their heads, and send the snow up in rainbow clouds with their impatient hoofs. 
                  Soon the door of the mansion opens-a good-humored old gentleman and his equally good-humored wife appear; and behind these may be seen the faces of a younger gentleman, a young lady, and two little girls-all wrapped up securely for a sleigh-ride. 
                  The good-humored old gentleman is Mr. Ashton, cousin and host of Miss Aurelia-the old lady is his wife; the young gentleman is our friend, Mr. Sansoucy; the young lady, Aurelia:-lastly, the little girls, who are twins, constitute the entire, remaining family of the old gentleman and his wife. 
                  Miss Aurelia is enveloped in a multitude of furs, and her rosy cheeks and dancing eyes, cause this young lady to present an appearance decidedly attractive. 
                  "Oh, me!" cries Miss Aurelia, laughing gaily, "am I to trust my valuable neck to those wild animals.?" 
                  "Pshaw!" Mr. Sansoucy says, putting on his gloves, "they are admirably broken, madam; and even if they were wild, you know my prowess as a driver" 
                  "I, sir!" 
                  "Yes-when we were children-twenty years ago, you know!-" 
                  "Indeed, sir!" 
                  "Come," says Mr. Sansoucy, laughing: "here's a young lady who is growing ashamed of her age, and who does not deign to remember when we rode colts together-" 
                  "Never, sir! I deny it!" 
                  "Very well!" 
                  "Oh, did you, cousin Aurelia?" 
                  "Did you, cousin?" 
                  These are the exclamations of Mademoiselles Lizzie and Bel, who clap their diminutive hands, and rise on tip-toe to look at the horses. 
                  "Don't mind this gentleman, children," says Aurelia, with a delightful expression of elderly protection:"he's dreadfully mischievous, and if he could run away with us-" 
                  "He would?" says Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "Well, I don't know that you are wrong, Miss Ashton. But I promise to refrain to-day. Good morning, Mrs. Ashton-good morning, sir-come, young ladies-we are losing time." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy issues forth, and takes the reins. 
                  Aurelia and the children linger to embrace the old folks, as young ladies of all ages will, and then they get into the sleigh, which has four seats. 
                   
                  The manuvres of Mr. Sansoucy upon that occasion, would have excited the admiration of the greatest tactician in the world. 
                  His affectionate solicitude to see the children wrapped up, warmly and comfortably, in the back-seat, was touching to behold; and such was his anxiety about their welfare, that he absolutely neglected Miss Aurelia, who stood in the snow, and shivered and pouted beautifully. 
                  As the children took up all the back seat thus, it was absolutely necessary that Mr. Sansoucy should place Aurelia on the seat beside himself; and this he did, making a soft and pleasant seat for the young lady, by spreading over it, a magnificent buffalo robe. A variegated robe, edged with crimson, was then thrown over-shall we say-Miss Aurelia's knees: and so, with joyous laughter, and the noise of bells, the sleigh fled onward-the frolicsome horses held in by the experienced hand of their admirable driver. 
                  On, through the city! sending up clouds of snow!-by merry groups of boys at street corners, who sent after the party showers of snow balls, which caused Bel and Lizzie-recognizing beaus among the crowd-to shout with laughter!-on, by the glittering stores, with their picture-crowded windows, by the long rows of houses, brilliant internally with roaring fires, by gentlemen and ladies, children, and their sports-the merry sleigh flew on, and out of the city, leaving in its wake the joyous jingle of its silver bells, and disappearing like a meteor or a shooting star. 
                  They fled into the country, through the vast bleak-looking looking fields, and past the comfortable farm houses-every eye dancing with delight, even down-or up-to Mr. Sansoucy, grown a boy again, and innocent of any connection with the "Weekly Mammoth." which had passed away from him, and rested no more, for the moment on his conscience! 
                  "Oh! we are going so fast!" cries Miss Aurelia, with cheeks rosier than when she started, and a pair of diamonds in place of eyes; how delightful!" 
                  "Is it?" says her companion. 
                  "Yes, indeed. 
                  "Like old times?" 
                  "No, not a bit. Monsieur was not so elegant a cavalier in old times." 
                  "Possible!" 
                  "Not half!" 
                  And Miss Aurelia laughs merrily. 
                  "I thought you liked me very well in old times," said Mr. Sansoucy, with a look which caused the rosy face to grow even rosier. "Come, sing me, 'Where are the friends of my youth? Oh, where are those cherished ones gone?'" 
                  And having revived this former joke by a plagiarism upon himself, Mr. Sansoucy touched his horses with the whip, and caused them to fly. 
                  "I will not," said Miss Aurelia, pouting; "if I sang anything, it would be the new song." 
                  And she hummed, with a blush, and a laughing glance, a lyric, which declared that under certain circumstances cumstances, a person of the ancient mythology might "go to Jericho." 
                  This was much applauded by Mr. Sansoucy, who requested the remainder of the song, which was promptly refused: and they fled on again-the bells having for their undertone, the laughter of the happy children. 
                  "Where is Monsieur taking us?" said Aurelia, after a moment: "we must have gone nearly a hundred miles!" 
                  "Couldn't you go that far-with me?" 
                  "No, sir!" 
                  "How cruel! Now Bel or Lizzie would-wouldn't you, little ones?" 
                  "I would!" said Miss Bel, who had a pair of large, dangerous eyes, which she was already learning to use. 
                  "And you, Lizzie?" said Mr. Sansoucy, shaking with laughter. 
                  "If you brought us back to papa and mamma by dinner-time," said Lizzie, smiling. 
                  "Dinner-time!" cried Mr. Sansoucy, shaking more than ever: "can you think of dinner on such a day as this?" 
                  "I can, sir," said Miss Aurelia, with a delicious expression of matter-of-fact; "and I request to know whether we are to dine at home, to-day, or on the Rocky Mountains?" 
                  "On the prairie!" said Mr. Sansoucy: "on the prairie, and off of buffalo hump!" 
                  "Oh! how nice that will be!" cried Miss Aurelia, endeavoring to clap her hands, but only pressing Mr. Sancoucy's arm, which chanced to interpose-which circumstance caused the young lady to cease immediately, and quickly draw away her hand. 
                  "That bridge yonder-do you see it?" Mr. Sansoucy, said, laughing. 
                  "Yes!" 
                  "Well, that bridge leads over the Mississippi-so we are almost there." 
                  "'Are we almost there!'" 
                  "Yes; what a charming voice." 
                  "Thanks, sir!" 
                  "Have you adapted the song I wrote, in obedience to your ladyship's commands, to music yet?" said Sansoucy. 
                  "Hum!-well-" 
                  "Oh! indeed you have, cousin Aurelia!" cried Bel. 
                  "It's so pretty!" said Lizzie. 
                  "And so very suitable!" said Aurelia, satirically. 
                  "There's the unreasonableness of woman!" cried Mr. Sansoucy, in despair. "I am asked to write upon a given subject-I comply; and then I am taunted with my compliance-a thing which I might have expected," added the speaker, with a gloomy look, "for who can calculate upon women!" 
                  Aurelia is touched by this tone of uncomplaining sorrow, and says, faintly: 
                  "You are very unjust, sir; and you have no right to expect-if, however, I knew it a little better-" 
                  "Oh! you know it very well!" cried little Bel; "you were singing it all last night, cousin Aurelia!" 
                   
                  Miss Aurelia blushes and laughs. 
                  "Please sing it, cousin, says Liz. 
                  "And if my humble petition now renewed would-" 
                  "Well, sir, I will try; and perhaps the contrast will amuse you." 
                  And Miss Aurelia commences singing the following lyric, which has been, as the reader heard, contributed by Mr. Sansoucy-the design having been to furnish Misses Liz and Bel with a song for their May-day festival, still a long way off. 
                  The merry sleigh bells serve for an accompaniment; and the fine, tender voice of the young girl, with an undertone of laughter, sings "The Children's Prayer to Maia," which is in the following words: 
                         
                           Give us a sunny morning, Maia dear, 
                           For our nice May-day: let no misty rain, 
                           Now when our holiday has come so near, 
                           Fall on the sweet flowers, springing in the plain. 
                        
                         
                           Give us a morning full of light and joy. 
                           Dear Maia; you, they say, are queen of May: 
                           Make the time bright and sweet for girl and boy; 
                           Make the sky blue and worthy of the day: 
                        
                         
                           For the gay garlands glitter, flower on flower, 
                           And muslin dresses hang out in the sun, 
                           And all is ready for the morning hour; 
                           Run quickly, sun! through the dim night-time run! 
                        
                         
                           For all the girls are binding up their hair, 
                           And all the boys are dreaming of the morn 
                           And it's so nice to breathe the sunny air! 
                           Therefore, good Maia, let the day be born. 
                        
                         
                           With joy and merry music swimming through 
                           The laughing air; and birds upon the trees 
                           Singing for lightness; and a pretty blue 
                           In the far sky: and murmuring busy bees! 
                        
                        
                         
                           Oh! what a day we'll have, if you are kind, 
                           Oh, Maia listen to us! we will try 
                           And always love you, if we wake and find 
                           The sunlight in the beautiful, cloudless sky! 
                        
                         
                           Give us a sunny morning, Maia, dear! 
                           Give us light hearts, the livelong happy day- 
                           May nothing happen that will bring a tear, 
                           But all be laughter; Maia, hear us pray! 
                        
                         
                           For we are children, nothing more: the things 
                           That please old grown-up people are not ours! 
                           Wake the May morn with every bird that sings; 
                           Dock the bright hill-sides with your fairest flowers! 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Bravo!" cries Mr. Sansoucy, "never did troubadour of Provence feel such ecstacy of delight at hearing his own verses chaunted by the Queen of Love, at Aix!" 
                  "Oh, how nice!" cries Bel. 
                  "What's nice, Miss Bel?" 
                  "To call cousin Aurelia the Queen of Love!" cries Bel, laughing merrily, and using her great eyes for Mr. Sansoucy's benefit. 
                  "She's the queen of hearts!" cries Sansoucy, enthusiastically. 
                  "But not Mr. Heartsease's!" replies Bel, with a shout of laughter, in approbation of her first brilliant witticism. 
                  "Heartsease!" murmurs Mr. Sansoucy, with a miserable expression. "Heartsease! Never!" 
                  "Never!" repeats Bel; "he never shall have cousin." 
                  "What a foolish child you are Bel," Aurelia says, coloring and laughing; "Mr. Sansoucy will think you are a little chatter-box." 
                  "Oh, no he won't, cousin-will you, Mr. Sansoucy?" 
                  "No, my little one." 
                   
                  "For you know you said Liz and me were 'cherubs'-that was the very word!" 
                  And the cherub laughs in a way eminently uncherubial. 
                  "What nonsense we are all talking!" cries Aurelia, who has regained all her merriment. "What nonsense! Only suppose some author heard us, and was to set down every word we say! How ridiculous it would be!-and everybody would say he rioted in folly and frivolity." 
                  "Frivolity!" said Mr. Sansoucy, smiling too, "frivolity is a terrible word, and knocks down more poor authors than you could count. But, really, I don't see why we shouldn't laugh and jest, my dear Aur-pardon! pardon!" 
                  "There! that is a piece of folly, sir! and if you were made a character in a book, the readers of the book would say you were very impudent!" said Miss Aurelia, pouting. 
                  "They would not;-they would admire me, and venerate the lofty virtues which unbent themselves thus, madam." 
                  "Oh, yes, certainly!" 
                  "See, now, if they do not. I know a friend who writes these frivolous romances: he lives in a garret, never stirs out of town, even in the dog-days, and wears seedy garments, as is proper in an author. Well, I will relate my adventures to him, and we'll all be put in a book! Think of the honor! Yes, even you, mam'selles Bel and Liz, will be immortalized-even down to your beaux yeux, little Bel! I'll buy a dozen copies-for your authors are always out of money-and present a copy to each of you." 
                  "Oh, me! will you?" cries little Bel, with immense eyes. 
                   
                  "Indeed I will!" 
                  "How nice!" 
                  And little Bel claps her hands, in the midst of universal laughter. As she does so, the sleigh mounts a slope, and they see just beneath them the bridge they had caught sight of from the distant eminence-and for some mysterious and unexplained reason, Miss Aurelia's pouting lips unclose, and permit to escape, in a murmur, this single word: 
                  "The bridge!" 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  HOW MR. SANSOUCY NEARLY RAN OVER A WOMAN, AND WHAT FOLLOWED. 
                  DOUBTLESS Mr. Sansoucy heard this faint exclamation, for his countenance assumed an expression of mischievous pleasure, wholly unmistakeable. 
                  Did you speak, madam?" he said, politely. 
                  "No, sir-" 
                  "Really, now?" 
                  "Not to you, at least." 
                  "Oh, yes-to the bridge. I forgot that you addressed the bridge." 
                  "Why should I be so foolish as to apostrophize such a thing?" 
                  "Very true; and as this is ended, madam, we may proceed to make our little arrangements." 
                   
                  "Our little arrangements, sir!" 
                  "Certainly!" 
                  "Really, I am at a loss-" 
                  "To understand?" 
                  "Precisely, sir-at least-that is-" 
                  And Miss Aurelia, detecting herself in the utterance of a most unmistakeable fib, blushes ingenuously, and murmurs: 
                  "How foolish you are!" 
                  Mr. Sansoucy laughs triumphantly, and says: 
                  "Certainly we are foolish-both of us-and what makes it more ridiculous-what will cause the readers of the before-mentioned romance about us to cry out in deprecation-is, that we are so old. You are nearly nineteen, madam-or quite-I am at least a hundred." 
                  "Are you, sir?" 
                  "Yes, and never have been married; what a shame!" 
                  "Dreadful, sir!" 
                  "Therefore, as we are so old, we need not discuss the 'little arrangements' among ourselves; but these children, here, require instruction." 
                  Aurelia, with a laugh half of defiance, half of pleading, murmurs: 
                  "Oh, you will not-please don't!" 
                  "Don't what, cousin?" says Bel, full of curiosity, as she catches the faintly uttered words. 
                  "I'll explain, Miss Isabella," said Mr. Sansoucy, laughing. "You must know, Miss, that in old times there was an English law of custom making it proper, and even necessary, to salute-in other words, kiss-young maidens passing beneath the mistletoe bough hung from the rafters. This custom has passed away-but it is replaced. In modern times, every gentleman of proper feeling is compelled to salute a lady who in riding with him in a sleigh, crosses a bridge!" 
                  "Oh!" cries Bel, wonderingly; "to kiss?" 
                  "Yes, indeed." 
                  "So you and cousin--" 
                  "Yes, exactly. You're a young lady of intelligence. You have no cavalier, now, Liz. The consequence will be that it will be necessary to salute each other-here we are! Recollect, now!" 
                  As Mr. Sansoucy spoke, the sleigh darted on the bridge-but alas! for human anticipations. 
                  His fairness, and open dealing as he afterwards said, was his ruin. Aurelia, warned in advance, and on her guard, no sooner saw the bridge imminently near, than covering her face with her great white snow-ball ornamented comfort, she held it securely, thus, defeating the enemy completely. 
                  Not wholly, however. The small white hand holding up the comfort suddenly found itself in contact with a pair of warm lips, which imprinted upon it a burning salute; which circumstance caused the rosy face beneath to present a striking contrast to the snowy worsted. 
                  The merry party then fled onward, merrier than ever and with laughter drowning all the silver chimes. 
                  Aurelia declared that she had triumphed-Mr. Sansoucy assured her that his utmost expectations had been fulfilled; and in the middle of these protestations little Bel burst into a laugh, and related how she had "acted gentleman" and stolen her kiss, in obedience to instructions. 
                  Soon after passing the bridge, Mr. Sansoucy looked at his watch and said that it was time to return, if the ladies were willing. The children were rebellious, but Aurelia acquiesced; and so they came back as rapidly as they went forth. This time Miss Aurelia enveloped her whole head in her fur robe, and Mr. Sansoucy gave up in despair;-and so they glided on again, talking and laughing merrily. 
                  The ride was, however, not to end without an incident. 
                  The sleigh had reached a hill scarcely half a mile from the city, and had commenced the rapid descent, when an exclamation from Aurelia, to whom Mr. Sansoucy was talking, caused that gentleman to suddenly turn his head, and hold back his reins vigorously. 
                  It was barely time to prevent the sleigh from running over a woman, who had been walking in the middle of the road, and who had been concealed from them by the interposition of the steep hill. 
                  The knee of one of the horses brushed her violently: and starting back suddenly, she slipped upon the hard road, and fell. 
                  Nothing but the full exertion of his whole strength enabled Mr. Sansoucy to retain the horses in their places; but half resting on their vigorous haunches, they stopped, trembling, and with necks curved into bows by the powerful tension of the reins. 
                  The woman, who was miserably clad, and had evidently travelled far, rose to her feet, and removed from the road. As she did so, she looked intently at Mr. Sansoucy, and seemed to be startled and frightened. 
                  "I hope you are not hurt-I was careless," he said, "the hill prevented me from seeing you." 
                  The woman continued to gaze at him, with the same startled look, but said nothing. 
                  "Are you hurt?" repeated Mr. Sansoucy, kindly. 
                  She shook her head; but continued to stare at him. 
                  "I am very glad," he said, "it was unpardonable in me to be so careless. You look poor, my good woman-take this to make you forget my carelessness." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy extended a piece of money toward her; and threw it to her feet. 
                  The woman did not take it up; but stared still at him: then opening her lips, which were cracked with cold, she said, with a foreign accent. 
                  "Are you a son of Mr. Sansoucy of Sunnyside?" 
                  "Yes," he said, wonderingly, "do you know my father?" 
                  An expression of wretchedness passed over the woman's face; and she muttered: 
                  "I thought so, I thought so! It would have been a just punishment, if the horses had killed me!" 
                  Mr. Sansoucy caught the last portion of the sentence, and said: 
                  "If they had killed you!" 
                  "Yes," said the woman, "I deserve it. It is only another evidence of the mercy of heaven!" 
                  The expression of Mr. Sansoucy's face, indicated such profound astonishment, that the woman seemed to feel all at once that she was speaking in riddles. 
                  She looked at Aurelia and the children for a moment-hesitated-then shook her head: and fixing her eyes on Mr. Sansoucy's face again: said in the same low tone, which she had employed throughout the conversation: 
                  "Do you live in the city?" 
                  "Yes," he said, unable to say more. 
                  "Where?" asked the woman. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy unconsciously took a card from his pocket. 
                  "Yes," said the woman, "give it to me. I can read well enough, though you may not think it from my appearance. I looked better once." 
                  And extending her hand, she took the card, and placed it in her ragged bosom. 
                  "Drive on!" she said, "do not mind me: I am used to walking." 
                  It was some moments before Mr. Sansoucy could collect self-possession enough to offer to make room for the woman in his sleigh. But she refused again; and taking no notice of the coin, covered her head with an old blanket, and took her way onward in silence toward the city. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy gazed after her, shook his head in a way which indicated a doubt of the woman's sanity, and then giving the word to his horses, flew onward past the woman, who was soon shut out from his view. 
                  We need not chronicle the world of conjectures which were made, and discussed, and dropped, by Mr. Sansoucy and his companion. The insanity view, however, gained the preminence, and Aurelia shook her head pityingly: 
                   
                  "The author who writes your adventures would scarcely be able to explain this meeting," she said, smiling, "it is so strange." 
                  "We shall see," was Mr. Sansoucy's reply. 
                  And the sleigh darting into the street, fled onward, gaily ringing as it went, and soon landed Miss Aurelia and the children at their home. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  RETURNS TO SOME OLD FRIENDS. 
                  FOR two days, Mr. Sansoucy remained almost wholly in his office; with a dubious sort of expectation, that the strange woman he had encountered, would make her appearance, and solve the mystery which enveloped her. 
                  She did not come; and on the third morning, Mr. Sansoucy's patience gave way, and he said aloud, "Well, so my adventure ends-this woman was simply a crazy woman; and I am crazy to expect anything. Still I had a right to be surprised. To know that our estate is called Sunnyside!-to know me from my likeness to my father decidedly there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in ordinary philosophy!" 
                  And having come to this consolatory conclusion, the journalist applied himself to his daily task, and having accomplished it-proceeded to dine-after which he lit his cigar, took up a novel-editors seldom read newspapers for amusement-and set about enjoying himself. 
                   
                  The novel, which was one of Monsieur Dumas', entertained him for a time; but soon he seemed to grow weary of it. 
                  "Mordious! sanydieu! parbleu!" observed Mr. Sansoucy, as he laid it down, "what a genius for oaths, has Monsieur D'Artagnan, and his friend Porthos! They are delineated with immense genius and spirit-that is granted: but why do they swear so! 'Our army swore terribly in Flanders, it is true-but it's a bad precedent-and so my criticism ends. I wonder if that mysterious woman was not, after all, a phantom-whether I did not dream the whole affair, including the sleigh ride! No-here is the proof!" 
                  And with a guilty look, Mr. Sansoucy drew from the breast pocket of his coat, one of the white balls of the comfort, which had been torn off in the scene upon the bridge-found by him in the bottom of the sleigh-and since preserved with a care which said all that was necessary, as to the state of this gentleman's feelings. 
                  We believe it is conceded, that when an intelligent man is guilty of a thing of this sort, he is in a very dangerous condition. 
                  The ball was soon restored to its pocket again, a ceremony not very interesting, having been performed with its assistance;-and then Mr. Sansoucy stretched himself, and passing, in thought, from the worsted ball to its mistress-from its mistress to the ball of another character-thence to the dress she had worn-and thence again to the recipient of the dress-Mr. Sansoucy, we say, came by these various processes of thought, to reflect upon the subject of his little friend, Ellie. 
                  The result of these reflections was, that fifteen minutes afterwards, the journalist rose, put on his overcoat, and sallied forth with the intention of paying Ellie and Joe Lacklitter a visit. 
                  Let us leave the merry and happy personages, to whose laughter we have just listened-Miss Aurelia, aiming at perfecting herself in the execution of the May day song-the old gentleman and lady listening to her-and Bel and Lizzie discussing with bright, sparkling eyes, their brilliant, joyous, fairylike excursion-let us leave these personages, to whom, however, we shall soon return, and go with Mr. Sansoucy to the old house in the opposite quarter of the city, whose occupants we have lost sight of for some time. 
                  Joe Lacklitter seems to have felt the breath of the coming spring, and has become almost well again. He no longer totters about, and sits moping in the chimney corner, and sighs. He is growing strong, and with every day, appears to regain more and more of his old buoyancy and good humor. This cheerfulness is not gained by himself, only as the spring comes on-Ellie, too, becomes happier; and when she raises her frank, tender eyes to his face, with that look of gentleness and goodness, which is her crowning charm, and chief beauty, the countenance of the child is lovely, for its sweetness and holiness of deep affection. 
                  When we again enter the humble room in which the poor newsman and his children have harbored themselves from the winter's blast-which we have entered so often, and whither we gladly go again-the countenance of Ellie, as she sits by the small fire, reading to her uncle, is a sight which might make a misanthrope forget his bitterness, and smile. The child's soft brown hair has escaped from the old ribbon with which she often binds it, and falls in waving curls around her beautiful and tender face; her eyes are soft and full of sweetness: her parted lips smile with that gentle ingenuous expression, which is the loveliest of all human looks, in man, or woman, or child. 
                  Ellie sits reading for some time: and then closing her book, goes and gets her small brush, and crosses over to Charley, who seems, from his rapt expression to be inventing a fairy tale; and taking the curly head in her arms, reduces the bunchy mass to a smooth and glossy appearance, marking thus a great improvement in the youthful poet's looks. Ellie stands still for a moment, admiring the result of her skill, and then is going to some work she has been doing, when she hears a step upon the stairs. 
                  She knows that step among a thousand, and with a happy look, hastens toward the door. 
                  With the passing days and weeks, an affection for him has grown up in her heart, only second to her love for her uncle and Charley. By some strange process, she seems to anticipate all he says, to read his very thoughts, to identify herself with him, and comprehend all he says, and does, and even thinks, as by the working of a perfect and all-embracing sympathy, binding the natures of the man and child into one single organization-with a single heart, sending the blood at once through two separate beings. 
                  She has sat for hours, thinking of him, and of his kindness; and her eyes have filled with warm, happy tears, as she has thought of all his goodness to herself and her uncle. At such times he has seemed to her better than all the whole world; and the world, blind and foolish, and ignorant of its duty, not to rise up in one mass, and honor him, and select him for their king! Then Ellie, when her thoughts brought her to this point, would smile, and rise from her seat, and say, "How silly I am!" But again her heart would whisper, "It is not more than he deserves, he is so good and kind,"-and she would stoutly return to her previous opinion, that the whole wide world contained no second man his equal! Surely to excite such tenderness, and gratitude, and admiration in the heart of a pure child, is better worth our while, than to achieve many triumphs of the most distinguished description. 
                  This is the feeling of the child toward the man, and now with an instinct of affection, stronger than the Arab's hatred-instinct, which scents in the horizon the approach of his enemy, Ellie knows perfectly well when Mr. Sansoucy is coming. 
                  That is his step upon the stairs, and opening the door before he has touched the knob, she says, timidly, but confidingly: 
                  "I knew it was you, sir," 
                  Her smile illuminates the whole apartment, and Mr. Sansoucy scarcely knows that his hat is taken from his hand. 
                  "Why, Joe," he says: "it seems to me that this young woman is going to fly away, she looks so light and gay." 
                  "Oh, uncle's getting well, and you have come-that makes me glad, sir," says Ellie. 
                  "There! she's floored us with a double compliment, Joe," says Mr. Sansoucy, sitting down: "why, you are nearly well." 
                  "Yes, indeed, I am, sir, and I know who done a good part by me. I never will forget your kindness, sir-I needn't tell you that." 
                  "Bother!" 
                  "I'll pay back all the money you give me, soon," said Joe: "I feel like I could do anything now." 
                  "You shall take your time," says Mr. Sansoucy: "say a dollar a-year, for the next twenty years. But you may drop that subject-here's some more." 
                  "Oh, no sir!" says Ellie, with glad pride in her face, and holding back Mr. Sansoucy's arm, with a happy little look: "we won't want any more, please, sir." 
                  "What do you mean?" 
                  "I got the pay for my work yesterday." 
                  "Your work?" 
                  "Yes, sir-from Mrs. Brown. 
                  "Did you?" 
                  "Yes, sir-see, here it is-a whole week's work." 
                  Mr. Sansoucy looked at the coin, and says: 
                  "A whole week's work! Work a week for that?" 
                   
                  "Oh, yes, sir." 
                  "How many hours a day?" 
                  "I don't know, sir-but from breakfast time to dinner and supper-and a little at night." 
                  Mr. Sansoucy repeats, "a little at night-that is all day!" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "And for this! Why, Ellie, I spend that much in cigars in a single morning-and here you are, working away your small fingers, and putting out your young eyes, for-really," said Mr. Sansoucy, breaking off suddenly, "the world is a miserable humbug, and I despise it, root and branch!" 
                  Having stated his conviction upon this point, Mr. Sansoucy drew from his pocket a bundle, and said: 
                  "Here's something I purchased on the way;-do you know how to make chocolate, Ellie?" 
                  "No, sir-I'm afraid-" 
                  "Well, I'll show you. What a pity we have n't here a friend of mine, of the name of Mr. Matthews, who makes it to perfection. Every man, my child," says Mr. Sansoucy, with a philosophical air," has his particular genius. I knew a distinguished lawyer once, whose genius was cutting out coats, cutting off hair, and pulling teeth. Another of my friends has a genius which enables him to discuss the abstrusest educational questions without a single flower of rhetoric, question-begging appellative, or poetical radiation-and my own genius I consider the ability to write an editorial without selecting the subject, or thinking while I write. This causes you to open your large, handsome eyes, Ellie; and, therefore, I suppose I am trifling: but send that young man there for some milk, and we'll have some chocolate immediately." 
                  Ellie would have gone herself, but Mr. Sansoucy declared that he would have Charley go; and so Charley went, twisting his head over his shoulder to the last, to gaze at Mr. Sansoucy, whom he seemed to regard as a strange wild animal, exhibited for that occasion only. 
                  In half an hour the chocolate was done, and Mr. Sansoucy having produced some crackers from the other pocket, the whole company regaled themselves in the most friendly way imaginable. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  RECOUNTS THE MANIA OF MONSIEUR GUILLEMOT'S FRIEND, ANGELIQUE. 
                  DURING the process of drinking the chocolate, to which ceremony Mr. Sansoucy applied himself with the gusto of a confirmed lover of that beverage, the journalist enquired fully into Joe's prospects-promised to procure him a better situation than any he had yet occupied, and also to see to the welfare of the children. He need not thank him, he added, as Joe began to speak: it was one of his whims to help him and them-and he would follow his whim. 
                  By the time this was said the chocolate was finished, and Mr. Sansoucy rose to take his departure. 
                   
                  Ellie brought his hat, and gave it to him with her sweet, timid look; and wrapping his cloak around him, Mr. Sansoucy, with his head down, stepped upon the landing. 
                  He found himself suddenly thrown up against the body of an individual who was descending; and this individual uttered the expression, "sacre!"-the latter portion being spoken as though the word was spelled with a multiplicity of r's. 
                  "Why, it's Guillemot!" said Mr. Sansoucy. "How do you do, Monsieur Guillemot? I have not seen you since-since that unhappy affair at the gallery." 
                  And the speaker's face clouded with an expression of sadness as he thought of his friend. 
                  "Mistare Sansouci! Aha!" said the Frenchman, with his polite grimace; "I am charm to see you, Mossieu!" 
                  "And I as pleased to see you, Monsieur Guillemot." 
                  The Frenchman shook his head. 
                  "People was please once, Mossieu!" he said. 
                  "Once?" 
                  "When Guillemot was flourish, Mossieu Sansouci. Tees not so now. Poor Guillemot is bank-a-root. Zey no pay, Mossieu-zey no pay poor Guillemot; he is bank-a-root!" 
                  And having communicated this information with the most delightful good humor and satisfaction, Monsieur Guillemot shrugged his shoulders, turned out his hands, raised his eyebrows, and added- 
                  "Tees true-tees very true!" 
                  Sansoucy looked at him with a smile. 
                   
                  "Judging from your dress, Monsieur Guillemot," he said, "I should think, that instead of being bankrupt, you had just come into your property." 
                  Monsieur Guillemot, in fact, was clad with great elegance, and the frill of his shirt bosom seemed alone able to support his chin. 
                  
                     Ah! non, non!" he said, however, with a modest air, "'tis notting, mon cher ami-'tis only a leetle toilette I make to enterprise one dame." 
                  "A lady?" 
                  "Ah, oui-one lady. You will come see her, Mossieu, mon ami-you shall give me opinion; she shall see what distinguish friend I 'ave." 
                  "Make a call with you?" 
                  "I only pass-seulement." 
                  "Certainly, I'll go then." 
                  And very much amused, Mr. Sansoucy made a farewell sign to Joe Lacklitter and Ellie, who had listened to this conversation, and then followed Monsieur Guillemot. 
                  He was not destined to leave the house, however, without having his attention called to an additional personage. 
                  This personage was a lady clad in a brown dress, and well wrapped up, who, with her veil down, and an air of abstraction, ascended the stairs as the two men came down. 
                  The polite Frenchman leaped aside, making a profusion of bows,-indeed, we are not quite sure that Monsieur Guillemot did not seriously contemplate mounting the railing, or getting upon the ledge outside, or performing some other act, indicative of an extreme desire to permit the lady to pass without brushing him. As for Mr. Sansoucy, he simply drew to one side, as closely as possible: and thus in the bent position of his body, the lady passed as it were beneath his chin, and disappeared at the turn of the staircase. 
                  "It seems that some one here has a lady friend," he said, as they again descended. 
                  
                     Ah, oui, Mossieu! I see her often," was Guillemot's reply. 
                  "Her face?" 
                  "Non, Mossieu-her veil always cover it." 
                  "Very well, my dear friend-but what have we here," said Mr. Sansoucy, stooping and raising from the threshold of the outer door, upon which it had dropped, a printed paper: this must have fallen from the unknown lady's reticule: why it's a tract." 
                  And looking for the title he read the words: "Faith, Hope, Charity." 
                  He remained silent for a moment, and then shaking his head, muttered: 
                  "I doubt the utility of tracts alone, when those for whom they are intended suffer for want of bread. This lady, doubtless, is benevolent-perhaps in her high sphere, cannot realize the wants of the poor: for I discerned a very delicate and costly perfume as she passed-so, doubtless she is rich. Nevertheless let me not judge. I'll keep the tract: come, my dear Monsieur Guillemot." 
                  And putting the paper in his pocket, Mr. Sansoucy took his companion's arm, and they proceeded toward the abode of Monsieur Guillemot's lady friend. They talked as they went: and the lady they were going to see furnished the subject of their conversation. 
                  Like all Frenchmen, Monsieur Guillemot speedily put his friend in possession of his whole love affair. "One dame," was the sister of a shopkeeper not far from the house they issued from, and this dame was well known in the neighborhood, as the possessor of a very pretty piece of property which brought her in a desirable income. The dame was in addition to this, possessed of the various charms of a good-humored face, a figure inclined to embonpoint, and the ripe age of forty. She had been long looking for a husband it seemed, exactly to her taste: but had failed nevertheless to find her bean ideal. Angelique-it was Monsieur Guillemot's poetical designation of her-Angelique, it seemed, desired ardently to possess a husband of the first elegance and breeding-a fine gentleman in a word; and once her ambition had reached even as high as a foreign count. But this hope seemed difficult of realization-and after falling successively from count to viscount and baron-and so down to the lowest possible order of nobility, a baronet-she had made up her mind to accept even a poor gentleman, if he were elegant, and would carry her from the sphere which could not appreciate the delicate and poetical nature of her mental organization. Madame Angelique, it further appeared, had at one time encouraged the advances of Captain Schminky, in consideration of his well-to-do condition in the world: and even still she regarded the grocer with an amount of favor which caused his rival, it was evident, no small uneasiness. Captain Schminky would, doubtless, have become the owner of the dame, her property, and charms generally; but just as she was on the point of yielding to the dictates of prudence, and worldly wisdom, Monsieur Guillemot had appeared, with all his graces, and revived once more in her heart that passion for the elegant and recherche which was her weakness. Monsieur Guillemot's origin on a small estate in Gascony gave him the right to the title of chevalier; and as soon as Madame Angelique heard the word, her heart began to beat, her prudential considerations to disappear; and at the moment when Monsieur Guillemot met his friend, Mr. Sansoucy, the rivals were balanced almost equally in those imaginary scales in which were weighed the desirabilities of Madam's suitors. 
                  It was Madam Angelique that Monsieur Guillemot was destined to see for a moment in passing: and he felt not a little satisfaction in showing the mistress of his heart what a fine looking gentleman he called his friend. 
                  He was modestly suggesting that perhaps Mr. Sansoucy's designation of him as "Monsieur Guillemot, my friend," would aid his prospects when they arrived at the abode of Madam Angelique. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  MADAME ANGELIQUE'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE FAIR. 
                  "ANGELIQUE" was the sister of the low browed gentleman who had given Ellie one tenth of the value of her baby's dress, in exchange for that garment. 
                   
                  He was standing behind his counter now; and no doubt, the worthy merchant expected his visitors to purchase something in exchange for the pleasure they experienced in entering his shop. If this were his expectation, however, he was disappointed; for Monsieur Guillemot passed through the shop with the ease of a man who had frequently done so before, and followed by Mr. Sansoucy, at whom the proprietor scowled, coarsely, as indeed he did also at the Frenchman, made his way into the room just back of the shop. 
                  Angelique was being entertained by Captain Schminky, and was just the lady described by Monsieur Guillemot. 
                  "Ah, my dear Madam-and mon cher Capitaine," said Guillemot, with a lively air, "charm to see you. Permit, Madam, that I present Monsieur mon ami-Mistre Sansouc." 
                  The individuals bowed: Mr. Sansoucy, with great politeness, which was very sincere-madam, with a little flutter, such as she considered proper, under the circumstances. 
                  As for Captain Schminky, he seemed to be paralyzed by the appearance of Monsieur Guillemot, and sat, with his mouth open, in utter bewilderment. 
                  "If it please the beautiful Angelique," said Monsieur Guillemot, imprinting a gallant kiss upon the lady's chubby fingers, "I will now take the commission of Madam." 
                  "Oh, yes, Monsher Gillymore," said the lady, rising with the assistance of a smelling bottle and a fan, "I will bring it." 
                   
                  And with a languishing look, she crossed the small room, and issued forth into the shop. As she did so, Mr. Sansoucy discovered that he had dropped his gloves; and remembering that he had left them on the chair he had occupied in Joe Lacklitter's room, told Monsieur Guillemot to await his return, and sallied forth to recover them. 
                  He had scarcely left the shop, when a woman came in, and after standing for a moment, looking around her, caught sight of Captain Schminky, through the open door of the inner room. This woman was wretchedly clad, wore, for sole wrapping, an old tattered blanket, and her face was cut and cracked by the bitter wind. 
                  It was the same woman who had been nearly run over by Mr. Sansoucy, three days before. 
                  She stood for a moment, looking at Captain Schminky, with eyes which seemed to dart flames of rage: and then, striding into the back room, planted herself erect before him, and threw back the tattered bonnet which had concealed her face. 
                  No sooner had Captain Schminky caught sight of her countenance-no sooner had he found those eyes, which seemed to be well known to him, fixed upon his face,-than, rising with a leap, he seized his hat, rushed by the woman, who stood with folded arms, looking down on him-and fled ignominiously from the shop. 
                  The woman looked after him, a moment; gazed coldly at Monsieur Guillemot, who directed, nevertheless, toward her, one of his most enchanting smiles; and then with a stare of defiance and rage at Madam Angelique, which nearly took that lady's breath away, strode from the house as she had entered it. 
                  Monsieur Guillemot had scarcely time to observe, that in all his various travels, he had seen many curious and astounding "tableaux," but never anything quite equal to that; and Madam Angelique had said nothing at all, when Mr. Sansoucy made his appearance, with the gloves in his hand. Ellie had caught sight of them, ten minutes after his departure-had picked them up, quickly-and thinking Mr. Sansoucy had not gone far, hastened after him, her brown hair uncovered, and the wind making her shiver. He had met her half way, taken the gloves, with a kind speech, which would have rewarded Ellie for a thousand times as much trouble, and so returned to the shop just in time to be too late. 
                  The forgetfulness of Mr. Sansoucy in leaving his gloves, had much to do with the further progress of this history. 
                  When he entered the shop again, as we have said, Monsieur Guillemot was expressing his philosophical astonishment at the incident which had just occurred. But, upon the entrance of his friend, he paused. Having studied profoundly the character of Angelique, with the view of making her Madam Guillemot, he had not failed to perceive that one of the weak points of the angelic being was a horror for whatever appeared coarse, abrupt, and vulgar. 
                  He was just about to enter upon a description of the late event, when this thought occurred to him-but he promptly restrained himself; and was rewarded by Angelique with a smile, which he understood perfectly. 
                  Madam Angelique did not give Mr. Sansoucy time to ask the cause for Captain Schminky's abrupt departure, and haste in walking away: she immediately introduced the subject of the Fair, for the benefit of the poor, to which Monsieur Guillemot was about to take a contribution on the part of the lady. 
                  "Monsher Gillymore is very obliging," said the lady, in a flutter, and waving her fan, which really did seem useless in the then state of the atmosphere; but perhaps it was a habit she could not break herself of, "I am sure I am very much obliged to him." 
                  "The words are pearls: are they not diamonds!" said Monsieur Guillemot, enthusiastically. 
                  "Oh, go away, you flattering creature!" 
                  "Not so-not so, beautiful Angelique, I never flatter." 
                  "Monsher Gillymore, you men are terrible creatures, and you do not make any allowances for the nervous and susceptible"- 
                  "No allowance!" cried Monsieur Guillemot, "but I cannot stay to refute this so terreeble charge. Monsieur, mon ami, grows impatient." 
                  And disregarding Sansoucy's polite denial of this imputation, Monsieur Guillemot held out his hand for the package. 
                  "What is here?" he asked, prying curiously at the bundle. 
                  "Oh, nothing, nothing!" said the lady, smiling. 
                  "Bon!" said Monsieur Guillemot, "I shall not be fatigue." 
                  And with his hand upon his heart, he made the lady the lowest and most splendid bow. 
                   
                  "Oh, Monsieur Guillemot, my dearest friend, my worthy teacher, and friend," said Sansoucy, suppressing his laughter, "you are really the most elegant man I have ever known. The woman who is so fortunate as to secure you, my dear friend, will possess one of the most amiable and courteous gentlemen I have ever known." 
                  And having made this speech, which was perfectly sincere, Mr. Sansoucy made a low bow upon his own part, and they issued forth. 
                  "I think that I am marry already," said Monsieur Guillemot, at the summit of felicity. 
                  "A good-humored and pleasing lady," said Sansoucy. 
                  "Is she not?" cried Monsieur Guillemot, enthusiastically, "I rejoice, I mount my wings, I fly, Mossieu, mon ami!" 
                  And with the gayety of a boy, who has a holiday granted to him, Monsieur Guillemot hastened onward by the side of his friend, smiling and joyful. Turning, however, he saw an expression upon Mr. Sansoucy's face, which was rather satirical; and this caused Monsieur Guillemot to suddenly become grave. 
                  "Ah, Mossieu, mon ami," he said, "you do me ver great anjoosteese. It is true I visit this lady first from what you call mercenary motive: but that is pass. She is good, she is jolie, she is parfaitement, devoted to poor Guillemot-'tis a good dame, a ver honest prsonge- she will make good wife for Guillemot, who grow old-who is bank-a-root, mon ami: but who possesses still quite enough de l'argent to live. I want wife, Mossieu, mon ami-she will make good wife: ver good wife." 
                  "I don't doubt it, my dear friend," said Sansoucy, "and if I forget for a moment, that at your period of life, men ask only a cheerful and affectionate companion-faith! any man might be satisfied with that, I think-if I forget this-pardon me. You will have such a wife-for you will get Madam Angelique without doubt." 
                  "Sans doute! you say sans doute, then it is a fact accomplished!" 
                  And Monsieur Guillemot, with all the gayety of a boy, hastened on, passing from one hand to the other the package delivered to him for deposite at the fair by the mistress of his heart. 
                  That package contained, among other things, the elegant child's dress, and lace cap, brought to the shop and sold in her necessity, by Ellie. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  HOW THE LADY HAD AN INTERVIEW WITH LUCIA. 
                  ELLIE stood for some moments following Mr. Sansoucy with her eyes, which a glad, happy light made beautiful and touching;-and then as he disappeared with Monsieur Guillemot, slowly retraced her steps up the old stair-case, murmuring "How kindly he smiled on me!" 
                  The lady we have seen ascend as Mr. Sansoucy came down, was seated in the room of Joe Lacklitter; and Ellie, indeed, had left her with some abruptness, upon finding the missing gloves. 
                  As she entered, now, the lady looked at her with a smile, and said kindly: 
                   
                  "You seem to be very eager to save your friend trouble!" 
                  "Oh, yes, ma'am." 
                  "You are?" 
                  "Yes, indeed, ma'am-I would do anything in the world I could, for him." 
                  "Is he kind?" 
                  "Oh, so good and kind!" 
                  And as if her whole heart had spoken in these words, Ellie remained silent. 
                  The lady's face showed how much she was pleased by the simplicity and sincerity of the child's tone, and she said: 
                  "You have a warm, true heart, Ellie; and I think your uncle is very fortunate to have so good a little daughter. Now I want to tell you why I came. Here are some things I wish you to work for me. I think your patterns are more graceful than any I find in the stores, and I want you to make this collar after your own fancy." 
                  Ellie took it with a proud little look, and said indeed she would try to do it as well as she possibly could. 
                  "I know that will be well," said the lady, "for your taste in these things is really extraordinary, Ellie. I can scarcely understand how you ever acquired it." 
                  "Mother taught me, ma'am," said Ellie; "she worked beautiful things." 
                  "Your mother?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am-she's dead, you know: but she was good, and she's gone to heaven." 
                  The lady again listened with evident pleasure to the sincere voice of the child; and for a moment was silent. Then she said: 
                  "Do you expect to see your mother again, Ellie?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am-oh, yes! if I am good, and do my duty." 
                  The answer concluded the subject; and when the lady spoke again it was on the matter which had brought her: and this being dispatched, she entered into conversation with Joe as to his present and prospective condition. 
                  Uncle Joe launched forth into the subject with rude eloquence, and said that he had had a hard time of it during the winter, but hoped to make up for every thing in the spring. He would have had a hard time, that is, he said, if it had not been for Ellie and Mr. Sansoucy:-and then Uncle Joe commenced and related in all their detail the tender solicitude of the child for him-her struggles, labors, suffering-every thing. Like Othello, Uncle Joe ran through the events of the winter "even to the present hour"-and the picture thus drawn of the child's disinterested affection and devotion, evidently touched, and produced a deep effect upon the lady. 
                  She gazed at the child so kindly and lovingly that Ellie's head sank, and her eyes filled with tears of childish pride, and love, and gratitude. 
                  "Here are some tracts, Ellie," said the lady, with a slight color in her cheek; "I thought you would like to have them:-but I think I should learn from you, instead of you from me." 
                  And rising, the lady asked if the little organ-girl were in her room. 
                   
                  "Yes, ma'am, I think she is," replied Ellie, sadly; "I saw her this morning, and she don't seem very well. Will you go and see her, ma'am?" 
                  "Oh! yes-I came to see her, too!" 
                  And bidding Uncle Joe farewell, the lady went out and proceeded to Lucia's room. 
                  Lucia was sitting by a small fire which Ellie had made for her from a portion of her own wood; and when the lady entered, was looking into the fire with a faint, wistful smile, so deep in its sadness, yet so trusting and submissive, that it made her thin, white countenance more beautiful than words can describe. Always of fair and tender beauty, Lucia's loveliness had been sublimated by these trying dispensations which she had undergone; and now she seemed, with her pale, wistful face, and large, sad eyes, more like a blessed inhabitant of the other world, than an actual child of flesh and blood, weak and unarmed against the cold blasts of poverty and want. 
                  Since we last saw her, when, sitting, bent down, on the steps, she sighed "aunt Phillis, Oh! aunt Phillis!-why can't I go with you!"-a great change has come over the little organ-girl; and she seems now to have detached her thoughts almost entirely from earth, and to have entered upon an existence, unclogged by worldly cares and wants, unaffected by the coldest blasts of the bitter winter storm. In that serene region heaven itself seems to have opened upon her: and with earth no longer in her vision, her thoughts appear to have mounted to the pure empyrean of perfect and unchangeable love: where the sunshine of heaven gilds the faces of the great multitude of all climes and nations, and people and tongues, singing forever in the light of an eternal dawn. 
                  The expression of the child, as she bends down thus, her dark hair half veiling her thin white cheek, and falling on the pages of the book she has been reading, is so striking, that the lady pauses for a moment on the threshold, and looks at her, motionless, and in silence. 
                  She says, at last, in her kind voice, "Lucia!"-and the child turns, and recognizes her, and with a faint color in her cheeks, rises to her feet, returns the smile, and murmurs her thanks for the visit. 
                  "Oh, no, Lucia, you need not thank me," says the lady, taking her thin hand, and gazing with tender pity into the sad, smiling face: "you need not thank me. But I am sorry to see you looking so pale and thin." 
                  "I don't feel badly, ma'am," says Lucia; "and Ellie has made me a good fire." 
                  "Ellie?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am-she is very kind: and I am afraid makes herself uncomfortable to help me." 
                  "She's a good child: but you have had some dinner, Lucia?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am, Ellie gave me some." 
                  And a faint tinge of shame, which has come into her cheek, glows deeper, and more apparent. The singular pride of the poor child is wounded, and she returns thus to earth, as it were, and blushes at her own helplessness and dependence. 
                  "You shall not depend upon Ellie," the lady says: "you shall depend on me-I will assist you-" 
                   
                  "Oh, no, no, ma'am," murmurs Lucia: "I couldn't-I don't think I could-accept-" 
                  "But you must: you have no friends who-" 
                  "Oh, yes, ma'am." 
                  And the child's face is covered with blushes. 
                  "You have a friend besides Ellie? What is his name?" 
                  Lucia cannot utter the name of Sam, and only bends down, blushing. All the long, weary time from the death of Aunt Phillis, Wide-A wake has kept near her, visiting her whenever he could, and supplying her wants, without knowing what a deep wound to the child's pride, everything he supplied caused her. The tenderness toward him, which has grown up in her heart, gradually has made this all the more trying: and the bitterest regret that Lucia has felt, has been the necessity of this dependence. When the lady, therefore, asks what other friend she has, the child's face colors deeply, and the faint murmured reply is unintelligible. 
                  The lady gazes at her face a moment with profound pity-and then asks her if she cannot do some sewing. Lucia says that Ellie has given her some common work to do from her own, and she has not even been able to perform this. Her life, so wandering and adverse, has not enabled her to learn; and the money given to her by Ellie, has been simple charity. 
                  The lady sighs, as she listens to the faltering accents, and says that then she will try to procure something else for her: meanwhile she must accept what she gives her. 
                  "Oh, no, no, ma'am!" Lucia says, drawing back; "I cannot!-oh! I cannot! It is false pride, ma'am, I know, and I am afraid it's wicked; but, indeed, indeed, I cannot." 
                  The lady's head sinks, and she looks at the child with a wistful expression, which is hard to read. 
                  "Well, Lucia," she says: "I can understand your pride-but I must assist you. Indeed I must-until you are able to assist yourself. I will send you something, this very morning. It is our duty, and I think it a very great privilege-that is, I begin to think it." 
                  And with a slight tremor in her voice, the lady bids the child good-bye, and turns toward the door. 
                  As she does so, Wide-Awake comes in. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  HOW WIDE-AWAKE AND LUCIA ARRANGED THEIR PLANS. 
                  WIDE-AWAKE did not look as merry and joyous as usual:-his hat was not so much upon the side of his head: his hands were not so deeply sunken in his pockets. 
                  When Wide-Awake presented this appearance, his friends were accustomed to declare that he was under a cloud; and it really did seem upon the present occasion, as if the state of feeling indicated by this figurative expression, existed in the case of the personage in question. 
                  Wide-A wake's first look and word was for Lucia; but seeing the lady, he doffed his hat, and ducked his head in recognition of her presence. 
                  The lady returned his salute, but did not wait for him to speak. She wrapped herself again in her robe, lowered her veil, and with a kind word to Lucia, went out and descended the stairs. 
                  "Who's that, Lucia?" said Wide-Awake, looking after her. 
                  "A good lady, who has been to see me two or three times, Sam," said Lucia. 
                  "I knew she was good!" said Wide-Awake, with a melancholy sort of humor; "I knew she was, d'rectly I saw her face." 
                  "Indeed, she is." 
                  "Is she kind to you?" 
                  "Oh, yes." 
                  "Then I'm goin' to die for her-I am. 
                  And having made this solemn promise, Wide-Awake sat down, passed his hat through his fingers, and gazed sadly and wistfully at Lucia, who had resumed her former seat. 
                  The sight of the child's thin and pale cheeks seemed to fill Wide-Awake with the deepest gloom. His eyelids drooped-his breast heaved with a sigh, and shaking his head, he said, sorrowfully: 
                  "Oh, Lucia! Lucia! you don't care nothin' for me!" 
                  "Don't care!-oh, indeed, I do." 
                  And Lucia's sad face turns toward Wide-A wake, a slight color in the pale cheeks, and a smile upon the lips, which causes the person addressed to sigh more profoundly than ever. 
                  "No, you don't-oh, no, you don't!" he says; "if you did, you'd do what I asked you." 
                  "What you asked me?" 
                  "Eat more, and not be down-hearted, and laugh." 
                  Lucia smiles, and says: 
                  "I am not down-hearted, Sam." 
                  "You aint!" cries Wide-Awake. 
                  "No, indeed, I am not; I am very happy." 
                  And Lucia's eye falls upon the book she has been reading. 
                  "There! that explains all," says her companion, groaning. "Yes! you are happy, and you aint down-hearted-and for why? Because you think you aint long for this world!" 
                  And Wide-Awake covers his eye and dashes away what he pretends is a grain of dust. 
                  "None of us know when we will die, Sam," says Lucia, softly. 
                  "But you are thinkin' you won't last long." 
                  "I don't know, Sam." 
                  "Oh, Lucia!" he says, "what are you a-thinkin' and talkin' in this way for! What are you a-dreamin' 'bout the t'other world for! Aint this a mighty pretty world, with all the flowers, and summer days, and goin' in the country! Aint this a good place to live in!" 
                  Lucia looks sadly through the window at the roofs covered with snow, over which the chill winds are careering. Wide-Awake answers her: 
                   
                  "Yes! you mean it's cold, and bitter, and miserable," he says, with a deep sigh; "you don't see anything to look forward to! Oh, Lucia!" 
                  And Wide-Awake actually sobs. 
                  "Don't-don't, Sam!" she says, taking away the hand he has covered his eyes with; "don't do that! you will make me cry, too! Oh, don't-please don't, Sam!" 
                  "Well, I wont! I'm a fool, and that's the whole of it!" 
                  "Oh, you are so kind, Sam!" 
                  "I'm a rascal-I am! To come here a-makin' you sorry and tired with my talk. But I wont do it agi'n-I wont." 
                  And Wide-Awake assumes a cheerful and encouraging look, and says: 
                  "Really, Lucia-come to look at you, now, you're happier lookin' than you've been for a week." 
                  "I feel very happy." 
                  "But the spring's comin', and you'll be happier. It's so pretty!" 
                  "Oh, beautiful," Lucia says, with a warm light in her eyes like a May morning; "beautiful, Sam! The flowers, and warm days, and birds-Oh, how I love the spring!" 
                  The satisfaction-nay the deep delight-of Wide-Awake as he listened to these words, seemed to change his whole features. In a moment he was almost the same old laughing, joyous Wide-Awake; full of ridiculous fancies, and making every body laugh who approached him, with his own contagious merriment. 
                   
                  "Hoora!" cried Wide-A wake, waving his cap, "aint it good to hear you talkin' so, Lucia! I say it aint good-oh, no!" 
                  And Wide-A wake laughed in derision at his own positive assurance of the fact. 
                  "I'm glad you like to hear me talk so, Sam," said Lucia, smiling sweetly, "and indeed I feel it. The spring is so lovely! Every thing seems to be young, and pure, and tender-it seems as if there wasn't anything bad in the whole world, and as if everybody loved each other." 
                  "So it does!" 
                  "I never could believe there was any cold, or want, or unhappiness, when once the spring had come. The sunshine seems to laugh, you know." 
                  "And the birds singing-!" 
                  "It is very sweet." 
                  "And the flowers-the violets and them!" 
                  "I love violets very much," says Lucia, gently, and smiling as she looked in Wide-A wake's enthusiastic face. 
                  "That's enough," he says, "I'll git the first of the season for you, Lucia." 
                  "Oh, will you!" 
                  "If I don't-well," said Wide-Awake; "that ain't the word to be said here-that ain't. But I'll do it!" 
                  And Wide-Awake scowled at winter through the window with a gaze of such defiance, that it was a wonder all the snow did not melt and run away, and disappear before it. 
                  "You are very good and kind, Sam," said Lucia, gently, "and I'm only afraid you're too kind. Please, Sam, don't spend any more of your money for things for me." 
                  "My money?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Lord help you," said Wide-Awake, "What could I do with it. You got to have it, or I'll chuck it to some young villain at the theatre door. I never ken rest till I'm dry as a bean. I've throwed quarters out into the river often to see which went furthest:-money! when I got it 'taint nothin'. I'm miserable, I am, till its spent!" 
                  And Wide-A wake looked as if his pockets were wholly empty. His harangue was only partly true; he had not for a long time now sought any of his customary diversions-and he had lived often on a crust for a whole day, in order that Lucia might have something nice and delicate-such as her poor appetite required. This and more had been done by the honest Wide-Awake, and he had made himself a perfect moving mountain of newspapers-worked himself like a wood and iron machine-descended even to a coal-carrier, to provide what Lucia needed. 
                  The child knew it perfectly well; and this had caused her to blush when the lady's question, brought Wide-Awake's devotion to her mind: this knowledge now made her blush again. Wide-A wake saw the blush and understood it. 
                  "Now don't be talkin' 'bout that, Lucia," he said, "we'ere friends, and I ain't agoin' to desert a friend. The idee of desertin' you seems-well, I dunno how it seems: ridicklus'il, do I spose." 
                  "Oh, Sam! you are too kind-and I am very, very miserable to clog you in this way. Don't look so gloomily," she said, "I wont say any more: but please don't send me anything else. I-I-do very well. Now talk to me about the flowers again-the beautiful flowers." 
                  And with a sad sweet smile upon her face, Lucia seemed to see the tender banks of violets, and wander over sunny slopes and meadows, as a child should. 
                  Wide-A wake's blood seemed to ebb and flow with hers: and the happy expression of her countenance dissipated all his gloom again. 
                  "Talk about the flowers! I will that," he said, "and we'll see 'em, too. 
                  "Oh, shall we?" 
                  "Yes, we shell, Lucia-as I'm a livin' human bein'. We'll go into the country-far away from this here place. Didn't you hear that hymn, when Aunty Phillis died-I see you that day-but you didn't see me; which ain't seldom," added Wide-Awake. "Don't you ricklect what they sung: 'Oh, come and will you go-will you go-will you go!' seems to me that thing's been a runnin' in my head ever sence." 
                  "And so has it in mine," said Lucia with a far-away look. 
                  "It means heaven, I reckon," said Wide-Awake, "but I don't know nothin' 'bout heaven-I don't." 
                  "Oh, it's a place of perfect happiness," replied Lucia; "and God says that no one can even conceive such happiness!" 
                  "That's strange!" said Wide-Awake, "can it be happier 'an a May mornin' in the fields?" 
                  "Oh, yes." 
                   
                  "What makes it so?" 
                  "God's love," said Lucia, softly. 
                  Wide-Awake's mind was evidently engaged in the effort to comprehend this reply, when Lucia said: 
                  "If we love each other, and are kind, and obey God, we will go to heaven, Sam. Jesus says he will prepare a place for us." 
                  "It's mighty hard to be kind and lovin' in this wicked and deceitful world," said Wide-Awake, shaking his head, "there's so much to make a feller grit his teeth-'specially here in town. Heaven! heaven! it seems like a glory, Lucia!" he said, with wide eyes; "but it's hard to see it here." 
                  "Yes, but we may, by faith." 
                  "In the country I feel better, somehow-I do," continued Wide-Awake, "and the birds and flowers and streams make me glad." 
                  "And me, too!" 
                  "We're goin' there." 
                  "I shall be so glad." 
                  "Will you?" 
                  "Oh, yes." 
                  "Won't we have a time-won't we have a glorious time!" cried Wide-Awake carried away by the idea of wandering with Lucia over flowery meadows, along the banks of merry streams, "won't we be happy! Oh, Lucia! what times we'll have:-I'm as happy as a lark!" 
                  And Wide-Awake threw up his hat, and laughed a loud. 
                  "How sweet the banks are when the sun shines," said Lucia, smiling dreamily, "I would like to be buried in a place just like the hill covered with flowers, on the opposite side of the river-you know, Sam! It would be like falling asleep, you know, in the happy sunshine. But you don't like to think of this as I do. We will go over there-won't we? Won't you take me?" 
                  "Take you!" cried Wide-Awake, from whose face the cloud passed as rapidly as a shadow of April. "Will I take you! I'll hire a chariot and six horses, and drive you myself." 
                  "Oh, that would not be half so nice," said Lucia, smiling, sweetly. "We will walk." 
                  "And I'll gather violets and roses, and make you a wreath, Lucia-my hands are big and clumsy, but I can do anything when I work for you! We'll spend all the mornin's in the beautiful fields, and have a pic nic by the stream, and then we'll come home in the warm, nice evenin', singin'-singin'! You'll be singin', and I'll be happy, Lucia-Oh, so happy with you!" 
                  And Wide-Awake's rapt look fell on the blushing face of Lucia, in which his picture of the happy May-day, had conjured up as much delight as was visible in his own. 
                  It was a beautiful and touching spectacle-these two children, thus forgetting the freezing wind, the dying fire, the cramping city, the want and suffering, and grief of their hard lot-to wander forth, in thought, over flowery fields, and by murmuring streams-streams laughing and limpid, with heaven over them, and made to mirror, in their bright surface, the skies and flowers, and leaves, and faces of the children, brighter than sky or flower! Strange fancy of the poor boy and the destitute girl, crouching thus over a few embers, and yet rising from the low earth of reality to the bright sunshine of the imagination! Thank heaven, that the chillest winds of want and suffering cannot tread out wholly what God placed in children-what lives there, silently protesting against shameful oppression, and neglect, and cruelty-whatever will remain thus a silent but all-powerful protest against what arrays itself against it! 
                  It was not until the night had filled the poor chamber, that the boy and the child parted. 
                  Wide-Awake was going straight to lay out all his money for Lucia, when he encountered, on the steps, Captain Schminky's shop-boy, who, with a haughty expression, looked about for some one-whose name was written on a card he held. 
                  Wide-Awake read the name over his shoulder, and snatching from his hands the bundle, carried it straight to Lucia-the shop-boy retreating immediately before the dreadful Wide-Awake, who even dared to defy his master. 
                  It was the gift of the lady; and Wide-Awake was more enthusiastic in his expressions of regard and admiration for her, than even the child. 
                  He prepared Lucia's supper from the abundant supply of edibles: fixed everything with a wistful, smiling, submissive air; and then, holding out his hand, said almost timidly, 
                  "Good-bye, Lucia-may I come again to-morrow." 
                  "Oh, Sam! how can you ask!" 
                   
                  "Do you like me any-do you think, Lucia?" said Wide-Awake, bashfully. 
                  "You are my kind, good friend," said Lucia, sweetly, giving him her thin hand, "indeed, I like you, very much, Sam." 
                  That was enough-Wide-Awake wished to hear no more-he made his exit, with a single leap; and nearly knocking down the astounded clerk of Captain Schminky, disappeared in the gathering darkness. 
                  Lucia sat for a moment, looking from the door to the present sent her by the lady; and then coloring, said, with tears in her eyes: 
                  "I am very grateful-and God is good to me-but, oh, I am not happy!" 
                  And again her head sank-her dark hair veiled her thin cheeks, and sad eyes-and sitting thus silent, she seemed to be thinking. In a moment her head rose, her face assumed its habitual sad smile, and she murmured something which was not audible. 
                  Only the whistling of the wind was heard, careering around and through the old house. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  TREATS OF MR. SANSOUCY AND HIS SENTIMENTS. 
                  TWO or three days after the events, or rather the scenes, just related, any one who had chanced to enter Mr. Sansoucy's office, would have found that gentleman leaning back in his chair, and contemplating with a most rueful and unhappy visage, a diminutive note, the enamelled envelope of which lay by him on his table. 
                  The note which was in the most elegant and delicate handwriting-evidently that of a lady, ran thus: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "Mr. Sansoucy will very much oblige me by releasing me from my promise to accompany him to the opera tonight. I feel as if I should not be able to enjoy it. 
                              
                                 AURELIA."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  This was the missive which had fallen into Mr. Sansoucy's sanctum like a bombshell; and bursting, scattered in every direction the entire materials of his morning's editorial. 
                  The idea of writing anything after receiving this note, did not even so much as occur to Mr. Sansoucy. He seized a journal-eliminated a foreign letter-and informing the patrons of the Weekly Mammoth, that the letter in question was from Vienna, which was certainly apparent already, recommended them to read it, and reflect profoundly upon it. Having thus fulfilled his obligation as a journalist, he handed the package to the printer's boy in waiting-advised him to take extreme care not to lose it-and again applied himself to the consideration of Miss Aurelia's note. 
                  "The fact is," said Mr. Sansoucy-he always commenced his soliloquies in this determined and resolute form, "the fact is, I am beginning to think that there is going to be some trouble between myself and Aurelia. Affairs have come to this point now, that I shake all over when I hear the sound of the door bell rung by my own cowardly hand; and when she smiles in her fascinating way, I experience a wish to slay some dragon or chimera dire, in her defence. I am accustomed to analyze sensations, to test emotions; and I have come to the conclusion that I am in, perhaps, the most dangerous state of mind possible for a bachelor. 
                  "If I was not," continued Mr. Sansoucy, smiling faintly, after a moment's silence, "I don't think I would attach so much importance to this note. The opera to-night is Norma, and I certainly had promised myself no inconsiderable pleasure in exchanging ideas with my Aurelia on the subject-and here I am disappointed. She will be greatly obliged, if I will relieve her from her promise-will she? Is it possible that Heartsease is going to see her, and she knows it? Heartsease! a perfect fop! really one of the most shallow men I have ever seen!" said Mr. Sansoucy, indignantly. "I liked Heartsease once, but it is of course impossible to respect a man who-well, who makes love to a man's sweetheart!" 
                  And having thus detected the real reason for his sudden depreciation of Mr. Heartsease, Sansoucy burst out laughing. The incident caused him to reflect deeply upon the point which he had reached, and these reflections were expressed, ere long, in words. 
                  "Aurelia is changed," he said, with a sigh; "very much changed. Indeed, there seems to have taken place in her own character, exactly that modification-I may say, that depreciation-which has taken place in mine. When we parted-" 
                  Mr. Sansoucy sighed again, and forgetting that it was in the adjoining room, looked above the mantel-piece for his picture. 
                  "When we parted," he continued, "Aurelia and myself were as ingenuous and simple as ever were two frank country children. Since that time I have travelled, studied, read, and 'acquired new ideas'-that is to say, I have forgotten that beautiful country simplicity, and made myself a careless, laughing, Epicurean philosopher. I enjoy everything-laugh at everything-believe in very little, and am slowly becoming a pure dilletant, a mere creature of the sunshine, with not one particle of seriousness. Everything is a jest-every word is an epigram, or tries to be; what a miserable deterioration!" 
                  And quite sincere in his self-criticism, Mr. Sansoucy's brow clouded for a moment, and he sighed. 
                  "Well, well," he said, "at least I have some one to keep me in countenance! The other actor in those simple country scenes of that beautiful and honest country youth, has grown quite as careless and worldly as myself I fear. What a pity!-what a very great pity!" Ah, if I could have found in Aurelia something of her former self-if I could have found the former tenderness, the old time simplicity! How perfect a corrective all this would have been to my own unfortunate tendency! But she has nothing of it-she is as light as thistle down. Puff! I blow her away. Pity, pity!" 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy sighed from the bottom of his heart. 
                  "The ridiculous thing about all this is," he murmured, "that I quarrel with Heartsease, and think it very strange that Aurelia does not look upon him in his proper light- as a man who believes in nothing, cares for nothing, has a smile of careless good humor for everything, and admires, of all the animal kingdom, the yellow butterfly of spring. Why should she regard me, and frown on poor Heartsease? It's nothing but jealousy-miserable jealousy-which makes me quarrel with her. She has a taste for the Heartseases-they amuse her-their society suits her own changed self-and I believe she is very much amused with even my conversation for that very reason. Oh, if she would only say to me, with her old voice and her old looks, 'Ernest, you have sadly changed-I retain my freshness of heart and simplicity-you are a man of society, and worse from the change.' If she would only say that, I would go and offer her my heart, and love her devotedly, like an honest gentleman, and dedicate my life to her. What feeling towards her have I, in place of that deep devotion-that tenderness, perfect and all-embracing, which forms the earthly heaven, called true love? Why, I have a sort of vague and undefined liking-a mere preference for her society, because her jests amuse me, and her beauty pleases me;-I go and pass the evening, and allow her to flirt with me, and come home and light my cigar, and shrug my shoulders, and say, 'Yes, yes! a delightful girl-very amusing-I must take care, or she'll catch me.' Catch me! a miserable phrase; and it shows too correctly how I regard Aurelia. Aurelia to catch Ernest-her old loving playmate! Oh, world of vanity, and hollowness, and folly!" 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy leaned back and sighed. He remained for half an hour motionless and silent. Then he went into his chamber, took down the picture in its antique frame, and gazed at it long and in silence. 
                  Never had the soft eyes beamed with more tender light; never had the childish curls, rippling along the brow, seemed to him to envelope a countenance more pure and lovely. Another sigh, from the very bottom of his heart, showed the depth of his feeling. 
                  "Oh! she was frank and simple then-tender and ingenuous," he said, in a low voice; "my very being was her own, inasmuch as my whole heart was. Let me replace my treasure, and go and try to think she has not changed entirely:-but I fear for my success. No, no! I fear that Aurelia never will be the woman to make me happy. She will wed some man of wealth and fashion-smile kindly when we meet-and so it will be all arranged in a way which the world will consider eminently proper:-and I-but that is nothing. She cares as little for me as I do for her-we have a little shallow good, humor remaining, and I suppose it will be understood that we are to keep on this mask, hiding our uncongeniality-rather our utter and identical change. Well, I'll play the play-and be "undone," maybe-and go away smiling with the arrow in my heart. I'll even go to-night, and laugh and tell her how much I regret her change of intention in relation to the opera-and then, as I tell her so plainly, with a careless laugh she'll think I don't care-and so it will go on. Well, let it!" 
                  With which vigorous permission to the ambiguous affair to take its own course, Mr. Sansoucy put on his hat, and wrapping his overcoat about him, went out. 
                   
                  Perhaps no man ever more completely misunderstood his own feelings. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  HOW HEARTSEASE COMPARES MISS AURELIA TO A PARROT. 
                  WHEN Mr. Sansoucy entered Mr. Ashton's parlor that evening, the first person whom he saw was Mr. Heartsease talking confidentially with Aurelia. 
                  If there had been any doubt upon the subject of his feelings for Aurelia before, the sensation experienced upon seeing Mr. Heartsease might have enlightened him fully in the matter. 
                  He stood for a moment completely silent, with a face filled with profoundest mortification; then greeting Aurelia with much more courtesy and softness than usual, took his seat, returning sadly the friendly words of Mr. and Mrs. Ashton. 
                  As for Heartsease, he held out his hand with that languid grace which characterized him; and then gently arranging one of his cravat bows, which had become rumpled, and did not reach entirely to his shoulder, continued his conversation with Miss Aurelia. 
                  For a moment, it is true, Mr. Sansoucy had lost his presence of mind, and had scarcely been able to suppress the exhibition of his pain and displeasure on perceiving the nature of the obstacle preventing Aurelia's visit to the opera. But he had too often observed how much awkward ward feeling and real unhappiness a man may crowd into a single evening, by giving way to ill-humor: and so in a few minutes, its customary expression of good-humored carelessness had returned to his face; and with his back turned to Miss Aurelia, he saluted smiling Misses Bel and Lizzie, and began to converse pleasantly with the elderly and cheerful Mrs. Ashton. 
                  There are times when even the most good humored young ladies are observed to pout-when they show plainly that their stoutest armor is pierced-and when they find it impossible to control the expression of their feelings. 
                  Aurelia thought the look of surprise and mortification upon the countenance of Mr. Sansoucy, very uncalled for, and unjust, for she understood it perfectly:-and when he turned away without taking any further notice of her, determined to conceive for him the most ardent dislike. It did not occur to her, for a single moment, that it would be proper, under the circumstances, to enter into an immediate flirtation with Mr. Heartsease, for the benefit of Mr. Sansoucy-Aurelia had not lived sufficiently long in the accomplished atmosphere of "society," to be able to enact, at a moment's warning, this harmless, and frequently, very useful little dramatic part: all that she did, was to color slightly, suppress two tears of mortification and feeling which rose to her eyes, and say to herself that it was very unjust and cruel in Ernest to meet her so. Now, as injustice and cruelty were legitimate reasons for dislike, Aurelia determined to dislike Mr. Sansoucy, immediately. 
                   
                  The execution of her project was prevented for the moment, however, by the conversation of Mr. Heartsease, who was in unusual spirits, and made himself generally fascinating. 
                  As we have said, upon a former occasion, no words can describe the serene effulgence of the Heartsease appearance, when in full feather, and high spirits. There was reason for Heartsease's spirits that evening, for just before coming to see his friend, Miss Ashton, he had secured a box of kid gloves, from Paris, of a tint long desired, and looked for unsuccessfully-and had found them fit his hand marvellously-not even so many as six in a dozen being defective. This triumph had raised Heartsease's spirits greatly, and at times his conversation became almost lively. 
                  The afflatus had, however, somewhat subsided, when Mr. Sansoucy entered, and the elegant Heartsease was as languid and smiling as ever. 
                  When he asked Miss Ashton to favor him with a song, it really did seem as if he should have associated with him some more athletic gentleman to turn over the leaves of the lady's music. 
                  Aurelia, still pouting and absent, said that she really could not sing. 
                  "Not a simple aria, my dear Miss Ashton," said Heartsease, smoothing the fringed edge of his cravat, and adjusting his collar with a gentle hand, "not some simple morceau!" 
                  "Indeed, Mr. Heartsease," was Aurelia's reply, "I do not think I could execute anything to please such a connoisesur as yourself." 
                  "Connoisseur, Miss Ashton? No, no," said Heartsease, with a languid and agreeable smile, "I am only a poor amateur. If you could only try my favorite Casta Diva che inargenti-from Norma, you know-I should really be exceedingly obliged. Going to the opera, you know, and cramping one's self in those terrible stalls, is really trying-it's a decided bore. And then the singers open their mouths so abominably! I really feel sometimes as if I were going to faint-I feel overcome-it puts me in mind, my dear Miss Ashton, of those terrible legends of my youth, in which the hero is swallowed by cows, or dragons, or such monsters-and I fear for my safety-I do, indeed." 
                  Aurelia smiles, with a bad grace, at Mr. Heartsease's complaint, and says: 
                  "But, indeed, sir, Casta Diva is so difficult." 
                  "Then, something else." 
                  "I am afraid-" 
                  "Some simple aria, my dear Miss Ashton, from the 'Bohemian girl,' the 'Fille du Regiment,' or 'Favorita'-really I have set my heart upon hearing you. You haven't the music? What a pity, and I suppose I am doomed to disappointment." 
                  And Mr. Heartsease turns over some music, with a languid grace. 
                  "Ah," he says, stopping at a piece, "here is the duette-arranged for one voice. My old friend, 'Mira O Norma a'tuoi ginocchi.' But for the manifest impropriety priety of the request, Miss Ashton, I would fain ask for that most delicious air." 
                  Aurelia, whose patience is worn out by the smiling persistence of the amiable Heartsease, and who really does feel as if music would dissipate the unpleasant feeling in her bosom, rises to comply with his request: and taking her seat at the piano, commences the air from Norma.
                   
                  It was then that the grace of Heartsease-his serene amiability and elegant devotion-shone in all their native and acquired splendor. Standing by the lady in a position of profound attention-with his extended hand ready to turn over the leaves-Heartsease seemed to yield himself up a captive to the flood of harmony. His head inclined gently upon his right shoulder-his enraptured eyes sought the ceiling-and with languid-smiling lips he kept time to the music, and appeared to soar away from earth, and visit the land of magical kid gloves, and unimagined "ties." 
                  His feelings rose and fell, so to speak, with the music. When Norma was obdurate to her friends' prayer to take again to her bosom her kneeling children, Heartsease assumed an expression of affecting grief, but not as one who expected nothing better coming. He seemed to comfort himself, even in the depths of his affliction, with the thought that things would not continue so bad between the parties. Then, as the song proceeded, and Norma gradually relented, an expression of triumph diffused itself over the countenance of Heartsease, and his enraptured chin kept time to the music more and more enthusiastically. But when the final burst came, and the friends declared their intention of living always together, and only dying clasped in each other's embrace-then it was that Heartsease was overwhelmed with the dulcet harmony, carried away by the magical strain. His head went from side to side, rapturously-his closed eyes seemed to behold Normas and Adelgisas of surpassing beauty-his whole being appeared to thrill, from the topmost lock upon his head to the bottom of his shining boots, with delicious, entrancing pleasure. With the final crash he seemed carried away; he could not repress his feelings:-beat, gently, the forefinger of his left kid with the forefinger of his right, and murmured in an ecstacy, "Bravo! charming! exquisite! divine!" 
                  "I am glad it pleases you, sir," said Aurelia, rising with a vague impression that she had done wrong in singing a song from Norma, under the peculiar circumstances. "I find my voice too weak to sing any more," she added, as Mr. Heartsease extended another piece of music toward her, with a languidly-graceful air; "you really must excuse me, Mr. Heartsease." 
                  And Aurelia turned round, and played with her sash, and glanced furtively at Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  If that gentleman had been annoyed by her singing, he did not show his annoyance. His countenance was full of its habitual frank good humor; and he was replying to a remark made by little Miss Bel, who shone on that evening in a magnificent head-dress, consisting of a bow of red ribbon fixed to the extremity of her not lengthy locks behind. Bel's face was as rosy as a ripe peach, and she seemed to have found in Mr. Sansoucy a companion perfectly to her taste. 
                  As Aurelia's eyes returned from the survey, they meet those of Mr. Heartsease fixed upon her with languid admiration. 
                  "What a divine language the Italian is," said Heartsease, gently passing his hand through his hair. 
                  "Do you like it?" was Aurelia's absent reply. 
                  "Oh, I adore it-our own is a perfect bore after it. It's so liquid, my dear Miss Ashton, and seems to be made for the language of lovers." 
                  "Oh, indeed!" 
                  "Yes: and I think when I contemplate matrimony, I will apply myself to the task of acquiring it-to pay my addresses in." 
                  "Then you must find an Italian lady." 
                  "Or one who knows Italian." 
                  "Yes, that will do." 
                  "And as many ladies," continued Heartsease, with a look of admiration: "sing it very sweetly, I do not despair of finding one who will speak it as pleasingly." 
                  Heartsease was evidently going to flirt, but Aurelia, with a mischievous little toss of the head, said: 
                  "I don't believe young ladies, generally, know a bit about Italian-they sing what is written upon their music, and that's all. I can say for myself, at least, Mr. Heartsease, that I am perfectly innocent of any knowledge of the language, and am a mere parrot-I repeat it." 
                  "The country of such parrots is yet undiscovered," 
                      
                        MR. HEARTSEASE FLIES AWAY ON THE WINGS OF NORMA. 
                     
                     
                      said the gallant Heartsease: "or I would take up my abode there." 
                  "Would you?" 
                  "I would, upon my soul." 
                  And Heartsease ogled Miss Aurelia. 
                  "I would dedicate my life to the pursuit of one of them-I would catch the beautiful bird-and I know very well what it would resemble." 
                  "Indeed-what?" said Aurelia, smiling at the languid admiration of Mr. Heartsease; "one with a plumage of green, and yellow and gold, and with violet eyes?" 
                  "Oh, no," sighed Heartsease: "one with pink plumage, and deep azure eyes, and far lovelier than the rest!" 
                  And Mr. Heartsease cast an accidental glance at Miss Ashton's pink dress, and then plunged his soft sweet eyes into the blue depths of the lady's. 
                  "Really, Mr. Heartsease!" said Aurelia, laughing with her frank mirth, "I do not know how to reply to your views upon animated nature! How could I? I am only a country girl, you know, and have studied nothing more uncommon than hens and chickens. How could we have glided thus from Norma to the barn-yard?" 
                  And enjoying Mr. Heartsease's discomfiture, Aurelia played again with her sash. 
                  But Heartsease was an accomplished fencer, and replied with his best and most graceful smile, that the hens and chickens had arisen originally from the discussion of the question whether the Italian was not the language of love and music. 
                   
                  "And as such it suits the divine invention of the opera," he said, smiling. 
                  "Does it?" 
                  "Oh, yes, Miss Ashton." 
                  "I am afraid it does not for me. I would much rather have English words to the airs." 
                  And as she uttered these words, Aurelia moved toward her former seat. 
                  Bel had heard them; and now said, with a merry laugh: 
                  "Oh, cousin! why don't you ask Mr. Sansoucy to write you some words?" 
                  "Ask me?" said Mr. Sansoucy, smiling. 
                  "Yes, sir," said Bel. 
                  "I am afraid I should fail-especially in anything connected with the opera of Norma," said Mr. Sansoucy, with an air of good humored reproach. 
                  And gliding into the seat formerly occupied by Heartsease, who was again about to resume it, Sansoucy bestowed upon Miss Aurelia one of his most friendly smiles. 
                  Heartsease stood for a moment, almost stunned by his defeat-then he heaved a deep sigh, and smoothed his waistcoat. Thereafter, during the rest of the evening, he wandered about the room with a melancholy air, turning over volumes of engravings, levelling his eye-glass at the pictures on the wall, and exchanging sad remarks with Mr. or Mrs. Ashton. To see a star of fashion, like Heartsease, thus beneath an obscuring cloud, was a spectacle piteous in the extreme, and full of warning to the rest of the world. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  AURELIA EXPLAINS. 
                  SANSOUCY, as we have said, glided into the seat occupied by Mr. Heartsease before the commencement of the song; and without a trace of that mortification or ill humor, which for a moment had brought an expression of gloom and pain to his features, applied himself to the task of entertaining Miss Aurelia with the most friendly and good humored air imaginable. 
                  For an instant a slight color came into Aurelia's fresh cheek, and she hesitated. 
                  Some young ladies-perhaps the great majority-would have replied in the same tone of nonchalance, and left matters in the misty atmosphere they had assumed-content to show their power, and impress upon the enemy the idea of their perfect freedom and irresponsibility to any masculine tribunal whatever. To Aurelia, however, after one instant's reflection, this proceeding did not commend itself. With her habitual frankness and sincerity, she determined to lead the conversation to the real point at issue between herself and Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  That gentleman had informed Miss Bel that he really would be unable to write any words for airs from the opera of Norma; and he now added: 
                  "I couldn't write words for any opera airs, my dearest little Miss Bel. I am not a universal genius-not quite-and I think the May-day song exhausted me." 
                  "Oh, it's so nice!" said little Bel. "How in the world, Mr. Sansoucy, do you know anything about muslin dresses hanging out in the sun?" added the young lady, quoting admiringly from the song. 
                  "I imagined their existence in that connection," said Sansoucy, smiling. 
                  "'And all the girls are binding up their hair!'" continued Miss Bel, laughing; "why, it's just what they do!" 
                  And the diminutive hand of the young lady was raised to her own short locks, which no process of "binding up" yet discovered, could possibly have coaxed into a twist behind her head. 
                  The observation occasioned a great deal of merriment; and discovering where the joke lay, Miss Bel's rosy lips assumed an undeniable pout: after which they parted to permit a burst of laughter to issue forth. 
                  "My dear child," said Sansoucy, smiling, "an old adage says, or ought to say, that to poets all things are possible. In the present instance, I think my success in writing you a song true to nature is demonstrated by your favorable criticism and general approval." 
                  And pretendiug not to observe that Aurelia had tried twice to address him, Mr. Sansoucy smoothed Miss Bel's hair gently with his hand, after which he caused her lips to present a most extraordinary spectacle, by pressing his fingers upon the child's cheeks. 
                  "I understand all those fine words very well," was the child's answer, "and I do so like your song, Mr. Sansoucy. You'll write me another, won't you?" 
                  "Oh, Bel, don't tease Mr. Sansoucy, "said Aurelia, despairing of being able to attract his attention. 
                   
                  "Tease? I am not teased," said the poet. 
                  "Oh, I knew you were not!" 
                  "No, Indeed." 
                  "Then you'll write some more for me and Lizzie?" 
                  "Hum!" 
                  "Now, say you will, Mr. Sansoucy, that will be enough." 
                  "See, how these young ladies twist me like a ribband around their fingers, Mrs. Ashton," said Sansoucy, "how can I refuse them? I always have been the victim of my good humor." 
                  "Then you'll do it!" cried Bel. 
                  "Yes, said Mr. Sansoucy, with an odd smile, "something very funny and satirical-" 
                  "But, cousin Aurelia will have to teach us, and that will not please her." 
                  "Are you sure?" 
                  This was the whole of Mr. Sansoucy's terrible revenge. 
                  "Well," he added, "I promise to make some verses for both you and Lizzie: and then you will take my part if I am ever abused in your presence. Have I not secured two young friends at a very slight outlay, Miss Aurelia?" said Sansoucy turning to the young lady who could not restrain a slight color in her delicate cheeks, at her repeated failure to arrest the speaker's attention; "I make it a point never to offend a woman-I beg pardon, a lady-and the more friends I make among them the better." 
                  Aurelia was silent for an instant, struggling with the temptation to reply in the same tone of easy carelessness. But she overcame it: Mr. Heartsease certainly would have been repaid in his own coin upon a similar occurrence-but with the friend of her childhood, it was different. 
                  She now said, as the rest went on conversing: 
                  "I am afraid, Mr. Sansoucy, you have applied your rule of action-not to offend ladies-to my case. Why did you look so much pained and displeased when you came in?" 
                  Sansoucy was not prepared for such a direct attack, and a sudden light in his eyes showed that he was taken unawares. 
                  "Displeased!" he said. 
                  "Yes," said Aurelia, in a frank kind voice, "you were, however, even more pained, I thought." 
                  "Possible?" 
                  "Yes: for goodness sake, don't treat me as if I were a child, or a stranger, or an acquaintance of yesterday! Cannot we speak frankly, sir, as old friends should?" 
                  Sansoucy shook his head and sighed. These words had at once dissipated all his affected carelessness, and only the mortification remained. 
                  "We were in a condition to speak in that way once," he said, "and even the other day, we might have done so: but-" 
                  Sansoucy again shook his head. 
                  "You are very unjust and unreasonable!" said Aurelia, looking at him with an expression of kindness and resolute good feeling, which was not without a strong effect upon him; "I really cannot understand how you have so completely changed." 
                   
                  "We have both changed," said Mr. Sansoucy, sadly; the conversation of the rest of the company rendering his voice inaudible, except to Aurelia; "we have both undergone a very great change. I will not make any reproaches-and you should not reproach me." 
                  Sansoucy sighed as he spoke, like the most unhappy of lovers: and, indeed, spite of his soliloquy, this was nearly the character he sustained. 
                  "Reproach me!" she said. 
                  "Yes." 
                  "How could you?" 
                  "It might not seem just to you-it might seem even very silly. 
                  "It will not" said Aurelia, simply. 
                  "Well, let me be frank then, and say that I had expected much pleasure from our visit to-night-" 
                  "To the opera!" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "And because-" 
                  "Yes," he said, sadly. 
                  "Because you came in and found Mr. Heartsease-you thought I expected his visit, and did not go? You thought I concealed all this under my note of general excuses? Oh! how much I must have fallen in your estimation!-how unfortunate it is that you should think me capable of such deception!" 
                  And Aurelia, losing sight of any displeasure she had felt at finding Mr. Sansoucy unable to deny the motives imputed to him, yielded completely to the deep regret she felt, and turned away her eyes which swam in moisture. 
                   
                  "How could you!" she murmured, "I thought our old friendship entitled me to a little charity on such an occasion! How could you think that I had so completely forgotten my old frankness and sincerity-that I could play thus with you to deceive you-that I am capable of acting a part of so much insincerity and duplicity-with you!" 
                  And Aurelia restrained with difficulty the tears which her impulsive feelings brought to her beautiful eyes-with great difficulty. She looked lovelier than he had ever seen her before-her delicate cheek reddened with blushes; and a slight tremor of the lips showed how deep her feeling was. There was something so kind and sincere, so true and maidenly in her appearance, her look, her very unconscious attitude, full of simplicity and modesty, that Mr. Sansoucy found his own face glow with feeling, and his heart throb. 
                  "Pardon me," he said, in a low voice, full of a tenderness which he could not conceal, "I was weak and foolish-no! I do not want any explanations or anything-nothing could have made me act so unjustly, but the depth and tenderness with which I-" 
                  It is impossible to say how very plainly Mr. Sansoucy would have spoken had not a pause in the conversation, produced a silence, before which his words fainted-fearful and cowardly. 
                  He was silent, but he had uttered quite enough. Simple as the words were, the tone of the speaker was so full of love and tenderness, that Aurelia's cheek became crimson, and she felt as if a thousand "little darts of flame" were shot into her temples. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy, with the presence of mind of a great general, immediately called the public attention to a picture over the fire-place, and asked Mr. Ashton the name of the artist. 
                  The information was promptly afforded Mr. Sansoucy, by the old gentleman; and when the delighted recipient had admired the painting again, he returned to Aurelia. She had recovered her self-possession and smiled, when his eyes met her own-a slight blush only accompanying the timid smile and added to the delicate beauty of the tender face. 
                  "I am determined to explain everything," she said, as the rest of the company went on conversing; "my objection to going to the opera to-night was based upon a resolution I have made, not to 'dissipate' so much. You know we country girls," she said, smiling, "are too apt to be led away by the novelty of all this-especially the opera, and become unreasonable." 
                  "The novelty is as much to the amiable town dames as yourself," he said, smiling softly, as he gazed at the lovely face, "it is a new invention in Virginia." 
                  "Yes-but I am not going to so many balls either-" 
                  "Oh, that-" 
                  "Is an old invention: yes." 
                  "You are going to proscribe balls?" said Sansoucy, in surprise. 
                  "Oh, no: I am not going to take any stand against them. I would make a very poor Joan of Arc-a very weak leader-at the north I am afraid the strong-minded women would not even let me be a little drummer girl in the great army contending for Woman's Rights." 
                  Aurelia had resumed her delightful tone of delicate mirth; and Mr. Sansoucy found himself deeply repenting of the charges he had made against this trait, in his famous soliloquy. 
                  "I trust you will not enter the army at all," he said, looking with admiration at the frank and lovely face which was illumined by the freshest and most joyous smile, "I know one of the enemy who would lay down his arms!" 
                  "Now you are flattering me!" 
                  "No, indeed." 
                  "You shall not be called upon to do anything of the sort then: I shall not make my appearance-and I am not going even to attack the balls. I intend only to spend less of my visits in amusements. I do not enjoy them as much as a quiet evening with pleasant companions-and those I always have." 
                  Sansoucy smiled, and nodded toward Heartsease. 
                  "He is very entertaining," said Aurelia, returning the smile; "though I certainly had no right to expect him this evening, as he visited me last night." 
                  This was a correct explanation of Miss Aurelia's, and Mr. Sansoucy understood it perfectly. 
                  "Oh that was unnecessary," he said. 
                  "What?" 
                  "You have tell-tale eyes," he replied, looking into her face; "you betray yourself! Do not return to that subject. It brought the color to your face-your old, old habit!-and I felt the greatest remorse, that I had caused it." 
                  "It was nothing," said Aurelia, smiling, and threatening to color again; "besides, you extricated me very adroitly. That is a sweet painting. 
                  And she pointed to the picture over the fire-place. 
                  "Yes," said Mr. Sansoucy; "will you go with me to-morrow, and see the new gallery, just opened?" 
                  "I would, willingly-but-I have some engagements:-engagements that I'm sure you would think sufficiently important not to be neglected," she added, with a smile. 
                  "Morning calls?" 
                  "Oh, no-at least not such as you think-but that is my secret!" 
                  Sansoucy sighed, and looking with admiration at the lovely face, said: 
                  "Well, I must have the pleasure of seeing the paintings with you. The day after to-morrow?" 
                  "Oh, willingly." 
                  "And the Fair to-morrow evening." 
                  "Willingly!" repeated Aurelia; and soon they had made all the arrangements. 
                  Half an hour afterwards, both gentlemen rose and took their leave together-Heartsease having completely regained his good humor; and Sansoucy, as we need scarcely say, having lost as completely his ill humor. 
                  He was induing himself in his wrappings, which the cold wind rendered exceedingly comfortable, when he heard the merry voice of little Miss Bel, cry: 
                   
                  "Be sure, now, to bring our songs to-morrow, or next day, if you come, Mr. Sansoucy; will you!" 
                  Mr. Sansoucy considered it unnecessary to say that he certainly was coming to-morrow, or the next day; but he very readily promised to comply with the request. 
                  "I think you are very good!" said Bel, as a parting compliment, from the threshold. 
                  "I am rejoiced to have conciliated your good opinion, madam," was Mr. Sansoucy's polite reply. 
                  And he went away with Heartsease, whom he now regarded as a most agreeable and gentlemanly fellow, and one whom he had basely slandered. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  HEARTSEASE IS OVERHEARD. 
                  THE night was exceedingly cold, and by the time the two pedestrians reached the neighbourhood of Mr. Sansoucy's lodgings, they were thoroughly chilled. 
                  A proposition was therefore made, and adopted unanimously, that they should proceed still further down the street, and procure a supper, of that hot description which restaurants serve up for the chilled palates of late visitors. There are things which possess in themselves an innate and peculiar attraction, not easily explained, but none the less unmistakeable on that account-and among these may be classed late suppers. The propensity to partake of tempting condiments at late hours of the night, is not peculiar only to actors, other professional public characters, and editors-it is shared by all alike; and the smoking banquet set before the two gentlemen was as much to the taste of Heartsease, the man of fashion, as Sansoucy, the journalist. 
                  They sat in one of those little alcoves which, for some reason, the architects of such houses seem to consider necessary for visitors, on each side of the narrow table, ornamented with castors which never had any mustard, and whose pepper-cruet obdurately refused to furnish its portion of the repast-and sitting thus, applied themselves to the supper, and then to the hot fluids which the cold night induced them to demand. 
                  "What a fine girl she is," said Heartsease, investigating his punch with a languid smile. "Miss Ashton!" 
                  "Indeed, she is," replied Sansoucy. 
                  "Beautiful, too." 
                  "Yes." 
                  "And as gay as a lark. 
                  "When she chooses, she is a perfect sunbeam." 
                  "I say, my dear Sansoucy," said Heartsease: "do you know I think of marrying?" 
                  "Do you?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Well, it's an admirable resolution." 
                  "Is it, really?" 
                  "Certainly." 
                  "Well, I think so, too. The fact is, a man gets tired of bachelor life after a-while." 
                  "Nothing truer." 
                   
                  "And longs to be married." 
                  "Why, Heartsease, you are growing domestic." 
                  "I believe I am," sighed Heartsease, with a modest air. "I have the most terrible washerwoman." 
                  "Washerwoman!" 
                  "She exterminates my buttons in a way that is absolutely frightful." 
                  "Oh, she does-eh?" 
                  And Sansoucy contemplated the chagrin in Heartsease's face with cruel mirth. 
                  "Besides, I never can get even a decent collar," continued that gentleman, raising his hand to the article in question." 
                  "Why not?" 
                  "Not enough of starch." 
                  And Heartsease sighed. 
                  "You afflict me, my dear friend," said Sansoucy, "but how will marriage prevent this?" 
                  "How?" 
                  "Precisely." 
                  "Why, madam will take care of all that." 
                  "And you marry-!" 
                  "For this? why, certainly. This, and having a wife," was Heartsease's languid reply. 
                  "I really didn't think of this last reason," said Sansoucy; "there really is something in that." 
                  "I think so:-and the nicer your wife is, the better." 
                  "Assuredly." 
                  "I think Miss Ashton would suit me exactly." 
                  "Do you?" 
                   
                  "She is charming." 
                  "So she is-but the buttons?" 
                  "Eh?" 
                  "And the collars?" 
                  "Oh, yes." 
                  "I doubt whether she would see to the starch." 
                  Heartsease looked melancholy. 
                  "Don't you think she would?" he said. "Come, advise me." 
                  "I advise you?" 
                  "Why, certainly," 
                  "Why, I'm your rival!" 
                  "You, Sansoucy!" 
                  "I, my dear Heartsease, and I am going to defeat you." 
                  "You don't mean to say-" 
                  "That I'm in love with Miss Aurelia? Yes I do-and I warn you to play your part well." 
                  "Hum!" said Heartsease, languidly. 
                  "I shall press the siege." 
                  "Really, now?" 
                  "Absolutely." 
                  "Then I withdraw. It's a bore to contest a woman-everything is a bore, for that matter." 
                  "You are unhappy-you are a misanthrope!" 
                  "Well, I am," sighed Heartsease. 
                  "I thought you said, coming down, that the gloves- 
                  "Had put me in good humor?" 
                  "Yes." 
                   
                  "Well, so I did, my dear Sansoucy. But I find this one actually bagging in the thumb." 
                  And Heartsease gazed with an expression of profound despair upon his kid glove. 
                  "Gloves are like women," said Heartsease, philosophically; "They don't answer a man's expectations." 
                  "Cynic." 
                  "Oh, no, I am not." 
                  "You are!" 
                  "I am not, though this misfortune might make me one." 
                  "The gloves?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Poor fellow!" 
                  "You laugh at me, unworthy friend! That's like you. But gloves are like woman, otherwise," continued the philosopher Heartsease, who had been sipping his punch. 
                  "How so?" asked his friend. 
                  "They are either too warm or too cold." 
                  "What a calumny!" 
                  "They either take no notice of your hand, they are so loose, or they squeeze it-" 
                  "Heartsease! Heartsease!" 
                  "There," said Heartsease, "I suppose I have said something wrong. My dear friend, bring me another punch-I am in a melancholy humor." 
                  "You?" said Sansoucy, as the waiter disappeared. 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Well, go and read Tennyson's 'Will Waterproof.'" 
                  "Will Waterproof?" 
                   
                  "Yes-his monologue." 
                  "What is it?" 
                  "It's a number of reflections on human life, made by Waterproof while he waits for a pint of port in a house like this. He drums upon the table, reflects, and moralizes in verse." 
                  "Good, but I won't, my dear Sansoucy-what a terrible clatter there is in the next box, just that drumming you mention." 
                  "Your nerves are weak." 
                  "So they are; I had some Cologne on my handkerchief to-night that nearly knocked me down." 
                  "So strong?" 
                  "Yes, terrible. I have sent a reproachful note to the vendor, bidding him farewell forever." 
                  "What a pity." 
                  "A great pity," said Heartsease, who had received his second punch by this time, and was sipping it; but the world's a pitiful place." 
                  "Fie! you are a philosopher, Heartsease." 
                  "I am a wretch," said Heartsease. 
                  "No, no!" 
                  "You are a wretch, too, my dear Sansoucy," said Heartsease, with an amiable look; "all the world are wretches." 
                  "Untrue." 
                  "It's true." 
                  "How?" 
                  "Look around you, at the professions." 
                  "Well." 
                   
                  "The lawyers." 
                  "Very good." 
                  "Do you know an honest man among them?" 
                  "Several." 
                  "You're a lucky fellow. I don't. But look at the doctors." 
                  "What of them?" 
                  "They are rascals!" 
                  "Oh, Heartsease!" 
                  "They are, my dear friend-and observe that it is only when I drink punch that I gain energy enough to take the trouble to express these views." 
                  "Take care of the quantity." 
                  "Oh!" 
                  "You are offended now at my advice." 
                  "Not at all; but have you ever seen me intoxicated?" 
                  "No." 
                  "I think not." 
                  And Heartsease certainly was not, in the least: the only effect produced upon him by the punch being an expanded and philosophic humor. 
                  "The world itself is intoxicating enough-that is enough of a bore," he added. "As to life, and all that, my dear Sansoucy, what is it good for?" 
                  "For various things." 
                  "I don't think so." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "Because everything in it is laughable." 
                  "And nothing real?" 
                  "Absolutely nothing." 
                   
                  "Just now you said men were wretches. They are real!" 
                  "Yes-they are exceptions." 
                  "And all are wretches." 
                  "Precisely; especially the doctors. There is that old fellow Fossyl-you know him?" 
                  "Perfectly." 
                  "I was sick the other day." 
                  "You!" 
                  "That is, I had a pain in the joint of my little finger." 
                  "Oh!" 
                  "And I called him in." 
                  "Really!" 
                  "Yes, why are you surprised?" 
                  "I am not; I was listening to that growling in the next box." 
                  "Really revolting;-shall I call the waiter and request-" 
                  "Oh, no-it's nothing." 
                  "Well, I was saying-" 
                  "About Doctor Fossyl-" 
                  "Yes. Well, he came, and examined my finger-and what do you think he said?" 
                  "I can't think." 
                  "He told me to apply a rose-leaf-" 
                  "No!" 
                  "Yes, a rose-leaf steeped in dew-" 
                  "Heartsease!" 
                  "And to tie it with the ribband from the neck of a bottle of Cologne-no other would do." 
                   
                  "You are joking!" said Sansoucy. 
                  "I'm in dead earnest." 
                  "And did it cure it?" 
                  "No! it turned out he was laughing at me." 
                  "Was he?" 
                  "Yes-and it was only after thinking where I should find a rose leaf at this season, that I began to scent the joke." 
                  "A terrible thing is the doctor." 
                  "Was'nt it awful!" 
                  "Shocking!" 
                  "It implied, you know, my dear Sansoucy, that I had nothing the matter with me." 
                  "Certainly did." 
                  "Whereas I had." 
                  "Yes." 
                  "That, therefore, my dear friend," said Heartsease, smiling, "is my ground for considering Doctor Fossyl a wretch-life a farce-human nature a blunder, and the universe generally an after piece." 
                  With which words Heartsease was about to apply himself again to his punch, when he suddenly stopped. 
                  Erect before the alcove, plate in hand, and indignant, he saw Doctor Fossyl standing, and gazing at him with terrible eyes. 
                  "Why, is that you, my dear doctor?" said Heartsease, smiling. 
                  "Yes, sir!" cried Doctor Fossyl. 
                  "Come in and take some punch-it's decidedly good." 
                  "No, sir!" 
                   
                  "I want to talk about my finger. The swelling-" 
                  "Is, I hope, increased!" 
                  "Oh! doctor, what an unforgiving man!" 
                  "I play in a farce, sir!" 
                  "So you do." 
                  "Life's not a farce, sir-though farce-actors play in it." 
                  "No!" 
                  "Yes, sir; and you are a very accomplished one!" 
                  "I, my dear doctor!" 
                  "You, sir!" 
                  "Come, now-you can't deny that it is, after all." 
                  "It is a calumny, sir-life is a place for a man to do his duty, to acquit himself of his responsibility-to be a man in, such as God made us to be! Do you hear, sir!" 
                  "I thought you were a sceptic, doctor." 
                  "Don't taunt me, sir, with my mistakes and faults-and above all, sir, don't taunt the profession which you cannot comprehend. No, sir! you are not mistaken in supposing my prescription was a satire! Next time, sir, if you call me away from my patients, I'll prescribe a decoction of butterflies' wings!" 
                  And brandishing his plate as though with the intention of bringing it down, in his wrath, upon Mr. Heartsease's head, Doctor Fossyl disappeared; and in a moment had left the eating-house, into which he had gone to get a mouthful after an entire day without food. 
                  "Queer old coon," said Heartsease. Isn't he?" 
                  "I must say that his words astonish me greatly," muttered Sansoucy. 
                   
                  "Do you think he meant to compare me to a butterfly?" 
                  "How could he?" 
                  "True: how could he? I am the most serious man about town, and dress in the best taste." 
                  "Certainly, Heartsease." 
                  "Extraordinary old fellow." 
                  "Yes, indeed." 
                  "Would look well in a blue waistcoat and fancy tie." 
                  And with this good-humored criticism, Heartsease and Sansoucy rose and returned homeward. 
                  "I say," said Heartsease, as they parted at the corner; "did you ever think what the stars were made for?" 
                  "Well-no." 
                  "I'll tell you, my dear friend." 
                  "Do." 
                  "They were put there-" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "To keep me from stumbling at this dreadful crossing, my dear fellow. Good night; take care of yourself." 
                  And kissing his hand, Heartsease, with his amiable smile, disappeared in the darkness. 
                  "There is only one thing stranger than the existence of such a character as Heartsease," murmured he, as he turned the key in his door; "and that is the extraordinary change in Doctor Fossyl!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  AURELIA'S PRIZE AT THE FAIR. 
                  SANSOUCY was prompt to his engagement on the next evening; and ladies know very well how much such promptitude indicates. 
                  In fact, it had seemed to Mr. Sansoucy, that the figures indicating the hour of eight, on that evening, had been put forward on the face of time by some adverse fate-and that the day would never end, and bring the world round to the expected hour. 
                  Precisely, as the hands of Mr. Ashton's clock pointed to the time, Mr. Sansoucy made his appearance-greeted Mr. and Mrs. Ashton; and saw that Aurelia was quite ready. A malicious critic would have said that she anticipated quite as much pleasure from the visit, as did her admirer-but the gallantry of the present historian will not permit him even so much as to hint such a thing; and he confines himself, therefore, to the simple statement, that Miss Aurelia's appearance indicated that she was not only willing, but ready. 
                  Mr.Sansoucy was doomed, however, to first undergo the importunities of Misses Bel and Liz, for their verses, promised them. To these demands he replied, that the words of their request had been, "if you come to-morrow or the next day"-and inasmuch as the next day had not yet arrived, he was not failing in his promise. 
                  "Well, sir, please bring them to-morrow," said Miss Bel, "I want so much to hear cousin Aurelia set them to music, and sing them." 
                  "Cousin Aurelia?" 
                  "Yes, sir-she has been singing the May verses all the afternoon, and I have learned them so nicely." 
                  For some reason, Miss Aurelia turns away, and says she must go up stairs for something. 
                  "Cousin Aurelia is so good to us," says Lizzie, with an affectionate look. 
                  "Is she?" 
                  "Yes, indeed, I love her dearly." 
                  "And so do I," said Bel, "don't you, Mr. Sansoucy? Of course-I mean-" 
                  And Miss Bel, fearing that she has committed an impropriety, assumes a delightful little air of demure gravity-and thereafter bursts out laughing. 
                  Liz looks surprised and says: 
                  "Why, everybody loves cousin Aurelia-I think she is the sweetest and dearest thing in the world! Indeed, indeed, Mr. Sansoucy, when you know her well, you'll like her as much as we do." 
                  "No doubt of it, my little friend." 
                  "I'm sure you will," says the child, with that manner full of softness and smiles, of purity and goodness, which none but the authoress of one of the most delightful books of any age, the "Wide, Wide World," can adequately reproduce. As for the present historian, he follows that beautiful and pure pen at a respectful distance, and gladly acknowledges the delightful entertainment, as well as the instruction he has derived from those beautiful pictures of goodness and self-sacrifice. But this is quite a digression from the subject of Mr. Sansoucy's visit to the fair; and we are recalled to our duty of chronicler, by the rentrance of Aurelia, who smiles, and signifies that she is ready. 
                  The wind had lulled, and although it was very cold, they had a fine starlight night to guide them. They soon reached the Fair, and entered the buzzing and brilliant throng. 
                  The Fair had been originated by some charitable ladies for the poor; and all classes of the community had been called upon to contribute something to its tables. The call had not been in vain-and Miss Aurelia gazed with the curiosity and interest of a true woman, upon the beautiful things heaped up upon the tables. Her own needle had contributed, in no slight degree, to several of the departments; and she felt a pardonable pride upon finding that these were not excelled in taste or beauty, by anything of the same description which had been offered. 
                  The young lady was early in the evening armed with a huge bouquet, for which Mr. Sansoucy was compelled by his hard little merchant, the vendor, to pay a moderate fortune:-and so they went on through the crowd, smiling and exchanging salutations with a hundred friends. 
                  The apartment blazed with lights, and the fair merchants had prepared their head-dresses, and decorations generally with the evident conviction that they would be subjected to a large amount of comment-and the consequence of this preparation was an array of enemies fatal to all but philosophers; possibly not even without danger to that class. 
                  The immense crowd hummed and buzzed and laughed and undulated to and fro:-and at times this laughter would rise almost to a shout, and the uproar would be stunning. 
                  In their circuit Aurelia saw suddenly opposite to her, Mr. Heartsease-and as this gentleman had been pining for a recognition for some moments, their salutation was simultaneous. 
                  "How divinely you look this evening, my dear Miss Ashton," said the amiable Heartsease, gently passing his hand through his hyacinthine locks; "I thought there was something wanting in the rooms-but since you came, the spectacle is perfect." 
                  And the gallant Heartsease smiled, kissing his hand to a lady friend, who nodded to him as she passed. 
                  "Oh, me! what terrible flattery!" said Aurelia, laughing, "or rather irony-you are too bad, Mr. Heartsease." 
                  "I never, never flatter," sighed Heartsease. 
                  "Then you admire me very much," said Aurelia, logically, and smiling as she spoke, "how pretty the rooms are-the tables." 
                  "I was admiring the animated nature, my dear Miss Ashton." 
                  "Were you?" 
                  "Yes, indeed: I have lost my heart seven distinct times since my entrance. Ah! I am dreadfully susceptible." 
                  "Indeed." 
                   
                  "Too true-and I foresee that I shall lose it for the eighth time in a moment-there, it's gone!" 
                  And Heartsease ogled Miss Aurelia with affecting earnestness. 
                  "Oh, Mr. Heartsease, how you jest!" 
                  "Never." 
                  "You are making fun of a country girl." 
                  "I admire them vastly more than town ladies." 
                  "Where there is so much to attract? I think that you and Mr. Sansoucy laugh at me." 
                  And Aurelia with a delightful affectation of chagrin looked at Sansoucy. 
                  That gentleman's look was quite enough, if Miss Aurelia truly feared such a thing; and she turned away in silence. 
                  "They are about to have a lottery yonder," sighed Heartsease, smiling; "the project was explained to me just now. 
                  "What is it, sir?" 
                  "You buy a ticket, and draw a blank or a prize," replied Heartsease, with the air of a man who utters an intricate and difficult sentence, and fears it will not be understood. 
                  "Ah!" said Aurelia. 
                  "Possible!" said Sansoucy. 
                  "Yes, my dear friend, and I think I'll go take a chance. It has been formerly observed that marriage is a lottery-which prevents me from making the remark again. As I can't try matrimony, I'll try the lottery." 
                  "Why, can't you?" said Sansoucy. 
                  "Impossible, my dear fellow-I have reflected about the starch and buttons, and have determined to endure all." 
                  "Have you?" 
                  "Yes, yes!" 
                  "Well, you are philosophical: who are you smiling at?" 
                  But Heartsease's enraptured eyes were fixed upon the distance. 
                  "Who is it, my dear Heartsease?" 
                  But Heartsease only kissed his hand to the distance. 
                  "Come-I know that is a lady-and for an incorrigible bachelor-" 
                  "Pardon me, my dear friend," said Heartsease, gliding away, "and you, my dear Miss Ashton, I see as a friend I wish to salute-my highly esteemed friend, Miss Gosyp." 
                  And Heartsease disappeared in the crowd, languid and smiling to the last. 
                  "Suppose we follow Mr. Heartsease's advice," said Sansoucy, smiling; "here is the lottery." 
                  Aurelia assented, and Mr. Sansoucy purchasing some tickets, they waited for the wheel of fortune to revolve. The utmost incongruity was observable in the prizes which fell to various elderly gentlemen, and a lady of great dignity started back before the vision of a snuff-box. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy drew a blank-Aurelia, a prize. 
                  It was the lace cap of a child, and with a smile, she declared herself perfectly satisfied. They again entered the undulating noisy crowd, and so in the midst of one of the merriest uproars ever seen or heard, passed the hours of the evening until nearly midnight. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy and Aurelia went away before the crowd separated, and going homeward under the beautiful stars of the cold bright night, talked on a thousand subjects-which conversation the present historian sees no reason to repeat. 
                  The stars must surely be intended for some other purpose than to show the crossings, even though their light be needed by as elegant a gentleman as Heartsease. Surely, if even they were as the ancients thought, only bright lamps hung in the heavens for the benefit of earth, their mission is far nobler than to light a crossing. In their infinite depths, a solemn beauty reigns-a joy, and thoughtful loveliness-and though the philosopher of a unique school, considered it a "sad sight;" a thousand and ten thousand human hearts, know how much quiet joy lies in those golden fires, fretting the noble vault, and shining upon earth with hope and encouragement. Under the light of stars such tender words have been spoken!-such pure feelings have risen up like silent fountains, touched by a hand they must obey! Such loving words have been whispered with those serene sentinels for listeners-such hope has come to fainting human souls from gazing on them in their azure fields, and thinking how they roll forever there, and like the moon, "take up the wondrous tale," through all the ages, and show who has made and placed them there! 
                  So under the stars Sansoucy and Aurelia came back home-and the little hand lay in his own at parting-and the innocent cheek was covered with its tell-tale blush. 
                  She went from him like the light-and when he turned away the night seemed darker. 
                   
                  He saw her plainly all the way as he returned-with perfect plainness-her bright eyes laughing-and her slipper poised upon the portico, as she stood on the threshold-and in her hand the pretty lace cap which she had drawn at the fair. 
                  "How beautiful and lovely she is," he said; "so pure and good." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy went on with a smile. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                  DOCTOR FOSSYL AND SANSOUCY. 
                  ELEVEN o'clock had just struck on the following morning, and Mr. Sansoucy was wiping his pen, with his completed morning task before him, when he perceived that an equipage stopped before the entry which led to his office; and in a few moments a man's step was heard ascending the stairs. 
                  With that patience which becomes a necessity with official persons and editors, Mr. Sansoucy threw himself back in his chair and fixed his eyes calmly upon the door. 
                  It opened and gave entrance to Doctor Fossyl. 
                  Doctor Fossyl was clad, as usual, from head to foot, in black; and his thin hair stood erect, as it always did, upon his yellow and emaciated forehead. His legs were cased in their old splatterdashes, and were marvels of slenderness-in his hand he carried the ebony snuff-box from which he had regaled himself with a pinch as he ascended. 
                   
                  So far, every thing in Doctor Fossyl's appearance was just as usual; but his countenance and manner had undergone a marked change. The heavy grey brows no longer hooked themselves, so to speak, together over the caverns in which his restless and bitter eyes rolled gloomily or satirically-his thin lips were no longer drawn across his yellow teeth, with a sneer at himself and everything:-his whole countenance was subdued and earnest in its expression; and an eager, craving look in the deep eyes indicated emotions of a description very unusual with the cynical physician. 
                  He entered, and said to Mr. Sansoucy, with cold indifference: 
                  "Good morning, sir-I called to tell you that your friend Lacklitter no longer needs my services." 
                  "Ah, doctor! you bring me very welcome news," said Sansoucy, "sit down-those stairs are terribly fatiguing"- 
                  "Yes, they are," said the doctor, wiping an imperceptible moisture from his thin brow, and seating himself. 
                  "And the consequence of the recovery of Joe Lacklitter is-" 
                  "My money-yes." 
                  "I had the word upon my tongue, doctor," said Sansoucy, who seemed to know his visitor well, and so came at once to the point. "I would have allowed another man to talk about the weather, or politics, or anything first; and so come in due time to mention, quite incidentally, his "little bill"-but your time-" 
                  "Is valuable: you are right." 
                  "Certainly, Doctor." 
                   
                  "And the money is earned fairly." 
                  "Yes, again." 
                  "Why not ask for it directly then? It is the affectation of all professions, sir, to make believe that they feel a repugnance to asking for their dues. I don't." 
                  "I know it, Doctor." 
                  "I have just received thirteen hundred dollars, which I was entitled to, and asked for-and to have seen the face of the man I had saved, only after the most tremendous contest with death, you would have imagined that I had asked him to make me a present of the money." 
                  "That is a tolerably respectable sum of money, Doctor, to draw for at one minute's sight," said Sansoucy, good humoredly. 
                  "It was earned." 
                  "No doubt." 
                  "Hardly and laboriously earned. Look at me." 
                  "You look badly." 
                  "I am worn out. I have a constitution of iron, in spite of my emaciation; but I am nearly dead for want of sleep, and from anxiety." 
                  "This man?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Do you feel wearing anxiety?" 
                  "I? Yes! Perhaps it is my curse, but I feel throb by throb, agony by agony, the suffering of my patients, and until they are snatched from the grasp of death, death clutches at me." 
                  Sansoucy gazed with curiosity upon the strange man before him, who spoke so coldly of his suffering. 
                   
                  "And when I am worn out with this grim struggle," said the Doctor, "I am denied my money." 
                  "Not denied, Doctor!" 
                  "Yes-not seldom denied. But I get it?" I keep no books-let us arrange our account, and end it." 
                  "Willingly." 
                  "Here is the account for attendance on Lacklitter-I have purposely made it as moderate as possible-not to do you a favor, but for my own reasons." 
                  Sansoucy looked at it. 
                  "Why, Doctor, you rob yourself!" he said, "it is nothing." 
                  "Gold, bank notes, or a check." 
                  And Doctor Fossyl pretended to have misunderstood. 
                  "Really, Doctor-it does not look fair to pay you this trifle-" 
                  "No discount." 
                  "What are you talking about, Doctor?" 
                  "My money." 
                  "I say it is robbing you." 
                  "Pay me." 
                  And this was all Sansoucy could extract. He smiled, determined to humor the physician, and sitting down, wrote a check for the amount. 
                  Doctor Fossyl then carefully receipted the account, and presented it solemnly to Mr. Sansoucy, as though calling upon him to witness that he had delivered it. Then he put the check in his waistcoat pocket, and remained silent for some time. 
                   
                  "A pretty character that Heartsease is!" he said, at length, "a perfect grasshopper!" 
                  "Last night you suggested his resemblance to a butterfly, my dear Doctor." 
                  "So I did, and it is even more appropriate." 
                  "Ah, let us be lenient!" 
                  "We are not called upon to be." 
                  "I think we are." 
                  "How? but here we come to a discussion about the Bible, which we have already gone through." 
                  Sansoucy nodded, and was silent. Doctor Fossyl looked keenly at him. 
                  "You went away thinking about my reply to your friend, Heartsease, last night," he said, "did you not?" 
                  "Yes, Doctor." 
                  "And what did you think of it?" 
                  "Think?" 
                  "What feeling did it cause you, sir?" 
                  "One of very great pleasure." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "Because I believe you will be a happier man for your belief, Doctor." 
                  "What does my happiness or unhappiness concern you?" 
                  "Nothing in my purse-to answer your question in the spirit you ask it:-much in myself, personally, for I have much regard for you." 
                  "You!" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "For me." 
                   
                  "Undoubtedly, Doctor." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "First, because, when I had that terrible attack last summer, your kindness and attention were beyond all praise or acknowledgment-" 
                  "Humph!" 
                  "Secondly, because I know that your cold and bitter manner conceals a heart full of kindness." 
                  "Bah! don't try to flatter me." 
                  "What should I gain?" 
                  "I'm rich." 
                  "I have enough, my dear philosopher; and I don't want any of your money." 
                  "And so you are glad that I recognize my responsibility, in words at least, to a supreme being?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Humph!" 
                  And Doctor Fossyl was silent. Then looking in the same keen way at Sansoucy, he said: 
                  "Do you know I used to despise you?" 
                  "No, Doctor." 
                  "I did, however." 
                  "I am sorry; why?" 
                  "Because I thought you just such a butterfly as Heartsease." 
                  Sansoucy shook his head. 
                  "I'm afraid I'm a terrible trifler yet, Doctor." 
                  "You are nothing of the sort." 
                  "What am I then?" 
                  "I don't pretend to say-I only say I despise you no longer. Formerly I despised not only you, but all men." 
                  "What a bitter time of it you must have had." 
                  "How bitter?" 
                  "With so much poison in your heart." 
                  "Poison, sir?" 
                  "Yes, Doctor-I think that rage, and bitterness, and contempt, are the most acrid of all poisons to the heart." 
                  "Humph!" 
                  Sansoucy observed that this monosyllable represented, in their conversation, a species of acquiescence on the Doctor's part, and said: 
                  "Come, am I not right?" 
                  "I do not dispute it." 
                  "There, Doctor, I have gained a victory." 
                  "A very poor one-I am by no means satisfied, sir, that I was not right in despising mankind." 
                  "Ah, Doctor, permit me to say that you were a thousand times wrong." 
                  "Prove it!" 
                  "I am embarrassed by the mass of proofs-the fertility of the fields of illustration-I cannot. But this I will say, that the annals of the world are crowded with the most splendid and conspicuous figures, which represent, each one of them, some noble virtue, some lofty career-something to make us look upon the great, true man, as the worthy creation of an Almighty and all-true Being, supreme, and good, and adorable. I need not speak of these-they stretch all along the far fields of the past, and rise against the horizon of history like mountains." 
                   
                  "And the valleys?" 
                  "I understand you-but they prove that the world is not flat." 
                  Doctor Fossyl looked at his companion's careless and smiling face, and said: 
                  "Your philosophy is very fine-I am only sorry I can't embrace it." 
                  "Try." 
                  Doctor Fossyl shook his head, and was silent." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                  AN OUTLINE OF MR. SANSOUCY, DRAWN BY HIMSELF. 
                  SANSOUCY was silent also, but with him it seemed the silence of conviction. 
                  "Only exert your will to believe my philosophy, Doctor," he said at length, "and you will find not the least difficulty in it." 
                  "It has insuperable difficulties." 
                  "Come, what are they?" 
                  "The facts of the case." 
                  "How?" 
                  The Doctor, with his old growl, said cynically: 
                  "Look at all classes of men-look at politics! how a herd of petty tricksters pull the wires, and lead the blind flock from field to field-" 
                  "Look at the great leader." 
                  "Who is such?" 
                   
                  "The man who died but the other day was-the man for whom the nation mourns to-day, with banners at half mast, and the boom of cannon, and that general gloom which marks the passage of a nobleman of nature to his home!" 
                  "You mean-" 
                  "The man of Ashland; yes," said Sansoucy, whose face glowed, as it always did when he thought of this leader. "Yes! the man of Ashland! Think of him! A man who stood, the impersonation of a grand and glorious era, a new people, a supreme republic!-a man shaped and moulded 'in the very prodigality of nature'-a man born by us yonder, in the Slashes-in Hanover, immortalized by her two Henrys-going thence to a new country, without friends or money-rising almost at a bound to his own splendid atmosphere-and holding his position there by the pure gift of nature! See how he rose from height to height-how, everywhere, the very opponents who fought against him conscientiously, followed him with their eyes as he went up like an eagle-waiting for his words and wondering. See him stand finally a majestic form upon the steeps of glory, preserving, twice as far as one man could, the unity and life of the republic: see him go down then, passing by what his glory did not need, to his simple farm house-sinking like the sun, grander and more glorious even in its setting! Embrace at a glance, from horizon to horizon, this vast and splendid career!-and tell me if a charlatan could have thus grappled to his own the heart of a great nation, and have stood as he did, noble and beautiful, and, if not immaculate, yet like the sun, whose spots are swallowed in its splendor! Such a man makes a period, and dazzles me from the summit of his glory! For myself, Doctor, I do not hesitate-I may have too little brain-too much enthusiasm! But when I consider this man and his career, the blood flows through my veins more rapidly-my heart is melted in my breast-I bow before his memory, and say, 'The world seems drearier since you went away-the sun is not so bright-the mould which shaped your soul is broken. Hail, and farewell!-hail, and farewell, Harry Clay!'" 
                  Sansoucy wiped his moist brow and was silent: and for a moment the Doctor was silent too. 
                  "It would be folly to deny the great intellect and splendid genius of this man-and I speak not ill of one whom the grave covers," said Doctor Fossyl at length; "I spoke only of those ragged and repulsive lazzaroni who 'prowl around the tombs of our dead Csars,' as a journalist like yourself has said. No, sir, I do not call in question the greatness of our noble Virginian; neither do I presume to do, what you seem to fear, deride your enthusiasm: but my heart beats not so warmly-I am old-" 
                  Oh, Doctor, that is a piece of self-deception! You have a noble heart." 
                  "Bah! I have a bitter and uncompromising cynicism." 
                  "No, no!" 
                  "I doubt everything." 
                  "And every man?" 
                  "Nearly." 
                   
                  "Not me, I hope?" said Sansoucy. 
                  "I don't know-you are one of the few men who seem to me disinterested." 
                  "What a triumph!" 
                  "I am glad you feel it?" 
                  "I do." 
                  "Wait till I speak a little more plainly." 
                  "Speak." 
                  The Doctor looked at his companion for a moment, and said, coldly: 
                  "What did you expect when you befriended Lacklitter?" 
                  "Nothing." 
                  "Are you sure?" 
                  "Certainly, I expected neither money nor service-" 
                  "But reputation for charity and amiability?" 
                  Sansoucy laughed. 
                  "Why, no, Doctor," he said, it was simply one of my eccentricities. I met Ellie-her face pleased me, for its goodness and purity-she came and called on me for assistance for her uncle. I gave what I could-that's all." 
                  "And you expected nothing." 
                  "Nothing else but her smile and Joe's." 
                  "You were satisfied with that?" 
                  "Why should I not be? Ah, my dear Doctor, pardon me if I say you make the common blunder of strong intellects and acute minds. You measure my feelings by your own, my pleasures by your own-or else by those of some arbitrary character erected in your own imagination as a test-a philosopher's stone; to try if my own is gold or brass. Nothing could be more unworthy of a philosopher, Doctor. Your chief delight lies in tracing step by step, indication after indication, the vestiges of disease in the subject beneath your scalpel-you pounce upon the imperceptible indications with triumph; you are king over disease, even among the trophies of his power. Or else, and this is more amiable, you triumph in your victory over your rout of this power-you wrestle with death and throw him by pure strength; I honor, and wonder at you, and envy you. But I cannot imitate you. With other men, too, it is this or that cause of pleasure-you try me by yourself or by them, and you find me wanting, because my pleasure lies neither in a successful diagnosis, or political success, or literary renown; or that lowest of passions the acquisition of wealth. Well, I certainly depend for my happiness upon none of these things. I am odd, eccentric, ridiculous-anything you choose-but I am sincere. I am quite sincere, my dear Doctor: and I can't help it. Why quarrel with the character which God has given me?. I like simple things-what the world calls trifles. I would rather have the affection of a child, than the fear of a nation. I would rather hear a girl singing an old ballad, at the window of one of our Virginia country houses, as she sews, than listen to the finest cantatrice that ever trilled her grace notes before silent thousands in the theatre. I'd rather have my old friend at my side, than talk with a duke-there it is, Doctor: very ridiculous, but very sincere. I can't help it, and I'm not ashamed of it." 
                  "So you were wholly disinterested in this affair of Lacklitter?" 
                   
                  "I think so." 
                  "You expected nothing?" 
                  "I think not: nothing but the pleasure which any man of good feeling drives from doing what he thinks his duty-that's all." 
                  "I believe you, sir," said Doctor Fossyl, with the air of a man who pays the noblest possible tribute to another. 
                  "I honor you, and I thank you for much more than teaching me that men are not all base!" 
                  With which words, Doctor Fossyl rose, extended his livid hand to Mr. Sansoucy, and taking a eigar from the mantel-piece, lit it, and went away without another word. 
                  The piece of paper used to light the cigar had fallen on the floor, and as it burned still, Mr. Sansoucy placed his foot upon it to extinguish it. 
                  He perceived for the first time that it was his check, given in payment of the Doctor's account for attending upon Joe Lacklitter. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XV. 
                  EXPLAINS WHO PASSED MR. SANSOUCY ON THE STAIRS. 
                  SANSOUCY threw the remainder of the check into the fire, and said: 
                  "One of this man's eternal eccentricities-and he will only be offended if I persist. Well, he has a right to be charitable; and I know this is not the first or the thousandth time, he has acted the part of the good Samaritan. How glad I am, for his sake, that he has rejected his cold and barren scepticism-well, well, well: this is a strange world: though not a 'world of vanity, and hollowness, and folly,' as I observed yesterday, I recollect!" 
                  And smiling faintly, Sansoucy leaned back in his chair, and pondered. 
                  He was beginning to understand how completely he had mistaken his own feelings in that famous soliloquy which we have chronicled for the amusement of the reader. In truth, Mr. Sansoucy was no exception to the rest of the world: and his own views upon the nature of his feelings were abundantly destitute of accuracy. He thought and said to himself, that Aurelia had completely changed-that she had grown frivolous-that she would not make him happy as his wife-that he did not love her in the least, and had for her, at best, only that dubious liking which a man is apt to conceive toward a merry and beautiful young lady, with whom he has many memories and associations in common; but whose character is too light to satisfy him, or make any deep impression upon him. On the evening of the day which heard the utterance of these views, Mr. Sansoucy went to see the young lady who was so indifferent to him: and he found his heart throb when she spoke to him in her kind, familiar voice-his cheek flush with her own-his bosom fill with the deepest tenderness as he looked into the soft blue eyes, laden with unshed tears, and shining on him from his youth. He had as wholly mistaken his own character, too, in imagining that his heart had lost its freshness, his character its simplicity. His manner had changed wholly-his heart not at all, or scarcely at all. Through a thousand temptations and adverse influences this man's character had retained its sincerity and truth-his temper its sweetness;-his enthusiasm was still as easily excited, and as warm as in his boyhood. Perhaps a few more years of life in the whirl of an existence, which choked out everything fresh and beautiful, might have worked this change. But the child, Ellie, had come, and her influence upon him was great. She had revived all those recollections of his youth, which were fading-she had taught him the beauty and glory of kindness-the benefits he had bestowed upon her were a thousand times less than those he had reaped from her-child as she was-perhaps because she was a child. 
                  When, therefore, he had sought Aurelia, it was the heart of his boyhood which he brought her; the freshness of the past which he offered her-the same affection he had formerly experienced, which he felt. 
                  Aurelia, on her side, brought to test the Ernest of the present, just those feelings which had formerly influenced her-the same simplicity-the same playful, yet modest nature, the same innocence and goodness. 
                  But we linger too long in prosaic explanations, which the reader of this history probably does not need. Let us come back to Mr. Sansoucy, who, after declaring that the world is not a world of vanity, and hollowness, and folly, ponders for a time, and then rises, and makes some alterations in his toilette, and goes out. 
                  As he leaves his chamber, he glances, with a smile, at the wall above the mantel-piece, where the picture no longer hangs, and mutters, "we shall see!" 
                  It was a cold and brilliant morning-the sun made the snow sparkle like a sea of ice-and the streets were alive with sleighs, which tinkled merrily, and pedestrians, who hailed each other as they passed with laughter and shiverings, and hastened on. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy soon reached Mr. Ashton's. 
                  The two young ladies of tender age, whose brilliant red cheeks have colored, in a degree, our narrative, ran forward to receive him: and for some moments, Mr. Sansoucy was very nearly pulled to pieces by the eager damsels. 
                  "Where are our songs?" cried Bel. 
                  "Now, Mr. Sansoucy!" echoed Lizzie. 
                  "You know you promised!" 
                  "And you never fail!" 
                  "What a compliment!" cried Mr. Sansoucy, with great delight. "I am decidedly popular here." 
                  "Indeed you are!" 
                  "Are you sure?" 
                  "I like you," said Miss Bel rolling her large eyes at the visitor, in a way which seemed to afford him inordinate pleasure. 
                  "But the grounds of this liking, madam?" he said, with a modest air, "unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, and unused as I am to receiving from ladies assurances of a character similar to-" 
                  "There, now! you are putting us off!" cried Miss Bel, "you shan't!" 
                  And the young lady plunged her hand into Mr. Sansoucy's soucy's coat pocket. She drew it out full of French kisses, variegated cornucopias of candy, and good things generally, procured by Mr. Sansoucy for his young friends. 
                  "Oh, me! how nice!" cried Bel. 
                  "Are they?" 
                  "Yes-but I must put them back!" 
                  And the hand would have restored its contents to the pocket. 
                  "No," said Mr. Sansoucy, "at the risk of incurring your eternal enmity for implying that your ladyship is still a child, I must say that these things were intended for you and Lizzie." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy emptied his pockets of a perfect wagon load of good things. 
                  In the midst of the delighted clatter which this proceeding caused, Aurelia entered, smiling and rosy, and held out her little hand to her visitor. 
                  "Still as fond of children as ever!" she said, smiling. 
                  "Yes, indeed-you know it is an old failing." 
                  "Old?" 
                  "We were great friends when a certain grown up lady was a child." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy gazed with admiration upon the fresh face which plainly showed that its owner understood perfectly. 
                  "The girls will be delighted," she said, smiling, "and those verses?" 
                  "Here they are." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy drew from his pocket an envelope, which he handed to Lizzie. 
                   
                  "Oh, let me see them, said Aurelia. 
                  "Hum," said Mr. Sansoucy, with an embarrassed air, "I think I would rather you would wait." 
                  "Wait, sir! indeed, I wont-give me, Lizzie!" 
                  And Aurelia took the envelope, opened it, and with a flitting blush, which deepened as she went on, read the verses. The first ran thus: 
                         
                           "They come, dear golden memories, 
                           Forever through the livelong day, 
                           And when the light of evening dies 
                           They glitter still, as spray. 
                        
                         
                           "Flickers and glides along the green 
                           Declivities of endless waves- 
                           Memories of glories that have been- 
                           Like blossoms upon graves! 
                        
                         
                           "Dear heart! I feel its beating now, 
                           Dear cheek! it lies beside my own, 
                           Dear fingers press my weary brow, 
                           And love, from childhood grown. 
                        
                         
                           "Strikes the full giant's height and cleaves, 
                           The shadows of the present hour, 
                           And stands, like golden Autumn sheaves 
                           Of grain and blossom and flower. 
                        
                         
                           "O, happy poet! present light 
                           May fade and die, no care to thee! 
                           Thou livest in what has passed from sight 
                           In love and memory!" 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Very pretty," said Miss Aurelia, coloring brilliantly, "now let us see the other." 
                  The second paper contained but two verses, which were in quite a different strain, and it was evident that the poet-melancholy, in spite of his boasts, when he penned the preceding lines-had now recovered perfectly his good spirits. The verses were: 
                         
                           "The dawn no more shall weep 
                           Or the sun set on the day 
                           But Nature, like a nymph asleep, 
                           A low melodious breathing keep, 
                           And the joy of life shall stay- 
                           Since scattering flowers from snowy hands 
                           She came to me from other lands! 
                        
                         
                           "The owl no more shall cry 
                           Through the dim and dreary night, 
                           But the flickering lark against a sky 
                           Of gold, soar up, and faint and die, 
                           Like a beam of fresher light! 
                           Come angel! come and make my heart 
                           Like a glad fountain throb and start!" 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Very poetical and affecting," said Aurelia, with a blush deeper than before, and a careful avoidance of Mr. Sansoucy's eyes. 
                  "I am glad you admire them," said Sansoucy, sighing and smiling. "I am quite sure that I would not submit them to any other tribunal. If you approve them, they are perfect." 
                  "Thank you, sir," said Aurelia, blushing more deeply still; but making him a little courtesy, "but what is this which has fallen from your pocket-this paper?" 
                  "A paper?" 
                  "Yes-in taking out the verses it came too." 
                  And Aurelia picked it up. 
                  "Why it is a tract!" she said. 
                  "True! how singular-it has remained in my pocket ever since!" 
                  "Since?-since when?" 
                   
                  "Since reducing it into my possession. Look! 'Faith, Hope, and Charity'-all I admire and long for in the world." 
                  "How mysterious, sir!" 
                  "You shall judge if there is any mystery-I'll tell you all about it." 
                  "Will you?" said Aurelia, laughing. 
                  "Certainly." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy related the history of the paper picked up on the morning he had descended the stairs of Joe Lacklitter's mansion. 
                  "Who could the lady have been?" said Aurelia, smiling. 
                  "Really, I can't imagine-her veil was impervious." 
                  "Was it?" 
                  "Wholly." 
                  "And no other indication? 
                  "Presented itself? Not the least, my dear Miss Aurelia-except I observed the perfume of extract of violets, as she passed." 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy looked intently at Miss Aurelia-why, he scarcely knew. She had on a brown dress, and the handkerchief she held was perfumed with violets. 
                  "You don't say!" suddenly cried Mr. Sansoucy 
                  "What, sir?" 
                  "That the lady-" 
                  "What do I know about her?" 
                  And Miss Aurelia smiled mischievously. 
                  "Can it be possible!" 
                  "That she found any difficulty in passing you on the stairs? I don't know, of course. Did you get your gloves?" 
                   
                  And triumphing over the dumbfounded Mr. Sansoucy, Aurelia was radiant with smiles. 
                  The last words ended all doubt. The gloves left by Mr: Sansoucy upon the chair in Joe's room, were evidently those alluded to-and the veiled lady was as certainly Miss Aurelia. Sansoucy understood all at once-and easily recalled the visit he had paid formerly with Ellie to Aurelia-their absence for a quarter of an hour up stairs, wrapping up the dress-and consequently the probability that Ellie had told Aurelia where she lived, and all about her uncle. 
                  As Mr. Sansoucy afterwards discovered, Aurelia had exacted a promise from the child that she would not speak to Mr. Sansoucy of her visits-and so she had intended it should always be concealed. The visitor's astonishment now, had led Aurelia into a jest, which cleared up the whole mystery. 
                  "I do not wish any further explanation," said Sansoucy, looking at the young girl with a softness which made her cheek color; "I am very glad you know my good little Ellie. Now, will you get ready for our excursion?" 
                  Aurelia was glad to get away for an instant, and when she returned, her face was as merry as before: and Mr. Sansoucy's also. 
                  The young ladies, Bel and Lizzie, had entertained him with many amusing ideas and opinions, in the interim; and such juvenile interviews never failed to put this gentleman in a good humor, and fill his face with, laughter. The children kissed Aurelia, shook hands with Mr. Sansoucy-and the door closed. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVI. 
                  WHAT AURELIA SAW AND HEARD AT THE PICTURE GALLERY. 
                  AURELIA presented the brightest and most beautiful appearance imaginable:-indeed, her cheeks were so rosy, her eyes so blue, her hair so brilliant in the sunlight, which made it resemble threads of gold, that Mr. Sansoucy found his free will leaving him more rapidly than even he anticipated. It was not her beauty, however, which subdued this man, long used to fair faces and bright eyes, and unaffected by them. It was the young girl's innocence and goodness, her tender playfulness and utter sincerity which chained him. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy was no longer his own master. 
                  They traversed thus the chill, brilliant streets, among the crowd of wayfarers, and soon reached the picture gallery. 
                  It was simply a long apartment and a smaller one, in which were arranged numerous fine paintings in oil, which the public were invited to come and admire, at a very moderate charge, at all hours of the day and for half of the night. 
                  The rooms were thronged with that diverse crowd which represents, at all public spectacles, the vast army of sight seers-and every one seemed to be interested and entertained. There were old grey-headed men, who stood stoutly before a picture and seemed to defy it to excite in them the least admiration-there were little girls, who tripped from side to side with diminutive hands, covered with muffotees, and who, escaping from mamma, danced in delight before a "little love of a baby" holding out its chubby arms, and babbling-plainly on the canvass!-to the smiling matron hanging over it. There were boys, too, corrugating their faces in sympathetic appreciation of a skating scene, in which an unfortunate urchin had just produced that appearance in the ice called, technically, a "star," with his head-and whose countenance expressed a height of misery affecting in the extreme. There were, besides, young ladies of fifteen in their first long dresses, and with curls bound up for this occasion, woman fashion, who promenaded full of dignity, escorted by young gentlemen of seventeen, with patent leather shoes which tortured them, and standing collars, sawing through their ears, and glossy hats borne gallantly beneath the arm: and this class of the visitors would pause before the pictures celebrating Paul's devotion to Virginia-or the deathless love of the Moorish fire worshippers-before anything which indicated everlasting faithfulness and gallantry. Last of all came a few gentlemen of elegant appearance accompanied by ladies still more elegant-and when the eyeglasses of these visitors were levelled at the pictures, Titian blenched, and Poussin hid his head-Murillo cowered before them-and even Raphael, with all his glorious tenderness, failed-passing like a dream away. That was the real ordeal, and foremost among the dreadful connoisseurs, was Heartsease. 
                  Aurelia and Mr. Sansoucy passed through the crowd, and exchanging greetings with many friends, made the circuit of the room, admiring the pictures, which were unusually fine copies-some of them indeed, originals. 
                  They paused for some time before a picture, which was painted with a rude vigor and breadth of design, which produced a strange effect. It was one of the old Hebrew prophets, with gaunt but muscular face, deep, cavernous eyes, and hoary beard bending down towards a parchment, upon which with a reed he traced the mystic sentences of his prophecy. The parchment rested upon a stone, the writer was on his knees, which his coarse robe half concealed; and in the back-ground a bloody sunset reared its huge battlements of crimson cloud, as though to typify the woes denounced on the Hebrews by the pen of the writer. 
                  The effect was so strong-the brow and eyes of the prophet were so stern and yet awestruck, as he wrote-his shoulders bent so low, almost crouching, beneath the mighty weight of what flowed on him-that Aurelia and her companion did not move for many minutes-silent before that supreme spectacle of man, face to face with the Almighty. 
                  It was just as Aurelia returned to the world around her, with a sigh, that she heard an amiable and languid voice say gently: 
                  "A good thing that, my dear Miss Ashton-isn't it? Observe that toe bent back so naturally!-A fine piece of coloring." 
                  And Heartsease, amiably simpering, held out his kid glove to Sansoucy. 
                  "Oh, Mr. Heartsease! what a criticism!" said Aurelia. 
                  "You are surprised?" 
                   
                  "Yes, sir!" 
                  "Well, I thought you knew I was a connoisseur, my dear Miss Ashton!" 
                  "Are you, sir?" 
                  "I should think so! I flatter myself that excellent detail of the picture-the toe-would not have struck an indifferent observer. Say now, did you notice it?" 
                  "Indeed, no! said Aurelia, who was beginning to experience a strong desire to laugh at the unsuspecting self-satisfaction of Mr. Heartsease, "Indeed, I did not." 
                  "I thought so," said Heartsease, with a good-humored air, "it is more than we can expect of young ladies-" 
                  "What, sir?" 
                  "A knowledge of the details of art-those trifles apparently by which it nevertheless achieves its greatest triumphs." 
                  And Heartsease levelled his eye-glass at the toe, and smiled. 
                  "A little too much shadow under the nose," he said, raising his glass, "and the chiaroscuro of the lower portion of the sky is too deep-but on the whole the general effect is eminently pleasing. Ah, my dear Miss Emmeline! your most devoted slave-ta, ta! my-Gosyp, you know," he whispered: and aloud, "dear Sansoucy, how I envy you your companion!" 
                  And kissing his fingers, Heartsease joined a lady who had just entered, and disappeared in the crowd, smiling and graceful, and full of the most delightful good humor. 
                  "What a character!" said Aurelia, laughing, "he amuses me to death." 
                   
                  "Does he?" said Sansoucy, smiling. 
                  "Yes, indeed." 
                  "Then I think you will not repent your walk." 
                  "Repent it?" 
                  "Yes-for really I do not see much difference between myself and Mr. Heartsease-we are both dilletanti." 
                  "Oh, how can you be so unjust!" 
                  "Unjust?" 
                  "To yourself." 
                  "I am not." 
                  "Indeed you are-a thousand times unjust." 
                  Sansoucy sighed and shook his head, with a faint smile. 
                  "I believe I have some opinions which Mr. Heartsease does not hold-but I had better beware how I arrogate any credit on that point. It is very natural that you should take my part-we have been friends so long, you know." 
                  "Yes, very long." 
                  "Do you ever think of old times?" 
                  "Oh, yes." 
                  And for a moment the young girl's head sank. 
                  "What a pity it is that we cannot return to them?" he said, softly. 
                  "I'm afraid we cannot," she murmured, with a blush, and a timid glance, which was the very perfection of frankness and innocence. 
                  "Will you try?" 
                  "Yes," she murmured. 
                  "Come, then," said Mr. Sansoucy, placing the little hand upon his arm; "I will assist you." 
                  And he led the way into the smaller apartment of the exhibition, where, indeed, only some half-a-dozen pictures hung, and which the crowd, for a moment, had deserted. 
                  As Sansoucy led the way into this apartment, a sudden and inconceivably rapid thought made his heart throb, and his cheek flush. If she did not feel the throb, did not see the blush, she was without feeling, and blind-but Aurelia did not exhibit any such knowledge. 
                  Need we explain the cause of Mr. Ernest Sansoucy's sudden emotion-need we say that like an honest fellow, he had thought suddenly that she would go back to that youth with him forever, if he held out his arms and said "Come! come! Aurelia!" 
                  He stopped before a little picture hanging by the window, pointed to it, and said in a low voice: 
                  "Do you recognize it?" 
                  She started, and colored to the roots of her hair, and murmured: 
                  "It is-it is-!" 
                  She could go no further. 
                  "It is what I have kept always since that moment as my dearest treasure!" said Mr. Sansoucy, unable to control his feelings; "as my blessing, and my consolation! It has gone with me every where, and made me pure! It has never left me, and never will; for it will lie upon my bosom when I am pale and cold, Aurelia!" 
                  And his gaze, full of infinite tenderness, made her raise her eyes, and look at him with tears and blushes. 
                  "Aurelia! let me, like an honest gentleman-like Ernest-the Ernest of your childhood-speak to you! You are not prepared for this-I did not intend it-but my heart cries out to you! I cannot stifle it. Aurelia! be my blessing, my treasure, my dear wife!" 
                  And Sansoucy felt the heart throb beneath his arm upon which her hand rested-saw her eyes fill with tears of love and tenderness-took the small hand in his, and nothing more was needed. 
                  Heart spoke to heart, and laughed at such poor things as words. And so it always will be, O, my friends! who seriously investigate these deep, mysterious subjects! The flood slowly rises-a trifle like the picture of Aurelia in her childhood, makes it flow over-and then, with a single look, a pressure of the hand, the terrible ordeal is passed through. The fine speeches made by lovers at full length in numerous romances, are forgotten; and the Rubicon is passed. 
                  Aurelia and Ernest certainly thus passed that renowned stream, and entering beneath the fair Italian skies of love and sunshine, did not know they walked home over ice, and through a bitter wind. The world from that time forth was warmth and light-the spring had come, to reign forever. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVII. 
                  FINISHES MR. HEARTSEASE. 
                  FOLLOWING the want of romance writers in all ages, we might here close up our history with the striking picture of the incorrigible bachelor, Sansoucy, safely landed on the smiling shores of matrimony. 
                   
                  But this history unfortunately has busied itself about other persons, and their adventures-and an event of no small importance in the life of even Mr. Sansoucy, has yet to be described and chronicled. We are thus compelled to ask the kind reader to follow us still, spite of the length to which his journey has extended; and in this further progress we promise not to call his attention to a single personage he has not made the acquaintance of already. 
                  To present the remaining scenes of our narrative in their full connection, and as distinctly as we can, we shall return to Mr. Sansoucy, who sits in his office on the day after the event just described, and in a frame of mind, not different from what might be expected "under the circumstances," as say romantic historians of their heroes. 
                  In other words, Mr. Sansoucy was supremely happy. The whole world seemed to him bright and beautiful; and a thousand voices seemed to sing to him, "Be happy! be happy! happiness like yours is rarely given to the children of this earth-be happy!" 
                  And Sansoucy applied himself assiduously to the not difficult task-and looked out with a smile upon the cold bright snow-and felt the spring within his heart warm all the bitter winter, thrusting up its blossoms and bright flowers through all, and reigning queen of all! 
                  He was sunk in one of those reveries which follow happiness like a shadow, when a rapid step ascended the stairs, and almost hastening-actually almost hastening-into the room, Mr. Heartsease held out his hand, and sighed with a brilliant smile: 
                  "Give me joy, my friend! congratulate me on my bliss!" 
                   
                  "Your bliss, my dear Heartsease?" said Sansoucy, "certainly! Oh, certainly! but what is it?" 
                  "Haven't you heard?" 
                  "No, indeed." 
                  "I forgot, my friend," said Heartsease; "nobody knows it-it has not been done an hour-" 
                  "Not been done!" 
                  "Assuredly not." 
                  "Nobody knows it?" 
                  "Unless the respectable guardian of the lady:" 
                  "Oh! the lady!" 
                  "Certainly, the lady! Don't you understand?" 
                  "Oh, perfectly! that is not at all." 
                  "Really," said Heartsease, reproachfully, "the way a man is treated by his friends: but I will not complain. Learn then, my dear Sansoucy, that you see before you the prospective husband of the beautiful Miss Gosyp." 
                  "Miss Gosyp!" 
                  Emmeline, I call her. Her name is Emma; but I add the line for euphony; though there are cynics who might think I alluded to her delicacy and fragility of figure." 
                  "Miss Gosyp!" said Sansoucy, unable to repress his surprise and laughter; "why you told me a month or two ago that she had worried you to death." 
                  "A month or two, my dear fellow, is much further than I can remember." 
                  "Ah?" 
                  "Yes; and, doubtless, that annoyance, and the satire, which I now recall, sprung from jealousy at seeing me attentive to another." 
                   
                  "Miss Gosyp-the antediluvian!" said Sansoucy, quoting Heartsease. 
                  "Oh, my friend! don't recall to me my terrible speeches; you fill me with remorse." 
                  Sansoucy laughed. 
                  "Congratulate me, rather." 
                  "Certainly, my dear fellow; and one thing is certain, that your wife to be will not need your income, or any part of it." 
                  "You allude to her wealth?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  Heartsease shook his head. 
                  "Such considerations have no weight with me," he said, sighing; "what I adore in Emmeline is her loveliness of soul and brilliant wit." 
                  "Good! take care of that brilliant wit, my dear fellow!" 
                  "Take care?" 
                  "Or it will cut you." 
                  "Oh, no, never!" sighed Heartsease, rising; "I look forward to a life of tranquil and domestic happiness. Emmeline will not be witty with me, for I shall make a model husband. I shall remain quietly at home every evening-I shall become a thoroughly domestic character-I shall rule my household with the mingled dignity and kindness of a patriarch. Wives will point to me, and say "look at him!" and Emmeline will bless the day she placed her beautiful hand in mine and made me happy!" 
                  Having uttered this speech with great gravity, Heartsease pleaded the necessity of carrying the delightful intelligence to his numerous friends; and so, kissing his fingers, glided away-sighing and smiling to the last-from the office of Sansoucy and from the present history. But, perhaps, we may as well add, in this place, that the result of wedlock in the case of Mr. Heartsease was not so admirable and striking as he predicted. Instead of leading a tranquil life, the joyous Heartsease grew more fashionable than ever-instead of finding Emmeline a tender spouse, he found her a terrible plague:-instead of remaining quietly at home in the long winter evenings, ruling his household with the dignity of a patriarch, and causing Emmeline to triumph over other wives, and bless the day she laid her lily hand in his, the gay and philosophic Heartsease never staid at home, and caused the gentle Emmeline to objurgate the happy day alluded to. Wherever ball, or festival, or play was, there was Heartsease-still the most amiable of butterflies, the most perfect of good fellows. Never did a cloud pass over his serene and handsome features-from his lofty height and dark curls, hyacinthine still, as in his bachelor days, he looked down on the world, and smiled, and lived his life. His only subject or enthusiasm was Emmeline-for whom, he said, his tenderness was so extreme, that nothing but his absence from her, gave him any peace of mind. Having told you this with the gentlest and most touching eloquence, the handsome Heartsease would adjourn to billiards-thence to dinner and his wine-then to a mild cigar, and other things promotive of digestion and a tranquil conscience:-and then at night you would meet him waltzing at the ball with the gayest and most graceful languor-talking in the pauses of his dearest Emmeline, and saying that a slight indisposition made it necessary for her to remain at home. If occasionally his dearest Emmeline spoke harshly to him, for his losses at the fascinating cards, he did not answer again. Supreme in his good humor, and unruffled by the strongest gales of matrimony, Heartsease with his old sweet smile, would kiss his hand, and go away to the theatre, and be the pride and ornament of that bright universe. When last we had the pleasure of beholding him, he stood, superlatively dressed, applauding, with a gentle beating of his yellow kid fingers Misses Kate and Ellen Bateman, whose performance he approved. 
                  It was perhaps the most rational thing the amiable Heartsease ever did-and there we leave him. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER 
                        XVII.
                        XVIII.
                     
                   
                  "SHE IS NOT HERE." 
                  SANSOUCY had resumed his reverie, and was fast forgetting the existence of Mr. Heartsease, and, indeed, of all the world besides, but one personage-Aurelia-when a second step was heard ascending the stairs, and a modest tap at the door, requested permission to enter. 
                  Sansoucy sighed, and entered a silent protest against the inimical fate which thus took pleasure in breaking the chain of his bright thoughts: but still true to his patient and yielding temper, he said, quietly, "Come in." 
                  The door opened, and little Ellie entered, with a modest look in her mild eyes, and holding back, as if afraid of intruding herself upon the attention of her friend, to the prejudice of his occupations. 
                  But Mr. Sansoucy no sooner caught sight of Ellie, than his expression of patient submission disappeared; and rising, with a smile of pleasure, he took the hand of the child, and made her sit down by him. 
                  "Well, Ellie," he said; "pray, how are you, to-day?" 
                  "I am very well, thank you, sir," said the child, in her soft, gentle voice. 
                  "And Joe?" 
                  "Oh, uncle is well, sir, and I never can thank you for-" 
                  "Well, never do. I like you, and my friend, Joe." 
                  "Uncle is very dear to me, sir." 
                  "That is because you are an affectionate and warmhearted little creature, Ellie; it is a pleasure to do you the least kindness, your gratitude is such a treasure." 
                  "Oh, sir!" said Ellie, with a glad look in her eyes: "indeed, you make me very happy, and I am very grateful." 
                  "But you have more friends to be grateful to than me, Ellie," replied Sansoucy, with a bright smile. 
                  "More friends, sir?" 
                  "Yes-the lady-" 
                  "Oh, you know then, sir; I was so sorry I could not tell you." 
                  "Why did you not?" 
                  "She told me not to, sir-and you know she had the right to ask much more than that." 
                   
                  "Yes, indeed-and I, too, had the right to ask, if not you, her for-" 
                  And Sansoucy, with the gayety of a boy, looked at Ellie, and smiled. 
                  "To ask her, sir-?" 
                  But Mr. Sansoucy did not make a direct reply to the child's words or looks. 
                  "Ellie," he said, "would you like to see me married?" 
                  "Married, sir?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Would it make you happier, sir?" 
                  "Yes, I think so-I think it will." 
                  "Oh, then, sir, I should love to see you married!" 
                  This reply delighted Mr. Sansoucy beyond measure, and he said: 
                  "Suppose it was Miss Aurelia?" 
                  "Is it, sir?" 
                  "Yes," said Sansoucy. 
                  "Oh, I'm so glad, sir!" said Ellie, "she is so kind and sweet. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy caressed the brown hair of the child, gently, with his hand, and said, with a look of radiant happiness: 
                  "Your pleasure, Ellie, makes my own greater. Yes, Aurelia is more kind and sweet than any one I know in all the world, and I shall be very happy if God lets me be. I learned to put in that proviso from yourself, my child-and that was a happy day when I met you-met you, and talked with you, to learn from you the duties I am called to, as a Christian gentleman-and some day I shall be as much. I know, in your prayers, you bless and pray for me, and that is more than all I could do for you, Ellie." 
                  "Oh, sir! you saved my life! indeed, indeed! I pray always for you! Oh, indeed, I never can do anything for you-but that!" 
                  And greatly affected by the kind words of Mr. Sansoucy, Ellie's eyes filled with moisture, making them swim in tender light, as she gazed timidly upon his face. 
                  "What a simple, grateful heart you have, Ellie," he said,"I know your grateful feelings, but I do not deserve them. Now tell me all about everything." 
                  "That is why I came, sir." 
                  "For what, Ellie?" 
                  "I'm afraid Lucia is sick, sir, and requires the doctor." 
                  "Lucia?" 
                  "The little orphan-girl, sir, whose father died early in the winter." 
                  "Oh, I have heard you speak of her-and I saw her once, I think." 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "She is beautiful-with long, dark hair-fair skin, and black eyes-is she not?" 
                  "Yes, sir-she is lovely, and so good! Oh, sir, she is so good, and my heart bleeds for her." 
                  "How, Ellie!" 
                  "She has suffered so much, sir. I tried to do all that I could, and Sam and all: but she has got sick, and I was made uneasy about her last night and this morning-" 
                   
                  "Is she much sick?" 
                  "I am afraid so, sir: her face is so thin and pale-oh! so thin and pale, and sweet. When she smiles, she looks like a spirit, or what I think one is like!" 
                  "Ah-so bad?" 
                  "I think her mind has been wandering to-day, sir-last night, when she kissed me, too, she said, 'Ellie, do you think the violets have come up'-" 
                  "Violets?" 
                  Yes, sir-I think she and Sam were talking about gathering violets some time ago, when the spring came." 
                  "Poor child!" 
                  "I told her," continued Ellie, "that they would soon be up: and then she asked me if any violets grew in heaven-oh, sir! I feel so badly about Lucia-for I love her dearly-!" 
                  "Come, then, Ellie, we will go for the doctor. I will send Doctor Fossyl so Lucia, at once, though he would take no pay for his attendance on your uncle. Come, my child-poor Lucia!-come, we will go." 
                  And hastily wrapping himself up, Mr. Sansoucy, yielding to his pity, descended the stairs, and followed by Ellie, took his way toward the office of Doctor Fossyl. 
                  The doctor bent his head, as he chewed, vigorously, an old, dry crust, which, with a ham bone, served him for dinner; and then asking Ellie about Lucia's condition, fully, got into his carriage, which waited, and drove off. 
                  Sansoucy followed him, with the child, and forgetting his own dinner, sought, with her, the abode of Lucia. 
                  The doctor met them on the threshold, and said: 
                   
                  "She is not here." 
                  As he spoke, Mr. Sansoucy felt a weight upon his arm, and looking down, saw that Ellie was pale and faint, 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIX. 
                  LUCIA GATHERS HER FLOWERS. 
                  THE sun came up that morning with a beauteous splendor, such as August, in its loveliest hours of dawn-illumined foliage, might have envied; and though Winter laughed at him-the bitter, harsh old Winter!-still he shone; and making all the vast, bleak fields of snow shine as he came, went onward to his noon. 
                  Mounting, he shone on Lucia, with her pale, sweet face, and gentle smile, bending above her fire, and dreaming, with a look fixed far away, of some bright land-some far, bright land-and smiling at the happy vision of her heart, and reaching out her arms toward it gladly, as a child toward the object of its love. 
                  Raising her head-so faint now and so beautiful-a holier and happier light than any on this poor, cold earth we live on, shone in the tender eyes; and on her lips the lovely smile was eloquent of dreams, showing her visions of love and happiness. 
                  The sun rose higher, and the dear friend of her heart came in and comforted her, and made the fire burn brighter, and talked with her-but so sadly! ah, so sadly! was she not sick? Oh, no-so very well, though weak; but she was happy. Ellie shook her head, and sighing, said she had better cover herself and sleep, and she would go for the doctor. And so she went. 
                  The doctor! Why should she want the doctor! She was well and happy-very well, and oh, so very happy! And then gazing on the sun, now soaring up in beauteous splendor, she rose from her seat, and clasped her hands and smiled, and tears of happiness flowed from her eyes-tears of deep gratitude for what she felt towards the Giver of this beauty. 
                  Faintly, with absent eyes, as in a dream, she looked upon the bright, gay, sparkling snow; and through it all she seemed to see the flowers of spring, blooming on grassy banks, by laughing streams-and the chill blast was tempered to a sighing, warm south breeze, which agitated tender foliage, in beautiful woods-and in the azure skies of thought, the lark soared, joyously singing his clear song of praise to Him who made the world so bright and beautiful. 
                  "Spring violets! how beautiful they are!" she murmured, smiling; "they are waiting to be gathered-beautiful violets, like the flowers of heaven!" 
                  And looking toward the door, she seemed to see a smiling form, which beckoned to her and said, come!" 
                  She passed out smiling, and descended, and was in the streets-and wandered on beneath the rich red rays of the merry sun, toward the laughing fields. 
                  How merry was the sun! How tenderly it lingered on her form, and flooded all the street, and shone on every wayfarer alike. It shone on lawyers going to their offices, and on the wealthy merchants, hurrying to their counting-houses, eager about invoices. It streamed upon a hundred jovial citizens, returning with their trophies from the market there below-and then returning to the little organ-girl, entangled itself merrily in her dark, curling hair, and filled her heart with joy and happiness. The merry sun! He laughed so gleefully upon the shifting weather-cocks, and on the tall, white, crimson-flooded spires, which pointed up to heaven-and on the wings of snowy pigeons, cutting the blue air, and circling joyously-and on the little maiden, tripping on along the street, toward school, and laughing merrily like him. 
                  Lucia looked at her with a happy smile, and knew her for the little dame whose uncle Robert was to make the tableaus-and as now her sparkling eyes, and rosy cheeks and lips, and golden curls, were lit up by the sun, until she seemed to be the image of pure joy and loveliness, the heart of Lucia went toward her as she came, and loved her for her tender purity and beauty. 
                  She came on thus, her merry eyes lighting up the street-and looking at Lucia's thin face with a pitying gaze, passed onward, without recognizing her again. And so the distance twinkled with her little feet, so delicately cased in red morocco, and her satchel, as she drew near school, was swung more merrily-and then the corner came between, and she was gone-and Lucia was happier than before, for having seen that pretty, tender child. 
                  The sun came to his noon, and bathed the world in glory, and then waned away toward his setting, streaming still on Lucia as he went to the west, and following her in all her wanderings, through distant streets, toward the snow-clad fields. The snow-clad fields! so bleak and vast, and chill-where yet the violets and birds of spring were plain to the child's vision, as she went on from the city. 
                  So the sun faded, waning slowly over the white fields, to his setting-smiling still upon the child, as though he were not carrying away with him the warmth and life of the great day-the warmth and life, too, from the frame of the child. 
                  As Lucia gazed upon the fading splendor of the west, it seemed so beautiful-and then she thought how happy she would be if heaven had given her some little brother or sister to take to her heart, and play with, and tell all about the happiness she felt. They would be so happy now-the fair, warm days were coming-in the fields, running o'er flowery meadows, and beneath the shade of pretty trees, where violets grew and smiled. 
                  And so the sun waned, fading slowly, and flushing for the last time, the child's tender face, went from the world:-and night advanced, with all its bitter winds-and Lucia was faint. 
                  She sat down on a bank, from which the snow had melted, leaving the spring grass to grow: and leaning on her arm, half thought, half dreamed:-half dreamed, for was she not upon the border land of sleep? She saw so many bright faced ones above her beckoning to her; and they floated over her on long, still wings, and murmured ever to her with calm, happy voices, bending over her with smiles of infinite love. She heard so many dear, sweet voices, whispering from the past-she felt upon her brow, so clearly, though the night wind struck upon it like a blade of steel, her mother's tender fingers, and her father's kiss; and happy airs from lands of beauty and delight, remembered dimly-dimly as in a dream-fanned her pale brow, and made her happy. 
                  She surely dreamed! for there, distinctly, was the quiet, smiling home beneath beautiful skies-left years and years ago, when but a little baby, but remembered well:-there, plainly, were the places they had tarried in-the various scenes of all her pilgrimage. They melted softly into one dim haze at last-the quiet home-the splendid buildings, and great seas, and sun-lit streets, and merry music, played for laughing children-all melted finally in one soft dreamy haze; and then she saw the smiling fields of spring, happy and beautiful, and full of flowers, which waved in gentle winds, and beckoned to her, smiling on her as she came. 
                  A soft and caressing atmosphere seemed to lie on the beautiful fields she saw-a light, more pure than any earthly light, poured on the smiling slopes,-and from the distance, like a dream of joy and beauty, came a figure, as of a bright shepherd, smiling on her with a love and tenderness which words could not express. 
                  The child's face flushed with a splendor that was dazzling-her dim eyes glowed, then veiled their light-and stretching out her arms toward the vision, she half rose, with a sigh of happiness, which the chill wind bore far away, but could not drown. The effort exhausted all her strength-she sank back on the earth-the figure came to her, and held out tender arms-and with a smile of infinite love and goodness, bent over her, and blessed her. 
                  The bitter wind was powerless now, with all his strength-the spring had come-the child had gathered violets, more beautiful than any upon earth-in fields more bright and happy than the minds of men have dreamed of-immortal flowers of happiness and peace, such as grow only in the smiling fields of heaven. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XX. 
                  THE NOTE AND THE PACKAGE WITH THE CONSEQUENCES. 
                  A WEEK after these events, Sansoucy sat late at night in his office, thinking sadly of the fate of Lucia, and pondering, as all men do at some time of their lives, upon the mystery, and strangeness of the great system, which illustrated itself thus, by what seemed so discouraging to faith and hope. 
                  He ceased at last to think upon the matter, and gave up the struggle. That struggle of his mind and heart would surely never have taken place, if he had known the vision of the child-he would have seen without difficulty that what seemed death was life; that what to him appeared to be a cruel and terrible misfortune, was, in truth, the act of an all-wise and supremely merciful power; and that the faintness in which she passed away, was but the cloud hiding the everlasting light. 
                  He dismissed all these thoughts at last, however-he thought no longer of the despair of Wide-Awake and Ellie, when they followed her footsteps and saw all-of the weeping boy, as he stood beside the hillock on the hill, across the river, where she had asked them to lay her-of the tears shed by Aurelia, when he told her of the sad event. 
                  His own future busied his thoughts, and he again read the letter from his father, lying on his knee, and mused. It said how happy his marriage with Aurelia would make every one at Sunnyside-how his mother, who would write to him immediately, sent him her love and blessing-and how he must now give up his editorial life and come and aid the failing strength of his father, in the management of the estate, which needed him. All this, Sansoucy read again and attentively considered. His whole heart assented to this future, and thinking of Aurelia, he was beginning to smile again, when a step ascended-stopped at his door-and without knocking or asking his permission a woman entered. 
                  It was the miserably clad woman, whom he had nearly run over, on the day of his sleigh-ride. 
                  "You!" said Sansoucy, "you, at last! and at this late hour!" 
                  "All hours are the same to me," said the woman, sinking into a seat, and covering her face, "I like the midnight better than morning." 
                  Sansoucy gazed at her in astonishment, and saw that her breast heaved beneath the tattered wrapping of her person. 
                  "You excited my curiosity strangely, when we met some weeks ago," he said, "you seemed to know my father." 
                   
                  "Yes," murmured the woman, "I knew you were his son." 
                  "How?" 
                  "From the likeness." 
                  "When did you know him?-what is this mystery?-speak! for you are evidently sane!" 
                  "I doubt it sometimes," said the woman, in a low voice, "I have had enough to try my brain." 
                  "Enough!" 
                  "That is I have been guilty of enough-" 
                  Sansoucy gazed closely at her, and said: 
                  "Guilty!" 
                  "Yes," she murmured, hoarsely, "deeply guilty, and toward you-toward your father-toward your mother, and all your family!" 
                  The woman paused, and seemed to be overwhelmed with emotion. Mr. Sansoucy gazed at her with the profoundest astonishment, and was silent. 
                  "This is all folly in me," said the woman, regaining her voice, and speaking with more distinctness, "I did not come here to make you pity me-I came to try and ask you to help me-to do away with the consequences of my crime. It affects you, sir, and if you will listen, I will tell you all. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy remained silent, and lost in astonishment. He gazed for some moments at the woman, who seemed to avoid his eye, and then seeing that she waited for some reply, said: 
                  "Speak! I will listen." 
                  "Do not interrupt me." 
                   
                  "I will endeavor not to-but speak! A crime! and a crime connected with my family-speak!" 
                  "Yes-connected with your family ten years ago." 
                  "Ten years!-" 
                  "Listen, sir, and I will explain everything," said the woman, and pausing to collect her strength, she went on: "Ten years ago, your mother engaged as a nurse for her baby, a woman who was the wife of a German laborer, whom she had married, and who was so poor that she was obliged to leave him, and take some separate employment to support herself-gain daily bread. Your mother heard of this woman, who was an American woman, in this great poverty-and from motives of charity-she engaged her to nurse her own child, which her bad health rendered it impossible for her to do herself. The woman had lost her only child, herself, a short time before-and she was glad to gain employment which promised to maintain her in comfort. She had no feeling higher than that-she was dull and gross, but a woman of violent and bitter passions when she was aroused; she never forgave any one, and had frequently come to blows with her husband whom she despised and ruled, for he became afraid of her at last." 
                  Sansoucy gazed with a vague look of wonder at the woman, as though a thought were struggling in his mind to which he could not give words. 
                  "The woman went to your father's," his visitor continued, hoarsely; "and for a time was perfectly satisfied, and lived more happily than she had ever done before. But gradually she found reasons to dislike her employer-he was a high-minded man, but with a temper when he was aroused, as violent as her own.-Do not stop me, sir, let me get through!-and this violence of temper upon both sides caused the woman and Mr. Sansoucy to quarrel more than once. The woman was afraid of losing her situation, and kept down her feelings-that is she did not utter them-but they were all the more violent on that account from being suppressed. Her habits were bad sometimes-she had acquired a fondness for brandy in her poverty-and whenever Mr. Sansoucy found that she had been drinking anything, his anger knew no bounds. 
                  "Things went on in this way for more than six months," continued the speaker; "and all this time the woman's hatred and revengeful passions had been increasing, and growing more bitter and black. She began to think how she could be revenged upon him-let me, speak, sir! if you start so I can't go on. She thought of a dozen ways to revenge herself on him, but was afraid to do anything, and waited. One day, however, she drank more brandy than usual, and came in with the baby in her arms reeling. Mr. Sansoucy was already nettled about something, and his passions were driven to fury by the sight of the woman's condition. He tore the baby from her arms-struck her on the face with his open hand, and taking her by the shoulder, dragged her out of the room and threw her off like a dog. This made the cup run over-her drunkenness gave way to a fury and thirst for revenge so deep that she grew almost mad. She made up her things in a bundle-went into the nursery at night-and while all were sleeping took the sleeping child, and carried it away with her, and in spite of all pursuit, gained this city, worn out with weakness, but burning with hatred and revenge! Your eyes are like fire, sir! but let me go on-don't look at me! From this place the woman, who had schooling and knew very well how to write, wrote a letter to your father, taunting him with his failure to find her, and declaring that she would said that day to a foreign country, and place the child in the hands of those who would beat and cripple and starve it, and bring it up to all the vices of a great city-she would do this if she did not kill it, as she had the right to do in return for his blow-her letter said all this, sir." 
                  The woman trembled from head to foot as she spoke, and did not dare to look at Mr. Sansoucy, whose eyes glared in his deadly pale face, like coals of fire. 
                  "Go-on!" he said, hoarsely. 
                  "The woman did sail," the visitor continued; "she did go to foreign parts in a trading sloop, which sailed that very day-" 
                  "And took the child!" cried Mr. Sansoucy, seizing her wrist and speaking through his clenched teeth; "dare to say!-" 
                  "She left it behind," said the woman, trembling; "but you frighten me, sir!-" 
                  Sansoucy drew back and clutched the arm of his chair, until the wood cracked. 
                  "Go on!" he said, hoarsely. 
                  "The woman was afraid-she was poor-she knew that the letter itself was a bitter revenge-she wrapped the child just as it was in a blanket, and on the night she sailed-left it lying at the door of a poor-looking house, which a woman seemed to occupy, in one of the streets of this place. She got her passage in the sloop by agreeing to work and help-and she staid away long enough to drink the dregs of misery and want. She then felt how despicable she was-she determined to come back, and try to restore the child; she met its elder brother, and was nearly killed by his horses as she deserved-I was the woman, and you can punish me as you choose!" 
                  She stopped-breathing heavily, and avoiding his eye. 
                  "I tried to find the child-I have been searching day and night," she added hoarsely; "we did not live here, then, though my husband has moved here, now. I did not take notice of the street. I do not know if the child is alive, even. I come to tell you that the rest remains with you; I have done all I could. I have bitterly repented, and am ready to submit to any thing you order, or any punishment you inflict!" 
                  Her head sank as she uttered these nearly inaudible words, and she dared not look at Mr. Sansoucy. At last she raised her eyes, and gazed, almost with terror upon him. His face was as pale as death-his lips-gnawed until they bled, that his emotion should not carry him away-were tightly drawn over his closed teeth, and his eyes burned into the woman's very brain with a terrible intensity of anger, horror, and disgust. 
                  But this expression yielded, in a few moments, to one of pain and anguish: and, turning away his head, he said, with a hoarse moan: 
                  "Go! you have brought up all we have suffered by your crime, again-go! My sister is dead!-or, if not dead, lost to us. Your punishment lies with God-go! go from me!" 
                  And he pointed to the door with such agony and sternness, that the woman was driven, as it were, by his look, and heavily, step after step, with her eyes fixed upon him, obeyed and disappeared. 
                  Sansoucy's face sank in his hands, and from the bottom of his heart a passionate sob tore its way to his lips: and he cried, in a tone of cruel anguish: 
                  "Oh, my sister!-oh, my poor, poor mother!" 
                  The long hours of the night passed over him one by one, and the last found him in the same position as at first-his face covered with his hands, his breast heaving, his fingers wet with tears, which streamed between them, speaking with that dreadful eloquence, which, in such eyes, they possess. There are tears which, as they fall, seem to burn and flame up, like some terrible acid, poisonous and frightful-Let those who cause such, beware what they do. 
                  Morning came at last, and, still motionless, Sansoucy revolved in his feverish brain, the course which he should pursue. He would move heaven and earth, but he would know where his sister was, or when and how she had died-he would throw from him everything, love and business, and hope and memory; that search should absorb his life, and he would force the secret from the very jaws of silence! As he rose, pale and calm, a voice at his door, made him start. 
                  It was a servant, who held in his hand a note. 
                  "What is it?" he said. 
                   
                  "From Miss Aurelia, sir." 
                  He took it, and opened it. 
                  "And this I was to give you, too, sir," added the servant, giving Mr. Sansoucy a small package. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy caught it from his hand, and motioning him away abruptly, sank into a chair, and tore open the package. 
                  The note told him, that in handling the lace cap she had received as a prize at the fair, she had found in the lining-carefully sewed in-what she had sent him. 
                  The package contained the baby's lace cap, and in a small piece of white tissue paper, a little flat golden clasp for the arm of a child. 
                  Upon this plate was engraved, in distinct letters, "Ellen Sansoucy," 
                  For a moment, Mr. Sansoucy felt as if he was about to faint: then he rose like a giant, and, seizing his hat, went hastily down stairs. 
                  With inconceivable rapidity he hurried to Mr. Ashton's-learned where the books of the Fair, containing the names of contributors were to be found; discovered from them that the lace cap, with the rest of the dress, had been contributed to the table where the lottery was held, by Monsieur Guillemot's friend, Madam "Angelique," as he called her:-and then, devoured with excitement, he leaped into a carriage, and bade the driver gallop to the shop. Ten minutes after entering it, he had learned that the dress had been pawned-the shopkeeper recollected very well that it had been brought by Ellie; and five minutes after receiving this information, Mr. Sansoucy had in his arms, pressed to his heart, the form of Ellie, whose face he covered with his kisses and his tears. 
                  Ellen Lacklitter was Ellen Sansoucy, his long-lost little sister. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXI. 
                  THE STRUGGLE. 
                  HERE we might end our history definitely, with the picture of love and charity rewarded, even on earth-with Ellie pressed to her kind brother's heart, and very happy. We might properly arrest, at this point, our story, and leave all those explanations, involved in every chronicle, to the imagination of the sympathizing reader. 
                  But, perhaps, it will be better for the history to linger still for a brief period, in its old haunts-and, therefore, we shall proceed to say what followed these events-and how the drama of Mr. Sansoucy's and Ellie's city life came to an end. 
                  Sansoucy held then in his arms, pressed to his true, loving breast, the form of his long-lost sister-but alas! this form was not the Ellie of the past-smiling and happy, and well. The child had received a terrible shock from the death of Lucia-she had sunk down on the snow beside her, when hurrying on with Wide Awake and Sansoucy, she had come with them to the last footsteps of the organ girl and to her form, stretched on the earth, and smiling even in death-and then she could not be prevailed upon to stay at home, when, slowly and silently, the friends of Wide Awake following him, the body of Lucia was committed to the earth from which it sprung. 
                  The trying emotions and the bitter cold to which she had been exposed, prostrated the child, worn out with many griefs and so much exposure, all through the bitter winter:-and thus, when, clasping her in his arms, and covering her face with tears and kisses, Mr. Sansoucy pressed her to his heart, calling her his dear little, long-lost sister, Ellie's cheeks blushed crimson-then grew pale, and sinking back, she had fainted in his arms. 
                  In great alarm, she was laid upon the old bed of Lack-litter, and a message sent immediately for Doctor Fossyl:-the child was evidently sick. Sansoucy bent over her, and watched her feeble breathing with an anguish which he could not suppress-and it will easily be understood that this sudden attack of disease, threatening to snatch from his grasp the treasure just discovered, was enough to try his utmost equanimity. 
                  Doctor Fossyl came, and made his diagnosis, and shook his head, 
                  "Cerebral excitement and exposure,"he said, with one hand on the child's wrist and the other on her forehead. "The hand is burning, and the brain hot-she must not stay here in this exposed room." 
                  Sansoucy gazed for a moment at the doctor with a look of anguish which made even that stoical personage turn away: and then he glued his lips to the thin hand of Ellie and, covering his face, sobbed wearily. 
                   
                  A carriage was soon brought-Sansoucy wrapped up the child and took her in his arms-and soon they reached Mr. Ashton's, whither Sansoucy proceeded without ceremony. 
                  If he had doubted the propriety of such a step, the warm and loving reception of the child soon dissipated any such uneasiness: in an hour Ellie was lying warmly covered, in the comfortable apartment of the two children. 
                  We need not pause to say how deep the astonishment of every one was, at the narrative of Mr. Sansoucy-showing his connection with Ellie; and by what singular steps he had come to trace the child's history from her abandonment by her nurse to the present moment-and to verify the fact that she was his sister. Little Bel and Lizzie gave it up completely, not being able to understand or believe it; and it was only the elder persons of the family who comprehended at once, and without difficulty, this new illustration of the secret ways of Providence. 
                  So surrounded by loving faces, and hands ready to supply her least wants, and bestow soft caresses, the child lay for weeks-her frame battling with the fever which fired her blood, and made her at times delirious. With flushed cheeks, and eyes preternaturally bright, she would lie and gaze for hours at the sky through the window-and only when the close kiss upon her hand, and the hot tear, attracted her feeble attention, did she turn from the blue sky of the coming spring, and gaze with tender wonder on the thin, grief-wasted face of him who watched at her side, and felt every pang of her disease, and wept and prayed for her. 
                   
                  At times the child would wander in her mind, as we have said, and then it was a touching spectacle-her thin face illumined by the internal light of sad but happy thought. At such times her lips would gently part, and with a happy smile she would murmur: 
                  "Beautiful! Oh, very beautiful!-the angels on their long white wings, bearing her in their arms. But how pale you are, Lucia! Oh, how pale-but your face is happy, very, very happy!" 
                  Then she would wander off to the scenes through which she had passed, and a sad look would dim her eyes, and she would murmur again: 
                  "Oh, how cold it is! The snow is falling all the time, and by night it will be deep enough to cover any one that falls down on the ground! There is a child going through the snow-she is shivering!-where is she going on such a cold, dark day? Oh, it is wrong to let her go; and she is not covered from the wind and cold!-Oh, it's not right-why don't rich people give her clothes, and something to eat?-for her feet move as if she was going to fall. Oh, help her! help her-the Saviour died for her, as well as for you!" 
                  Doctor Fossyl would shake his head, and mutter: 
                  "That tells the story of this fever-give me the draught-she must sleep, and her brain rest." 
                  The draught would be then given the child, and she would slowly close her eyes, and forgetting her snow-picture, smile as she gradually sunk to slumber, murmuring: 
                  "Are you my brother?-are you my real brother? Oh, how dearly I love you-you were so kind and good to me-so very, very kind, and good, and dear to me-a poor little child, with nothing but my love-" 
                  "Nothing but a treasure greater than the thrones of kings!" he would murmur as she slept, covering his face as he spoke, and sobbing. "Nothing but what the whole world could not make me yield one particle of!-what death cannot take from me!-for it will bless and pray for me in heaven, among the angels, before God!" 
                  And all who stood around the bed would go away, and leave the strong man alone with the child-bending down and choking his deep sobs, and trying to pray for help-for mercy. 
                  At times the child would suffer terribly, and it was in these paroxysms that her faith and trust seemed to rise up like a flame of pure fire, and drive away every pang, and strangle the burning fever. Even the hard Doctor Fossyl, long used to scenes of pain and disease, and those struggles of mind against matter, which give such a terrible interest to his profession-even the harsh doctor would stand silent, with his thin hand covering his gaunt chin, gazing upon her, and pondering new thoughts. 
                  One day, when her fever was in the height of one of these paroxysms, Aurelia, bending over her with eyes streaming with tears, said, sobbing: 
                  "Do you suffer much, Ellie?" 
                  "Yes, ma'am," said the child, faintly, "but I try to bear it-I can bear it-strength is given to me." 
                  And she murmured some words, which the crouching head of Doctor Fossyl bent forward to catch. 
                   
                  "What was that?" he said. 
                  "A hymn, sir." 
                  "What?" 
                  The child looked at him for a moment, and then, with cheeks flushed with the fever, but in a voice low and distinct, repeated: 
                         
                           "When pain transfixes every part, 
                           Or languor settles at the heart; 
                           When on my bed, diseased, oppressed, 
                           I turn and sigh, and long for rest,- 
                           O, great Physician! see my grief, 
                           And grant thy servant sweet relief. 
                        
                         
                           "Should poverty's destructive blow 
                           Lay all my worldly comforts blow; 
                           And neither help nor hope appear, 
                           My steps to guide, my heart to cheer; 
                           Lord, pity and supply my need, 
                           For thou on earth wast poor indeed. 
                        
                         
                           "And at my life's last setting sun, 
                           My conflicts o'er, my labors done, 
                           Jesus, thy heavenly radiance shed, 
                           To cheer and bless my dying bed; 
                           And from death's gloom my spirit raise, 
                           To see thy face and sing thy praise." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "'To see thy face and sing they praise!'" the sallow physician murmured, with a strange look in his deep-set eyes, over which his heavy brows drooped down, nearly concealing them: and looking on the child in silence, and with vacant eyes, his own childhood seemed to flow back on him, and his livid forehead flushed, and from the bottom of the long-chilled heart an inaudible whisper rose and fled to heaven, and made the countless multitudes rejoice-"I believe; help thou my unbelief!" 
                   
                  From that moment it seemed that Doctor Fossyl braced every nerve for the breast-to-breast struggle with his gigantic enemy. Devouring, with a rapidity which resembled intuition, every reported case in his vast library, and with a burning brain, overloaded with all his profound experience, he would hasten back to Ellie's bed-side, and there, face to face with death, grapple and fight with him as if the lives of a thousand emperors, the hopes of nations, hung upon the frail, wasting thread of that one child's life. He never slept-day and night he was at the child's bedside, with her hand in his, his eyes glued to her face, his body crouching and bent forward, as to catch the faintest sigh, the most imperceptible indications of her condition: and his strength seemed never to flag, his body to need nourishment or rest. Burning, it seemed, with a personal hatred and fury toward the disease which struggled with him, he caught it and held it in his iron grasp, and bent it down beneath him, and so triumphed over it, and saved her. 
                  The hot fever slowly yielded in the contest-the child's eyes were no longer preternaturally brilliant-the flush of disease faded slowly from her cheek-and gradually as the hours and days passed on, she grew calmer and stronger: and the physician, rising from the struggle, looked for a moment on the life he had snatched from the jaws of death, and went away, and sank down overwhelmed and powerless himself, before the enemy he had conquered. 
                  Let us here add, as we take leave of him, that he recovered-and in a month or two, was again following his profession. But he was not the same man-his cynical humor had all passed away-and from the height to which he had ascended, he looked back upon his former life, and wondered at it, and blessed the day that he had known the child. 
                  So Ellie slowly recovered-day by day, gaining strength;-and in the light and warmth of the now blooming spring, far more in the light and warmth of all those loving faces and kind, tender hearts, her health and happiness came back, and resting on the heart of him whose blood flowed in her veins-who loved her so-she heard how they were going far away to the bright fields her infant eyes had looked on, to be happy. 
                  The children, Bel and Lizzie, had almost come to "high words," who should attend to Ellie-and the extravagant affection of these little dames, was warmly returned by the child, who had been treated by them both with a kindness and tenderness which made her happy when she thought of it. On the day she came down for the first time, Bel and Lizzie had their first serious quarrel, and the subject of the quarrel was the dress which Ellie should wear. Bel advanced warmly, and with great eloquence, the claims of a beautiful pink frock, with flounces, and a darling love of a basque-while Lizzie was still more eloquent upon the subject of her best blue mouselain, with open sleeves, and laced in front-just look how beautifully! 
                  The quarrel ended on the appearance of Aurelia, holding in her hand a pretty dress of pearl color, and followed by her maid, also full handed:-and so Ellie came down and was taken into the open arms of one who had the best possible right to disappoint both of the young ladies-Mr. Sansoucy. 
                  Two days afterwards, Aurelia, who had delayed her return, on account of Ellie's sickness, went back home-leaving Mr. Sansoucy melancholy for the moment, but not hopeless. 
                  He was soon to follow her, after having carried Ellie home-and now, for the first time, he wrote, at length, the strange and touching story of the child's recovery, to his mother. He had not written during her sickness, from a motive easily understood-but now, that she was well again, he wrote and told them all; and said that he would come with the child before they could reply to his letter. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy then made all his arrangements-and among these arrangements was one for nothing less than the transportation of Joe Lacklitter and Charley to Sunnyside-Joe to live upon the farm, doing just what he chose, and Charley to carry about the green fields imaginary journals for sale, and hoe in the garden, if it pleased him, for variety. 
                  Ellie had prayed for this; and the very life of the child seemed to be involved in having thus beside her the loved uncle who had loved her so-who was as dear to her, now, as when she thought she had no other friends or relatives on earth. With her arms around her brother's neck, Ellie had besought him for this-and uncle Joe entering, she had run to him, clasped him in her arms, and hidden her face, as in old days, on his kind, honest heart. 
                   
                  Mr. Sansoucy needed no persuasion. Joe's love and tenderness for Ellie had endeared him equally to all, and never, never would any of their family forget the kindness and protection he had bestowed upon the child-his solicitude while she was sick and suffering-his joy when she recovered, and they told him she was well. That kind friend never would be forgotten; and it did not require much persuasion to induce Joe to go and live and help upon the farm. 
                  Mr. Sansoucy, as he came out from the abode of Joe, observed some workmen carrying a long sign toward the former business stand of Captain Schminky, and looking over the door of that establishment, he perceived that "Schminky, Grocer," had disappeared-as indeed had the actual personage, we may as well inform the reader-to parts unknown. Whether Mrs. Schminky had represented to him the danger of a sojourn in Virginia for both of them-or had simply used her will and influence, we cannot say. But Schminky was among the things of the past, as far as Richmond was concerned Mr. Sansoucy walked on, but suddenly found himself opposite to a gentleman and a lady who were passing-and in the gentleman he recognized no less a personage than Monsieur Guillemot. 
                  Monsieur Guillemot cried out in ecstacy, at seeing his cher ami, Mistare Sansouci; and then with a gentle wave of his hand, presented-Madame Angelique Susanne Guillemot; which lady Mr. Sansoucy recognized at once, and bowed to, and shook hands with in a way which evidently caused Monsieur Guillemot to feel himself a bankrupt in the particular of thanks, and wholly unable to meet the run upon him. 
                  So they passed away to the neat dwelling of Madame, which Monsieur Guillemot besought his friend Sansouci to enter and honor-but this being impossible, he passed on, bowing and smiling pleasantly, to think that Guillemot was no more bankrupt and a bachelor, but happy and comfortable, and married. 
                  He called by the post-office, and a letter from Mr. Incledon was handed to him. It said that he was going soon to study for the ministry-and meanwhile could not Ernest pay him a visit-spring had come, and editorial duties might wait for a season-there were young ladies lastly in the house to entertain him, if he could not be amused by one, who, praying God to bless him, was his sincere and faithful Ralph. 
                  Sansoucy smiled, and said: 
                  "Yes, yes! the spring has come, and editorial duties will probably wait long-and as for the young ladies, faith! they amuse and interest me no longer; I'm not in the market!" 
                  And going to his office, he sat down and wrote Ralph Incledon all about everything: and then his pathetic farewell to the readers of the "Mammoth," which he penned with tears-of laughter; and then having done all this, he put on his hat, and with a glad smile sought Mr. Ashton's house and Ellie. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER LAST. 
                  THE VICTORY. 
                  IT was a beautiful May morning, and the spring had fully come forth on the fields and woods with tender green in grass and leaves, and a myriad of flowers nodding up and down in the soft warm breezes blowing faintly with perfume on their wings, from the far tranquil sea. 
                  The showers of April had faithfully performed the duty assigned to them-or rather stated to be regularly performed by them-in the old proverb. All the world was covered with the flowers, and on the banks of brilliant streams which sparkled on through sun and shadow, over emerlda fields, the beds of violets and buttercups and all the early meadow-stars were positively dazzling. The spring seemed fully determined to repay the earth for the harsh blasts of the old winter, whose gloomy thunder had long died away in the icy north-and so it made the green earth smile and laugh-and scattered over the world its brightest treasures-and inaugurated such a merry, happy, golden time, that Maia, in her fullest beauty and best spirits, even as she was represented in the May-day song of the children, never could have looked so beautiful, or dowered the earth before with so much splendor. 
                  On the flowery hill beyond the flowing river, and above the city, a travelling carriage which was going southward, stopped for a time, and getting out of it, two persons gazed for a moment in silence on the scene-on the great river, and the dipping foliage of the green isles which dotted it-and on the far low plains bounded by hills which held upon their tops the canopy of blue, over which white clouds were floating in the warm south breeze-and on the city over which a rosy mist drooped, half concealing that snowy Parthenon, the Capitol; and the white spires rising up to heaven. 
                  We need not tell the reader that the personages who thus paused to cast a last look on the scene of so many sufferings and joys, and griefs and rejoicing, were Mr. Sansoucy and his little sister. 
                  Ellie was clad in her neat pearl-colored dress, and her soft brown hair was brushed back from her pure forehead, beneath the small bonnet. Her large blue eyes gazed alternately upon the scene before her, and then with inexpressible joy and tenderness upon the face of her companion. 
                  But Mr. Sansoucy for the moment does not think even of Ellie-the future disappears with all its brilliant visions; and floating back on the tide of memory, he seems to again live over all his life in the busy hive-pass again through its feelings and its scenes-live again all that life, colored by memory. 
                  He remains long, thus musing with far away dreamy eyes-eyes dimmed now by a cloud, as he recalls some sorrow-then brilliant and smiling, as he returns to some scene of mirth and laughter. Finally, all these expressions disappear-and bending down his head, he says with his old, odd smile, faint, wistful, and unfathomable: 
                  "Farewell, O city!-city that thinkest thou art much in the universe, and art indeed possessed of life sufficient to set up a number of Pekins, and some Amsterdams-farewell! Thou art busy as I stand here looking on thee, with a thousand schemes-and through thy veins and artery-like streets, that hot blood, human life, flows ever to and fro-and struggles, and battles, and foams in its passage-never ceasing, ever flowing on-like the restless current sustaining the spirit of life, in the actual frame of man! Thou art busy with a thousand thoughts that are not of heaven-seldom thy hot blood flows toward the altars-seldom thy fiery eyes raise themeslves toward those spires which point to heaven! Such art thou, O city-heart of a land which has made history-and such are thy occupations, thy passions, and thy struggles. Thy struggles! for thou strugglest for ever-and the press is rolling ever in thee-and the courts for ever echo in thee-and the journals that chronicle thy daily heartbeats, are full of the lawless things that riot for ever in thee! Such art thou, beautiful city, sleeping nightly-if thou indeed sleepest ever-to the murmur of thy waterfalls, and waking to run on for ever in thy rapid course. Such art thou, but who am I to be sitting in judgment upon thee, or thy doings? Am I not like the rest-a thousand times worse than thousands-a poor journalist who never so much as knew the existence of the beauty and goodness, and charity, and nobility of thy daughters and thy sons? O beautiful city! What am I, to become thy critic-I, who have been one of the throng-who have grown heated often in thy struggles-who going now into the cool country-lands, will feel like the fiery king, Jugurtha, hurled into the cold prison, and muttering, as he falls,-'How cool are thy baths, Apollo!' No! that is not my feeling, heaven be praised-the country is not my prison; or if it is, I have chosen it, and like my jailor! Rather I'll say, 'How beautiful are thy fields, O Maia! thy smiling fields, laughing with tender grass and flowers!' and so my fine apostrophe to thee, O city, ends! How much of earnest mingles with the jesting, who can tell!" 
                  And Mr. Sansoucy, with a look almost sad, turned from the landscape, and looked at Ellie, who had listened to these muttered words without comprehending them. 
                  "Let us be thankful, dear," he said, pressing his lips to her pure brow, with deep affection: "let us be thankful that the mercy of heaven has given you back to home, and those you love-thank God for this, Ellie, if I do not know how, yet; and taking your hands in mine, we will kneel together-with prayers of love and gratitude to that merciful being who blessed us with this supreme blessing." 
                  His gaze dwelt softly upon the tender face, and the eyes which filled with the dews of gratitude and happiness, and he was silent, turning away and murmuring. 
                  As he did so, they saw below them, on the slope of the hill, the figure of a boy, who, with head bent down, approached an enclosure, in which a single white stone, marked the last resting place of one who slept. 
                  The boy stood by the green hillock, on which bloomed a bed of flowers, and, clasping his hands, sank down, and hid his face in the long grass, and the flowers, upon the grave. 
                   
                  It was Wide-Awake at the grave of Lucia; and Ellie gazed at him, and tears came to her eyes, and she was silent-but not so silent that her brother did not hear her murmur: 
                         
                           "Thou, Savior, seest the tears I shed, 
                           For thou did'st weep o'er Lazarus dead." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Yes, Ellie," said Sansoucy, folding her in his arms with deep love and tenderness: "that Saviour raised you almost from the dead; for this, and all his love and mercy, I will be his child and servant-let us go." 
                  And with his arm round the child, who clung to him, and shed happy tears, and smiled, he returned to the carriage, and entered with her, and gave the signal to the driver to continue his way. 
                  In ten minutes the carriage had disappeared behind the green foliage toward the south. 
                
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
