
    ----CITATION----
        Green, Invisible, (1820-1863). Green Peas .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6189 wright2-0659
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               GREEN PEAS,
               PICKED FROM THE PATCH OF
            
            
               INVISIBLE GREEN ESQ.
            
            ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MCLENAN.
            
               CINCINNATI:
               MOORE, WILSTACH, KEYS & OVEREND,
                  
                     25 WEST FOURTH STREET.
                  
               
               NEW YORK:
               LIVERMORE & RUDD,
                  
                     310 Broadway.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1856, by MOORE, WILSTACH,
                  KEYS, & CO., In the Clerk's office of the District Court of the United States
                  for the Southern District of Ohio.
               Stereotyped and Printed by WILLIAM OVEREND & CO.
               CINCINNATI.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            GREEN PEAS! an odd title for a book, is it not? Yet who can say it is inappropriate?
               Has not the press issued "The Daisy," and "The Violet," the "Opening Rose" and the
               "Withered Flower," and an hundred more as prettily titled volumes? If poets can
               clothe their dreams in the lovely language of Flora, and borrow titles for their
               volumes from her favorite flowers, why cannot Invisible descend into the more humble
               but not less popular vegetable kingdom, for a name for his first book? GREEN PEAS! Is
               there not music in that sound? Does it not smack of something palatable? Is it not
               new, pleasant, refreshing? In fact, is it not a good name?
            What the book contains, the reader will ascertain by perusing it. Invisible has no
               hesitation, however in making the prefatory assurance, that the pods are all full of
               peas. Some of the peas are large, and some are small, some are plump and savory, and
               some—if the truth must be told!—will require strong applications of seasoning to make
               them relishable.
            Many of the sketches in this book have been written for recreation, while performing
               the labors of reporter to a daily newspaper. As a reporter in pursuit of "items," Invisible often met with
               characters which afforded him pleasure to describe, and events in the career of
               individuals which were all sufficient 
                  "To point a moral or adorn a tale."
               
            
            To sketch such characters and arrange such incidents in short stories has been to him
               the source of numerous pleasant hours. Many queer people indeed does this world
               contain—men, and women too, with odd manners, odd features, and such odd actions,
               that they are walking humorists, sure to excite merriment wherever they go. And how
               many people there are, too, whose hearts are rent by the most sorrowful afflictions,
               and who suffer without the sympathy of even one kindred spirit, 
                  "In secret, in silence, and tears."
               
            
            In this volume, Invisible has endeavored to array this kind of people—the queer, the
               sorrow-stricken, the eccentric and the suffering. He has attempted to combine the
               humorous with the serious, by the presentation of incidents as he has observed them,
               dressed in a style to please himself. He hopes that GREEN PEAS will gratify the much
               talked of reading community, and that those who purchase it will, to use a very
               common but proper expression for the day, "Get their money's worth."
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               PREFACE. 3
               
               CONTENTS. 5
               
            
            
               POD I.
               Uncle Barney: or an Early Morning Adventure of an Eccentric Old Batchelor, 11
               
               A Practical Illustration: or Hoss Head and the Fops, 17
               
               Little Lizzie, the Flower of the Barracks, 28
               
               Courtship: or How a Dutch Widow Managed to get a Youthful Husband, 37
               
               The New Leaf: or a New Year at the Cross-Roads Tavern, 43
               
               Mrs. O'Callahan's Splash, and how Mons. Le Force Received it, 55
               
               The Lost Balloonist, 60
               
               First Love: or Jeremiah Triumph's Opinion of City Gals, 67
               
               I am too Low to be Redeemed: or the Fatal Termination of a Runaway Match, 74
               
               Hans Von Sputtles, the Last of the Woodsawers, 80
               
               Christmas among Christians, 91
               
               An Incident in the Ladies' Cabin: or How a Gossip's Tongue was Silenced, 99
               
               
               Snob John, 104
               
               Wearing the Breeches: or Woman's Rights Illustrated, 111
               
               Old Mag, a Story of the Ice-House, 121
               
               The Little Old Maid's Story, as related on Thanksgiving Day, 127
               
               The Hog Drover's Visit: or Bill Jenkins' first Impressions of the Queen City,
                     136
               
               An Appetite for Law: or Grit to the Back Bone, 143
               
               Visiting the Sick: or a Neighborly Call on an Old Batchelor, 149
               
            
            
               POD II.
               Invisible calls upon the Fortune-Tellers, 159
               
               Invisible at a Pic-Nic, 173
               
               Invisible among the Clouds, 183
               
               PICKINGS FROM INVISIBLE'S CITY OBSERVATIONS. 
                     A Clique Frightened, 194
                     
                     A Gloomy Picture of Life, 197
                     
                     Attending Funerals—Mrs. Gadabout, 199
                     
                     The Red Flag, 202
                     
                     Von Sweitzel on Politics, 205
                     
                     The Baby is Dead, 208
                     
                     Drunk, 210
                     
                     A City Nuisance, 211
                     
                     Ride in an Omnibus, 213
                     
                     The Prosecuting Attorney's Iron Chest, 215
                     
                     A Stone or Two in it, 218
                     
                     A Speculation, 219
                     
                     Another Speculation, 221
                     
                     A Treacherous Memory, 223
                     
                  
               
            
            
               POD III.
               POLICE SKETCHES.
               Quarrel over a Dish of Krout, 229
               
               My Husband's Miniature, 235
               
               An Ethiopian Pleading at the Bar, 237
               
               All About a Pail of "Wather," 241
               
               A Tattler, 244
               
               A Commodore Before a Human Judge, 250
               
               The Troubles of a New Hood, 253
               
               A Poor Thief, 256
               
               Origin of the Goose Question, 258
               
               A Rich Trial, 262
               
               The Reign of Petticoats, 265
               
               Happy, 271
               
               Disappointed Love, 274
               
               What are you Laughing at Me for? 276
               
               George Washington in Jail, 279
               
               A Human Cross, 282
               
               A Punster,285
               
               An Irishman's First Sup, 287
               
               Love—Pistols without Coffee, 289
               
               
               A Victim of Love, 291
               
               Stuck or Not Stuck? That's the Question, 295
               
               Poor Old Man, 297
               
               Proving Character, 299
               
               Uses it for Medicinal Purposes, 301
               
               An Old House with Low Tenants, 303
               
               National Pluck, 305
               
               Illustration of an Historical Fact, 307
               
               Watch-House Loafers, 309
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Green peas
            
               POD I.
               
               GREEN PEAS,
               PICKED FROM INVISIBLE'S PATCH.
               
                  UNCLE BARNEY:
                  OR, AN EASILY MORNING ADVENTURE OF AN ECCENTRIC OLD
                     BACHELOR.
                  WERE you ever in the City of D——, which rests so prettily in the Valley of the
                     Great Miami? It is a charming city, with its broad streets, its costly and
                     handsome public buildings, and its spacious gardens, in the midst of which, in
                     buildings of varied architectural beauty, the more fortunate portion of the
                     community reside. It is a small city, but being in the centre of one of the
                     prettiest and most productive valleys in the country, wealth flows easily into
                     the coffers of its thriving inhabitants. A good portion of the population is
                     made up of families whose "heads" were among the early settlers of the country,
                     and who have become wealthy through the constant and rapid increase of
                     property. Among these is "Uncle Barney," known to almost every resident of the
                     place, and really a very eccentric character. It is said, he was a lively and
                     vivacious youth, and as such was quite
                     a favorite with the early settlers of the neighborhood. In early manhood, being
                     an only child, he inherited all his father's estate, which, even in that early
                     day, was a competency. Soon after this event Barney became sad and demure, and,
                     refusing at all times to explain his altered conduct, kept aloof from all
                     company.
                  Time rolled on, and Barney remained the same. His property had increased in
                     value until he had become immensely rich; and yet he was the same demure,
                     incommunicative Barney. After various conjectures as to the cause of his
                     eccentricities, it was generally concluded, as is usual under such
                     circumstances, though without any apparent foundation that he had been crossed
                     in love.
                  A year ago, though age had silvered his hair, and he had received the title of
                     Uncle Barney, he still preserved his singularity. He never possessed more than
                     two suits of clothes at one time, one being woolen and the other linen; and his
                     changes from thick to thin, or from thin to thick, were more regular than the
                     seasons. On the first of April, every year, no matter how cold, he would don
                     his Summer suit, and keep it on, though Winter lingered long in the lap of
                     Spring. On the first day of October, he would resume his Winter garb, and
                     retain it, even if the mercury rose to boiling heat. From this habit, he had
                     never varied within the memory of his oldest neighbors.
                  As singular was he in regard to his hours of rest. When he sported his linen,
                     he retired promptly every evening at 9, and rose each morning as promptly at 4.
                     While wearing the woolen, 8 o'clock of every evening beheld him in bed, and
                     nine hours after, to the minute; was he up, on the morrow. And Summer or
                     Winter, in rain or snow, mud or dust, he was no sooner dressed than he started
                     upon a morning walk, traversing the same path every day, and returning to his
                     lodgings, with the precision of a locomotive running "on time."
                  These were some of the eccentricities of Uncle Barney a year ago, which made
                     him still an object of wonder to his neighbors, and of interest to the
                     stranger. But about that time, another sudden change came "o'er the spirit of
                     his dream," a change as astonishing as that of his earlier days, but more
                     readily accounted for. It happened in this way.
                  One beautiful morning in June, as he was taking his usual walk, his course led
                     him along the banks of the gentle Miami. As the early dawn broke upon the
                     earth, Uncle Barney was impelled to stop and enjoy the advent of the "god of
                     day;" for it was one of his chief pleasures to witness the earliest blushing of
                     the skies.
                  A few light clouds were floating in the eastern sky, and the morning zephyrs
                     wafted them gently onward, until they formed a gauzy veil o'er the hill tops,
                     behind which the rising sun was ascending. These light clouds soon assumed a
                     grayish hue, and were not unlike misty banners floating in the air. As the
                     light from the rising god became stronger and more diffused, they assumed more
                     brilliant hues, and soon the whole of the eastern sky was covered with a sheen
                     of the richest and most varied dyes. A little longer, and the golden streaks
                     from the Summer's sun burst o'er the hills, and pouring their welcome beams
                     across the valleys destroyed the charming formations of the clouds. Instantly
                     all nature was alive. The birds left their tiny Summer homes, shot forth into
                     the pure air, and warbled their
                     sweetest notes. The beasts of the field aroused themselves as if summoned by a
                     voice, and prepared for their daily toil, and even the waters seemed to glide
                     more happily along, proclaiming, as it were, a greeting to the sun.
                  It was such a scene as this, one of our glorious western sunrises, so
                     beautiful, yet witnessed, alas! by so few,—which caused Uncle Barney to pause.
                     From his youth he had loved the beautiful in nature; and it was only such
                     scenes as these, witnessed by him when alone, that sent a thrill of pleasure to
                     his heart. He was still standing in the same spot, now listening to the
                     warbling of the birds, and the music of the dancing waters, and then watching
                     the advance of the sun, when suddenly a heavy moan fell on his ear. He
                     listened.—It was repeated, and quite near him. Looking into a recess in the
                     bank of the river near him, he saw a female stretched upon the ground, her face
                     and the earth about her covered with gore. Startled at the sight, he instantly
                     hurried away. It had been many years since he had been brought in contact with
                     a woman, dead or alive; or had, in person, administered relief to any one,
                     though he had frequently sent large donations, anonymously, to the various
                     benevolent societies of the city, in whose success he secretly felt a lively
                     interest. His first impulse, therefore, was to withdraw from the vicinity where
                     immediate help no doubt was needed.
                  He walked very fast for a few rods, when he suddenly paused.
                  "Hold on, Uncle Barney," he soliloquised, "this aint never a goin' to do, by
                     gee-ko, (his favorite oath). Afore you git to a house the gal might die, and if
                     you was to be the first to tell 'em where she is, and they was to find her dead
                     they might think you killed her. By gee-ko, that wont do. Better say nothin',
                     Uncle Barney, by gee-ko. Strange world, and strange people, you know, Uncle
                     Barney," and shaking his head, he slowly continued his walk.
                  He had not proceeded far before another and a strange thought appeared to
                     strike him. He wheeled suddenly around, and hastily retraced his steps.
                  "By gee-ko, I may save the poor gal's life," he exclaimed, as he hastened
                     onward. "Nobody mayn't hear tell on it, and if they do, by gee-ko, I do n't
                     care, for there's somethin' here, in my heart, tells me I ought to do it, and I
                     will."
                  Arriving at the spot, he found the woman moaning most piteously. Not responding
                     to his questions he lifted her in his arms, and carried her to the water's
                     edge, where he gently bathed her face, putting aside the long tresses of hair,
                     which, clotted with gore, hung over, and almost concealed her countenance.
                  He then recognized her as the mother of a family residing in a cabin not far
                     distant, and being familiar with her condition, readily divined the cause of
                     her terrible situation.—The water revived the woman, and she was soon able to
                     speak.
                  "By gee-ko, gal," said Uncle Barney, as she opened her eyes, "I had almost gin
                     you up for gone. What on airth brought you here so early?"
                  "Don't let him hit me again, oh! for God's sake, don't let him hit me again,"
                     faintly exclaimed the poor woman, looking wildly about her.
                  "By gee-ko, he shant," soothingly responded the Good Samaritan. "It's Uncle
                     Barney that's holdin' you, and there wont be no hitten of any body now."
                  As the woman continued to revive she told the cause of the night's disaster. She was the wife of a
                     drunkard. The evening previous her husband had come home a raving maniac from
                     the effects of liquor. She fled from his presence. He pursued her; felled her
                     with a club; and that was all she recollected. Uncle Barney helped her home,
                     where he also found the drunken husband stretched upon the floor, and in the
                     agonies of death. His miserable career was about ending. Uncle Barney saw him
                     breathe his last, and then hurried to the city for medical aid for the almost
                     dying woman.
                  There was some excitement in the city that morning.—Uncle Barney had not
                     returned from his morning walk, and was not at his breakfast. Such a thing was
                     unknown before, even to the oldest inhabitant, and fears were entertained for
                     his safety. Persons were about starting in search of him, when he appeared,
                     walking out of his usual gait, down the main street. He said nothing, and was
                     asked no questions. He hastened to his rooms, dressed himself, and hurried away
                     again. That day he buried the husband, and watching over the unfortunate woman,
                     day and night, until she recovered, he then—married her!
                  He is no longer an old bachelor, spurning society, but a comparatively happy
                     husband. He takes no more long morning walks, though he holds to his queer
                     notions of dress, which he still insists are correct, "accordin' to natur',"
                     and he is still studiously silent as to the cause or causes of his long years
                     of stupidity and silence. Was he not an eccentric old bachelor?
               
               
                  A PRACTICAL ILLUSTRATION:
                  OR, HOSS HEAD AND THE FOPS.
                  HOTELS have now become so numerous in cities, and the fare so reasonable, that
                     they are the resort, at times, of nearly all classes of society. The man who
                     can afford to travel from home, can afford to stop at a hotel; and as landlords
                     are smart enough to regard the wants of the million as well as those of the
                     millionaire, we find the rich and the poor, the high and the humble, side by
                     side at hotel tables. Homespun there sports a silver fork with as much gusto as
                     Mr. Broadcloth, and the humble 'Sally' is as much entitled to, and enjoys as
                     fully, the good things of life at the richly loaded table of the hotel, as the
                     accomplished Miss Josephine Martha Washington Victoria Maria. Consequently the
                     hotel is a good place to study human nature, for there we see men, and women
                     too, from all the walks of life, and of all classes of character. Often
                     'extremes meet,' and when such is the case, amusing circumstances are sure to
                     transpire.
                  Sitting one evening in the office of the O—— House of Cincinnati, my attention
                     was attracted toward two genuine, and unadulterated fops, who occupied seats
                     near me. A description of them would be uninteresting, for there is no
                     community in this broad land of ours without its fops, and a fop is a fop and
                     nothing else, the world over. They admit of but one distinction—city fop and
                     country fop; and they differ only in
                     the extent of their dress, or exterior display, it being conceded I believe,
                     that all fops possess merely sufficient brains to make an animal a human. The
                     individuals referred to were city fops, diminutive specimens of humanity, in
                     every regard.
                  One of them had received a letter from a lady, which he read to his companion,
                     to whom he declared the writer was "chawmingly beauchiful," but, as she was
                     without a pwospect (for a fortune,)he could not consent to return her love. He
                     vowed that the billet doux annoyed him
                     exceedingly, as he disliked to "bweak the dwear cweature's heart."
                  While they were thus engaged in conversation, a tall strapping Hoosier entered
                     the hotel. He had a 'Buena Vista' on his head, and a red flannel 'wamus' on his
                     shoulders, while his lower extremities were encased in brown linsy pants, and
                     the stoutest kind of hog-skin boots. His hair was long and scraggy, his face
                     unshaved, at least for a week, while his whole form was covered with dust,
                     which indicated that he had just arrived by railroad, In one hand he carried a
                     bundle, which was evidently clothing, tied up in a 'span new' yellow and red
                     cotton handkerchief, and in the other he held a stout but rude walking stick,
                     not long since from its mother hickory. He had that awkwardness of gait,
                     peculiar to countrymen whose days are spent almost entirely upon their farms,
                     and whose minds are devoted to the one thing most sought after, but not the
                     most desirable, the accumulation of wealth.
                  He paused a moment at the door, glancing at the crowd within, and at once
                     attracted the attention of the fops who immediately gave a sort of consumptive
                     laugh or snickering sneer, at the homely appearance of the stranger.
                  "Is this yere place a tavern?" he inquired of the fops.
                  "A twavern? howwible!" exclaimed one of the fops holding up both his hands.
                  "A twavern, indeed!" said the other, "he must be from the woods, Chawlee," and
                     both renewed their laughter.
                  The Hoosier gave them an indignant look, and was about to reply, when the
                     clerk, who had observed him, approached, and informed him he was at a hotel,
                     and inquired if he wished to stop.
                  "Stop! sartin I do," was his response, "you don't reckon a feller to cum to
                     such a smart tavern as this yere, without stoppin', do you Kurnell?"
                  "Hardly, sir—allow me to take your baggage, and furnish you with a room."
                  "Just as you're a mind—I'm not partic'lar so I get six feet o'bed, and a hull
                     plate at the table.—Golly! but aint this a scrouging town?"
                  "Quite a place, sir. Walk this way, if you please, and I will attend to you,
                     instantly," said the clerk, as he took the Hoosier's bundle.
                  "Wall, now, you're uncommon polite, stranger, but I reckon you make a feller
                     pay for it all in the course of sarcumstances. But as you're sort o' human—set
                     right up to a feller what's in a strange country, I'm the chap to squar your
                     bill for fodder to a figure, when you fotch it up. That's my way o' doing
                     business, Kurnell."
                  "I have no doubt of it, sir," said the clerk, smiling, and handing him the book
                     for that purpose, asked him to register his name.
                  "Do what?" inquired the stranger, somewhat astonished.
                  "Register your name and residence in this book, sir."
                  
                  "Write it down thar?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Cum, now, Kurnell, none o' your tricks," said the Hoosier, with a sly smile on
                     his countenance, and after a moment's pause.
                  "O, sir, it's no trick I assure you. We require this of all visitors, as much
                     for their own as our benefit."
                  "You don't tell?"
                  "Yes, sir, that is a fact."
                  "Want to know whether they kin write, I reckon. Wall, that's on the squar. When
                     a feller goes away from hum, he ought to show his edication. I not only larned
                     to write when I was a shaver, but got up purty high in the figures. I'll give
                     you a specimen of my chickography, as old Squire Smith calls writin, in darned
                     short order;" and the traveler took the pen, turned the book in an oblique
                     direction, and squaring himself to suit, leaned over the book to write. His
                     oddity attracted the attention of all in the office, including the two fops,
                     who, amused at his remarks, gathered about him at the clerk's desk. The pen in
                     his hand had touched the book, when he paused, and, after reflecting a moment,
                     raised his head, and addressing the clerk, said:
                  "Kurnell, do you want all of a feller's name?"
                  "We would like to have your full name."
                  "Full name! Wall, that's a puzzler. You see my family name is Hempfield, then
                     my Christian name is John Isaiah, that thar's John Isaiah Hempfield, aint
                     it?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Wall, then, the boys down our way, considerin' me a right smart chap, kind a
                     gin me a second christenin'—they call me Hoss Head."
                  This information, so innocently given, caused a loud burst of laughter from the
                     crowd. Hoss Head participated in it, for he loved a laugh, and could be as
                     merry as the next one.
                  "A rale smart name, aint it boys?" he asked, after the laughter had ceased.
                     "Would you put it down in the books?"
                  "Certainly, certainly," cried all.
                  In a few minutes the stranger, after giving his pen many circular movements
                     over the book, and changing his position several times, succeeded in writing
                     his address in full, as follows: "Mr. John Isaiah Hempfield, Hoss
                     Head, Persimmon Post Office, Yellow county, Indiana." He pointed to this
                     specimen of his "chickography," with pride, and seemed wonderfully pleased with
                     the fulsome praise bestowed upon it by the gentlemen present.
                  Expressing a desire to get fixed up, the clerk showed him to the wash-room,
                     when the two fops, who had endeavored to enjoy the Hoosier's greenness, were
                     struck with an idea—about such an one as generally racks the bedulled brains of
                     men—if men they can be called—of their stamp. Anxious to display their
                     smartness, and to create amusement at the expense of another, the fop's seized
                     the porter's brushes, and giving the crowd a knowing wink, as much as to say,
                     'we'll make fun for you approached Hoss Head.
                  "Shall we bwrush you, sirrah?" asked one, endeavoring to play the servant.
                  "Wall, now, by thunder!" exclaimed Hoss Head, as he dropped the soap from his
                     hands, and ceased his ablution. "I always wor good at guessin'," but this beats
                     all kreation. Look here Kurnell—addressing the clerk—"I no sooner seed these fellers to-night, than I guessed
                     right out they war sarvants.'
                  The boisterous laugh which followed, was to the great chagrin of the fops.
                  "They jest look," he continued—every hit being heartily enjoyed by all but the
                     fops—" as if they war'nt made fur nothin' else but to scrape the mud from a
                     feller's legs, and do little chores round a tavern. I thunk that,
                     when I first seed 'em; an' by thunder, war'nt I right, though? Brush me off?
                     Sartainly! and (with a dignified air) mind you make a clean sweep, or I'll
                     report you to the Kurnell, thar."
                  The fops, finding that Hoss Head had thrown the joke upon them, endeavored to
                     recover; so they informed him that he could not be brushed unless he paid in
                     advance.
                  "Pay in advance!" was Hoss Head's indignant reply. "Thunder and salvation!
                     don't the tavern pay you for yur lazy, triflin' work? I reckon you think I'm
                     kinder green, an' want to skin me, don't you?"
                  "Pon onah, we dwon't' replied one.
                  "We-ah spweak the truth," answered the other.
                  By this time, Hoss Head was victorious, so far as the spectators were
                     concerned. While they could sport with the Hoosier's ignorance of "city
                     manners," they could but despise the senseless dandies, who would make him an
                     object of ridicule. Every "hit," therefore, that Hoss Head gave them, drew
                     forth loud acclamations from the gentlemen present. This nerved the gentleman
                     from the country," and giving his head a toss which threw his hat to one side,
                     he asked—
                  "Arn't they tryin' to skin me, boys?"
                  "Yes," came from a dozen.
                  "I thunk so, from the start, an' it sort o' riles me to cum across such
                     critters. I've hearn tell of the cattle afore, and I was on the look out for
                     'em. 'Squire Jones told me afore I left hum, to look out for the tavern thieves
                     when I got to the city, an' by thunder I've run agin two on 'em right at the
                     start."
                  "Dwo you mean to insult us?" asked one of the fops, forgetting the part he had
                     volunteered to play, and feeling that he ought to profess indignation on being
                     called a thief.
                  "If the shoe fits, wear it," was Hoss Head's pointed answer.
                  "Did you apply the twavern thief to us?" asked the other fop.
                  "Sartin' I did."
                  "Then, sirrah we will let you know-ah that we only asswumed the character of
                     swervants. We are gentlemen, sirrah, and we inswist on your-a takin' bwack the
                     obnoxious wappellation, or we'll seek redress."
                  "Yes, sirrah, we'll seek redress with our canes-ah," said his highly indignant
                     companion, as he flourished a very slim specimen of a cane over his head.
                  "What!" exclaimed Hoss Head, drawing himself out to his full length and giving
                     the diminutives before him rather a scornful look. "What! you want to fight, do
                     you? Just clar a ring, boys, and stan' back, if you want to see me eat them two
                     critters in half a minit. I can do it by any watch in this crowd. Just clar the
                     ring."
                  "Stop, stop!" interrupted the clerk, who saw that matters were going too far.
                     "We can't have any fighting here."
                  
                  "Then larn your servants to be purlite," replied Hoss Head.
                  "They are not servants, sir, and do not belong to the house. They are not even
                     boarders, and I assure you, sir, I never saw them before this evening."
                  "Don't belong to the tavern, and tryin' to skin me."
                  "I presume, sir, they only intended to play a harmless joke."
                  "That's all, pown 'onah," replied one of the fops, who saw that matters were
                     assuming rather a serious aspect for himself and friend. "That was all we
                     intwended, wasn't it Chwarles?"
                  "Pon onah, it was."
                  "Kinder pokin' fun at me, eh?" Wall, now I kin stand a joke as well as the next
                     man on airth, and, Kurnell, I'll gin twenty-five cents all in silver, jest to
                     carry them'ar men out of the house."
                  "I have nothing to do with them, sir, and you can act your pleasure," replied
                     the clerk.
                  The fops surmising the intention of the Hoosier, started for the door, but he
                     seized them both, and said:
                  "Hold on! it's better to ride when it costs nothin'. I've got to tell you a
                     story, and larn you a lesson afore you leave this tavern," and grasping both
                     tightly by the collar, he held them as if in a vice. The fops remonstrated, but
                     Hoss Head, to the delight of the crowd, told them very mildly, that there was
                     "no use talkin," for they could not go until they heard his story. They
                     consented to remain if he would let go of them, to which he did not object.
                  Surrounded by such persons as are always found in a hotel office, Hoss Head,
                     with his eyes on the fops, told the following story:
                  "My old man, down in Yellar' county, owns as sumptious a farm as lays in all
                     them diggins. On that ere farm he's got an old horse, he calls Dick, as good
                     natured a critter as ever rubbed his nose in feed, and all anybody could say of
                     him, was, that he was right smartly common in his looks. One time, a rich
                     feller, who lives sum whar in this town, was travelin' in his carriage, and
                     broke down, right agin our farm. He concluded he'd go in the cars, and he left
                     his bosses with the old man to take care on 'em, an' I must allow, that a
                     purtier pair of critters never rubbed a britchin'. The old man put 'em in the
                     barn-yard along with old Dick, and told 'em to make 'emselves to hum. Old Dick
                     was monsus glad to have company, an' he cum runnin' up to 'em in a neighborly
                     sort of a way, an' throwed his head over fust one o' their necks an' then the
                     other, an' was as luvin' as any gal could want her beau to be. The city hosses
                     did'nt appear to like this much, an they kind 'o drawed back, took a good look
                     at Dick, and seein' he was uncommon ugly, they jest turned up their noses,
                     flirted their tails and walked off.
                  "This sort 'o riled old Dick, for he knowed he was just as good a hoss as ever
                     lifted a hoof, and after thinkin' to hisself awhile, he determined to have
                     satisfaction on the two upstarts, who thought they war better than him. So he
                     goes up to them an' turns his back to 'em just this way:" and here Hoss Head
                     got down on all fours, with his 'hind parts' to the two fops. "After he had
                     stood this way about a minit, he rared
                     and kicked this way," and the same moment one of his feet was in the stomach of
                     each of the fops, and they found them selves sprawling on the floor.
                  
                     
                  
                  "Old Dick," continued Hoss Head, unmoved at what he had done, "keeled them
                     over, and by the time they war up, he was thar agin, and he rared agin this
                     way;" and the fops who had just risen and were making for the door, found
                     themselves on their stomachs. "Our old hoss kept followin' of em up," continued
                     Hoss Head, as he moved slowly backward on all fours, "until he got the city
                     hosses, who could brag o' nothin' but the purty har on their hides, right by
                     the bars, an' then he rared sort of this way, and sent both on em out o' the
                     barn-yard a kitin,'" and taking good aim, he gave the two fops a third and a
                     harder 'hoss kick,' which sent them through the open door-way, on the
                     pavement.
                  As soon as the fops could get up, they ran off, screaming murder at the top of
                     their weak, feminine voices, which however, was not loud enough to alarm any
                     one. The spectators of the scene nearly split their sides with laughter, as
                     kick after kick was given, all heartily concurring in the opinion that Hoss
                     Head was administering a just and well deserved punishment. After he had given
                     the last and most fearful kick, the Hoosier resumed an erect position, and
                     participating in the general roar of laughter, said:
                  "Wall, boys, I guess I larned them dandies, that the best hoss doesn't
                        al'ays show the finest har!"
                  The event made Hoss Head quite a lion at the hotel. Invitations to drink were
                     extended to him oftener than was desirable; wine was sent to him at table; he
                     was conducted in a carriage through the city to see the sights, and when at
                     length he departed for home, the landlord told him he had no bill to pay, and
                     that he could consider his "hat chalked" for that hotel, whenever business or
                     pleasure called him to the city. John Isaiah Hempfield Hoss Head expressed
                     himself highly delighted with the Queen City, and all the people therein,
                     except fops, and left the Western Metropolis a very highly tickled individual.
                     The fops have not been seen sinco that 'ever memorable evening,' when, for a
                     joke, they assumed the character of servants.
               
               
                  
                  LITTLE LIZZIE; THE FLOWER OF THE BARRACKS.
                  A TRUE STORY OF CITY LIFE.
                  "LITTLE Lizzie is absent again to-day," said Miss Martha Jones to her Sabbath
                     school class, as she finished calling their names before entering upon the
                     duties of the morning. "This is the second Sabbath of her absence, and I am
                     fearful the sweet little girl is sick. Do any of you know where she lives?" she
                     asked of the class.
                  "I do," responded one of the girls.
                  "Where?"
                  "In the Barracks, in Charcoal Alley, back of St. Xavier church."
                  "Have you been to see her?"
                  "No ma'am—I was a goin', but I see so many ugly looking people in the Barracks,
                     it skeered me, and I did'nt go in."
                  "You should have persevered, child," replied Miss Jones, who was a fervent,
                     pious Christian, and who labored zealously in the holy cause of Sabbath
                     schools. "You should have persevered, child, for God is ever with His children
                     to save them from harm. Always trust in Him. I fear little Lizzie, whom we all
                     love, is sick, for she is fond of her Sabbath school, and would be here if able
                     to come. I will go find her as soon as school is dismissed."
                  All Miss Jones had seen of Lizzie was in Sabbath school. The child was about
                     nine years of age, and had been in school, and in Miss Jones' class, some six
                     or eight months. She was always very poorly clad, but was so devoted to her
                     school, listened so attentively to the sacred instructions there imparted, and
                     enquired so seriously and frequently for religious advice, that no one could
                     doubt she was endeavoring to be in word and action a Christian. So sweet was
                     her disposition, so kind her heart, so pure her conduct, that all in the
                     Sabbath school knew her but to love her. Miss Jones had often asked Lizzie
                     about her parents, and where she lived, but received merely a tear for a reply.
                     Finding the enquiries so affected her pupil, she did not press them, though she
                     often wished she knew where Lizzie lived and could visit her.
                  No sooner was the Sabbath school dismissed that morning, than Miss Jones
                     proceeded to Charcoal alley. It is a narrow, dirty avenue, noted for its
                     extremely filthy condition, and no one ever passes through it unless forced by
                     circumstances to do so. Miss Jones stopped at the entrance of the alley. She
                     thought it could hardly be an avenue leading to the residence of any human
                     being; but observing a large building about half-way up, which answered the
                     description of "the Barracks," she proceeded. It was an unusual sight to see a
                     well-dressed woman enter that alley, and it was no wonder those who resided
                     near by lifted their windows and watched her with surprise and astonishment. I
                     warrant that not one of them rightly divined her mission, or guessed the
                     purposes of her heart—none presumed that she was a ministering angel of God's
                     own appointment, seeking distress to alleviate it, or sorrow to destroy it. Oh!
                     thou faithful Sabbath school teacher! called of Heaven to plant seeds of ever
                     living Truth in the hearts of the young—to train youthful minds to walk in the paths of Christianity—to feed
                     his Lambs with the Bread of Life—thy task, though laborious and oft-times
                     severe, is still a joyous one! In after years many will stand up and bless
                     thee; and though the world knows but little of thy labors, and fails to cheer
                     thee in thy pure charities, in Heaven, Angel of Earth, is thy reward!
                  Miss Jones proceeded up the alley until she reached the Barracks—and here,
                     reader, we will pause for a moment while we examine the exterior of the
                     building, which is one of many lately erected in this Western Metropolis, (all
                     called "Barracks") by capitalists, ostensibly for the
                        accommodation of the poor. The building on Charcoal alley is
                     about one hundred feet long and thirty wide. It is five stories high, with a
                     wide and spacious porch, the whole length of the building.
                  The edifice has but one stairway and one vault, and they are together in the
                     centre; as might be supposed, a foul current of air continually passes from the
                     latter through the former. There is one hydrant to each porch, and a trough for
                     the slops. While one is running almost constantly, the other is generally
                     filled up with rotten, decayed matter, which, of itself, would destroy all
                     purity in the atmosphere.
                  A tenement in the "Barracks" consists of two rooms, one fronting on a porch,
                     and the other in the rear of that. They are rented at from six to twelve
                     dollars a month; the tenements of the lower story being let for the highest,
                     and those of the upper story for the lowest sum named. The owner does not rent
                     the house, but employs an agent at a per centum to do that work, and see that
                     the property is not destroyed. The agent has unlimited power to control the
                     premises, and is, in fact, the landlord. Though he may use every exertion to
                     preserve the property, he but seldom repairs and never cleans it, and
                     consequently it is always in a dirty, unhealthy condition.
                  The Charcoal alley Barracks contain nearly an hundred tenements, which are
                     occupied generally by a low, ignorant order of people. Sometimes, honest,
                     upright families are forced by circumstances to move into it; but so bad do
                     they find their neighbors, so vicious, turbulent and boldly dishonest do they
                     find those with whom they must have intercourse, that they remove as soon as
                     possible.
                  Quarrels are ordinary affairs in the Charcoal alley Barracks, and a fight is an
                     every day occurrence. Go there at any hour, and you will find some
                        woman pouring forth a torrent of profane and licentious
                     language, and perhaps see another under the influence of whisky, endeavoring to
                     excite a "muss." Oh! what crimes have been committed within the walls of that
                     building, and how much degradation, misery, and human suffering, has been
                     witnessed there. In erecting it, the owner may have intended to accommodate the
                     poor, but he has succeeded only in building a huge rendezvous for the lowest
                     characters, a building which harbors and sends forth a moral pestilence, a
                     house which is a nuisance to the neighborhood, and a disgrace to a Christian
                     land!
                  It was in such a place as this, that Miss Jones, the Sabbath school-teacher,
                     sought little Lizzie, in whom she felt so much interest. Many females would;
                     have shrunk from such a place, but Miss Jones, with her heart fixed solely upon
                     her holy errand, thought only of the object of her search. As she stepped from the alley into the paved
                     passage-way, which runs beside the building, she encountered about a dozen
                     rough looking men, who were in the act of passing the bottle. They seemed
                     surprised to see one of her gentility of appearance in such a place, but gave
                     way, and she passed on.
                  "Be jabers an' it's a lady," said one, as she passed.
                  "An' a dacint one too, me life on't," added another.
                  "What may, she be afther?"
                  "Seein' some dacint gintleman," replied another, with a peculiar wink of his
                     eye.
                  "Och! none o' that, ye blaggard," responded the second speaker. "Don't yees see
                     she is a dacint lady? Take the botthle, and stop wid it yees dirthy
                     tongue."
                  That happy rebuke caused a roar of merriment from the crowd, and the bottle was
                     immediately passed, and its inspirations made them forget the "dacint lady,"
                     whose appearance had surprised them. Miss Jones heard it all, but paid but
                     little attention to it. She passed on by several tenements, until she reached
                     the foot of the stairway, where she met rather a genteel-looking Irish woman,
                     with a prayer-book in her hand, who was evidently going to church.
                  "Good morning," she said, addressing her.
                  "Good morning to yer ladyship," responded the other, making a curtsey.
                  "Can you tell me whether a little girl named Lizzie H—lives in this
                     building?"
                  "Is it little Lizzie yer ladyship wants, the girl wid the black hair an' the
                     black eyes?'
                  "She has black hair and black eyes."
                  "Arrah, yer ladyship 'ill find her more dead nor alive. She's a good girl, yer
                     ladyship, an' the meanest baste could say no ill forninst her."
                  "She is truly a good girl, and I am anxious to see her. Will you be kind enough
                     to show me to her room?"
                  "Yes, yer ladyship, come wid me."
                  The conversation had attracted the attention of every family who lived in the
                     first story of the Barracks, and while the men and women poked their uncombed
                     heads out of the doors and windows and listened in silence, their children,
                     ragged and dirty, gathered about the visitor and divided their attention
                     between the conversation and an examination of her dress. A little boy slily
                     abstracted Miss Jones' handkerchief from her pocket, and a girl stole her
                     pencil from her waistband, while she was conversing. After Miss Jones had
                     started up the dirty, filthy stairway, twenty inquiries were made among the
                     women below, as to who she was.
                  "I reckon," said a corpulent old woman with a pipe in her mouth, "she must
                     belong to some benevolence societies."
                  "She's a lady now, do ye mind that," said a bunchy Irish woman.
                  "A lady indade," responded a snub-nosed, red-haired specimen of womanity, "did
                     yes ever see a lady talkin' to a Fardown? She's no more a lady'an mesel'."
                  "Ha! ha! you is very fun," said a lively French woman. But we will leave them
                     to their arguments and proceed on in search of little Lizzie.
                  The stench in this stairway was so strong that Miss Jones was almost overcome
                     with it. Her guide observed it, and immediately gave her opinion of
                     hard-hearted landlords and their
                     impositions upon the poor. In fact she kept her tongue running quite briskly
                     until she reached the head of the stairway in the fifth story, when she lowered
                     her voice, and said:
                  "Walk aisy, yer ladyship, for the noise of our futs may disturb the
                     darlint."
                  The admonition was useless, for in a room near them a group of persons of both
                     sexes were singing a licentious song over a jug of whisky, and at the west end
                     of the porch two women were quarreling most violently. Several persons, either
                     drunk or asleep, were stretched out on the greasy porch. Miss Jones followed
                     her guide to the eastern end of the porch where she was shown into a room, the
                     appearance of which made her very heart ache.
                  Not a particle of furniture was in the apartment, and on a bed of straw, in one
                     corner of the room, lay Little Lizzie, pale and emaciated, her hands folded on
                     her breast, and reposing apparently in a refreshing sleep. The Sabbath-school
                     teacher kneeled by her side, and tears gushed from her eyes as she raised her
                     soul in prayer to Heaven. Lizzie slept sweetly on, and her teacher not wishing
                     to disturb her, arose and turning to the woman who had conducted her to the
                     room, asked where were the parents of the child.
                  "If I must tell yer ladyship the trut'," was the answer, "they be in jail. The
                     coonstable took 'em up yestherday, for takin' a dhrop too much, and batin' one
                     o' their neighbors a little! Arrah! yer ladyship, what does the guvernment care
                     for the poor?"
                  "But where is their furniture?—they certainly had some."
                  "There be black sheep in every flock, yer ladyship, an' there be thaves in this
                     house. They plunthered the room last night, and yees can see, they took all but
                     the bed unther the swate little girl."
                  Miss Jones was horror-struck at such baseness, but with a becoming presence of
                     mind, she took immediate measures for the relief of her pupil. She paid the
                     Irish woman to go instantly for a physician of her acquaintance, and to stop on
                     her return and procure certain necessaries. The woman had no sooner left, than
                     a crowd gathered about the window of the room, and amused themselves with
                     commenting on the appearance of the apartment and the bad character of its
                     occupants, as they supposed, to the chagrin of the lady who was present. From
                     their remarks, Miss Jones inferred that little Lizzie's parents were of the
                     basest kind, and that what the Irish woman had told her of them was really
                     true. She spoke to none of the debased crowd at the window, but again kneeling
                     by the bedside of her much-loved pupil, sought comfort in silent prayer, until
                     the arrival of the physician and the return of the messenger. Their entrance
                     awakened little Lizzie, and her eyes instantly fell upon her teacher.
                  "Oh! Miss Jones, have you come to see me?" she said, throwing her arms around
                     her teacher's neck, as she bent over her to kiss her. "I have been so sick, and
                     I wanted mother to tell you; but she would not. I prayed to our Saviour to let
                     me see you before I died, and I knew he would do it I am happy now."
                  "Thank Heaven that I have found you, my sweet child;" replied the Sabbath
                     school teacher, though her tears almost choked her utterance. "You may get well
                     now. I have sent for a doctor, and see, he is here."
                  The physician, who was much affected by the scene, now stepped forward to examine his patient. As he
                     took her wasted arm in his hand to feel her pulse, she, in a faint voice,
                     said:
                  "You can do no good, Doctor, for I am dying now. I know it. I feel I shall soon
                     be in Heaven. God has been good to me—he has answered my prayers, and saved me
                     from the wickedness of those about me. And He has sent my kind Sunday-school
                     teacher here, to help me over the dark river of death. I am ready to die."
                  "Is there no hope, Doctor?" asked Miss Jones, as she took little Lizzie in her
                     lap and pressed her head to her bosom.
                  "None—none—none!" said Lizzie, her voice growing fainter at each word. "Don't
                     cry, Miss Jones, don't cry. I am going to that Saviour who died for us all—I
                     shall soon be happy in Heaven. I am happy now, Miss Jones—happy—happy—happy.
                     Press me closer to your bosom—angels are coming to take my soul away—meet me,
                     meet me in Heaven."
                  Her voice grew weaker with every word, and in a short time after she spoke her
                     last, her pure spirit calmly took its flight to the world above, to join the
                     angelic hosts of Heaven.
                  Miss Jones closed those once bright black eyes forever, and hugging the corpse
                     to her bosom, gave vent to her feelings in tears.
                  It was a strange death-bed scene for the Charcoal Alley Barracks, and though
                     hundreds had died there before, I fear that little Lizzie was the first who
                     departed this life in that building with a pure heart and clean hands.
                  Miss Jones afterwards learned that her little pupil had lived a practical
                     Christian life. Her voice was often heard in prayer, and day after day she
                     would go from room to room in that den of degradation, rebuking sin, and
                     endeavoring to persuade old and young to become Christians. She was often
                     repulsed and often abused, but she continued to preach, nevertheless, until
                     seized with that illness which caused her death. Her parents, were very
                     degraded, and often whipped her because she prayed, but she bore it meekly and
                     without a murmur.
                  Her body was placed in a coffin on the day of her death, and removed to her
                     teacher's residence. The next morning a large number of persons followed it to
                     its last resting place. Miss Jones and her Sabbath-school class being the
                     mourners. Religious services were performed at the grave, and as the minister,
                     in touching language, portrayed the scene at the death-bed of the youthful
                     Christian, tears flowed from the eyes of all present—tears to the memory of
                     "LITTLE LIZZIE, THE FLOWER OF THE BARRACKS."
               
               
                  COURTSHIP:
                  OR, HOW A DUTCH WIDOW MANAGED TO GET A YOUTHFUL HUSBAND.
                  IN a little frame house near the eastern boundary of that portion of the Queen
                     City known as "Bremen," lived once upon a time, Kathleen Von Steidle, as fair
                     and lively a young widow as ever sighed for a second husband. Kathleen bore the
                     seal of her ancestry in her stout, plump form. She came from a country where
                     females are not treated as dolls, and where women consider it a duty to labor
                     equally with the other sex; consequently she was stout and able-bodied. Her eyes were as bright as a bran-new
                     krout spoon; her cheeks, delightfully round, would compare in plumpness and
                     rosy tint, with the favorites of the orchard; her nose hung from, between her
                     eyes like a crimson tassel; her neck was thick and as straight as a wooden
                     water pump; her waist which had ever scorned the pressure of whale bones and
                     brown linen, was as symmetrical as a water barrel; her ancles stout enough for
                     a Hercules, and her feet, patterns for a patent brick machine. In truth, there
                     was none of that sickly, repugnant delicacy in Kathleen, which is seen so much
                     among the women of the day, and which unfits them for the duties of life. She
                     was a stout, well-made woman, calculated to battle life in whatever shape she
                     should meet it.
                  Kathleen was a widow. Four years previous she had been made so, and at the time
                     of writing she had again many suitors for her hand. She was no Hindoo, and did
                     not believe in burying herself alive with her dear departed Gotlieb. She had
                     done him all the good she could while he lived, and after his death she
                     believed it to be her bounden duty to love and comfort some other individual of
                     the masculine sex. These opinions Kathleen had often expressed, and hence the
                     suitors.
                  But Kathleen was not to be caught in a trap. She knew that the hymeneal state
                     could only be happy by mutual love, and she rejected every offer where she
                     could not feel her heart yearning to the one who made it.
                  "I knows 'em all!" she soliloquised one day. "Shake wants to marry me mit mine
                     house. He no gits me. Shon dinks I make money while he trinks lager-pier all
                     der vhile. He gits fooled. Hermann pees a goot man, but goot Himmel! he pees
                     more sour as der krout vot Old Spikes send me vhen I lend him monish!" And
                     Kathleen shook her head. She proceeded thus to scan the merits of her beaux,
                     until she reached the very last on the list.
                  "Well den, I likes none of 'em, any more," she said, as she ripped open a head
                     of cabbage—"I vish Frank was mit 'em. Ah! mine Himmel, vat a goot boy mine
                     Frank is. He pees so burty. Vy don't Frank say, 'Kathleen, let's go to der
                     'Squires, an' git married?' He say not'in' at all, all der vhile," and heaving
                     a sigh, Kathleen went into a deep thought. The Frank spoken of was a young man
                     of twenty-three, and really a handsome fellow. He had been but a short time
                     from Fatherland, and was still imbued with all those habits which won Kathleen
                     to Gotlicb in another clime. He appeared to have quite a fancy for Kathleen;
                     called to see her often; got her to do his mending; listened attentively to her
                     kind advice; but further than that he said nothing.—Several times the widow
                     thought she caught him casting sly glances of love at her, but she was not sure
                     enough to accuse him of it.
                  In truth Kathleen loved Frank, and took various opportunities of hinting the
                     matter to him, but Frank had not lived long enough to understand a hint, and
                     his stubbornness in this respect, provoked her very much. Frank's frequent
                     visits, however, convinced her that his affections were assailable, and she
                     determined to besiege his heart, and if possible to capture it.
                  One evening, just after she had come to that conclusion, Frank visited the
                     widow. He sat down opposite her, and, lighting his pipe, he assumed his usual
                     quiet position, and said nothing
                     further than to answer her questions as briefly as possible. The widow now
                     determined to lay siege.
                  "Frank," she asked, with a pretty smile, "vat you come here so much for?"
                  "To get mine clothes mended," was the short reply.
                  "Ish dat all?"
                  "Yaw."
                  "Vy you no get 'em mend down town to your poard house, eh?"
                  Frank's reply was a shake of the head, and an uneasy whiff of his pipe.
                  "You no likes der womans down dere, Frank?"
                  A shake of the head
                  "I tinks so," continued the widow, who noticed that she had cornered the young
                     man. "You like to come, live mit me, Frank?"
                  "Yaw."
                  "Vell, come along."
                  This prompt invitation seemed to astonish young Hans—He raised his eyes, looked
                     a moment at the widow, and then casting a glance at the only bed in the room,
                     gave a long sigh, and again became transfixed.
                  "Vat you tinks, Frank?" asked the widow.
                  "Tinks?" asked Frank, in reply.
                  "Yes, vat you tinks ven you looks at der bed?"
                  "I tinks not'in'."
                  "Not'in', Frank? I knows vat you tinks."
                  "Vat?"
                  "You tinks dat bes von goot bet, an' you likes to sleep dere, vat you say,
                     Frank?"
                  "Yaw, dat ish it."
                  "Vell, you can, all der vhile."
                  "Vhere you sleep?" asked Frank, somewhat astonished.
                  "On der floor, mit der quilts."
                  "Nix," was the emphatic negative to that proposition.
                  "How we fix it den, Frank?" pressed the widow, who confident that Frank was
                     smitten, but too bashful to break the ice, drew her chair close to his.
                  Frank could not conceal his embarrassment. The truth was, he had never been in
                     love until he had seen the widow, and, being entirely inexperienced in such
                     matters, he did not know how to proceed. As the plump Kathleen for the first
                     time sat close by his side, he felt a strange sensation, which greatly
                     increased his embarrassment. He was afraid to move, and even forgot to whiff
                     his pipe, the stem of which he almost severed between his teeth.
                  "How we fix it den, Frank?" repeated Kathleen, letting her head drop carelessly
                     on her lover's shoulder. Frank quivered at the touch, and his eyes rolled
                     almost convulsively. He could not have spoken if he would.
                  "You sprakin not'in', Frank," she continued, taking his hand in hers; "and,
                     mine Himmel! you shakes like mine little tog vhen he's got der sherks. Vat bes
                     der matter mit mine Frank?" she urged, putting her arm around his neck, and
                     giving him what in common parlance is called a hug.
                  A bright glow gradually lighted up the countenance of the young lover. He felt
                     as he had never felt before. The fond hopes of months were now being realized,
                     and so unexpectedly, that he could scarcely believe it. He heard every word
                     addressed to him, but was unable to lisp a syllable. He even imagined he was dreaming, and to make
                     sure, passed his arm around the fair Kathleen's waist. There was no mistaking
                     its pillowy softness, and in his ecstacy he dropped the pipe from his mouth and
                     exclaimed—
                  "Goot Himmel! dat ish mine Kathleen!"
                  The widow now considered her triumph complete; and as her speechless and
                     pipeless lover clung to her, bright visions of a youthful husband and a happy
                     future rejoiced her heart. After the first ecstacy of love was over, however,
                     she was reminded that Frank had not yet popped the question. Knowing the
                     inconsistency of man in general, she determined to consummate the match that
                     very night.
                  "Frank," she said, after due consideration; "Frank, you come to poard mit me,
                     how we fix it about der bed?"
                  "Poard?" asked the lover in reply.
                  "Yaw. Don't you want to poard mit me? Dere is Shake, an' Pete, an' Shon, an'
                     Mike; dey vant to live mit me, but no poard."
                  "Nix poard?"
                  "No. Shake say, 'Kathleen you got only von ped; I like to live mit you—vot
                     shall ve do?' I say, 'not'in',' den he say, 'Let's go to the 'squire an' get
                     married,' an' I say, 'I marry nopody but mine Frank.'"
                  "Dat ish goot," replied the lover.
                  "Vell?" asked the widow with much earnestness.
                  "Vell," was the stupid response.
                  "Shall we go to der 'Squire, Frank?" asked the widow, finding that she must pop
                     the question herself.
                  "Yaw."
                  "Vhen?"
                  "In der mornin.'"
                  "Oh, mine Frank! mine Frank!" exclaimed the widow, overjoyed at the happy
                     result.
                  The next day, the two were made one, and those who knew the "frau," declared
                     she was far more devoted to the youthful Frank, than she ever was to the
                     deceased and forgotten Gotlieb.
               
               
                  THE NEW LEAF:
                  OR, A NEW YEAR AT THE CROSS-ROADS TAVERN.
                  "NEW Year's comes but once a year, boys, an' as old Fifty is 'bout expirin'
                     into etarnity, old Tim can afford to stan' treat, all 'round. Come up, ev'ry
                     mother's son of you, and give the old year a partin' drink!"
                  Such was the language of old Tim, landlord of the "Head of Washington," to a
                     bar-room full of customers, early in the last evening of the year 1850. The
                     "Head of Washington" is an old tavern, and I might say, that it is firmly fixed
                     in the memory of thousands who have patronized it. Scores of distinguished men
                     have eagerly sought its comforts, and gladly accepted its hospitality. Weary
                     travelers, borne slowly in the stage-coach, day and night, through a frosty
                     atmosphere, have hailed its glowing fires and warm meals with joy. The poor
                     wayfarer, with all his earthly possessions on his back, has often entered its
                     doors downcast, and left them enlivened in heart. Aye! the "Head of
                     Washington," kept for years by old Tim Walker, at the cross-roads, near G—, in a Western State, has comforted
                     many a sorrowful heart and afforded good cheer to many a weary soul. Nay, more.
                     There, in the bar-room of that old tavern, more than one now distinguished man
                     has first displayed his "larnin'," and first made his mark among his
                     fellow-men—and there, in after years, has he been compelled to mingle
                     familiarly with those who assisted to elevate him to fame, but who had gone
                     down, down, while he ascended. There public measures have been discussed, great
                     enterprises projected, and important movements set in motion. There in that
                     same bar-room, ministers have prayed and exhorted, patriots vented forth their
                     devotion to their country, and travelers related thrilling adventures, to eager
                     ears. And there—truth compels the assertion—there
                     have hundreds of men, with noble forms, stout arms, and sound minds, imbibed
                     feelings, and engendered habits, which have proved their total ruin. Oh! thou
                     old tavern at the cross-roads! while many remember thee with pleasure, hundreds
                     curse thee for their destruction!
                  Like all landlords in rural districts, Tim Walker was a "big man" among his
                     fellow citizens. His house, the only place of resort in the village, was
                     visited by all, and upon holidays, especially, the villagers assembled there,
                        en masse. On the occasion above alluded
                     to, the last evening of the year 1850, the bar-room was crowded with a merry
                     throng, who had commenced the celebration of the new year ere the knell of the
                     old one had been pealed by the hand of time. Tim was a "jolly old soul," and
                     the sight of so many gathered together in anticipation of a holiday, cheered
                     his heart, and induced him to give the invitation to "all hands" to take a
                     drink, free of expense. A second invitation was not necessary, for in a moment
                     "all hands" save a few, were at the bar, glass in hand. And it was not a little
                     amusing to observe how the various grades clustered around that bar. First, and
                     nearest to the landlord, stood the 'squire of the township, with a stomach
                     equal to Falstaff 's, and a plump, red nose, which glistened in the cheerful
                     light. He was the leader of the first plattoon, which embraced closely the
                     counter, and there was something in all their looks, which betrayed an
                     eagerness to sip the inspiring liquid. Next to them, and just able to reach the
                     glasses on the counter, were a sturdy-looking set of men, who, though not so
                     eager, were anxious to join in the general drink. Behind them, were still
                     others, and they looked on and laughed, and appeared careless as to whether
                     glasses reached them at all, and indeed their chance for a drink did at one
                     time appear rather doubtful, so eager were those who had reached the counter
                     before them. Around the fire, and farthest from the bar, were a knot of
                     individuals who were evidently disposed to let others do their drinking. But
                     when old Tim said, "drink all round," he meant it, and his dram touched not its
                     glass, until all in the bar-room stood liquor in hand, and awaited a signal
                     from him to drink all together.
                  "Now, boys," said he, as he prepared his dram, "who will give the toast?"
                  "Bill Crawford!" shouted a dozen voices.
                  "Bill Crawford 'tis, then," was his reply. "Come, sonny," said he, to a tall
                     young man, whose face seemed almost bursting with the liquor bloat, and whose,
                     scanty clothing was in rags. "Come, sonny, get on to a cheer, and sing it
                     out."
                  
                  "I guess the 'squire had better do it," replied Bill Crawford, the individual
                     addressed, as he stepped on to a chair, with his glass in hand. "When it comes
                     to a 'bout, Bill's in, but 'squire's got more larnin' than was ever packed in
                     the hull family of Crawfords, and he's the chap what ougth'er gin the
                     toast."
                  "The 'Squire," "the 'squire!" shouted the crowd.
                  "Thar it is," continued Bill. "'Squire you're in and this little chicken's out.
                     Drive on with your wagon, 'squire."
                  This was followed by merry appeals to the 'squire for the toast.
                  "Gentlemen," responded the official, as he took off his hat and
                     wiped his face with a yellow and red mixed cotton handkerchief,
                        "Gentlemen and fellow citizens: I fear you are reposing heavy
                     responsibilities upon me, forming as you do, too stupenduous opinions of my
                     capabilities. I'll however, endeavor to satisfy your thirst for something good.
                     This is New Year's Eve, gentlemm, and I will give you something
                     appropriate. I will give you a verse, which was sung at my cradle, by my
                     patriotic father, years ago. It goes—be you all filled and ready?"
                  "Ready!" was the response.
                  'Well then, here's the toast:" 
                        
                           "Apple-sass and ginger-beer,
                           New Year's comes but once a year—
                           So here's to you—here's to me—
                           Merry, merry we will be."
                        
                     
                  
                  A shout followed the toast, and down went the liquor. Old Tim was glad to see
                     all so merry, and he rubbed his hands with glee.
                  "Boys, make yourselves at home," said he, "for you are all welcome to the 'Head
                     of Washington' to-night."
                  This called forth another shout, and then the 'squire treated, and then
                     somebody else treated, and so the treat went round to all those who were able
                     to stand it, and, as is generally the case, to some who were not. The more
                     liquor drank, the more jovial the company, and songs were sung, jokes passed,
                     and quite a happy feeling prevailed. All seemed merry but Bill Crawford. He was
                     considered the most ready wit of the neighborhood, and stood unequalled there
                     in spinning yarns, and singing songs. But this evening he appeared sad and
                     demure, and not a smile crossed his generally merry countenance. He volunteered
                     to assist Old Tim, and taking a place behind the bar, busied himself in keeping
                     its fixtures in order. In vain was he called upon to sing a song or tell a
                     story—he invariably, as with the toast, forced some one else to do it for him.
                     His singular conduct caused some comment, but was soon forgotten in the
                     hilarity of the evening.
                  Soon the sound of music was heard in another part of the old tavern, which
                     proved more attractive than even the bar. The dining-room had been cleared of
                     its immense tables, and under the direction of Mrs. Walker, a portly busy-body,
                     arranged for the usual New Year's dance. From the day she had become landlady
                     of the "Head of Washington," she claimed it as a special privilege to invite
                     her friends to welcome the New Year, in a pleasant dancing party. The
                     dining-room festival was so enticing to the inmates of the bar-room, that most
                     of them proceeded to join the dancers. Even old Tim, himself, leaving the bar
                     in the care of Bill Crawford,
                     proceeded thither, as he jocosely remarked, "to shake a foot with the
                     gals."
                  The dining room of the "Head of Washington" is about thirty-five feet long, by
                     fifteen in breadth. Its walls and ceilings are as white as chalk, while its
                     smooth floor is as unstained as the falling snow. On this occasion, all the
                     looking glasses and pictures about the tavern were arranged upon the walls of
                     the dining room, to give it a holiday appearance. Chairs and benches were
                     placed around the room, and at one end a pine table, with a stool upon it, was
                     set for the special use of the fiddler.
                  The ball was a kind of "free blow," Mrs. Walker, in selecting her
                     company, having invited nearly every person in the neighborhood. The guests
                     were not slow to come either, and at the time when the sound of the fiddle was
                     first heard, nearly all the seats were occupied.
                  The musician was an old negro, whose only name was Bob, and who had been the
                     village barber and dancing master from its earliest settlement. He almost
                     worshipped his fiddle, and gloried in the clear, strong manner in which he
                     "called the figures." No monarch ever ascended a throne with more avidity than
                     he mounted the pine table that night, and no despot ever sat in his chair of
                     state, with more dignity, than did Bob on the fiddler's stool.
                  "Is your voice clear to-night," asked Mrs. Walker of him, as he was tuning his
                     instrument.
                  "Clar!" was his reply. "Clar! Is dar any mud in de moon-shine? If dar is, dis
                     niggar's voice aint clar. Jus' wait till I tunes up Old Benjamin, (his fiddle,)
                     an' den I'll show you wedder dis voice am clar!"
                  This satisfied Mrs. Walker, and taking a sort of dignified strut through the
                     room—such a strut as a landlady only can give—smiling to this guest and to that
                     one, she finally seated herself opposite the musician, and gave him a knowing
                     nod of the head, which was the signal to begin.
                  "Pardnah's for de cotillion," yelled Bob, as he furiously rim his bow over his
                     fiddle strings.
                  The floor was soon filled with eager dancers, and on receiving another nod from
                     Mrs. Walker, Bob set them in motion. And such music as came from that violin! I
                     have heard Ole Bull on his single string and his diamond-set fiddle, but never
                     heard him produce the rich, full, and melodious sounds which came from old
                     Bob's instrument. It is an orchestra complete, and needs no accompaniment save
                     the "clar" voice of its owner. And that voice was musical, too, as it gave
                     forth, in merry strains, the figures about as follows:
                  "To de right and lef all four,—tee-dum tee-dum—De balance now—deedle-dum deedle
                     dum—Ladies will you change—high-die die-do—Promenade across de room—bee-ye
                     bee-ye—An' now come back agin," etc.
                  People may talk as they please about the inferiority of the African race; but
                     if there is not music in a negro, there is certainly none this side of heaven.
                     At least the company no doubt thought so, as Bob, beating time with his feet,
                     produced such inspiring sounds from his instrument, and sang the "figures" so
                     delightfully to the air he was performing. The dance went on, and the bar-room
                     was deserted, except at the intervals between the cotillions. While the music
                     was going, the girls were more attractive than the decanters, but the moment old "Bob laid aside "de fiddle
                     an' de bow," stimulants were sought in the bar-room.
                  I need not relate the events of the evening—tell how 'squire Higgans sat up to
                     the widow Spriggans—how affectionate the young married couple were in public;
                     making the girls blush and the boys giggle—how Sally Scruggs got jealous of
                     Molly Muggs, and tripped her up, while she was dancing with Bill Snipes, her
                     beau—how Mary Spurrs broke one of the looking-glasses in displaying her ugly
                     face in it—or how Mag Surly mistook a shadow for a seat, and set herself flat
                     on the floor, right before the whole company.
                  Neither need I tell how Bill Snipes suffered with his new tight boots—what a
                     dash Bill Thompson cut with his new shirt collar—how Dick Murphy, having more
                     of the "ardent" about him than he could carry, fell into the fire, and came
                     near burning himself up—how Joe Turner pulled nearly all the hair out of his
                     head, and would'nt dance because he was in love with Mrs. Doxy, and could'nt
                     get her, as she already had a husband, or how Dick Handscrabble insulted Miss
                     Terry by asking her if the old year would'nt leave her an old maid.
                  The dance went on. All were happy while the fiddle played, and joy seemed to
                     reign over the festive gathering. The hour of twelve approached, and
                     preparations were made to welcome the New Year in a becoming manner. Mrs.
                     Walker, the landlady, had her own notions about this ceremony, and if not
                     consistent in any thing else, she was in this. The New Year had always been
                     received with a certain ceremony, at her annual parties, a ceremony she had
                     concocted cocted the first year of her landladyship, and to which she would
                     hear of no alterations or amendments. It was this:
                  At ten minutes before twelve o'clock, the company took hold of hands and formed
                     themselves into a circle. They were to join man and woman all the way round,
                     and if there were more men than women, or vice
                        versa, the odd ones were sent out of the room as black sheep. The
                     circle formed, old Bob slowly and solemnly walked inside of it, and then all
                     getting upon their knees, he played a solemn requiem to the expiring year.
                     While playing, he kept his eyes upon the clock, and the moment the large hand
                     came within one minute of twelve, he ceased playing. A dread silence then
                     prevailed until the clock pealed the meridian of night, when the violin
                     instantly struck up a lively air. The company then jumped to their feet, and
                     retaining hold of each other, moved briskly around the room, shouting "a happy
                     New Year!" This was a strange ceremony, but not inappropriate or
                     uninteresting.
                  On this occasion the circle had been formed, the company were on their knees,
                     and Bob had just commenced the requium, when a startling incident took place.
                     Bill Crawford, the lively joker, the merry singer, and the never-failing
                     drinker, came slowly into the room upon his tip-toes. His face bore an ashy
                     hue, while his large black eyes had an unearthly, ghastly look. At each step he
                     would place the fore-finger of his right hand upon his lips and say in a soft
                     whisper, "Hist!" His strange appearance startled all in the room, and even the
                     musician's fiddle fell from his hands with the requiem half finished. Not a
                     soul stirred, or scarcely breathed, as that ragged toper, with his wild,
                        unnatural look, approached the
                     center of the room, and solemnly knelt on his bended knees.
                  "Hist! hist!" said he, "the Old Year's agoin'," and with us, is on its way to
                     ruin. The devil is after Bill Crawford, the drunkard—he is—he is—he's coming in
                     the door—he knows me—he's got me by the hair—help! murder! help!—save me from
                     death!" and thus shrieking, the poor man, his face assuming the most horrid
                     shapes, fled to the farthest corner of the room, where he buried his head in
                     his hands, and uttered the most agonizing groans.
                  The utmost consternation pervaded the company. Many, alarmed at the horrible
                     sight, fled from the house; while all the females who remained shrieked as if
                     they thought the Judgment Day was at hand. The only man present who appeared to
                     retain his presence of mind was old Tim, the landlord. Mounting a chair he
                     coolly said:
                  "Make more noise, won't you all? Can't you see that nothin's the matter, only
                     Billy's got the man-an'-the-poker agin?"
                  This served somewhat to quiet the fears of the company, and old Tim instantly
                     turned his attention to the afflicted man. With two or three others he
                     approached the crazy drunkard, for the purpose of removing him to a more
                     suitable place. The moment their hands touched Crawford, however, he shrank
                     from them as from a viper. His face was still ghastly pale, while large drops
                     of sweat stood upon his brow. He trembled from head to foot, and fixing his
                     glaring eyes upon the landlord, he exclaimed,
                  "Go away you devil! Your hands are hot, you burn me—oh, my God, take the devil
                     away, I'll drink no more if you don't take me now! Oh, murder, murder! I'm
                     burning up—my head—my feet—my hands—my body, is all on fire!—Good Lord! water!
                     water! water!"
                  "Bill, don't you know me?" said old Tim, I'm the landlord."
                  But the suffering man heeded not his words. The most dreadful exclamations,
                     followed by terrible groans, still came from him, while he trembled from head
                     to foot. He was finally seized by four stout men, and though he resisted with
                     the strength of a maniac, and uttered the most piercing shrieks, he was carried
                     to the bar-room and laid upon the counter. An effort was made to force liquor
                     down his throat—a good antidote for the disease when properly administered—but
                     he resisted with all his might. Suddenly, that resistance ceased, his jaws
                     became fixed, his eyes ceased their rolling, and he lay motionless and
                     still.
                  "There's no use workin' any longer with him," said Tim, the landlord, "for poor
                     Bill's drinked his last drop—he's dead!"
                  He spoke the truth—the toper had drawn his last breath. This was his third
                     attack of the mania-a-potu, and it had
                     hurried him away. He took his departure with the expiring year, and oh! how
                     dreadful was his death.
                  No more mirth was witnessed in that house that night. Toper as he was, degraded
                     as he had been, no one was more liked about the village than poor Bill
                     Crawford. He possessed a liberal heart, and was ever ready to oblige those who
                     asked his service, and to discommode himself to be useful to others. But he
                     loved the bitter cup—could not resist its fascinations—and drank himself to
                     death. Sad, indeed, was the entree of
                     the New Year, at the old tavern at the cross-roads! It brought sorrow, fright,
                     and consternation, and the horrid scenes of that night will never be removed
                     from the memory of those who witnessed them.
                  The terrible death of Bill Crawford affected no one more than old Tim, the
                     landlord. After surveying the corpse silently for some minutes, during which,
                     big tears rolled fast down his cheeks, he said—
                  "This night I turn over a New Leaf—No liquor can be bought at the "Head
                        of Washington" during the New Year."
                  Old Tim was true to his vow. But a short time after poor Crawford's body had
                     been laid in its last resting place, on New Year's day, every drop of liquor in
                     the bar of the old tavern at the cross-roads, was given to the soil to drink.
                     The landlord became a temperance man and a temperance advocate, and now the
                     village of G——, mainly through his exertions, stands prominent among temperance
                     localities.
                  Mrs. Walker, is still alive, and since the night of Crawford's death, has given
                     two more "New Year welcomes." She declares they are far more happy without the
                     use of ardent spirits, and that she is glad her husband abolished the bar. She
                     often relates the circumstances of Crawford's death to habitual drinkers, who
                     chance to stop at the old tavern, and advises them to do on the next New Year,
                     if not sooner, what her husband did that evening—"Turn Over a New
                        Leaf!"
               
               
                  MRS. O'CALLAHAN'S SPLASH:
                  AND HOW MONS. LA FORCE RECEIVED IT.
                  MONS. LA FORCE is a French gentleman and a teacher of music. He possesses all
                     the grace and vivacity for which the, original frog-eaters are celebrated the
                     world over, and being always a la mode in his
                     dress, polite in his attentions, and agreeable in his intercourse with others,
                     it is no wonder he is a favorite among the ladies. Where are the Frenchmen who
                     can not make themselves attractive to the feminine sex?—Though they may be as
                     ugly as a rough stone fence, their general acquaintance with the artificial
                     means of adorning the person, their refinement and good taste, give them an
                     advantage which those of the same sex, of other nations, do not possess.
                  Mons. La Force is in love for about the one hundred and twentieth time. He is
                     smitten with the charms of a belle to whom he is engaged in giving instructions
                     in music—"bootiful moosic." He calls on her often, and manages to impress the
                     heart, as he delights the senses and refines the mind.
                  Monday last was Monsieur's day to call on his lady-love. How he did primp, and
                     fix, and fuss, before the looking-glass, ere he took his departure. This curl
                     was arranged, that curve in the cravat gracefully stationed, every defect in
                     his apparel carefully hidden, and all disagreeable odors removed by a free
                     application of the most delightful perfumes.
                  
                  "Bootiful! bootiful!—fascinate ze ladee, ze sweet ladee!" he exclaimed, as he
                     surveyed himself for the last time in his mirror. "Ah, ha! I captivates; I
                     swear, zis time, my love to ze bootiful ladee."
                  With a small bundle of music in one hand, and his delicate cane—if a polished
                     and highly ornamented switch can be called a cane—in the other, Mons. La Force
                     proceeded toward the residence of his bewitching pupil, and lady-love. He was
                     on Spring street, within a square of his destination, and his heart began to
                     experience those sensations which ardent lovers are apt to feel when
                     approaching the object of their affections—in fact his heart commenced beating
                     "pitty-pat," when a roar, much like that of a cataract, fell upon his ears, and
                     the next moment he found himself completely drenched with dirty, greasy
                     water.
                  "Mon Dieu! vat is ze matter?" he exclaimed,
                     the moment he recovered from the shock. "Who do zis to me?—Ah! oh! vat s'all I
                     do? My toilet ruin—my perfoom gone, an' I smell like—like—like—ze bootcher
                     s'op. Ah! oh! I kill myse'f wiz ze suicide."
                  "Are yez hurt, darlint?" sung out a voice from a porch in the third story of
                     the house, in front of which Mons La Force was bewailing. The Frenchman,
                     casting his eyes upward, discovered that the interrogatory came from Mrs.
                     O'Callahan, a middle-aged Irish woman, of massive form, who stood on the end of
                     the porch, resting her head upon one of her huge red arms, and clasping a
                     wash-tub with the other. Though she was looking at him very unconcernedly,
                     Mons. La Force could not but see at one glance, that she and the wash-tub were
                     the causes of his misfortune.
                  "Ah, ha! vous bete, monstre," he exclaimed;
                        vot for you kill me wiz ze tub? Vot for you pour ze water on ze
                        shentleman, eh!"
                  
                     
                  
                  "Howly Mary, an' its mad I believe yez are," was Mrs. O'Callahan's reply. "I
                     didn't know but the soods had cracked yer head, yez kept up such a wailing. It
                     ain't a bit hurt yez are, thin?" coolly asked the woman.
                  "Hurt, you say, Madame?" asked Monsieur, as he cast his eyes over his stained
                     and wilted apparel. "Ah! look at ze chapeau, ze boozom, ze bootiful pantaloon.
                     Ah, Madame! vhy you do all zis?"
                  "Why didn't yez get out uv the way whin I tould yez too? Tell me that, now, if
                     yez can. It ain't mesel', a poor woman that I am, that is to waste me time on
                     the likes uv yez. I tould yez the
                     wather was comin', an' Mrs. O'Callahan niver waits for the divil's own. Och!
                     begone wid yez, now."
                  "You do zis perpose, eh? Ha, Madame you von scoundel, you von dog. I sue you
                     wiz de court—I makes you pay ze money for my poor chapeau, my poor pantaloon,
                     my boorty boozum. I get ze gens d'armes, ze police, to take you to ze"—
                  "Och! but yez are a fool, darlint," coolly interrupted Mrs. O'Callahan. "Go
                     home wid ye, an' put on some thry clothes, if yez has thim, an' whin yez comes
                     this way agin, look out for Mrs. O'Callahan's wather. Do yez mind that!"
                  "Vat ze name? vat ze name?" cried the music-master, as the old woman strolled
                     slowly along into her apartments. Her only reply was a defiant shake of the
                     head as she closed her door between them.
                  "Oh! vat s'all I do?" continued the Frenchman. "I sue ze, Madame, by the Court,
                     but mille tonneres, I no have ze name.
                  Ah! mon ami," he exclaimed, turning to a
                     stalwart son of Erin, who stood in the door of the lower story of the same
                     building, complacently smoking his "dudeen," and enjoying the Frenchman's
                     trouble. Ah! mon ami, you tells me ze
                     name?"
                  "Is it me yer spakin' to?" asked Patrick.
                  "Oui, Monsieur, vat is ze Madame's name?"
                  "The woman's name is it ye want?"
                  "Oui, Monsieur, ze ladee wiz ze tub."
                  "Shure an she is a poor woman," continued Pat.
                  "Oui, Monsieur, ze name—ze name?"
                  "An' ye want to know it?"
                  "Ze name! yes, Monsieur, ze name!"
                  "An' is it bad ye want to know it, me old boy?"
                  "Let me tell ze von littell sing, Monsieur," said the Frenchman,
                     confidentially, as he approached the Irishman, the very picture of dispair and
                     distress. "I get ze Madame's name, I sue her wiz ze Court, and, ah ha! I makes
                     her pay ze—ze—ze—vat you call him? ha!—ah! yes, ze costs."
                  "And ye'll make the poor woman pay the costs, will ye?" asked Patrick.
                  "Oui, Monsieur, ze costs. I have you so—so—so—so—ah! yes, sopeeny, as von gran'
                     vitness. You come to ze Court—you swear wiz ze hand up—an' Monsieur, you gets
                     ze money for zat. You tells me Madame's name now, eh?"
                  "An' its informer ye'd make uv me thin?"
                  "Form—form—form," muttered the somewhat puzzled music-master, "in
                     form, ah! yes, Monsieur, you inform ze Court, and gets ze money?
                  "Out wid ye thin, ye dirthy spalpeen," shouted Pat, as he took his dudeen out
                     of his mouth. "It's mesel that'll niver inform against a poor widdy. Git the
                     name the best as yez can, wid yer monkey face, for I'm not the boy to tell ye
                     that it was Mrs. Callahan who doused the dirthy wather on ye."
                  "Zat's it! zat's it!" shrieked the Frenchman, as he heard the name; clapping
                     his hands and jumping for joy. Ah! ha! I got ze name now.
                     Callahan—Callahan—Callahan—I remember zat so very
                     well—Callahan—Callahan—Callahan."
                  "And who in the divil tould ye?" asked the astonished Irishman.
                  "Ah! it is ze Madame's name, Monsieur," was the reply. "I go to ze Court
                     straight away off. I get ze gens d'armes to come catch ze ladee, an' you, mon ami,
                     s'all be von gran' vitness. Adieu, Monsieur."
                  With a polite bow, the music-master took his leave, returning in the direction
                     whence he came. In the exuberance of his joy in ascertaining the name of the
                     female who had so suddenly and carelessly destroyed the best of his toilet, and
                     caused him even to forget for the time his lady love, he seemed to have
                     overlooked altogether his sad plight, and distressing appearance. It is to be
                     presumed he hastened to the Police Court, where, laying his complaint before
                     the Judge, he succeeded in obtaining a warrant for the arrest of the unmerciful
                     Mrs. Callahan, and "wiz ze Court," made her "pay ze costs."
               
               
                  THE LOST BALLOONIST.*
                  
                  BEING A BRIEF NARRATIVE OF A NOVEL EXPLORING EXPEDITION.
                  
                     *On the second day of October last, a Mr.
                        Winchester, made his third or fourth ascension with a balloon from a city in
                        Ohio. His balloon was not fully inflated, and he was forced to ascend with
                        but a small quantity of ballast. Yet he expressed his determination,
                        notwithstanding his limited experience, to go higher and farther than any
                        æronaut had ever done. He has not been heard of since. This sketch is a
                        supposed account of his voyage.
                  
                  I had advertised to make my fourth ærial voyage from the city of N——, in
                     north-eastern Ohio. Up to that period I had adopted ballooning as a
                     money-making experiment, though I must confess that each ascension so charmed
                     me, that with three ærial voyages I had become ambitious to distinguish myself
                     as an æronaut. My fourth ascension was advertised to take place on the second
                     of day of October, 1855. On the day previous I read in the newspapers an
                     account of the return of Dr. Kane and his daring companions from the Arctic
                     regions, and a brief detail of their sufferings and privations in endeavoring
                     to penetrate those dreary regions of the north, never looked upon by the eye of
                     civilized man. The query immediately entered my mind, "could not a voyage to
                     the Artic regions be made with greater success, less danger and less suffering,
                     in a balloon?" The idea seemed to possess me entirely, as I could not drive it
                     from, my mind. No matter with whom I conversed, or about what I was conversing,
                     a sail to the Arctic regions haunted me continually.
                  In the air, the voyager would be free from those obstructions which have defied
                     the ingenuity of man, was the argument which presented itself to my mind. Once
                     in the proper current, the æronaut could fly in hours, the distance that ships
                     cannot accomplish in months, and it appeared to me, that with good luck, I
                     could reach the latitude of 32 deg. 30m.; the farthest point made by the Kane
                     expedition in less than forty-eight hours. I knew, from observations made at
                     previous ascensions, that at the hight of about two miles, there was a constant
                     and swift current of air from the S. S. W., and once in that current, I was
                     confident I would be borne along at the extraordinary speed of from one to two
                     miles a minute. I could apprehend danger from two causes only. One was an
                     explosion of the balloon, from an expansion of the gas in the very cold
                     atmosphere, and the second, inability to keep from freezing to death. The first
                     I thought could be avoided, by taking with me a small quantity of ballast, which would enable me to ascend with my
                     balloon only half inflated, and the second I was willing to risk, with such
                     precautions as circumstances would allow me to make.
                  As I have heretofore stated, the subject was constantly in my mind. I could not
                     sleep for it, and I arose on the morning of my proposed ascension from N——,
                     with the firm conviction that Providence designed I should penetrate, by this
                     novel means, the unknown regions, and be the first to reveal their condition to
                     the civilized world. The conviction seemed to nerve, nay, inspire me, and I
                     resolved to make the voyage that very day!
                  My thoughts and feelings were a secret with myself. I had not breathed a word
                     about it to a soul, not even to those dear to me as life, and I was determined
                     that the secret should ascend from earth with me, and if I perished, perish
                     with me. I made no preparations whatever, save to provide for personal
                     protection against intense cold, firmly believing that Providence would guide
                     and direct me, and save me from an untimely death.
                  I never left terra firma without bidding my
                     family and intimate friends an affectionate farewell, and receiving their
                     wishes for a safe return. This I did, because they, not I, apprehended danger.
                     After my first ascension, I was satisfied that the balloonist encounters no
                     more danger, or runs no more risk than must be met with in every other mode of
                     conveyance; but my friends thought differently. On this occasion my feelings
                     were peculiar. I knew not whither I was going, or how long I would be absent,
                     yet felt confident that I would one day return, crowned as the great adventurer
                     and discoverer of the age. My hand may have betrayed a nervousness in the
                     parting grasp, but my heart was firm.
                  I placed in the car the clothing I had prepared, ten pounds of food, and only
                     twenty-five pounds of ballast. When my balloon was about half inflated, I found
                     it would lift the weight and myself with ease, and, to the surprise of my
                     attendants, I made instant preparations to ascend. Stepping into the car, I
                     said:
                  "I intend to go higher and farther than any æronaut has heretofore gone. Let
                        go."*
                  
                  
                     *These were the words uttered by Mr.
                        Winchester just previous to his last ascension.
                  
                  My order was obeyed, and my ærial ship floated gently upward, taking a
                     northeasterly direction. The earth never looked more beautiful to me than it
                     did then. It appeared like an enchanted basin, glowing with loveliness upon
                     every hand. Forests dwindled down to tiny groves, lakes to silvery pools, and
                     villages to mere dots upon the landscape. Long after N—— had faded from my
                     view, I sat leaning over my car, my thoughts entirely engrossed with the
                     enchanting scene. It was not till I approached Lake Erie, that my grand design
                     again entered my mind. I looked at my barometer, and found I was at the hight,
                     and in the current of air I desired to reach, and I then busied myself in
                     arranging the contents of the car for the night. I was sailing swiftly, fast
                     enough to satisfy myself that my calculations made the night previous would be
                     fully realized.
                  I had scarcely reached the lake when a layer of clouds shut the earth out from
                     my view, and I saw no more of it that day. As night advanced I became chilly,
                     and at an early hour in the evening so
                     cold that I prepared at once to shield myself from the frosty atmosphere. My
                     preparations were novel. My car was of circular shape, made of willow, the
                     exterior covered with India-rubber cloth. I fastened a Buffalo robe I had
                     prepared for the purpose over the top of the car, which excluded the air, and
                     made me a complete prisoner for the time being. It was so fastened, that in
                     case of necessity I could unloosen it in a moment, and be free to manage my
                     balloon. I pulled on the garments I had prepared, partook of stimulants,
                     wrapped myself in a buffalo robe, and lay down in my car.
                  That dreadful night! Language can not depict my feelings. There I lay, sailing
                     in mid-air, shut out entirely from the world, and drifting, God only knew
                     where! Several times was I tempted to descend, to relieve myself of the
                     dreadful anxiety which tormented my mind, but faith in the idea that I was
                     fulfilling a design of Providence, induced me to resist the temptation. I was
                     at the mercy of Heaven, for if I ascended any great distance, my balloon would
                     assuredly explode, and if I descended, injury, if not death, was certain.
                  My intention had been not to sleep, but many hours had not passed before
                     slumber would have been welcome to my troubled mind. How long I was in that
                     condition, I can not tell; it seemed an age to me, and I began to think that
                     daylight would never come. At last I fell asleep.
                  When I awoke, I felt much refreshed, though my limbs were stiff from the
                     intense cold. I could hear the wind sweeping with tremendous fury over the
                     earth, and I determined at once, light or dark, to endeavor to ascertain my
                     location. With difficulty I raised myself on my knees, to unfasten the covering
                     of my car. I found it frozen so stiff that I could do nothing with it. I hid my
                     face in my hands and implored the aid of Heaven. As if directed by Providence,
                     I thought of my knife, and the next moment I endeavored to make an incision
                     into the robe. This I found to be a difficult undertaking. The robe seemed to
                     be covered with a thick body of ice, which retarded my progress very much. I
                     labored away, however, picking out the ice by small pieces, feeling that my
                     existence depended on my success.
                  I must have been an hour making an aperture large enough to thrust my head
                     through; for I frequently shrank from the biting atmosphere which came through
                     it, and which affected my system most strangely. When the hole was large
                     enough, I suddenly thrust my head through it. The effect of the atmosphere was
                     such as to almost destroy my sensibility, but courage and determination
                     supported me. Wonderful! wonderful! indeed was my position. The air seemed
                     filled with frosty particles, which sparkled like silver in the twilight haze.
                     Neither earth nor sky could be seen, while the atmosphere seemed almost
                     destructive to life. I gave but a single glance, and then shrank back with
                     horror into my car.
                  Death seemed imperative. My balloon was beyond management. If I could have
                     succeeded in reaching my valve-rope; it would have been impossible for me to
                     open the valve, against the icy lock that had been placed upon it. I could do
                     nothing but lay and await my fate. I endeavored to close the hole in the top of
                     my car, but was unable to do so, and it was not long before I became utterly
                     powerless. While lying in this condition, I felt the car rushing through what
                     seemed to be water, and as the wind whistled terribly through the rigging of my ærial ship, I was sure that my
                     progress was being impeded. I listened. At first I thought the car was dragging
                     upon the earth, but was soon convinced it was not so. I at last came to the
                     conclusion that I was encountering icy obstacles in the air, and I expected to
                     have my balloon torn to pieces, and to experience a rapid fall to the earth. I
                     prayed for it.
                  By degrees, I felt those sensations, which exposure to intense cold is sure to
                     bring, until I became drowsy, and finally fell asleep. How long I lay in this
                     condition I know not. My return to consciousness, found me lying by a fire,
                     surrounded by a strange looking people, whose appearance enabled me to
                     recognize them at once as inhabitants of the Arctic Regions. They looked upon
                     me with wonder and astonishment, though evidently pleased with the success of
                     their efforts to resuscitate me. How long I have been with them, I can not
                     tell, as there seems to be no daylight here, and I have been unable to gather
                     any information of these people, further than that I came down from Heaven. I
                     am now but barely able to move, and have written this account to relieve the
                     monotony of my prison hut and with the hope that I may be able at some time to
                     dispatch it to the civilized portion of the globe.
                  How far north I am, I have no means as yet of determining, but I have good
                     reasons for presuming that I am nearer the North Pole than Dr. Kane was. Still
                     firm in the faith, that my expedition was instigated by Him who ruleth all
                     things, and that it will finally be successful, I have determined, as soon as I
                     am able, to make such investigations as circumstances will permit.
               
               
                  FIRST LOVE:
                  OR, JEREMIAH TRIUMPH'S OPINION OF CITY GALS.
                  "JERRY, gin us your 'sperience with the city gals," said old 'Squire Jones, to
                     his nephew, Jeremiah Triumph, as they were in the hight of enjoyment at an
                     "apple-cutting," at the old 'Squires, in a North-Western county of Ohio.
                  "Yes, Jerry, tell us about the city gals," exclaimed a dozen voices, and Jerry
                     was soon surrounded by fifteen or twenty as plump and fair maidens as ever
                     graced a farmer's household.
                  Jerry was naturally talkative, but, since his return from the city, he had
                     preserved a mysterious silence, on the above subject, save occasionally
                     throwing out a hint which induced his friends to believe he had fallen in love
                     with somebody's daughter while away from home, and had been "crossed," or met
                     with some other equally great misfortune. Many efforts had been made to bring
                     Jeremiah to a confession, but the fatherly persuasions of his uncles, the
                     matronly inducements of his aunts, and the seductive arts of the girls had all
                     failed, up to the present occasion, to get out of him the story of his
                     love.
                  To the above request, Jerry merely put on a sober face, crossed his legs,
                     rested his chin upon his right hand, turned his tobacco, in his mouth, looked
                     into the blazing fire, and solemnly shook his head. Not a word would he say.
                        At last, Molly Frazier, as sweet a
                     being as ever lifted a milk-pail, placed a stool beside Jerry, and seated
                     herself upon it. She then laid her head upon his lap, and bringing her large,
                     lovely, blue eyes in full view of his, she said:
                  "Jerry, do tell us about the city gals, just for my sake."
                  Jerry was stirred. Those blue eyes, staring him in the face, and that lovely
                     form leaning so fondly on him, moved him. Changing his quid to the off side of
                     his mouth, and smiling quite happily, his voice almost trembled, as he
                     replied.
                  "I reckon."
                  "I knew you would!—I knew you would!" exclaimed Molly, attempting to rise.
                  "Hold on a little," interposed Jerry, as he caught her around the waist, and
                     gently held her fast. "I reckon there is one condition, Molly, afore I tell
                     it."
                  "What's that?" asked the surprised girl.
                  "That you lay right thar where you are, till I get through."
                  Molly blushed; but taking the terms in good part, she, "jist to obleege the
                     folks," assented.
                  The company now all gathered round Jerry, placing the apple-baskets in such
                     position that while they listened they could peel and split the golden fruit
                     without interrupting the narrative. All ready, Jerry commenced:
                  "Fust love," said he, "is al'ays reckoned etarnal. Like mustard weeds, when it
                     once gits in a patch, there's no gettin' it out. You may plow, an' you may hoe,
                     an' you may jerk it up by the roots—but jist as sure as growin' time comes, it
                     will spring up an' shoot, in spite of you."
                  "That ar' a fact," interposed the 'Squire, giving Aunt Tabitha a knowing
                     look.
                  "I knows it, sartin," was the good wife's reply, as she wrung the core out of a
                     good sound pippin. "I al'ays contended that there war but one love, and that
                     war the fust. Aint I al'ays said so, gals?"
                  "Yes, mum," was the general response.
                  "How is it, then," inquired Molly, "that folks sometimes get married a second
                     time? Don't they love the first time?"
                  "Laws only knows," replied Tabitha. "It's my opinion that thar's no love in a
                     second weddin'; an' I know that one man's enuff for any woman's
                     life-time."
                  "Aye, an' I never could see what a man wanted with more'n one wife. One's as
                     many as I can manage," replied the 'Squire, with a knowing look, which caused a
                     burst of laughter, in which the good aunt took part.
                  "I reckon," said Molly, after the laughter had subsided, "those who marry the
                     second time don't love their first wives."
                  "That's it," replied Jerry, as he twirled one of Molly's ringlets in his
                     fingers. "Bekase a man marries a woman, it aint any sign he loves her. Some
                     marry for money, some for spite, and some just to nat'rally settle down, and be
                     at rest. But fust love, it's a root what can't be dug up; a tree what'll never
                     die."
                  "That are true," replied the 'Squire; "but, Jerry, what about the city
                     gals?"
                  "I war just a goin' on to tell about 'em," replied Jerry, heaving a sigh. "I
                     war never in the city but wunst, an' you know when that war. The drovers bought
                     our hogs, an' they offered me two bits
                     a day an' found, to help drive them to Sinsinnati. I hadn't nothin' special to
                     do, an' thinkin' it war a good time to go to town and see city sights, I took
                     'em up, put on my best wamus, my cow-hide boots, an' started."
                  "Laws! I remember the time jist as if it war this morning," remarked Aunt
                     Tabitha. "We all got up when the hens begin to crow, to git you an airly
                     breakfast, an' to see you off. Right smart of hogs you took with you."
                  "Yes, an' a time we had of it, afore we got to town. I didn't think of nothin'
                     then but hogs, and the gals didn't trouble me a bit," ejaculated Jerry, with a
                     mournful countenance.
                  "Didn't you love no girl then, Jerry?" inquired Molly.
                  "Nary a one."
                  "Not one?"
                  "Now, Molly, you needn't ax that agin; you know I kinder set up to you, but you
                     al'ays went from meetin' with Jim Downs."
                  "But I never loved Jim, an' you know it."
                  "An' you never loved me nuther," was Jerry's reply, giving Molly a
                     very meaning look.
                  "You don't know that," answered the coquetting little witch, placing her hands
                     over her eyes.
                  Jerry was confused—confounded. He felt his heart beat as it never had before,
                     and as he gazed on the handsome form of Molly, his tongue refused to give
                     utterance. He seemed to fall into a reverie, from which he was aroused by the
                     'Squire, who, after the young folks—they understood Molly—had enjoyed a good
                     titter, sang out—
                  "What on airth's the matter with you, Jerry? Aint you never goin' to tell us
                     about the city gals?"
                  "Yes, yes," was Jerry's confused reply. "Can't you gin a feller time to think?
                     Let me see. I war talkin' about the hogs, warn't I, Molly?"
                  Molly nodded assent.
                  "Wall, we druv the hogs to town, an' sich a town! Thar wer nothin but houses
                     and people from one cud to t'other, an' the streets wer so crowded, they had to
                     squeeze by one anuther, jest as we do out here at big meetins. An' the gals!
                     you never seed the beat in all your born days. You couldn't look no whar, nor
                     turn no way, without runnin' right agin a dozen on 'em. An' golly, how purty
                     they war. They had all sorts of purty fixin's about 'em, an' went sailin' round
                     so, that they made me think of the angels, what the new preacher talked about
                     at the Baptist meetins the Sunday afore I druv the hogs to town. I couldn't
                     help lookin' at 'em, an' come mighty nigh losing some of the hogs on account of
                     it.
                  "We druv the hogs down to the pens," continued Jerry, after a moment's pause,
                     "an' then sez I to the boys, I'm goin' to see the gals. Sez they, be keerful,
                     Jerry, or some on 'em will bite you. Sez I, I don't keer if they do; an' gosh!
                     I just thought then that I wouldn't keer if them gals would chaw me all up into
                     nothin', they war so purty. I went down to market, an' thar I stopped. It was
                     jest arter sundown, an' thar war an amazin' sight of people in the streets. An'
                     sich gals! you ought to jest have seed'em, Uncle 'Squire—it would a made your
                     old eyes glisten without specs. Bimeby one of them gals stopped right in
                        front of me, an' she looked right
                     square in my eyes. From the top of her head down to her feet, she war streamin'
                     with ribbons, an' the gold on her jest spangled right out. Her cheeks war like
                     the peaches on the corner tree, an' her eyes war equal to any fox squirrel's.
                     Gosh! but she war purty, an' I do declare to gracious, that if I hadn't seed
                     her walk, I'd a took her for one of the wax figures we seed in the show."
                  Jerry now stopped, perhaps to rest, or maybe it was to think. Aunt Tabitha had
                     become so interested in his narrative, that she had deserted the apples and
                     naturally taken to her knitting, while the 'Squire had allowed his specs to
                     drop clean over his nose without knowing it. The young folks, particularly the
                     girls, were listening with breathless anxiety; none more so than Molly, who
                     still, as per agreement, lay quietly in Jerry's lap.
                  "As I said," continued Jerry, his eyes thoughtfully fixed on the blazing fire,"
                     she looked right at me. It war then I felt my heart turn a somerset, an' I
                     thought I war sinkin' right through the airth. That war furst
                        love! I s'posed the gal had fell in love with me, onsight, onseen,
                     an' she war so purty I could a tuck her in my arms, an' packed her right off to
                     the preacher's an' got married without axin' a word. She kept a lookin' at me,
                     an' I kept a feelin' more so. At last, sez I to myself, sez I, 'Jerry, she's a
                     waitin' for you to pop the question—now or never!' So I straightened up, an'
                     kind a brushed my har', and steppin' up to her, sez I 'How-de-do, mum?'
                     'De-do?' says she, an' she kept a lookin' me right in the face. I war kind a
                     stuck right thar, and I commenced coughin' jest to show I war n't bashful.— She
                     kind a throw'd back her bonnet, an' put her face close up to mine, till I
                     thought she war a goin' to buss me right thar in the road, with all the people
                     about. I kinder spread out my arms, to gin her a hug, when she holler'd,
                        'Take that for your imperdence, Mister Hoosier!' an' she give
                     me such a whack about my ears, that I thought a clap of thunder was a strikin'
                     about."
                  Jerry was here interrupted by an outburst of laughter from the young folks,
                     which seemed to displease him very much.
                  "Taint no laughin' matter," he continued, as soon as he could obtain attention.
                     "That war my first love, jest think of that, an' though the gal treated me
                     all-fired mean, its my downright opinion that I kin never love another. I think
                     on it day an' night, an' it worries me terribly."
                  "Why laws, Jerry," interposed Molly, "I shouldn't believe you'd think well of
                     any city gal, after that."
                  "I can't help it, Molly. Though it's my opinion that all city gals are mighty
                     mean, first love you know is endurin'. "
                  "You don't mean to say you will never love any body else?" inquired Molly, as
                     she patted him softly on the cheeks.
                  "Yaas, I'm sartain I wont—that is, so long as the first love lasts, Molly. I
                     think," he continued, looking steadfastly in her eyes, "my first love
                        extends only to city gals."
                  A general shout followed this meaning expression, and before the apple-cutting
                     party broke up, it was quite evident that Jerry had forgotten his first love in
                     a fond affection for Miss Molly. Is not Jeremiah Triumph's first love about as
                     enduring as most persons,—lasting until something better turns up?
               
               
                  
                  I AM TOO LOW TO BE REDEEMED:
                  OR, THE FATAL TERMINATION OF A RUNAWAY MATCH.
                  THE watch-house in Cincinnati is situated in the basement of the City Building,
                     fronting on Ninth street, between Plum and Western Row. It is composed of three
                     departments or rooms, as follows:—The first or front room is the roll-room,
                     where the police gather, at roll-call hours, to answer to their names, and
                     receive instructions. From this you pass into the male prison, which contains
                     twelve cells. These cells are made of strong iron grating, fastened firmly into
                     a heavy stone pavement. The only furniture in each cell is a heavy, thick
                     plank, so fixed that it will serve for either a seat or a bed! Farther back is
                     the female prison, containing six cells made precisely in the same manner as
                     those in the other room.
                  It is mournful to visit this prison at any time, for you can never do it
                     without observing some poor wretch, whose misfortunes or folly attract your
                     attention, and excite your sympathy. The gruff tone of the keeper, as he
                     abruptly answers the questions of those imprisoned, at first sounds harshly
                     indeed; but when you know, as reporters and policemen know too well, that, with
                     rare exceptions, neither compassion nor interest can permanently affect those
                     there confined, you are ready to pity the keeper's troubles, as well as the
                     miseries of the prisoners. Many a sad tale has been related in that
                     watch-house, and I have seen stern watchmen, who, in the performance of their
                     out-door duties seemed heartless and hardened, affected to tears by the
                     sorrowful, painful, stories of the inmates.
                  One summer evening, I heard that a female had attempted to commit suicide by
                     leaping off one of the ferry landings into the river, but that a watchman had
                     rescued her and taken her to the watch-house. It was too good an "item" to be
                     lost, so I hastened to the watch-house to learn the truth of the story. I was
                     shown to the unfortunate female, but found myself unable to get any information
                     from her in regard to her rash conduct. Indeed she sat almost motionless, her
                     long, black tresses hanging loosely over her shoulders, and her eyes fixed
                     intently on the floor. She was apparently about seventeen years of age, with
                     handsome features, and a most lovely countenance. All I could do, or those who
                     were with me, failed to elicit an answer from her.
                  At last, watchman ——, an old policeman, and one too, who had not been hardened
                     by his intimacy with crime and vice, entered the prison, and as soon as he saw
                     the girl, he recognized her.
                  "Julia," said he, "what are you doing here?"
                  She knew his voice, and as soon as she heard it, tears gush ed from her eyes,
                     and she buried her face in her hands.—Tears came from the watchman's eyes, too,
                     as he approached her tenderly and affectionately, and said:
                  "My God! has it come to this!"
                  "Oh!" replied the poor girl, her voice almost choked with sobs, "had I taken
                     your advice, one short year ago, I might have been saved; but now, oh! now, it
                     is too late—I am too low to be redeemed!"
                  
                  I shall never forget the anguish with which those words were uttered—they sank
                     deep into my heart, and often indeed they have touched my memory, when I have
                     seen vain, foolish girls taking the initiatory steps to inevitable ruin.
                  The girl being unwilling to converse in our presence, the watch-house keeper,
                     and myself withdrew, and left her alone with the watchman. Their interview was
                     a long one, and when he left her and came to us again, he was much excited. He
                     said it had been the most painful scene he had ever participated in, and asked
                     us to sit down while he related the unfortunate girl's story.
                  "About a year ago," said he, "I was telegraphed from the
                     northern part of the State, to be on the look-out for a runaway couple, with
                     the information that the man was believed to be of bad character, and had evil
                     designs upon his young but willing companion. About the time of the arrival of
                     the train, I took my station in the depot, and almost the first female I saw
                     step from the cars, was this girl, accompanied by that notorious thief, Long
                     John. From the description in the dispatch, I knew them to be the runaway
                     couple; and as he handed her into a hack, I stepped up and insisted on taking a
                     seat there also. Long John knew me, and at first seemed inclined to leave; but
                     afterward, without demanding any explanation from me——for he knew he could not
                     get one—jumped in and ordered the driver to proceed to one of our fashionable
                     hotels. Sure of my game, I made no advances until we arrived at the hotel, when
                     I told the girl as she stepped from the carriage that she was my prisoner, and
                     must remain such, until the arrival of her father. I shall never forget the
                     sweet, innocent expression of her face, as she replied, "But we will be married
                     before father comes."
                  "She looked for her intended husband but he had gone. Long John, though a bold
                     and desperate thief, dreads the vag-room, and he knew I would put him there if
                     he gave me any trouble. I took the girl into a room at the hotel, and told her
                     who I was, and gave her the true character of her lover. She disbelieved me at
                     first, but, poor soul! I thought her heart would break, when waiting vainly,
                     hour after hour, for his return, she began to realize her true condition. I
                     called the housekeeper to console her, and left to telegraph my success to her
                     parents.
                  "I was not absent over balf an hour, but on my return I found I had been
                     out-generaled. Long John, determined not to be beat, must have loitered about
                     the place, for the housekeeper told me I had not been gone five minutes before
                     he entered the room. The girl flew to his arms, and he immediately carried her
                     to the door of the hotel, placed her in a hack and drove off. He did it all
                     within a minute's time, so quick indeed, that he was off before the lady I had
                     placed there, sufficiently recovered from her surprise to give an alarm.
                  "I searched the city thoroughly that night, in pursuit of the fugitives, but
                     could see or hear nothing of them. I saw the father the next day. He was a
                     fine-looking old gentleman, and said he would not have objected to his
                     daughter's marriage with her lover, had he not had cause to doubt his honesty.
                     When I told him the truth, it rent his heart most sadly. He said he had money
                     in plenty, and a fortune should be
                     mine if I would save his daughter from the clutches of the villain who had
                     seduced her from her home. Day after day, we continued in search, till the old
                     man was reluctantly forced to give it up, and, broken-hearted, returned to his
                     desolate roof.
                  "A month ago, I received a note through the post-office, stating that a lady
                     friend desired to see me, at the—House in Covington, and that I must not fail
                     to call at the hour named. I went, and found the lady to be this same girl
                     Julia. But oh! how altered! Care had taken the place of innocence upon her
                     countenance, and grief apparently filled her heart. With tears in her eyes she
                     received me, and her first expression was that made to-night—"Had I taken your
                     advice, I might have been saved, but now it is too late—I am too low to be
                     redeemed!"
                  "She told me she had found my description of her lover too true. He had
                     postponed their marriage from day to day, and by degrees informed her of his
                     villainy. With all his faults she could but love him, and with the hope of
                     persuading him to desert his evil ways, and become a man respected among men,
                     she had clung to him and proved a faithful mistress. Gradually he appeared to
                     lose his affection for her, until that time, when she was often the subject of
                     his abuse, She could bear it no longer, and had sent for me to ask my advice as
                     to what she had better do. I immediately advised her to return to her parents,
                     but to that she would not listen. She said her character was gone, her name was
                     a reproach among her father's neighbors, and too many would take pleasure in
                     increasing the sorrows of her heart, and the affliction of her parents. Indeed,
                     to every proposal I made for reform, her reply was, "I am too low to be
                     redeemed!"
                  "I left her after I had gained her consent to have an interview with her
                     father. But that night Long John came near being caught while robbing a house
                     in Covington, and had to make tracks. She foolishly followed him, and I have
                     not seen nor heard of her since, until to-night."
                  "But what induced her to attempt suicide?" I asked.
                  "She has just told me," he replied, "that her villainous lover was killed in a
                     street affray at L—, and without a protector of any kind she had returned to
                     this city with the firm intention of drowning her sorrow in a life of the
                     deepest degradation. She has been here only one week, and life becoming a
                     torment to her, she determined to-day to seek peace in the grave! "Poor girl!"
                     he continued, with a sigh, "life must be a burden to her—she is really to be
                     pitied."
                  I indeed felt so, and suggested to him to see if he could not persuade her to
                     return to her father, and if he could, to make such arrangements as would
                     secure her a speedy departure. After much persuasion she consented to accompany
                     him on the early train, next morning, to her long deserted home. She returned
                     that night to the vile house where she had been boarding, for the purpose of
                     packing up her apparel, and preparing for her journey. As soon as her kind
                     friend, the watchman had left her there, her depraved companions commenced
                     taunting her about her foolish attempt to drown herself, and made sport of the
                     tears of anguish which gushed from her eyes. She hurried to her room, and the
                     next morning, when the watchman called for her, he found her dead!
                      A knife guided by her own hand, had
                     ended her earthly existence.
                  A note directed to the watchman we have mentioned, was found in her room. It
                     read as follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Forgive me, kind sir. I should like to see my parents, but oh! I
                                 am too degraded. My only peace is in the grave, for I now feel
                                 bitterly and keenly, that I am too low to be redeemed.
                              
                              
                                 Farewell, forever,
                                 JULIA B——."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Thus terminated the life of one poor girl, who, contrary to the wishes of fond
                     and affectionate parents, suffered herself to be allured by the pleasing
                     appearance and the gay deceptions of a stranger. How many, alas! like her, have
                     been deceived in the same manner, and led from one degree of degradation to
                     another, till they, too, found they were "too low to be redeemed!"
                  Such is the story of one inmate of the watch-house. Others as sad might be
                     told, if we could but read the hearts and trace the paths of the hundreds who
                     have been confined within the iron cells of the city prison.
               
               
                  HANS VON SPUTTLES:
                  THE LAST OF THE WOODSAWERS.
                  SOME one has denominated history, a record of the past in which great men are
                     set up as mile-stones, to denote the progress of a nation or people. But few of
                     the humbler classes, no matter how deep their sufferings or how great their
                     wrongs, are ever honored with the care, laborious thought, or deep research of
                     the historian. It is too true that historians—those who collate the facts of
                     the past, and publish them for the enlightenment of the present and future
                     generations—generally judge of an event by the character or standing of those
                     engaged in it; often giving great importance to trivial acts of a monarch,
                     while they overlook entirely the more important performances of those moving in
                     an humble sphere. But the present day has developed a new order of
                     historians—those who record, in the ever-living pages of the newspaper press,
                     facts as they occur, and give to the world a true and faithful history of the
                     men and things of the day. Such historians are not influenced by the
                        position of an important character, and whether that character
                     be monarch or subject, senator or wood-sawer, he receives all the attention his
                     acts deserve. Professing to belong to the latter class of historians, the
                     writer of this believes no apology necessary, for calling the attention of the
                     reader to the most important scenes in the life of an individual who bears the
                     name which heads this sketch, and who followed so humble an occupation as that
                     of wood-sawer.
                  Hans Von Sputtles was a native Dutchman, a lineal descendant of a noble family
                     who lost their titles and wealth, because they could not muster flesh and blood
                     enough to combat a certain monarch, who chose to take unto himself, the lands
                     on which they dwelt, and all the privileges thereof.—His youthful ears were
                     often regaled with stories of the wealth and greatness of his ancestors; for,
                     in truth, these were about the only acceptable things his father, who was
                        very poor, could bestow upon him.
                     Hans loved to hear those stories of departed greatness in his family, though
                     they were ill substitutes for a full dish of krout for dinner, or a much-loved
                     pretzell for supper. Hans lived and grew up amid those stories, and though when
                     a man, his countenance betrayed the slim fare of his father's table, Hans had
                     the glorious satisfaction of knowing that noble blood flowed through his
                     veins.
                  Hans Von Sputtles was well nigh thirty years of age, when he found money enough
                     in his purse to enable him to carry out the long-cherished object of his heart,
                     viz: to emigrate to the land of money and liberty, ease and freedom—the land of
                     Columbia—the land of the brave and the free. Hans emigrated, and, like all
                     emigrants, found that a sail across the big water was "a hard road to trabbel."
                     After various narrow escapes, and without any food in his stomach or money in
                     his pocket, or the slightest knowledge of a trade in his head, he was landed a
                     stranger in a western city.
                  There he found an old friend from Fatherland, who not only recommended him to a
                     then profitable employment, but gave him instructions in the business, and
                     provided him with the necessary tools for operation, viz: a saw and buck.
                  No language can describe the emotions of Hans, when he first hung his saw upon
                     his buck, and placed his buck upon his back, and started out in search of
                     employment. He had learned a sufficiency of English to make a bargain, or at
                     least to state his terms, and he confidently expected to be a rich man, before
                     many more seasons of cabbage were numbered with the past. He had not proceeded
                     far, before his eyes were rejoiced by the sight of a load of wood piled up near
                     a curb stone. His heart beat as he approached it, he walked around it several
                     times in hope of attracting the attention of its owners, and at last found
                     himself obliged to make application for the job. Setting down his buck, with
                     his saw in his hand, he knocked at the door of the house opposite the wood
                     pile. A female responded to the knock, and she no sooner appeared, than Hans
                     aiding each word by unmistakable gesticulations, said:
                  "Woot—saw—how—mooch—two, tree pieces, hey?"
                  "Do you want to saw the wood?" asked the female.
                  "Yaw," was Hans'response, "yaw!—nix sprakin der English—saw woot," drawing his
                     saw up and down, in explanation.
                  "How much will you charge?" inquired the female, saying it, too, at the top of
                     her voice, laboring, as she did, under the prevalent mistake, that speaking
                     louder, makes language easier of comprehension to those who, with difficulty,
                     understand it.
                  "How mooch? one, tree pieces—hey?" asked Hans, holding up first two and then
                     three fingers.
                  "Two pieces," was the ready answer.
                  "How mooch?"
                  "Yes, how much will you charge?"
                  "Woot—how much?" asked Hans, aiming to get at the quantity of wood.
                  "Yes, the wood—how much will you charge?" was the answer, which rather stumped
                     the wood-sawyer. His bill of prices had been fixed at eighty cents for a cord,
                     fifty cents for a half cord, and thirty cents for a quarter of a cord; but his
                     instructor had neglected to give him the size of a pile of each of those
                     quantities, and as Hans could not make the woman understand, it puzzled him to fix his price.
                     After surveying the pile of wood for some moments, and muttering to himself in
                     his mother tongue, he concluded to be on the safe side, so he replied:
                  "Tri-fatal tollar."
                  "Gracious!" replied the female, who knew there was but half a cord—"too
                     much—can't pay it—go away," and shaking her head, she was about closing the
                     door, when Hans asked.
                  "How mooch?"
                  "Fifty cents," she replied.
                  Hans shook his head, and said "too mooch little," which seemed to exasperate
                     the lady, and she shut the door in his face.
                  Hans was "stuck." After a long pause, he looked down to the wood pile, turned
                     over a few sticks, looked up at the windows of the house, and not seeing
                     anybody, walked away, came back, examined the wood pile again, looked at the
                     windows again, and finding he could not attract attention, concluded at last to
                     saw the wood, and run the risk of getting ample remuneration for his labor. How
                     he sweated over each stick, and how faithfully and patiently he labored at the
                     job until it was completed, and with what care he picked up the splinters and
                     sent them to keep company with the wood, and how nicely he scraped the sawdust
                     from the pavement with his nail-covered soles! He had no sooner completed the
                     work than the woman appeared at the door, and gave him half a dollar, and he
                     went away pleased and happy. Such was Hans' advent into a profession (all
                     occupations which can not be dignified with the title of trade, are called
                     "professions") to which he afterward became devoted.
                  Hans flourished in his business. A few days' experience improved his English
                     and his aptness with the saw. He worked hard, made money, saved it, and in a
                     short time became quite independent of the world. Though never formally
                     admitted into any of the gangs who claimed the exclusive privileges of the wood
                     market, or perambulated the streets in pairs in search of a chance job, the
                     "profession" all knew Hans; and many even of the oldest, envied the neat
                     proportions of his buck, and the easy and expeditious, if not graceful manner
                     in which he ran his saw through tho largest, hardest, and most unruly sticks of
                     wood. More than a dozen endeavored to enter into partnership with him, but Hans
                     was determined to "go it alone."
                  All occupations have their seasons of success and adversity, and the humble
                     business of wood-cutting is not an exception. At least, so Hans Von Sputtles
                     found it. He had labored at his business probably a year, had filled a stocking
                     with bright silver coin, and was a happy man, when "the trade" experienced a
                     shock which ruined it entirely, and made Hans Von Sputtles the very last of the
                     wood-sawers. The cause of the shock Hans could not divine; but, that his
                     business was going down! down! down! he could but observe. Though wood was as
                     plenty and sold as rapidly as ever, jobs became wonderfully scarce.
                     Wood-sawers, terrified at the appearance of the trade, and the evident approach
                     of famine, threw down the saw and the buck, and in flocks sought refuge in
                     other occupations. In a few days the wood-markets were cleared of them, as if a
                     fatal epidemic had swept their ranks. Now and then, a solitary sawer might be
                     seen slowly pacing the streets, with buck on neck and saw in hand, in quest of employment;
                     but all bore a melancholy countenance, for work was not to be had. Though
                     people purchased wood, none wished it sawed; and from house to house, and door
                     to door, the poor sawers were turned away. Even Hans Von Sputtles' reputation
                     did not save him from the general calamity, and even his offers to work for
                     almost nothing were rejected by the purchasers of cord-wood.
                  Hans was "stuck," the second time—badly stuck; but, like a true Dutchman,
                     resolved never to give up. He could not conceive the cause of this sudden
                     change in the minds of the people, and his pride forbade him to make any
                     inquiries. So, day after day, our hero—for certainly a hero he had
                     become—threaded the busy streets of the city in search of employment, returning
                     home each evening with no more money in his pocket than he had when he started
                     out at early morn. It pained his heart to draw, week after week, from the fund
                     in the old stocking, to pay expenses; but this he was determined to do, rather
                     than be driven from the occupation which was the choice of his heart. He had
                     faith in the hope that a better day would come for the wood-sawing people.
                  One bright morning in May, Hans Von Sputtles found himself the only wood-sawer
                     in the main wood-market. No saw but his glittered in the refulgent beams of the
                     sun, and no buck but his graced the shoulders of any mortal in that vicinity.
                     In vain did he look for a companion, one fellow of his class, to relieve the
                     lonelinesss of his heart, and cheer his drooping spirits. Hour after hour he
                     stood, like a statue, upon the curb stone, while hundreds came and purchased
                     wood, but none gave him the welcome call. Once, twice, nay thrice, he ventured
                     to ask for a job, but the wood-purchasers either laughed or scoffed him away.
                     Hans could stand it no longer, and leaning against a lamp-post, he soliloquized
                     as follows:
                  "Hannes, vot pes der matter mit you? You pes willing to work hardter as nottin;
                     you trinks no schnapps, only von leetle tram, dwo dimes vonce a tay; you pegs
                     no greese for der saw, put gets him from Gertrude, vot does der cooking at der
                     poarding houses you pes a nobleman, Hannes, and you comes all der vay from
                     Faderland to git rich by sawing der shentleman's vood—and yet Hannes, you gits
                     nottin to do. Pes your peard too long enough, or dosh him kraut make him look
                     too much ugly, Hannes? Ah! Hannes, tere pes some-tings mitin your face, or
                     mitin your pelly, or mitin your heart vich make you mooch badder dan you dinks,
                     you Hannes, You make der beeples mad, Hannes, und you skeer der wood-sawers
                     avay, Hannes, und you play der Dible mit us all, Hannes. Ah! Hannes, I dinks
                     all apout it now—you got too mooch money in your stockin', Hannes! You get rich
                     too fast, Hannes! You too means, Hannes!—der beeples no like you Hannes, und
                     saw mit der own saws!
                  This last reflection threw Hannes into a deep study. What his thoughts were,
                     must be conjectured, but recovering from his reverie, he seemed to bring his
                     mind to a desperate determination. He walked rather hurriedly away, turning
                     neither to the right nor the left, but pursuing' a straight cut down
                     street.
                  As he reached the intersection of two of the main business streets, his
                     attention was attracted by a singular sort of noise. Looking westward, he
                     observed a crowd of people surrounding
                     ing the base of a huge wood-pile, and from that pile the his-sing, roaring,
                     singing sound seemed to emanate. He drew near with mingled feelings of wonder
                     and fear, and as he approached, the crowd welcomed him with shouts and opened a
                     way for him to enter. Hans Yon Sputtles was struck with astonishment at what he
                     beheld. Near the edge of the woodpile was a machine, small in its proportions
                     and rough in its construction. A horse which evidently belonged to the genus "crowbait" peered his head loftily from the
                     top of the machine, while he flirted the remnants of a tail from his posterior
                     parts, as if proud of the movements he gave the wonderful apparatus. Not far
                     from the motive power stood a sort of a table, in the center of which was a
                     circular saw, whirled almost with the speed of electricity, by means of a belt
                     attached to the horse power. By that table stood or moved an "everlasting
                     Yankee," who applied the wood to the saw, and shouted to his horse as the
                     sticks were severed with the rapidity of lightning, and sent flying into the
                     air.
                  For the third time in his wood-sawing career, Hans Von Sputtles was "stuck." As
                     he seated himself upon his buck beside the machine, with his rusty and greasy
                     Dutch cap upon his head, his mouth opened to its fullest extent, and his eye
                     fixed in wonderment upon the Horse Wood-sawing Machine, he
                     presented a picture worthy of the most talented artist. He there beheld the
                     demon which had ruined his occupation, and had slain, as it were, the whole
                     race of wood-sawers, leaving but himself to tell the story of their fate. The
                     horse—the crowbait horse, seemed to have an instinctive knowledge of the
                     presence of Hans Von Sputtles, and after making a desperate tug in the traces,
                     came to a dead halt.
                  
                     
                  
                  "Hell-yo," shouted the Yankee attendant to the animal; "what are yew abeout,
                     now, old Stub Tail Deon't smell another sawer, neow dew ye?"
                  "Mine kraut!" exclaimed Hans, aloud, being the first words he had spoken, and
                     which attracted the attention of the Yankee.
                  "Well, I'll swow, there is a sawer," continued the Down-caster.
                     "Where did yeou come from old s-k-e-u-l-l cap? Just from Jarmany,
                     eh? Kinder takin by surprise, at this invention? It's an amazin' piece—can cut
                     more wood than ten t-h-e-o-u-s-a-n-d such critters as yeou. Just sea the timber
                     fly neow—get up! yeou Stub Tail!"
                  But Stub Tail refused to "get up." He rested his head over the side of the machine, and casting
                     mournful glances at the sawer, positively refused to lift a foot.
                  "Mine krout!" exclaimed Hans, the second time.
                  "Deon't set there a cussin' and swearin' like a sinner, who deon't intend to
                     work eout his salvation," said the Yankee. "Stub Tail kin smell the grease on
                     yeour etarnal cap, and dang the stroke will he make till yeou are gone. I did
                     think I'd driv' the hull craft of yeou to t'other side of the corporation, but
                     as the razor-strap man would say, "there's one more left of the same sort."
                  "Mine krout!" exclaimed Hans, for the third time.
                  "N-eow, stranger, I know yeou feel kinder hurt, "but I can't lay idle to please
                     yeou—that's a fixed fact, as Deacon Brown used to say when axed if the
                     Congressmen would spend most of their time in making l-e-o-n-g speeches. N-eow
                     Old Skull Cap. you've got to tramp. Stub won't budge while yeou are in smelling
                     distance. Pick up your insignificant teools and toddle, yeou last
                     of the Woodsawers."
                  Hans understood the command too well, and being too harmless even to contend
                     for his rights, he left without a murmur, merely exclaiming, "mine krout!" as
                     he passed out of the crowd. But he did not go far without stopping. At the
                     nearest corner he again seated himself upon his buck, and looked long and
                     steadfastly upon the scene of the Yankee's labors. He saw the immense wood-pile
                     diminish before the horse-sawing machine as a mountain of snow before a
                     Midsummer's sun. It was not until the last stick of the pile had been cut in
                     twain, by a single touch of the saw, that Hans wended his way homewards.
                  The next morning Hans Von Sputtles, the last of the wood-sawers, was found dead
                     in his bed. In his dying moments he had placed his buck for a pillow under his
                     head" and hugged his much-loved saw to his bosom. He died a martyr to an humble
                     and a laborious occupation, and a victim, to the labor-saving genius of the
                     everlasting Yankee Nation.
               
               
                  CHRISTMAS AMONG CHRISTIANS.
                  BRIGHT glowed the coal in the grate of Mr. Goodly's parlor on Christmas
                     evening. The Christian holiday was about closing, and as had been his custom
                     for years, Mr. Goodly had gathered his family around the cheerful fire to
                     review the events of the day. Mr. Goodly was a pious man, and unlike too many
                     of his neighbors, properly appreciated this sacred anniversary. He believed it
                     to be of all others, a day when the Christian should rejoice in the goodness of
                     his Maker, and manifest his thankfulness by doing all in his power to make
                     those around him happy. Consequently, Christmas was always joyous at his home,
                     and he and his kind wife and their affectionate children anticipated it with
                     pleasure.
                  The morning of that clay had scarce dawned, ere Mr. Goodly and his wife were
                     awakened by the merry prattle of their smaller children. They raised their
                     heads and listened. The little ones, as soon as sleep had forsaken their eyes,
                     had slipped down stairs to see if Santa Claus had visited them during the
                     night. Now a whistle was sounded, then a drum beat, a doll covered with
                     ecstatic kisses, books clutched with
                     glee, as each was taken from the little stockings hanging by the fire side. The
                     stockings empty, brisk but soft footsteps were heard upon the stairway, and the
                     little ones came rushing into their parents' chamber. Need I attempt to tell
                     how the hearts of those parents rejoiced as the little innocents spread, with
                     stammering language, the gifts of Santa Claus, before them? No, for no pen,
                     however gifted, could describe that joy.
                  As soon as this welcome clamor was over, the family assembled around the family
                     altar, for the morning devotion. The father opened the Holy Book and read of
                     the birth of the Redeemer. Then he turned the pages over till he came to
                     another chapter appropriate to the occasion. He read of the sufferings, the
                     crucifixion, the burial and resurrection, of Christ, our Lord. Santa Claus and
                     his gifts were forgotten even by the little ones, and all listened with
                     reverence to the Divine words as they were repeated by the father's lips.
                     Laying the Holy Book aside, the father arose from, his chair and impressively
                     addressed his little family circle. Then they united in singing and prayer. Oh!
                     what a delightful sight it is to see a Christian family gathered around the
                     domestic altar, with their hearts united in devotion to the Most High. No
                     nicely decorated altars, no gilded robes, no empty forms of prayer, no
                     ecclesiastical dictation, no terrible threats are necessary there; but united
                     in love, the hearts of all bow meekly before the Throne of Grace, and send
                     pious thoughts to Heaven. Angels may well hover over such a scene, and murmur
                     "peace on earth, good will to all men."
                  At the breakfast table all the children found a sum of money beneath their
                     plates, to be laid out as they should see proper, during the day. With such a
                     beginning, and with a visit to church in the forenoon, and a reunion at a good
                     old-fashioned Christmas dinner, the day passed pleasantly with the Goodly
                     family; and at night, when they again assembled around the domestic hearth, the
                     coals within the grate were scarcely brighter than their smiling
                     countenances.
                  "My dear children," said Mr. Goodly, "another Christmas has come and gone, and
                     that we may know whether all have performed their duty to God and themselves,
                     it is well we should tell what we have been doing through the day. Each can
                     profit by the other's experience. Listen first to me."
                  Mr. Goodly then went on to state that after he had left his family in the
                     morning, he visited his place of business, when the men in his employ
                     congratulated him with a "merry Christmas." He gave thorn a holiday, and
                     presented each with a Christmas gift, which he said he knew gladdened their
                     hearts. He returned home, stopping on his way to see if several poor families,
                     whom he knew, were having a merry Christmas. His purse was open to all, for,
                     said he, "he who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord." He visited church
                     with his family, and was much profited by the sermon. The Christmas reunion at
                     the dinner table was especially gratifying to him, and though somewhat
                     dyspeptic he could not avoid eating a hearty meal. Indeed he had been happy,
                     very happy, all day long. He concluded by saying that his purse way empty, but
                     his heart was full.
                  Mrs. Goodly, a homely-looking woman, whose large, blue eyes teamed with
                     kindness and love, then told how her time had been occupied. She was at home
                     nearly all the day, dispensing Christmas gifts to children who came and
                        "caught" her, and dispatching
                     delicacies to those who were sick, and as she knew, unable to procure such
                     things. "With the exception of a visit to church," said she, "here have I been
                     all day long. And here I would always stay, for if the mother can not find
                     happiness at home, where can she look for it? Here I am queen over a kingdom,
                     and my subjects (pointing to her children) are so obedient that peace never
                     forsakes my dominions. Heaven has truly smiled upon us, and this day my cup of
                     happiness is full. May we never be wanting in gratitude, to our kind Heavenly
                     Father. Mary, have you made any one happy to-day?"
                  This query was addressed to the oldest child, a young lady of eighteen years of
                     age, whose plainness of dress added a charm to her beautiful person.
                  "I was not at Church, mother," she promptly replied, "but I have a good reason
                     for it. After leaving home in the morning, I purchased a few presents for the
                     children of my Sabbath school class. Several I presented, and I assure you they
                     made their little hearts glad. I finally came to the residence of Jane Handy
                     that poor little girl whom I brought home with me last Sabbath, that I might
                     clothe her comfortably. I expected to find distress there, but oh! mother, what
                     I saw was dreadful. The child's mother was prostrate upon a bed, suffering in
                     the last stages of consumption—the father lay insensibly drunk upon the floor,
                     and three little children, all as sweet as Jane, lay clustered around their
                     mother, to shield themselves from the cold. Not a morsel of food, not a drop of
                     medicine, not an ounce of fuel was in the room. The pillow was wet with the
                     tears of that mother, who, helpless in her bed, saw starvation staring her and
                     the children in the face. Mother, I saw all at one glance, and the scene so
                     touched my heart, that I wept. Little Jane crawled out of bed, and threw her
                     arms about my neck, kissed me, and asked me if I had any thing to eat, for she
                     and her ma, and her brother and sister were starving. Oh! her pale, innocent
                     face looked so sweet that it made me think of the cherubim of Heaven.
                  "I approached the bedside of Mrs. Handy, and asked her what I could do for her.
                     'Nothing for me, my dear,' was her reply, 'for I shall soon be in
                     Heaven, but relieve, if you can, the sufferings of my poor little children, not
                     one of whom has tasted food for three days.' I told her to be of good cheer. I
                     could and would relieve not only the distresses of her children, but her own, I
                     kissed her thin, cold lips, which brought a smile to her face, and seemed to
                     enliven her spirits. She called me an angel, and said she knew God had sent me
                     to her. She told me that her husband had long been a victim of intemperance,
                     that he was a very wicked man, and abused her most dreadfully. She bore with
                     him patiently, but he had at last broken her heart, and she was now dying from
                     suffering and anguish. She dreaded leaving her children in the sole care of
                     that debased man, and begged me to promise her, if she died, that I would see
                     they were properly cared for.
                  "I promised her that her children should never suffer if I could prevent it,
                     and giving her all the Christian consolation I could, I excused myself for a
                     few minutes, while I proceeded to procure something for them to eat. My first
                     thought was to call on Father, but as that would take too long, I determined to
                     do the work myself. I purchased groceries and fuel, and had them sent
                     immediately to the house, where I also
                     soon returned, taking with me Dr. Davis. If ever I felt like working', it was
                     then, and I goon had a glowing fire and a warm meal in tho lately destitute
                     house. Our good physician aided me much, and his medicines so revived Mrs.
                     Handy that she sat at the table with her children. I made them as comfortable
                     as possible, engaged a nurse for Mrs. Handy, and then bade them farewell until
                     to-morrow. Their sweet smiles and fervent kisses as I left them, more than
                     repaid me for all my trouble—they filled my eyes with joyous tears, and made my
                     heart dance with inexpressible delight."
                  "And thus," said Mr. Goodly, "Heaven blesses all who administer to the wants of
                     their unfortunate fellow creatures. William, my son, what have you been doing
                     to-day?"
                  William was the oldest boy, a lad some fourteen years of age, and a student in
                     one of the public high schools. He had listened attentively to his sister's
                     story, and more than once during its recital had brushed a tear from his full
                     black eyes.
                  "I have not accomplished as much as my dear sister Mary," he replied. "As I was
                     coming home last evening. I saw little Jimmy Perkins, the drunken widow's son,
                     crying on the corner and he said he cried because he was hungry. I told him I
                     would give him some money this morning; and when he called here to-day, I gave
                     him the bright half dollar I put away three months ago, and told him to
                     buy-bread with it, and take it home. He clapped his hands when he received it,
                     and ran home as fast as he could. In the afternoon I saw him again, and again
                     he was crying. He told me he was still hungry, for his mother had made him buy
                     whisky with the money I had given him. This information aggravated me so that I
                     told him he ought not to have obeyed his mother. Then I thought that was wrong,
                     so I took it back, and told him he ought to pray for his mother. He said he
                     did'nt know how to pray, though he had often tried to learn at Sabbath school,
                     when his mother used to let him attend. You do not know how bad it made me feel
                     to hear him talk so. I conversed with him a good while, and then took him to a
                     bakery and bought for him five large loaves of bread, and a lot of cakes. From
                     the way he commenced eating them, I thought he was nearly starved. It was not
                     my fault, father, that the half dollar was spent for rum."
                  "Not at all, my son," replied Mr. Goodly, "but what did you do with the balance
                     of your money?"
                  "I have it yet, father. I was so fearful that more might go for rum, that I
                     kept it tight in my pocket. I thought of giving it to one of my school-mates,
                     who told me yesterday he was afraid he would have to leave school, as his
                     parents could not afford to furnish him with books; I have money enough to buy
                     him all the books he will need the next year."
                  "That is a happy idea, my son, and I am glad you have such a love for your
                     school-mates. So frequent are the changes from rich to poor, and from poor to
                     rich, and so great are the opportunities for even the poorest man to ascend to
                     fame and fortune, in our beloved country, that your young friend may, if he
                     lives, be able sometime to return the kindness you contemplate. "Ellla," he
                     continued, addressing the next youngest, a girl about ten years old, "Ella,
                     what have you been doing to-day?"
                  "I gave all my money," she replied, "to Mrs. Thompson, our wash-woman, to buy a
                     tombstone to place on the grave of that pretty babe of hers, we all loved so
                     much. I heard her say she was not able
                     to purchase one, and it grieved her very much. She was so glad when I gave her
                     the money, that she wept. I had enough to buy the tomb-stone, and if I live
                     till next Spring, I expect to cover it often with pretty flowers, after it is
                     placed on the grave."
                  "Sweet girl," said Mr. Goodly, "the memory of that babe will never leave you.
                     But what did my Johnny (a bright little fellow, six years of age) do with his
                     money?"
                  "I spent it, Pa," said he.
                  "What for, child?"
                  "For thugar takes."
                  "And what did Johnny do with the sugar cakes?"
                  "I dib'em to the wood-thawer, and tell him to take 'em to hith 'ittle boy."
                  "What made you do that?"
                  "Tause ith ittle boy thay ithterday, he neber hath any ood things; and I know
                     if I dib him cod things he love me." And the little fellow's face beamed with
                     smiles as he gave the ready answer.
                  The two younger children were sound asleep, one upon its mother's lap and the
                     other in its father's arms.
                  "Thank Heaven," said Mr. Goodly, as Johnny finished his reply, "we have all
                     been able to accomplish some good today. May every Christmas find us thus
                     disposed to commemorate the birth of our blessed Redeemer."
                  In this manner the Goodlys spend each Christmas day; and so should every
                     hristian family who would prove their faith by their works. If their example
                     was more generally followed, Christmas would not be the day of debauchery it
                     now is, but one of peace and love.
               
               
                  AN INCIDENT IN THE LADIES' CABIN.
                  OR, HOW A GOSSIP'S TONGUE WAS SILENCED.
                  A GOSSIP upon a steamboat! Did you ever see one there? She is as much out of
                     place as a fish is when out of water; for if any place in the world should be
                     free from a tattling tongue, it is the cabin of a steamer. The people
                     congregated there are strangers to each other, some from near and some from
                     distant lands; some traveling for pleasure; others on business, and others
                     perhaps on melancholy errands; but all look to the steamboat cabin for social
                     recreation and pleasure, while being borne forward upon the bosom of the
                     waters. The etiquette of the drawing room is laid aside, for the more genial
                     sociability of home, and though this sociability may afford food for gossip,
                     there is no place on earth where a tattler would appear to greater disadvantage
                     than in the cabin of a well regulated steamboat.
                  Last Spring I was one of about a hundred cabin passengers on the superb packet,
                     Golden Era. We were descending the Upper Mississippi, at a time when low water
                     and sandbars made traveling tedious—and the trip was monotonous, until an
                     incident occurred in which all took an interest.
                  Among the females was a married woman of some thirty-five years of age, whose
                     jaded appearance, rambling eyes, and toothless mouth, indicated the gossip. On
                     the evening of the first day out, she entered into conversation with two
                     sisters, who were from Minnesota, and, with their brother, on their way to Michigan. The sisters were
                     young, intelligent, modest and pretty.
                  "Aint you awful lonesome?" asked Mrs. Chatterbox, as I shall call her.
                  "Not very," replied the older of the sisters.
                  "Well, I am," continued the gossip. "I've traveled considerable in steamboats,
                     and I have never seen such a gawky, close-mouthed set of gentlemen in my life,
                     as these on this boat. Not one of them has come in here to say a word to the
                     ladies, all this blessed day."
                  "O, you are mistaken, madam," replied the younger sister. "My brother has
                     several times been in here, and"—
                  "Talked with you, interrupted Mrs. C. "But that's the way with the
                     men: they are always selfish, and when they are traveling, they don't think of
                     the ladies. My husband's just the same way. When he is traveling, he never
                     thinks of talking to anybody but me."
                  "Indeed," said both the young ladies, smilingly.
                  "Yes, it's true, but I never approved of it; I think that when people are
                     traveling they ought to make free. I like to see it."
                  At this point the conversation was interrupted by the brother of the two young
                     ladies entering the cabin, accompanied by a fine-looking young gentleman, to
                     whom he introduced his sisters. Mrs. Chatterbox fell back, remaining, however,
                     within hearing distance. After some minutes of conversation, the stranger
                     proposed that the four should proceed to the upper deck, where it was more
                     pleasant, and where they could, in the bright moonlight, look upon the majestic
                     scenery which lines the upper Mississippi river. The proposition was readily
                     acceded to, and the party proceeded on deck.
                  From the workings of Mrs. Chatterbox's countenance, it was plainly to be
                     perceived she was disappointed. She had expected an invitation to accompany the
                     little party on deck, and had "hoped on" until they had disappeared from the
                     cabin. She threw herself into a rocking-chair, and remained there some time in
                     deep thought.
                  An hour rolled away, and the promenaders had not returned to the cabin. Mrs.
                     Chatterbox could restrain her tongue no longer. Taking her seat beside a quiet
                     middle-aged lady, she said—
                  "Did you ever see such impudence?"
                  "What?" asked the lady.
                  "Did you see those two men who walked right into our cabin a while ago?"
                  "No, I did not observe them."
                  "Well, they walked right into our cabin, and commenced talking
                     right away with those two upstart girls who occupy No. 26. The girls didn't
                     seem a bit bashful about it, but laughed and prated away, and at last went on
                     deck after dark with the two men."
                  "But is not one of the gentlemen their brother?"
                  "Laws only knows. But suppose he is, ain't this a pretty time for young girls
                     to be trolloping about on deck?"
                  "Not if they are under the protection of their brother."
                  "Protection, indeed! who knows if he is their brother? I've heard before of
                     relationship being trumped up while people are traveling. I tell you what it
                     is, I don't believe a gentleman will come into the ladies' cabin
                     after supper. It aint polite, and
                     its unreasonable. I don't know how you feel about it, but I think it's an
                     insult to us all, and I have half a notion to complain to the Captain about
                     it."
                  At that moment the party returned to the cabin. Mrs. Chatterbox "looked
                     daggers" at them, but to her great dismay and horror, the two gentlemen seated
                     themselves, and remained in conversation with the ladies until the chambermaid
                     gave unmistakable hints that it was time to retire. This increased Mrs.
                     Chatterbox's rage, and she declared that the first thing she would do in the
                     morning would be to complain to the Captain; she could not be insulted in that
                     way without resenting it.
                  The next clay, Mrs. Chatterbox and the young ladies were the great objects of
                     interest in the ladies' cabin. The sisters received several visits during the
                     day, each one arousing more and more the indignation of the gossip, and
                     accelerating the movements of her tongue. As a matter of course, the sisters
                     were aware of her indignation, her suspicions and her threats; all of which
                     they, like women possessing noble hearts, entirely disregarded.
                  When supper was announced, Mrs. Chatterbox was the first, as usual, to rush to
                     the table. She was seated in what may be termed an eligible position for
                     observation, and had cast a glance down the table, while sipping her tea, when
                     she suddenly threw her head back, and fixing her eyes upon two persons
                     opposite, with an expression of horror, said to a lady sitting beside her, and
                     loud enough to be heard by a number—
                  "Just look at that! One of those girls has allowed that strange fellow to see
                     her to the table. Such conduct," looking and speaking to the Captain, "is
                     outrageous, and for one, I wont countenance it."
                  Saying which, she arose from the table, and in a most excited manner proceeded
                     to her state-room. Her conduct was so well understood, that it caused only a
                     smile, and she failed to make the impression she expected to.
                  "She must be in want of a beau," remarked a gentleman at the table.
                  "And she shall have one," responded the individual who had so politely
                     gallanted one of the sisters to tea.
                  It was after 9 o'clock that evening when Mrs. Chatterbox again made her
                     appearance in the cabin. It happened that the young gentleman above alluded to
                     was there at the time, and he immediately offered her his chair, which she
                     indignantly refused. Allowing her to seat herself, he addressed a remark to
                     her, which she abruptly answered, but not noticing her stiffness, he continued
                     pressing inquiries, and in less than five minutes was engaged in a lively
                     conversation with her. At once she seemed to have forgotten the events of the
                     day, and was apparently charmed with the polite attentions and interesting
                     speech of the one beside her.
                  After conversing about an hour, the gentleman spoke of the delightful evening,
                     of the charming moonlight views from the deck, and offered to escort her to the
                     promenade above, if she was so disposed. She immediately accepted his
                     invitation, and on deck they went, to the great delight of all the other lady
                     passengers. Eleven o'clock came, and they did not return. At twelve o'clock
                     they were still promenading, and so extremely agreeable did Mrs. C.—find the company of her gallant, that it was
                     near one o'clock, when they again made their appearance below.
                  Mrs. Chatterbox was not a little surprised to find all the lady passengers up
                     and in the cabin.
                  "Well," said one, as she entered, "it is an outrage for a gentleman to come
                     into the ladies' cabin."
                  "I think so," remarked another, "and then for ladies to encourage it, too."
                  "And not only encourage that," followed a third, "but to promenade on deck with
                     a gentleman at such a late hour."
                  "I feel indignant at such proceedings," remarked a fourth, "and I intend
                        to complain to the Captain!"
                  "I wish," said Mrs. Chatterbox, her eyes flashing with anger, "that
                        people would learn to mind their own business."
                  She stepped into her state-room, slamming the door after her. She appeared in
                     the cabin but once or twice afterward during the trip, and then it did not take
                     more than ordinary observation to perceive that her tongue was completely
                     silenced. She had been caught in her own trap.
               
               
                  SNOB JOHN.
                  A LOCAL EDITOR, or Reporter of a city daily newspaper is thrown into all shades
                     of society, all classes of the community. Fashion and poverty, intelligence and
                     degradation, honesty and corruption, virtue and villainy, are the subjects of
                     continual investigation with him—made so by the duties of his vocation. From
                     the description of a brilliant festival, "which he has had the honor to
                     attend," he descends into the meanest hovel, to gather the particulars of a
                     "horrid occurrence," or a "revolting spectacle." There are no spots into which
                     Reporters are more frequently thrown, in pursuit of "items," than
                     drinking-saloons, those tempting places of refreshment, where men congregate to
                     while away an idle hour in social conversation, and sip stimulating fluids
                     until excited to an unnatural flow of spirits. In those most frequented, the
                     Reporter is sure to hear some news, or to be put upon the track of an item. And
                     how often is it the case, that in these gilded palaces of pleasure, he
                     commences a story which ends in a far different place! How often amid 
                        "The sound of revelry by night,"
                      does he witness the poor inebriate, whose only comfort is burning liquor,
                     and whose "sudden death" he will be under the painful necessity of recording
                     the next day? How often does he see men there, full of life, glee and humor,
                     whose wives and children are starving over their restless needles? How often
                     does he hear the cruel boast of the seducer, that his victim is degraded beyond
                     redemption, and afterward to witness the ravings of that victim in a cell of
                     the watch-house? I have traced many a sad story from the coffee-house to the
                     grave, but none more sorrowful than the following:
                  The patrons of the W—— Restaurant, on Fifth street, all knew John Smith (I give
                     him that name), the pert little shoemaker, who was always to be found there
                     after dark, unless otherwise particularly engaged. He had the reputation of
                     being one of the cleverest men in the world, and in truth he never hesitated to
                     "treat the party," when he had the
                     funds to do it,—was always full of fun and ready to tell or play a joke. He was
                     commonly known as "Snob John," and was a great favorite with the frequenters of
                     the W—Restaurant. He was a hardworking man,—that is, he worked full ten hours
                     every day, until he made enough ahead for a spree, and then his shop missed his
                     presence, until many days after his funds had run out. I say many days, for he
                     was such a clever fellow, so full of fun, that his sprees were prolonged by the
                     purses of kindred spirits, who could never be without him in a frolic.
                  I always supposed "Snob John" to be a jolly old bachelor, who could sing with
                     truth, 
                        
                           "I care for nobody,
                           Nobody cares for me,"
                        
                      and was determined to sail down the stream of life as merrily as possible,
                     without infringing upon the happiness of others. I was, therefore, not a little
                     surprised when a friend of his informed me, that John was a husband and a
                     father, but "as the old woman was sorter cross, he didn't often go home." From
                     that time I could not entertain so good an opinion of him as before,—his mirth
                     appeared devilish, and his wit stale, flat and unprofitable.
                  Last Christmas Eve, the W—— Restaurant was crowded with frolickers, celebrating
                     the sacred anniversary with debauchery and blasphemy. In one of the upper rooms
                     a party of ten or twelve persons were having a jolly time over the "luxuries of
                     the season," and the best of the bar. Among them was "Snob John," in fact, he
                     was the prince of the party, for his humor made them lively, his jokes kept
                     them merry. They were all in the happiest mood, when a little, ragged boy,
                     about nine years old, opened the door of the room, and with shivering limbs,
                     unobserved, approached "Snob John." Timidly laying his hand upon his arm, he
                     whispered:
                  "Father, Mother wants you."
                  The father, unlike the rest of the party, was not in the least surprised by the
                     appearance and conduct of the child. But, without a change in his countenance,
                     he rose up, seized the little fellow by the ear, led him to the door, gave him
                     a kick and bade him go home.
                  "Is that your boy?" asked one of the party, of Snob, as he returned to the
                     table.
                  "My boy" replied the shoemaker, with a forced smile, "he knows who his mother
                     is, but the D—I couldn't father him."
                  "I thought he called you father?"
                  "So the scamp did, but you'll all understand, when I tell you that he lives in
                     Gas Alley, and that his wench of a mother, when she wants money, sends him to
                     me, and tells him to call me dad."
                  "O ho! then you've been down there lately?" inquired another, with
                     a knowing nod of the head.
                  "Why, yes," replied Jack; "I couldn't help calling on
                     her,—vidders, you know, are very tempting."
                  This called forth a shout of laughter, and Snob John, having convinced his
                     companions that the child was not his son, went into a long disquisition on
                     love, particularly the love of "vidders," as he termed them.
                  After the door had been closed in the face of the little boy, he burst into a
                     flood of tears, and remained on the stairs weeping, until his conduct attracted
                     the attention of two gentlemen who
                     were passing through the hall below. In answer to their inquiries he stated
                     that his mother, who was suffering, had sent him after his father, who had not
                     been home for many days, and had just cruelly abused him. The gentlemen were
                     affected at the child's simple story: and at once concluded to conduct him home
                     in order to learn the truth of his statement. He seemed anxious they should go,
                     but still was afraid that his mother would not like it. It was not until after
                     the gentlemen looked into the room, and assured the boy, from what they saw,
                     that his father would not go with him, that he consented. One of the gentlemen
                     wrapped him in his cloak, to protect him from the freezing air, as they wended
                     their way over the ice-covered pavements, while the unfortunate child told them
                     that his mother was very poor and sick, that his little sister was dying, and
                     his mother had sent him for his father to save her life. After a lengthy walk
                     they arrived in the dismal neighborhood of the Gas Works, and turning into Gas
                     Alley, came to a building dilapidated through age and misuse. The boy led the
                     strangers into an upper room, telling them that there was where he lived; and
                     as the little fellow entered the doorway, tears rolled down his cheeks, and he
                     walked lightly, as if afraid to disturb the dying slumbers of his little
                     sister.
                  The gentlemen were horror-stricken with the scene. In that cold room not an
                     ember sent forth its grateful heat.—There was no furniture, save an old table,
                     two or three stools and a bedstead, while a tallow candle, fastened into the
                     wall cast but a faint and dismal light around the room. Leaning over the bed,
                     was a delicate woman, whose eyes were fixed upon an object before her. She
                     neither observed nor heard the quiet entrance of her visitors, and they staid
                     their steps as she gave vent to the following bitter exclamations:
                  "O, God! spare my darling Clara but a few hours longer—John will come and see
                        her die. He does not love her mother any more—he has made his
                     home so miserable, that he never visits it—but he always doted on Clara—he
                     called her his darling girl. O, John! John! your daughter is dying! she has
                     asked a thousand times for her papa, and you can not be so cruel as to stay
                     away! Good God! my child is dead!" and giving a shriek, she fell upon the
                     floor.
                  The two visitors flew to her assistance, and lifted her upon the bed. While one
                     attempted to comfort the boy, the other went for a physician. Both succeeded,
                     and soon Mrs. Smith was revived and placed beside a bright fire which had been
                     kindled in the meantime. Medicines were administered, but they afforded no
                     relief. Her heart was bleeding,—broken from negligence, suffering and woe. She
                     looked around the room again and again, and asked for John, but he was not
                     there. The physician and the two visitors endeavored to console her, but in
                     vain. Before daylight she breathed her last, pronouncing with her dying breath
                     the name of her negligent husband. She was placed by the hands of strangers on
                     the bed beside the angelic form of her starved daughter. The
                     gentlemen who had witnessed this sad scene, could not refrain from tears. They
                     made every arrangement necessary under the circumstances, and while one took
                     the now lone boy home to be properly cared for, the other started in search of
                     the husband. "Snob John" was found at the W—Restaurant, but so drunk from the
                     night's debauch that it was impossible to communicate the news to him, and therefore, without consulting him, the
                     strangers had the wife and daughter decently interred.
                  Careful inquiry led to a knowledge of the following facts. "Snob John" had been
                     a kind and affectionate husband, until he became addicted to the use of ardent
                     spirits. As he advanced through the different stages of drunkenness, he became
                     less careful of his family, and at last deserted them altogether. The wife
                     strove hard against poverty, and day and night plied her needle to save herself
                     and children from a miserable death. She would occasionally appeal to her
                     husband through their son, but received only such answers as he gave on
                     Christmas Eve. She had toiled on, suffered on, till through sickness, unable to
                     purchase even food, she sent her child for the last time, through the chilly
                     blasts of a winter's night, to beg her husband for bread to save his family
                     from starvation. John came not; the daughter sank exhausted into the arms of
                     death, and the mother died of a broken heart.
                  Such was the fate of the family of the merry, the witty, the jovial "Snob
                     John," whose credit was as good as a banker's at the W—Restaurant, and whose
                     company was always sought by the frequenters of that splendid saloon.
                  But the end was not yet. Not many days after, I was attracted to one of the
                     cells of the watch-house by what I supposed to be the ravings of a maniac.
                     Looking into the cell, I observed that the distracted creature was "Snob John."
                     suffering under that most dreadful disease, the mania-a-potu. In his ravings he frequently called for protection
                     from his wife and child, who, he imagined, were assaulting him, and repeatedly
                     declared that he had not drawn a sober breath since their decease. From the
                     watch-house he was conveyed to the hospital, where a wretched death ended his
                     miserable existence. He died an unrespected pauper, all his friends having
                     deserted him, as he had deserted his family, in time of need.
               
               
                  WEARING THE BREECHES:
                  OR, WOMAN'S RIGHTS ILLUSTRATED.
                  "SIT down, Mr. Thompson, I tell you, sit down!" These words were
                     uttered by a plump, pert, and tidy-looking woman in Esquire Rowekamp's office,
                     one afternoon. She had been arrested for assaulting one Miss Blossom, and the
                     trial was about proceeding, when she gave the above command. The gentleman
                     addressed was her husband, a man who presented a rather shriveled-up and
                     fidgety appearance. He held a little babe in his arms, and was standing near
                     his wife. It appears that all the parties being present, the Magistrate had
                     inquired of Mr. Thompson, whether his lady was ready to proceed, and that
                     gentleman having arisen, was about to respond, when his "better-half" addressed
                     him as above.
                  "Why, my dear," was his answer, "the 'squire had just asked me—and—and—and—I—my
                     dear,—"
                  "Mr. Thompson, sit down! interrupted the wife, this time stamping
                     her foot quite emphatically upon the floor. Your wife needs no spokesman. If
                     the 'squire wishes an answer let him address the individual interested."
                  
                  "I beg your pardon, madam," said Esquire Rowekamp, with a smile, "but it has
                     always been our custom, when a lady was accused, and was accompanied by her
                     husband, to address ourse—"
                  "It may be your custom, sir," interrupted the accused, "but it is founded upon
                     unjust and tyrannous social relations, which must sooner or later, be dissolved
                     under the rising and burning sun of progress."
                  "That may be, madam, but here we must conform to the custom of the day. Your
                     husband, no doubt, understands law better than you, and—."
                  "My husband understands no such thing, sir. We discard the tyrannous customs of
                     the day, and Mrs. Thompson, I will let you know, sir, enjoys the same domestic
                     rights and privileges that her husband does."
                  "Be that as it may," said the 'squire, "I can not stop to argue with you. If
                     you do not wish your husband to answer for you—"
                  "I tell you again, sir, that I can speak for myself. I am not to be intimidated
                     by the fact that custom forbids me to speak."
                  "Well, then, madam, I will ask you if you are ready
                     for trial."
                  "I am, sir, most certainly."
                  "Have you an attorney?"
                  "I—I—I—went down to see—lawyer Brown," stammered out Mr. Thompson, slowly
                     rising from his seat, and keeping his eyes steadfastly fixed upon his wife,
                     said eyes opening wider and wider, with each word uttered. "He wasn't—he wasn't
                     in, and he—he—he—"
                  "Mr. Thompson, what do you mean?" cried the wife. jumping from her seat, and
                     giving her husband a most vigorous look. "Did you go for lawyer Brown after I
                     had forbidden your doing so?"
                  "Why, my dear, I—I—I—thought that we—we—ought to have a lawyer," said the
                     husband, apparently much frightened.
                  "Ought to have a lawyer," exclaimed the wife, "ought to have a
                     lawyer, when you know I have been reading Black-stone these three years?"
                  "Blackstorie, my dear?"
                  "Yes sir, Blackstone, the key, as it were, to all law—the foundation of all
                     legal pleading—and the great fountain of all adjudication. I know more about
                     law now, than one-half of the lawyers, and Mr. Thompson, you ought to have been
                     aware that counsel was not necessary in my case. I am surprised at
                     your stupidity, and I hope, sir, you will take your seat, and not display your
                     ignorance again."
                  The spectators, who had, out of gallantry, suppressed their merriment until
                     now, here burst into a loud peal of laughter. Even the 'squire, as dignified as
                     he is in the Magisterial chair, could not resist an urgent desire to give a
                     "haw haw!"
                  Fire flashed from the eyes of the lady, and turning to the laughing Magistrate,
                     she said, "Was I brought here to be insulted by these heathenish men?"
                  "Not at all, madam," was his reply; "but as you see proper to make yourself
                     ridiculous, you must—"
                  "Sir, you are no gentleman."
                  "Come, come, madam, we have had enough of this nonsense. I have gone as far as
                     my duty would permit me, to accommodate you; but as you have seen fit to unsex
                        yourself in so public a place as
                     this, I find I must drop my gallantry and use my authority, I
                        command you now to keep silence."
                  "While these remarks were being addressed to Mrs. Thompson, she several times
                     interrupted the speaker, but he succeeded in keeping her pretty quiet until he
                     got through. Then she said, I will speak if I choose."
                  "I command silence."
                  "You won't get it from me!"
                  "Then I will imprison you for contempt of court."
                  "Do it, if you dare."
                  "I dislike to do so, but I must have order in court."
                  "Then keep your mouth shut."
                  "Constable Housman, take that lady in"—
                  "No, no, don't 'squire, cried Mr. Thompson, who still held the baby in his
                     arms. "She'll be still, 'squire—won't you, my dear?"
                  "Mr. Thompson, you are a fool," she replied. "No I won't be still—I can suffer
                     as a martyr in the cause of right! Man has power now—he rules—but the time is
                     coming when poor down-trodden woman will break the bonds of slavery, and claim
                     and enjoy all her natural privileges."
                  "That's true," half groaned Mr. Thompson.
                  "I do not wish to deal severely with you madam," said the Magistrate, but
                     justice can not be dispensed without order. I shall therefore proceed with the
                     trial, hoping your good sense will prevent you from interrupting the
                     proceedings again."
                  "Yes, that's it, my dear," said the husband nodding first to the lady and then
                     to the Magistrate.
                  Mrs. Thompson, whose vexation appeared now wrought up to decided
                     anger, took no notice of either, beyond a scornful look at the Magistrate, and
                     a searching one at her husband.—At this juncture the baby, which still lay in
                     the arms of Thompson, commenced crying.
                  "Bye-bye-bye," sang its kind father, as he tossed it gently on his lap; but
                     neither the tossing nor the "bye-bye" soothed the child, nor tended to stop its
                     crying. Mr. Thompson then hugged it to his bosom, while he rocked to and fro on
                     his chair; yet the child persisted in crying.
                  "My dear," whispered he to his wife, "the darling wants to come to you."
                  "I cant take her," she snappishly replied; "but it won't do to let her be
                     crying here. Take her out of doors and walk with her."
                  
                  Out went Mr. Thompson and the baby, to the great relief, no doubt, of the wife
                     and mother, and to the no small amusement of the spectators. Mrs. Thompson then
                     asked for pen, ink and paper, which being supplied, she announced her readiness
                     for the trial to proceed.
                  Miss Blossom, the prosecuting witness, was now called to the stand, and being
                     duly sworn, proceeded to testify. She was rather a venerable Miss, perhaps
                     thirty-five or forty years of age, tall and slender, and presented generally a
                     decaying appearance. Her nose was long and sharp, her little grey eyes dull,
                     her checks sunken, and her chin almost as promiinent as her nose. A flow of
                     ringlets around her neck, might have given her a youthful appearance, had not
                     their color differed materially from the hair on the top of her head. Her dress
                     was a glaring muslin-de-laine, the skirt covered with flounces edged with black
                     lace, and the waist all dotted with fancy buttons and ribbon bows. She had a
                     bonnet on her head, but it could scarcely be seen for the flowers and ribbons
                     which adorned it, while, slung upon her left arm was a bag capacious enough to
                     hold an ordinary library. During the time she had been in court, not a smile
                     had brightened her rigid countenance, though her eyes had been almost
                     constantly fixed on Mrs. Thompson, the person against whom she was to testify.
                     It took her some minutes to arrange herself in a suitable position as a
                     witness, (wishing, like all old maids, to show to the greatest effect,) and as
                     many more to adjust her dress, her curls, etc.
                  "What is the ground of your complaint?" asked the 'Squire, for the fourth or
                     fifth time, before he could get an answer. At last she replied:
                  "I have been a member of the Anti-Despotic and Woman-Elevating-Society, (of
                     course the real name of the society she mentioned is not given,) for fifteen
                     years."
                  "Fifteen years?" asked Mrs. Thompson, writing down the words.
                  "Yes, fifteen years, coming next St. Valentine's day."
                  "Remember," said Mrs. Thompson, "you're under oath, and I am writing it all
                     down."
                  "I don't care if you be, for my word can't be impeached by the likes of
                     you."
                  "You'll have to answer for that, my lady," replied Mrs. Thompson, evidently cut
                     at the remark.
                  "Ladies, ladies!" said the 'Squire, "this will never do.
                  "Mrs. Thompson, you must not interrupt the witness."
                  "Let her tell the truth, then," coolly replied the accused.
                  "Proceed, Miss Blossom," said the officer.
                  "Well," said she, "as I was saying, when I was most ungraciously interrupted, I
                     have been a member of that philanthropic association fifteen years next
                     Valentine's day. I never asked to be promoted to any of the high stations, for
                     I always was (fingering her ringlets,) a modest girl."
                  "Girl!" significantly exclaimed Mrs. Thompson, who still continued to take down
                     the evidence.
                  "The members," continued Miss Blossom, "kept persisting in giving me an office,
                     for, as they said, I was deserving of it. So at last I, by hard work, overcame
                     my modesty, and consented to serve as President, providing they'd elect me.
                     Well, things went on in that way, till election day, and then the Society had a
                     meetin'. I was nominated, and the Society was about to—"
                  
                  "My dear" said Mr. Thompson, in rather a loud whisper, as he leaned over the
                     railing of the bar, having slipped in un-perceived, "my dear, will you take the
                     baby now?"
                  "Mr. Thompson," was her reply, "don't you see I'm engaged? Leave the room
                     instantaneously." Not daring to disobey, Mr. Thompson went out much faster than
                     he came in.
                  "The Society was about to elect me by acclamation, when Mrs. Thompson"—
                  "This lady here?" asked the Magistrate.
                  "Yes, this lady here," replied Mrs. Thompson, before Miss B. could primp her
                     mouth to answer the question.
                  "She got up," continued Miss Blossom, "and told them that if they elected me,
                     I'd break up the Society, for I was nothing but a nasty, mean, good-for-nothing
                     tattler."
                  "That's true," exclaimed Mrs. Thompson, still taking down the evidence.
                  "Now," said Miss Blossom, "I always was sensitive, and I must say the remarks
                     of the lady cut me to the quick. In the excitement of the moment, I repelled
                     the charge by telling her she had better go home and nurse her baby. From what
                     you have seen here to-day, you may judge I insinuated the truth. With that she
                     came right up to me, and with the open hand struck me in the face. That is what
                     I call an assault, and for which I ask the interference of the legal
                     authorities."
                  "Is that all?" asked Mrs. Thompson.
                  "If I am obliged to answer, yes."
                  "Didn't you pull my hair?"
                  "Yes—in self-defense."
                  "Didn't you scratch my face?"
                  "Yes—in self-defense."
                  "Didn't you tear my bonnet?"
                  "Yes—in self-defense."
                  "Didn't you call me a hussy?"
                  "Yes—in self-defense."
                  "Didn't you jump on me like a wild cat, and utter such shrieks as to cause
                     nearly all the ladies to leave the room, and break up the Society for the time
                     being?"
                  "Yes, yes, yes," impatiently responded Miss Blossom, "I did all that in
                        self-defense."
                  Here the magistrate put a stop to the examination of Miss Blossom by Mrs.
                     Thompson, and called for the next witness. But it appeared that Miss Blossom,
                     believing the testimony all sufficient, had brought no one with her to
                     corroborate her statements. For the defense, Mrs. Thompson offered herself as a
                     witness, and became very indignant, indeed, when Esquire Rowekamp, informed her
                     that she could not testify in her own behalf. She then wished to plead her own
                     case; but this privilege the Magistrate also denied her. She was about
                     expressing her indignation, when her husband again again made his appearance,
                     and almost in a whisper said to her:
                  "My dear, will you take the baby now?"
                  "Mr. Thompson," she replied, impetuously, "why do you persist in thus obtruding
                     yourself upon my presence? Take the child and go home."
                  Mr. Thompson, with the babe in his arms, left the office for the third time,
                     and with more reluctance than ever. Fearful, however, that his dear wife might
                     get into trouble, he went no further
                     than the door. After trying in vain to stop the defendant's tongue, the
                     Magistrate briefly summed up the case, found Mrs. Thompson guilty as charged,
                     and offered to fine her only a small sum if she would plead guilty and allow
                     the proceedings to rest with him. This she refused to do, and he therefore
                     required her to give bonds for her appearance before a higher Court, and to
                     keep the peace in the meantime. This she also refused to do, stating that she
                     would stand on her natural rights if she died by it.
                  Not wishing to commit her to jail, and knowing her husband to be an honest and
                     law-abiding man, the Magistrate dismissed her, with the expectation of having
                     her bonds secured at an early day, and glad to get clear of her at that.
                  Miss Blossom complained somewhat at this, but the Magistrate telling her that
                     she also was liable to a fine, and that he would have imposed one on her, had
                     she not redeemed her acts by breaking up "the Society," she appeared more
                     contented, and left the office without even claiming her witness fees.
                  The last seen of Mrs. Thompson that day, she was walking thoughtfully homeward,
                        followed by her husband, still hugging and trying to pacify the
                     crying baby, and presenting a picture of the "good time coming," when the women
                     are to wear the breeches.
               
               
                  OLD MAG:
                  A STORY OF THE ICE-HOUSE
                  THE Old Ice-House! once a depository of Winter's creation, is now a tenement of
                     human beings. Instead of the pure, clear ice, it now receives lumps of
                     degraded, miserable humanity, and is known as the abode of evil doers.
                  A prominent inmate of the old ice-house was a female of some forty years of
                     age, known as Old Mag. She was a pitiable wretch. Her great pleasure was the
                     bottle, and to satisfy the cravings of her disordered and degraded appetite,
                     she would resort to the vilest conduct. She occupied a room by herself, would
                     never allow any one to enter it, and was extremely close-mouthed regarding
                     every thing connected with herself; though often, while intoxicated, she would
                     heap curses upon a certain name, but so indefinite were her mutterings that
                     nothing could be gained from them, except the surmise that she was a deeply
                     injured woman. That she possessed intelligence, and that she had seen better
                     days, could be readily discovered by her conversation, but that she was debased
                     to the lowest degree, was evinced by every sentence from her mouth. She was
                     alike feared and detested by her house-mates, and even the police, who had
                     frequently come in contact with her, feared alike her fist and her tongue.
                  About a month ago, Old Mag died. For four or five days she had remained shut up
                     in her almost dungeon room, and
                     although her neighbors heard her alternately groaning and cursing, and had
                     cause to believe that she was dangerously ill, no one had courage to attempt to
                     enter her room. The police of the ward were at last informed of the
                     circumstance, and, as in duty bound, they entered Old Mag's apartment.
                  "What do you want here?" she asked, with an oath, as the two policemen entered,
                     at the same time making an effort to rise.
                  "We come to see what is the matter with you—are you sick?"
                  "Sick? what is it your business if I am? Get out of my house, you infernal
                     dogs."
                  The policemen, supposing that Mag was in much better condition than they had
                     been led to apprehend, turned, and were about to leave, when the old woman thus
                     addressed one of them:
                  "Hold on, Bob; I am sick—sick as the D—I, and I want to talk with you. Put the
                     dogs out, fasten the door, and come here."
                  Of all vocations in the world, that of a policeman is the least desirable. He
                     is continually brought in contact with crime of every kind; becomes intimate
                     with the haunts of iniquity, familiar with the most degraded of his race, and
                     often, very often, an unwilling witness to the most terrible scenes. The
                     policeman whom Mag addressed, had been in the service many years, and had
                     always endeavored to perform his duty as a man and a Christian. He had no other
                     feeling than pity for the poor wretches whom he was obliged to arrest, and
                     instead of applying abusive epithets toward them, as is too often done, would
                     use every persuasion to induce them to reform. He had often arrested Old Mag,
                     but never abused her, and the result was, she respected him, and would never
                     misbehave in his presence. He obeyed the sick woman's summons. Propping up the
                     unhinged door, he approached her. She lay in one corner of the room, upon the
                     bare, damp floor, and when the light of the candle he held in his hand shone
                     full on her face, he saw at once the poor woman was not long for this
                     world.
                  "Why, Mag, you are very sick," he exclaimed.
                  "Yes," she replied, her voice now faint and feeble, "I am dying."
                  "I will send for a physician," he said, moving toward the door.
                  "No, no, come back," she exclaimed, throwing all her energy into an effort to
                     stop him; and succeeding in this, she feebly continued, "It is too late—I am
                     dying, I tell you. Time is now precious—sit down—I have something to tell
                     you."
                  The watchman could see in those eyes that she spoke the truth—that she was in
                     reality dying. He seated himself on the floor beside her, brushed the hair from
                     her face, took off his coat, placed it under her head, and bid her go on.
                  "Bob," she said, "I did hope that I would die alone. For three days have I lain
                     here helpless, and I have prayed that I might die before my condition was
                     discovered. Oh, God! how I have suffered. The agony of ten thousand deaths
                     would not compare to the remorse that has racked my brain the last three days.
                     I tried to pray—pray as I used to, before crime! crime! crime! stained my heart
                     and hands. Good Heaven! why was I ever born?"
                  
                  "Be calm, Mag," said the watchman, who saw that former impressions were about
                     to be fulfilled, "you have not long to live, and should prepare to meet your
                     God."
                  "Bob, you are a Christian, I know," she continued, "I always told the infernal
                     dogs that infest this house that you were, and now that I am dying, after
                     having prayed day and night that I might die alone, I know that God has sent
                     you here to receive revelations for years locked up in my breast. And, oh, God!
                     how those secret thoughts have burned in my soul. I have drank, drank, and
                     drank, until I became a loathsome object in the sight of man, to destroy the
                     torture within my breast, to remove the gnawing at my heart, but the more I
                     drank the more dreadful was my punishment. Would to Heaven that this hour had
                     come years ago—would it had come when innocence was mine—for, oh! I once was
                     innocent—once was respected—once was loved. Don't you believe it?" she asked,
                     raising herself upon her elbow, and staring the watchman wildly in the
                     face.
                  "I do, indeed, Mag," was his reply.
                  "Mag! Old Mag! that's what they call me now. Ha! ha! Old Mag I whisky for Old
                     Mag!—ha! ha!" and thus screaming, her head again fell back upon the floor, and
                     she lay as if dead. The watchman brought some water and bathed her face, and
                     she soon became conscious again.
                  "I was once a decent woman, Bob," she continued, "Twenty years ago last
                     Wednesday, saw me one of the happiest wives and mothers in Ohio. Don't you
                     believe it? Can you imagine that Old Mag—wicked Old Mag—was ever beloved and
                     respected? You've been to D—?" The watchman nodded assent, "You've noticed,
                     then, that lovely spot on the hill, just back of the town—that superb house
                     with its pleasant garden and enticing groves?"
                  "Yes," replied the policeman.
                  "That once was mine," she screamed, "and curse the day that I was induced by
                     sin to leave it. Oh! sir, Old Mag is a victim to the basest wrongs. I was
                     contented and happy in my own house, the wife of a fond, doting husband, and
                     the mother of a cherub babe, when a monster, in the shape of a man—a
                     devil—wound himself, like a serpent, around me, and crushed me. Oh! that I had
                     resisted then—oh! that I could have died, then. Oh! commit crime once, and
                     death alone can relieve the constant punishment of your conscience."
                  The agony of the poor woman, as she thus expressed herself, wrung groans from
                     him who sat beside her. He saw he had a duty to perform, and he hardly knew how
                     to do it.—Crime lay hidden in that woman's breast—she was dying—and he must
                     learn her secret. He could not interrupt those harrowing thoughts of what had
                     been; and he could not withdraw her mind from the guilty past to the present.
                     He had listened to every word she had uttered, but as yet he had received no
                     satisfactory information. At last he asked her—
                  "And who was this man, Mag that was the means of destroying your
                     happiness?"
                  "Who was he?" she said, with a ferocious expression upon her face, "go to the
                     lake of fire and brimstone and inquire. I sent him there! Ha! ha!
                     he ruined me—he stole me from my husband and my angel child—he dug their
                     graves—he deceived me—he deserted me—he poisoned my heart—he maddened my
                     brain—and I, yes I, Old Mag of the Ice-House—I murdered—ha! ha I ha!—I murdered
                     him!"
                  
                  "Murdered whom?" asked the watchman, using every effort to attract her
                     attention.
                  She rose partly up, seized the watchman by the shoulders, and placing her face
                     directly in his, hissed forth a name, and then fell back, never to speak
                     again.
                  The watchman called in his comrade, and took immediate steps to have the body
                     removed for interment. The name she had whispered with her dying breath rang in
                     his ears.—He had heard it before, but could not recollect when and where. On
                     referring to his note-book, he found an old extract from a newspaper, which
                     explained the whole mystery.
                  "The body of J—— S——, whose sudden and mysterious disappearance has caused so
                     much excitement in this community, was found in the canal last evening. The
                     investigations of the last few days, render it certain that he was murdered by
                     Matilda H—, the female with whom he formerly lived, and whose wrongs are
                     familiar to our readers. The woman has fled, and as the sentiment of the
                     community is decidedly in her favor, no one is willing to pursue her. Thus has
                     a series of wrongs, commencing with the seduction of a young, handsome and
                     respected wife, and the suicide of her husband, ended in the terrible murder of
                     the seducer by the hands of his victim. Heaven have mercy upon the half-crazed,
                     degraded and miserable murderess."
                  A comparison of dates, etc., made it certain that Old Mag was the woman alluded
                     to in the above paragraph. She must have fled to the Ice-House, immediately
                     after committing the crime alluded to, and sought death in the sure poison of
                     the bottle. Well might she exclaim, 'Once commit crime, and death alone can
                     relieve the constant punishment of conscience.'
               
               
                  THE LITTLE OLD MAID'S STORY;
                  AS RELATED ON THANKSGIVING DAY.
                  THANKSGIVING was about closing, as the family of old Mr. Thompson was gathered
                     around the domestic hearth. Children and grand-children had come from a
                     distance to bow again at the family altar, and to participate in the annual
                     happy reunion. In the morning they had assembled around the old Patriarch, who
                     they knew lived "in the fear of God," and endeavored to "keep his
                     commandments," to hear from his lips once more, a chapter from the revered
                     family Bible. They had joined him in prayer and thanksgiving, and united with
                     him, in singing praises to the Most High. Together they had attended church,
                     reviewed the events of the past year, and renewed their vows for the future.
                     They had once more sat together at the Thanksgiving table, and while partaking
                     of the dainties so carefully prepared, feasted on the joys of family love and
                     devotion. In fact, Thanksgiving Day had been spent happily, as many others had,
                     in the old homestead of Mr. Thompson, and in the evening all had gathered
                     around the hearth, as was their custom, for a "good old family talk."
                  At the right sat "Old Mr. Thompson," the head of the little flock, robust,
                     though aged, and a happy smile playing upon his still unwrinkled face. Next to
                     him, upon her little chair, cushioned years ago, with her own hands, rocked
                        the good matron, who had devoted
                     her life, not to the frivolities of the world, but to a mother's duties. By the
                     joy which beamed from her still unfaded eyes, one would judge that as she
                     looked around her, she felt proud of those she had reared with so much care.
                     The children and grand-children formed the circle around the family hearth, and
                     a rosy smiling circle it was.
                  But at the left of the fire-place sat one, to whom I ask particular attention.
                     All called her Aunt Mary. For years this house had been her home, and yet her
                     full history was not known to them. It was apparent that she belonged to that
                     class of much-abused females known as old-maids; I say much-abused class, for,
                     despised as they are by some, ridiculed as they are by others, condemned as
                     they are, as sour, crabbed, queer, old-fashioned, and foolish—who are more
                     attentive to the sick, more kind to the afflicted, more ready at all times to
                     obey the calls of the distressed, than old maids? If there is a misfortune in a
                     family, the old maid is the first to offer consolation; if there is a
                     bereavement, the old maid is the first to sympathise; and if volunteer aid is
                     required, she is the first to tender her services.
                  Then they are always so clean and neat, so prim and so tidy. They are as
                     regular in their habits as the sun, and as careful of their example as the most
                     devout minister could be. They waste no time, but are ever basy with the
                     house-cloth or the needle, for the benefit of themselves or others. Old maids
                     may be ridiculed in the ball-room, and among the silly and gay; but at home,
                     whether it be in the sick-room or the kitchen, they are models for the younger
                     of their sex.
                  Aunt Mary occupied the left of the circle, and though, she had performed most
                     of the labor incident to getting up a Thanksgiving dinner, depriving herself of
                     attending the morning service,—she sat with the hearth-broom in her hand, ready
                     to remove the smallest particle of dirt which might fall upon the bricks, so
                     thoroughly cleaned by her. Like most old maids, she was shriveled and little;
                     but beneath a shade of melancholy she had a sweet and tender expression of
                     countenance.
                  After an hour or two had been spent in conversation, the old gentleman turned
                     to her and said:
                  "Aunt Mary, while seated just where we are, and as we are, at this hour last
                     Thanksgiving Day, you remarked that you were once in love; and to the pressing
                     inquiries of the children, you promised, if your life were spared until the
                     next Thanksgiving Day, that you would relate to us the whole story of your
                     life. Thank God! we are all seated here again, as we then were, and the time
                     has now arrived for you to redeem your word."
                  Aunt Mary had evidently forgotten her promise, but now immediately prepared to
                     make it good. After brushing up the hearth, and arranging her dress with much
                     exactness, she commenced relating—
                  
                     THE LITTLE OLD MAID'S STORY.
                     "I almost regret my promise," she said, "for the story has been so long
                        locked up in my bosom, that it ought to remain there. But I will tell it,
                        and with the hope that it will not only prove interesting but instructive,
                        particularly to the children, who are yet ignorant of the cares and
                        sufferings of life.
                     "It will be just thirty years next March, since my mother died, leaving me an orphan at the age of
                        sixteen. Two years before, I had lost my father, which bereavement almost
                        broke my heart; but when my dear mother, who loved me so affectionately, was
                        laid in the cold, cold grave, I prayed for the privilege of following her
                        there. The world was a blank to me, and for months my only consolation was
                        tears, bitter tears.
                     "The memory of those days still touches my heart, and I recur to them only
                        when necessary. Mankind is doomed to many evils and much suffering, but I
                        can conceive of no situation in life more pitiable, more sad, more worthy of
                        condolement than of a girl, on the verge of womanhood, deprived of both
                        parents, and cast upon the broad world without a protector. Oh! the aching
                        of an orphan girl's heart. What tongue can relate, whose pen describe
                        them?"
                     Here Aunt Mary paused a few moments, while with a neatly folded
                        handkerchief, she wiped a tear from her eye. Bitter memories were passing
                        through her mind.
                     "I knew of no relative living, and you can imagine the dreariness of my
                        heart. I had been left, however, sufficient property to support me, and a
                        neighbor and his wife, who had for years been intimate friends of my
                        parents, offered me a home with them. They became my protectors and did all
                        in their power to allay my anguish. They were kind, very kind to me, but
                        with all their kindness they could not supply the place of the departed. I
                        found in them, however, friends for a season, and I at least became to a
                        great degree reconciled to my sad fate.
                     "With full confidence I placed my property in the possession of my volunteer
                        guardian, to use it to the best advantage for my interest.
                     Two years passed away, I had formed many pleasant associations, and began to
                        think there were yet some joys in store for me. Among my young associates I
                        was quite a favorite, and they insisted on dragging me into society more
                        than my inclinations sanctioned; for my affections were still in the grave,
                        and though the grass grew long o'er my mother's mound, oft in retiracy the
                        tears of sorrow coursed down my cheeks. 'Oh! my mother, my dear, dear
                        mother,' I would exclaim, 'could I only look upon your sweet face again, and
                        hear your affectionate voice, my poor heart would be relieved. There is no
                        one who can fill your place.'
                     Aunt Mary again paused to brush away tears, and the drops from other eyes in
                        the little circle told plainly how interested all were in the story.
                     "The third year of my sad bereavement," she continued sorrowfully, "brought
                        additional troubles. For some months I had noticed, that the family in whose
                        house I had found a home, seemed daily to grow colder in their intercourse
                        with me. My inquiries as to the cause always received evasive replies, and
                        at last, near the closing of the third year of my orphanage, I was requested
                        to find another home as soon as convenient. The reason given for this
                        request was a desire on their part to reduce materially their expenses. I
                        complied with their wishes, again moving among strangers, and feeling as
                        sensibly as ever my own loneliness. Nor was that all. A week thereafter, I
                        ascertained that my voluntary guardian and pretended friend, had cheated me
                        out of all my property."
                     "Is it possible?" exclaimed old Mr. Thompson, astonished at the
                        development.
                     "Indeed, it is too true."
                     
                     "Swindle a lone orphan! that is outrageous," exclaimed the old gentleman,
                        while his eyes flashed fire.
                     "Indeed it is," responded the eldest son.
                     "So I thought," continued Aunt Mary. "The way he managed to swindle me was
                        this: He persuaded me to dispose of my little estate and turn it into cash,
                        informing me that I could loan the money to much better advantage than I
                        could rent the property. After he had obtained the cash, I naturally gave it
                        to him to loan for me, being entirely ignorant of such business. He took it,
                        and afterward denied having received it."
                     "Did you not take his notes?" was asked.
                     "No. I did not even know that it was necessary, and if I had have known it,
                        I had such confidence in the man, that I would not have asked it."
                     "Why didn't you sue him, child?" inquired Mrs. Thompson.
                     "I did, but not without encountering many difficulties. I applied to several
                        lawyers to undertake my case, but finding I was without money to fee them,
                        they refused to have anything to do with it. After I had given up all hope,
                        however, a kind-hearted member of the bar, who had heard my story, called
                        upon me, and agreed to conduct my suit without a fee. He expressed but
                        little confidence in my success, but was determined to try it, let the
                        result be what it would. I entered suit, but only to find that the law,
                        though designed to dispense JUSTICE, affords no protection to lone and
                        penniless orphans."
                     "'Twas too bad," interposed the old gentleman.
                     "I was now thrown upon the world, without friends and without money. My
                        utter destitution, however, nerved me, and I diligently undertook to earn my
                        own living. Opportunities soon presented themselves, and for three years I
                        lived the life of a city needlewoman. Robbed as I had been by those who
                        pretended to be my best friends, I had confidence in no one, and kept
                        entirely aloof from the world. Indeed I soon found that the poor needle-girl
                        was not the orphan with property. Many of my former intimate companions now
                        scorned me, and passed me in the street, without speaking to me, because a
                        pretended friend had swindled me out of my subsistence. Such is the pride of
                        poor human nature. I toiled on, however, at my needle, earning barely enough
                        to keep body and soul together. Sometimes I nearly starved, and often I was
                        almost induced to throw aside my work, and lie down to die. It is a dreadful
                        life, and I am satisfied that most needlewomen in our large cities are as
                        badly off now as I was then. I was paid a reasonable price for my labor, but
                        it was my inexperience in the kind of work I was forced to take from time to
                        time which caused me to suffer. But now, needlewomen receive but a bare
                        pittance for their toil, and from what I observe, God only knows how they
                        live. But few, very few seamstresses, I warrant, have partaken of a
                        Thanksgiving dinner to-day. Heaven have mercy upon their employers!"
                     "Amen!" was the response of more than one.
                     "Three years, I said, I labored as a needlewoman," continued Aunt Mary.
                        "During the third year I formed an acquaintance with a young man, to whom I
                        soon became much attached. He seemed to realize my condition, sympathized
                        with me so heartily, and treated me so kindly, that he soon won my heart. To make a long story
                        short, I was in love," and Aunt Mary heaved a deep sigh.
                     "Yes, in love. For the first time-since my mother's death, there was joy in
                        my heart—joy because I had found a being upon whom I could place my
                        affections. The world became new to me; and happy in the present I
                        anticipated great pleasure for the future. "Would that my story ended here,"
                        continued Aunt Mary, with the strongest emotion depicted upon her
                        countenance; "but the orphan girl has still further sorrows to tell. My
                        lover deceived me! He cruelly, basely deserted me.
                     "Oh! it chills my blood to recur to those days, days of the deepest anguish.
                        Disappointed, ruined, and desperate, I determined to relieve the world of my
                        presence, and in despair sought death by suicide. Rushing to the river, I
                        plunged in, when you, grandfather, (addressing the elder Mr. Thompson,)
                        rescued me from a watery grave. You brought me to your house, revived and
                        endeavored to console me. You know how I despaired for months, how
                        cautiously I received your kind proffers of friendship, and how long it was
                        before I again became reconciled to life. I was at last convinced that kind
                        Heaven had cast me among Christians, on whom I could rely. I became one of
                        your family, and have remained with you until I have become 'Aunt Mary,' not
                        only to your children, but your children's children. With the exception of
                        an occasional recurrence to my early days, I am now and have for years been
                        happy. This house has proved a home indeed to me, and 'Aunt Mary's' earnest
                        desire is that she may end her days with you."
                     Tears flowed down the cheeks of the "little old maid" as she concluded her
                        story. Her heart was full. The children, large and small, gathered about
                        her, and assured her that she should never sorrow as long as they could
                        contribute to her happiness. Their affection cased her heart, and, with her
                        tears still flowing, she said:
                     "I know it, darlings, I know it. Aunt Mary appreciates your love and is
                        happy."
                     Even the "old folks" were moved to tears, tears of joy, the old man called
                        them, at Aunt Mary's deliverance from her sorrows and an untimely death. Mr.
                        Thompson asked:
                     "Have you ever heard of the fate of your dishonest guardian and perfidious
                        lover?"
                     "Not until lately," was Aunt Mary's reply.
                     "God seems to have punished them both. The former became a drunkard, lost
                        all his property, died a pauper and was buried by the authorities, not a
                        mourner following him to the grave. The other was shot down in the streets
                        of a Southern city, for making improper advances to the sister of the person
                        who caused his death."
                     "Heaven truly hath avenged thee, Aunt Mary," said the venerable head of the
                        family: "and from her story, children, learn this—that dishonest or
                        dishonorable action brings sorrow not only on the injured, but eventually on
                        him who commits the injury; and that he who administers comfort to the poor
                        and distressed, will find his reward, both upon earth and to Heaven."
                  
               
               
                  
                  THE HOG DROVER'S VISIT:
                  OR, BILL JENKINS' FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF THE QUEEN CITY.
                  A FEW years ago, when, nearly all the pork-packing for shipment in the West,
                     was done at Cincinnati, hundreds of hogs were purchased miles away, and taken
                     to Porkopolis in droves, on foot. This was practiced to such an extent that hog
                     driving in the Fall of the year became a regular business, and many were the
                     farm hands who annually calculated on buying a new "rig out" for the Winter,
                     with the receipts of a "drive" to Cincinnati behind a lot of porkers. Railroads
                     have monopolized this business now, so far as Ohio and Indiana are concerned,
                     but from Kentucky, hogs are yet brought to this market in the good old way. How
                     much the drivers receive I never had the curiosity to inquire, but they
                     certainly are deserving of more than ordinary wages. It is no light job to
                     trudge over a muddy road, day after day, urging on the hogs continually with a
                     whip or a switch, yelling "so-boy" constantly at the top of one's voice, now
                     running like all fury to head a spry hog, which has taken a notion to go the
                     wrong road, and again helping a lazy fellow along, by wrapping his tail around
                     one's hand, and giving him a boost with the knee and arm together. It is a
                     laborious work, and I am not surprised that drovers are rejoiced when they
                     arrive at their journey's end, or that, having the hogs safely penned at the
                     slaughter-houses, and receiving the cash for their services, they grab the
                     money tightly, and walk through the streets of the city, as if they intended to
                     buy the whole place, before they took their departure.
                  Bill Jenkins' first visit to Cincinnati, was as a hog drover.
                  "You see," said Bill to the folks after he had got home, "I never had ben to
                     the darned town afore, and know'd no-thin' of how they suck'd the dimes out of
                     a critter. But Uncle Josh, who's ben to town with hogs heaps of times, had
                     sorter gin me an idee, for when I started with the hogs, he sez to me, 'Bill,
                     keep yer eyes skinned, or the critters in Cincinnati will skin you afore they
                     do the hogs.'"
                  "'I'm bright,' sez I to Uncle Josh, and then, Uncle Josh kinder winked to me,
                     as much as to say, 'you don't know nothin' about it.'
                  "Well, I went on with the hogs, you know, and a pesky time we had with 'em.
                     That black, spotted critter raised by 'Squire Sidebottom, was so lazy that we
                     had to wollop him every step. He's a plaguey ill-mannered hog, and I come
                     mighty near being the death of him afore we got half way thar. As 'twas, I pity
                     the feller what eats his meat, pickle or no pickle. Well, we druv the hogs on
                     an' on, tell we cum right down to the river, an' thar was the town of
                     Sinsinnaty, not more'n twenty rods from us. Jemeny! but its a smash-in' place.
                     The houses are built all along, and the roads are just as clean as a stable
                     floor. It must a took a mint of money to fix every thing so stylish. I stood
                     and looked ever so long, and I thought I could look to eternity, and not see
                     half of the things. Purty soon a steamboat, big agin as our barn, cum along
                     puffin' and blowin' worse than a skeery bull. We all turned too an' druv the
                     hogs on to her, an' then we got on ourselves. In a jiffy we war on t'other
                     side, and then we druv the hogs
                     right squar through the town. Lawrdy! you oughter just have seen the place.
                     There was more'n 'nough people than it would take to lam all Mexico, and the
                     busses and wagons couldn't be packed on Uncle Josh's plantation. It kept me
                     dodgin' all the time, an' the only wonder is that the hogs warn't all killed
                     afore they got to the pens, I was a little skeered I tell you, and
                     from the way the critters squeeled, I guess they war too.
                  "Directly I seed two hogs goin' off from the drove, an' as a matter of course I
                     goes arter 'em. I chased 'em clear up a lane, an' heads an' turns 'em back
                     agin. I was a drivin' 'em along to the drove, when a feller sez, 'Hey, you,
                     what you going to do with them ar hogs?' 'Take 'em to the drove,' sez I.
                     'Drove,' sez he, 'them's my hogs.' 'Your'n,' sez I, remembering Uncle Josh's
                     talk about skinnin" 'I ain't so green as you might make out.' 'Well, you leave
                     them hogs alone,' sez he, 'or I'll bounce you.' That ar sort of made me riley,
                     so sez I to him, 'bounce and be darned.' This appeared to tickle a hull lot of
                     fellers who was standin' round thar, and one on 'em sez, 'Go it, Kaintuck.' I
                     give the two hogs a whack, which sent 'em squeelin' on to'ards the drove. I run
                     arter 'em, and was just laffin' to myself to think how I'd stood up to the city
                     feller, when cha-bang! sumthin' took me side the head. It sorter laid me out,
                     an' the first thing I know'd that darn'd chap was a drivin' off the hogs
                     agin.—'Hello.' sez I, singin' out to the top of my voice, 'Hello, fotch back
                     them ar hogs.' 'Go to grass,' sez he. This sort of raised my dander agin, an' I
                     started arter him. I hadn't gone more'n ten steps, afore two fellers laid hands
                     on me.—'Stan' back,' sez I, determined to whale every thing of my inches. 'Hold
                     on,' sez one on 'em, pintin' to a piece of tin Ion his coat, 'hold on,' sez he,
                     'don't yen see, we're watchmen?' That sort a cooled me down, and sez to'em, '
                     don't you see, that feller drivin' off them hogs?' 'Sartin,' sez he to me, 'and
                     they're his hogs.' 'I can whip,' sez I, 'any man what sez that.' At that a hull
                     crowd had gathered round, and some said, 'go it, Greeny,' and some said, 'go
                     it, Kaintuck.' I told 'em just to draw back, and form a ring, an' I could whale
                     'em all, one at a time. Just then, the boss of the drove cum up, an' sez he,
                     'Bill, them aren't my hogs!' 'Nough said,' sez I, as I walked off to the drove,
                     mighty glad the boss had cum up, for I know'd I'd had hard work to have fit all
                     them chaps.
                  "Well, we druv along till we cum to the pens, though I was monsus careful all
                     the way not to run after any more hogs, because, thinks I to myself, the boss
                     may do it. After the hogs were all in the pens, the boss paid us off, and I was
                     so afeered of some of 'em a stealin' my money, that I slipped behind the corner
                     of a fence and put mine in the toe of my boot. With all the boys, I went down
                     to the White Bear Tavern, whar we had been reckonin' to stop all night. It is a
                     powerful big house—bigger than any meetin' house I ever seed. The landlord sez,
                     'how are you boys,' shook our hands as if he'd know'd us for all our life time,
                     and then writ our names in a book bigger than the old Bible. We laid 'round the
                     house till we got supper, continued Bill, and then we all went down to the
                     Museum. I 'spected it would be as dark as all fury goin' down thar, but what
                     d'you think? They had lanterns stuck on the top of posts, all the way down the
                     road, and a feller could see just as well as if the sun was shinin'. There was ten of us, an' as good
                     lookin' chaps as you'd see any whar. A nice lookin' man what was stoppin' at
                     the tavern, told us to look out for the skinners, an' we sez to him we would.
                     But he was so all-fired afeered about it, that he said he would go down too.
                     'Now,' sez he takin' us all into a room whar nobody could hear, 'now, boys,'
                     sez he, 'it'll never do for you to show your money down thar, or some of those
                     plaguy skinners will hook it from you.' All on you just gin me a quarter-apiece
                     and I'll buy the tickets! 'All right,' sez I, and 'all right' sez all the boys,
                     so we all gin him a quarter. 'Now,' sez he, 'we'll go.' 'Nuff sed,' sez the
                     boys, and as I sed afore, off we started. Well, we hadn't got very far, before
                     that very chap what had the quarters, broke and run up a dark alley. We
                     hollered to him, but he never sed a word; and he never cum back. The boys sent
                     me back to the tavern to ax about it, and the landlord sed he was sum darned
                     sharper that had swindled us out of our quarters. You may reckon the boys war
                     mad when I told 'em on it; and you may reckon I thunk sum of Uncle Josh about
                     that time. The boys cussed a little about it, and then we all determined to go
                     to the Museum and pay our own quarters. The feller cheated us purty, but as I
                     told the boys, thar war no use cryin' over spilt milk; they sed so too, and so
                     we determined to keep our eyes skinned for the futur'. Down to the Museum we
                     cum, and Jemmy! you ought to jest have seed it. It wor a terrible big house,
                     and candles war put in all the winders. There war no puttin' a light under a
                     bushel thar, no how; so them folks go accordin' to Scripture a leetle bit, I
                     reckon. And then the music! It beat the Felicity Band all holler, and had two
                     drums. It made a feller feel all sorterish, kinder as if he war rich and would
                     never want another cent till he died into Etarnity. I forgot all about bein'
                     skinned out of the quarter, and so did all the boys. The folks war rushin' down
                     to the show like all forty, and sez I to the boys, 'hurry up the cakes now, or
                     the first thing you know, the Museum kill be chuck full,' 'Hurry up the cakes,'
                     sez they, and hurry up the cakes we did. We squeezed along, keeping all on us
                     together, till we cum up nearly to the door. 'Twenty-five cents a piece,
                     gentlemen,' sez a man standin' thar. 'Twenty-five cents a piece,' sez I to the
                     boys, and you ought to seed how we forked over the quarters. We then squeezed
                     along agin, till we cum to the door, an' I tell you it war squeesin'—a kind a
                     squeesin' the girls would'nt like, and a kind a squeesin' that cum pesky near
                     skinnin' us. We kept hold each other's arms, determined not to be lost, for
                     thar's no knowin' what'd become of us, if we didn't stick right up to one
                     another.
                  "We cum to the door. 'A quarter,' sez a man standin' thar. 'A quarter, sez I,
                     what fur?' 'If you want to get in, sez he, you must pay.' 'We did pay sez I;'
                     'you can't cum the giraffe over me, sez he, so pay or get out of the way.' That
                     sort a' riled me, an' sez I, 'we paid that feller standin' right thar.' 'Whar?'
                     sez he. 'Thar, sez I, pointing right to the chap. But by Jemmy! what do you
                     think? why the chap wasn't thar at all—he'd got the quarters and run. 'By
                     thunder, boys,' sez I 'they've skinned us agin. That war ten quarters gone
                     clean fur nothin.' I felt kinder mad and kinder sheepish, an' so did all the
                     boys.
                  "A good many of the folks around thar sed we was green, an' they laughed, too,
                     which sort o' riled us, an' made us feel purty much like fightin.' We stood back a leetle
                     out of the crowd, to talk about things. Sum reckoned one thing and sum another,
                     till we all cum to the conclusion we'd see the Museum, if it tuck the last
                     cent. 'Git yer quarters ready,' sez I, an' every feller rammed his hands into
                     his pockets. And Jemmy, you ought to have seed us jest at that time. We all
                     stood right stock still, an' looked right at each other, as if we war jest
                     about tumblin' in our graves.
                  "We war skeered clean out of our boots, for while we had been talkin' an'
                     considerin' about matters, sum of the tarnation thievin' chaps had got their
                     hands in our pockets, an' stole every darned cent. Not a livin quarter was thar
                     in the whole crowd of us, an' thar we stood tremblin,' for we spected next to
                     be robbed of our shirts. 'Hello, boys!' sez I, let's move for home.' 'It's
                     greed,' sed the boys, an' away we all started fur the river. My feet never
                     stopped till I got clear away from the darned thievin' place; an' I tell you I
                     was monsus glad when I got into old Kaintuck agin.
                  "I tell you," continued Bill, after he had stopped to take breath, "that town
                     aint no place for decent folks. I know'd as soon as I seed it, that the folks
                     could'nt build sich fine houses, an' have such mighty purty taverns without
                     stealin' a little. Its properly named Sin-sin-natty, for it has
                     got more sin in it now than Sodam an' Gonnorrow ever had. I war thar once, an'
                     should I live to Etarnity, no airthly mortal would ever get me to go thar
                     agin."
               
               
                  AN APPETITE FOE LAW:
                  OR, GRIT TO THE BACK BONE.
                  DEACON JONES, of N—, in the State of Ohio, who lived and flourished about ten
                     or fifteen years ago, was full of pluck. It was his boast that he never
                     undertook a thing but he carried it out, and his neighbors were so well
                     satisfied of this, that on ordinary occasions, they, like Davy Crocket's coon,
                     just came down, when they saw the grin. With this, the Deacon ought to have
                     been satisfied; but such was not the case. Like an ambitious warrior, a great
                     victory only gave him a desire for a greater one, and he often sought
                     difficulties and encountered them, just to show his neighbors that he could
                     successfully combat them.
                  The Deacon's natural ally was the Bar; his favorite battle field, the
                     court-room. Like most selfish or turbulent men, his delight was to fight his
                     antagonist through the interminable paths and mysterious depths of the law,
                     feeling quite certain that he could use some of those many tricks which have
                     been manufactured for the purpose of teasing Justice, to overthrow his
                     opponent.
                  The Deacon soon obtained a vicious appetite for this kind of business. He was
                     out of his element unless "in law;" and being a man of abundant means, he was
                     always able to gratify this strange passion to his heart's content. It mattered
                     not how much the prosecution of a case cost him—he would sacrifice twice or
                     thrice the amount involved, and carry his suits to the highest courts, that he might gain the victory. The best
                     legal talent of the neighborhood was always his, for he never grumbled at
                        their fees; and—I regret to say it—in these degenerate days of
                     the Bar, lawyers look more to the amount and certainty of their fees, than to
                     the justice of the cause they agree to defend. With time and money to spare,
                     with the best lawyers on his side, and his own close observation of the
                     proceedings in courts, is it wonderful that Deacon Jones soon became
                     invulnerable in lawsuits?
                  Yet many were foolish enough to battle with him; but always to their heart's
                     sorrow, and to the great relief of their pockets: Always? No, not always; for
                     the Deacon was once beaten, and the particulars of that fight are worth
                     recording, not only as a warning to future generations to beware of the
                     "uncertainties of law," but to exhibit in its proper light, the "clear grit" of
                     Deacon Jones.
                  Lawyer P——, of the town of N——, a gentleman who has since been elevated to the
                     Bench, was the "regular" attorney of Deacon Jones. The Deacon liked the lawyer,
                     because he was shrewd, learned and candid; and the lawyer liked the Deacon
                     because he paid promptly, and was a good customer.
                  One morning, about ten years ago, as the said lawyer was at his
                     before-breakfast labors, he was called upon by the Deacon.
                  "Good morning, Mr. P——," said the Deacon, as he entered the office. "Glad to
                     see you so early at it, for I've got a little work for you to do."
                  "Indeed," was the attorney's reply, "why Deacon, I have been of the opinion
                     that your success in all your lawsuits had frightened every body so badly, that
                     no one has now the courage to dispute with you."
                  "But you see you are mistaken. There are still some headstrong people left in
                     the world, Mr. P——. I've got another suit on hand."
                  "Well, what is it?"
                  "It aint an individual,—I think I'm done with that class of suits. My neighbors
                     have found to their sorrow, that I am always right, and I think there is very
                     little danger of any of them forcing me into law again, I've now got into a
                     fight with the authorities."
                  "Indeed!"
                  "Yes, you see, they have been trying to gouge me. In looking over my tax bill,
                     I found they had charged me thirty cents too much, and I refused to pay
                     it."
                  "Thirty cents?" asked the attorney in astonishment.
                  "Yes," coolly replied the Deacon.
                  "Why, is it possible, you intend to dispute that small amount in court?"
                  "Possible! why certainly it is, and, by the Jehocs, (a favorite expression,)
                     I've already started the ball a rolling.—You see, I dont care about the thirty
                     cents—that's nothing—it's the principle of the thing, I'm after. Now, who is in
                     the right, the tax-gatherer or myself? That is the question I wish decided. If
                     I'm wrong, let the court say so, and if I am right, I am determined the world
                     shall know it."
                  "Well, this is rather a small business, Deacon, and I don't care much about
                     having any thing to do with it, and honestly, if the party was any body but
                     yourself, I believe I would positively refuse."
                  
                  "O, but I must have you this time, Mr. P. I commenced the case myself,
                     yesterday, and made a pretty out of it. We had a trial before Esquire G——, and
                     by Jehoes, I was thrown. I appealed, of course, and now we must fight in
                     earnest."
                  "Ha, ha! so you have been whipped, have you, Deacon?" laughingly said the
                     lawyer; "that will probably teach you to stick to your attorney,
                     hereafter."
                  "No, you can't say I was whipped. You know 'Squire G—always had a spite at me,
                     and he just wanted to give me trouble. But, let's to business."
                  "Well, give us the points of your case."
                  This the Deacon did, carefully explaining how and where he expected to make a
                     "point." The lawyer listened to him patiently, and after he had heard the
                     Deacon through, he unhesitatingly said—
                  Well, I advise you to stop where you are. You are entirely wrong, and can never
                     gain this suit in the world.
                  The Deacon knew better, however, and insisted on continuing the suit; and after
                     some persuasion, succeeded in inducing his attorney to consent to take care of
                     the case, though that worthy declared he would loose it beyond all doubt.
                  Well, the case was tried, and notwithstanding the utmost skill and tact of the
                     attorney, the Deacon lost it. Yet he was not satisfied. He obtained a new
                     trial, engaged additional counsel, and gave the tax-gathering authorities
                     another hitch. He had great confidence in the saying, "the third time is the
                     charm," and now he was sure of victory. Again he was loser.
                  
                  But few good lawyers can stand more than three defeats in one case, and it was
                     so with lawyer P——. Finding that no expense, toil or trouble, could bring his
                     client to a sense of his own interest, the Deacon's lawyer now threw up the
                     case, and positively refused to have anything more to do with it.
                  The Deacon expressed his regret that one who had always been with him in law,
                     should desert him at this trying moment. In vain did Mr. P. endeavor to
                     convince Deacon Jones that he was throwing money away, and that he might
                     dispute eternally without obtaining any other result in that case than such as
                     had been meted out to him. The Deacon declared he would never surrender as long
                     as the law left "a load in his pouch," and if he was not successful in the
                     fourth, and the last possible "hitch" he could get, it would not be his fault.
                     He paid P—'s bill without grumbling, and then sought after counsel for the last
                     grand struggle for thirty cents.
                  Deacon Jones appeared to have trouble to get things to suit him for the fourth
                     tussle. Time and again the case was continued or postponed at his request, and
                     for months he did but little else than consult lawyers, examine law books, and
                     study the decisions of courts.
                  Time rolled on. The case had departed from even the memory of lawyer P—, though
                     he was frequently in the court upon whose docket it was entered. One day his
                     eye caught Deacon Jones' as he was settling an account with the Sheriff, and
                     approaching him, the following conversation took place:
                  "Good morning, Deacon," said the lawyer, "I should like to know what business
                     you have with the Sheriff?"
                  "O, paying a bill," replied the Deacon.
                  
                  "Not an execution, I hope. I thought you were never troubled with such
                     things?"
                  "I hoped I never would be, but it seems they have headed me at last."
                  "In what ease?"
                  "That little affair about my taxes, you know."
                  "I knew it," said the lawyer, really gratified at the intelligence; "I told you
                     from the very start you would be beaten, and your perseverance in the case has
                     surprised me not a little. But Deacon, the costs must be pretty heavy, are they
                     not?"
                  "Only one hundred and seventeen dollars," coolly replied the Deacon.
                  "Which you are forced to pay just for disputing thirty cents. I guess you will
                     follow your lawyer's advice next time Deacon."
                  "Well, I don't know as I will; I now see the point on which they beat me; and I
                     know that if I had it to go over again, somebody would be paying these cents, I
                     tell you what it is, Mr. P—, I would like to give them another hitch, and I
                     will give you one hundred dollars if you will get the case opened up
                     again!"
                  This proposal was made in all sincerity, but the lawyer most respectfully
                     declined. Other attorneys, however, accepted the proposition, but failed, as
                     the case had reached its limitation. After all hope of a renewal of the fight
                     had been extinguished in the Deacon's heart, he acknowleged that he never
                     expected to gain the suit, but merely wished to satisfy his appetite for law,
                     and to convince the adminstrative officers of the local government that he was
                        "Grit to the back bone."
               
               
                  VISITING THE SICK:
                  OR, A NEIGHBORLY CALL UPON AN OLD BACHELOR.
                  BOB GRUBBS is a confirmed old bachelor. He occupies rooms in the retired
                     locality of S—— street, which rooms, during his occupancy, have not been
                     entered by a single neighbor. True, the ladies of the vicinity have been
                     possessed of a great anxiety to see how the old fellow lived without a wife,
                     but Bob always managed to upset their little stratagems to gain a neighborly
                     admission. He vowed himself an inveterate hater of neighbors, declared they
                     never performed a good act, but they expected another in return, and swore—for
                     the old dog, like most of his class, could swear—that the only way to enjoy
                     peace and quietness at home, was by rejecting all communication with one's
                     neighbors. Bachelor Grubbs accomplished his object. Within one month he freed
                     himself of every importunity, and was not even applied to for the loan of his
                     newspaper. As may be supposed, however, he by so doing, excited an ill-feeling,
                     particularly among the neighboring ladies. They looked upon him as a man who
                     had lost all human feeling, and to whom life was a curse rather than a
                     blessing. Vast indeed was the number of conjectures made as to his past
                     history, and countless were the lashings he received behind his back, from
                     tongues vibrating in delicate little mouths.
                  At last old Grubbs was taken severely ill. He might have died without help, had
                     not a fortunate presentiment enabled him to call in Cuff, an old negro, who was
                        always at his service either as
                     waiter or nurse. The old bachelor was very sick indeed; at one time his
                     physician almost despaired of his recovery. But old bachelors are always tough,
                     defying the inroads of time, and ever ready to give the Grim Monster a hard
                     tussle when he comes prowling around. Grubbs had no notion of dying, and he
                     didn't die. He said he would get well, despite the forebodings of his
                     physician, and the poison administered in the shape of medicines.
                  Though he did not once think of his neighbors during the severity of his
                     sickness, they thought much of him. The frequent visits of the physician
                     alarmed them; and learning from the doctor that his patient was really in
                     danger, the ladies, with their usual kind heartedness, determined to forget his
                     past gruffness, and tender their sympathies and services in behalf of the dying
                     man. Old Grubbs was just beginning to feel that he was recovering; was able to
                     enjoy a "sit-up," and indulge in a few luxuries, when the first of those who
                     desired to pay him a visit during his illness, tapped on the door.
                  "Hello! the doctor again," grumbled the patient, after taking a sip of gruel.
                     "He is very attentive, now that I am getting well. Just like the whole
                     profession, make their visits as often as possible to increase their fees.
                     Cuff, go to the door; let the doctor in, but mark ye, not a word about throwing
                     those medicines into the fire."
                  Cuff obeyed, but as he opened the door and discovered two ladies, instead of
                     the physician, he rolled his eyes and immediately exclaimed,
                  "Gor a mighty! what's dat?"
                  "How is Mister Grubbs, to-day?" asked one of the ladies.
                  "Massa berry sick—dat is, he's—he's—gettin' well now, ladies."
                  "Ah, indeed! convalescent, is he?"
                  "Yes, 'um," replied Cuff, doubly confounded by the language. "He's
                     convarted—he's got religion—got it todder day when de doctor fotch him much
                     cal'mel, he fought he's gwyn' to die."
                  "Then he was really dangerous?" continued the lady, smiling. "We heard so, and
                     fearing that, in his forlorn condition, he would not receive proper attention,
                     we concluded to give him a neighborly call."
                  Cuff knew his employer's sentiments in regard to neighborly visits, and, not
                     wishing to offend the ladies, did not know what to do. They, however, did not
                     wait for his decision, but entered and proceeded directly to the adjoining
                     chamber. Grubbs heard their movements, and knowing they would surely enter his
                     bed-room, and catch him en dishabille, weak
                     as he was, made a pitch for the bed. He succeeded in getting into it, and
                     covering up, after a fashion, before the ladies reached his presence.
                  "In bed—poor fellow!" exclaimed Mrs. Smith to her neighbor, as she entered the
                     chamber.
                  "Bless us! what an atmosphere," responded Mrs. Brown. "Enough to suffocate a
                     person. I don't wonder that the poor man is at the point of death."
                  "Hush! softly! may be he is sleeping, and if so, we must not disturb his
                     slumbers, I will see," said Mrs. Smith, as she approached the bed side.
                     Tenderly removing the cover from the old bachelor's face, she inquired, "Are
                     you asleep, Mr. Grubbs?"
                  
                  A soft snore was the response, the sick man not daring to trust his temper,
                     under the circumstances, and hoping to "possum" the ladies away
                  "Poor man, he looks sadly. He must have suffered intensely," continued Mrs.
                     Smith.
                  "I don't wonder a bit," replied Mrs. Brown, "for I really believe I shall faint
                     in this atmosphere, I must hoist a window."
                  "Massa'll koteh cold by dat," interposed Cuff, who had not yet recovered from
                     his surprise.
                  "Not a bit of it," replied Mrs. Brown, "I believe in fresh air. Half the people
                     are killed by being shut up in close rooms during illness. How in the world do
                     you stand this atmosphere?"
                  "Massa lay down to it," responded Cuff, with a grin.
                  "impertinence!" indignantly replied Mrs. Brown. "I wonder the man aint dead,
                     being under your care. What do you know about making beds and keeping the house
                     to rights? Every thing is upside down, and——, but I forgot; we were in a
                     bachelor's house. What can we expect."
                  "Really, Mrs. Brown," remarked Mrs. Smith, "you are right, and the wonder is,
                     the man is not dead. We have been neglectful of our duty as neighbors. Had we
                     laid aside our prejudices, and visited the poor man, as was our duty, we might
                     have saved him much suffering. Ah! here comes Mrs. Jones. Good morning, Mrs.
                     Jones. I am really glad you have come, for there is work here for us to
                     do."
                  Mrs. Jones was another neighbor woman, and had taken the privilege of entering
                     without knocking.
                  "I seed you comin' in," she said, "an' I sposed there was sumthin' up, so I
                     slipped on my sluffs, an' just come over.—Is the man dead?"
                  "No," replied Mrs. Brown, "but we wonder greatly that he is not. Did you ever
                     smell such an atmosphere?"
                  "It's downright orful," exclaimed Mrs. Jones.
                  "I am nearly fainting," said Mrs. Brown.
                  "And I'm just ready to drop," followed Mrs. Jones, as she leaned languidly upon
                     a chair. "But whar's the woman of the house? She haint desarted the man."
                  "Bless you, there is no woman," continued Mrs. Brown. "Grubbs is an old
                     bachelor, and will not have a woman about his house."
                  "Massy sakes!" exclaimed Mrs. Jones.
                  "And during all his illness has had nobody about the house but this
                     ugly-looking nigger," pointing to Cuff, who stood grinning in the corner.
                  "Gracious mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Jones, throwing up her hands, while she fixed
                     her eyes on Cuff.
                  "Don't stand there grinning but stir around and help to put things to rights,"
                     said Mrs. Brown to the servant. "Dear me! how can men live to be old bachelors?
                     Such a house and such an atmosphere."
                  Just at this moment Mrs. Smith, who had seated herself at the bedside, ready to
                     sympathize with the unfortunate sick man, the moment he should waken,
                     discovered a slow parting of his eye-lids, and an evident attempt to take a sly
                     peep.
                  "Hush! hush!" she softly said, "Mr. Grubbs is about to awaken. Poor man I how
                     distressing he looks."
                  
                  "Raally distressing," ejaculated Mrs. Jones.
                  "Are you awake, Mr. Grubbs?" asked Mrs. Smith, placing her hand on the brow of
                     the old bachelor.
                  There was a slight tremor beneath the coverlids, but no response.
                  "He must be dreaming," continued the lady.
                  "Or maybe he's gone out of his head, and got the flighties," intimated Mrs.
                     Jones.
                  "You had better wake him up," suggested Mrs. Brown, "That bed is really
                     distressing, and must be made up. Wake him, and we will lift him into a chair,
                     while we renew the sheets, and put things to rights."
                  "Mister Grubbs," said Mrs. Smith, as she slightly shook his shoulder. There was
                     no response. Again she shook, again she called him, and again she received no
                     answer.
                  "He is sound asleep," she said, "and we had better not disturb him. Let us
                     noiselessly arrange the furniture in order, and by that time he may awake."
                  "Not a hand stir," urged Mrs. Brown, "until the bed is made!"
                  "Not a hand stir," repeated Mrs. Jones.
                  "Let me at him; I will wake him up," continued Mrs. Brown. "There is no use of
                     being delicate about it, when the man is dying for the want of a little womanly
                     comfort. Mr. Grubbs!" she fairly screamed, as she gave him a heavy shake.
                  The old bachelor still lay "possuming," though every moment he was becoming
                     more and more angry.
                  "Hang the man!" exclaimed Mrs. Brown; "if he did not breathe I would believe
                     him dead. If he can be aroused, however, he shall be."
                  She was about giving him another shake, when the trio of neighborly ladies were
                     frightened almost out of their wits by the old bachelor suddenly raising
                     himself in his bed.
                  "If you insist on seeing me in my shirt, say so, and I'll get up," he coolly
                     remarked; "but if you have the natural modesty of women, and wish to be
                     regarded as ladies, go home and attend to your own business and let me attend
                     to mine. Get out of the house instantly, or by the powers I'll stand before you
                     as naked as I was the minute I was born!"
                  The effect may be imagined. The ladies hastened from the house, while Cuff lay
                     down on the floor, and rolled over and over, as he gave a tremendous "yah,
                     ha!"
                  As may be supposed, the affair created quite a sensation among the ladies of
                     the neighborhood, all of whom declare that old Grubbs may rot in his bed before
                     they again tender their merciful services to him. He laughs heartily at it,
                     however, and declares that the incident made him a well man, as he was able to
                     walk out the next day.
               
            
            
            
               
               POD II.
               
               
                  INVISIBLE CALLS UPON THE FORTUNE-TELLERS.
                  How fascinating is Mystery! Even in this enlightened age and country, thousands
                     upon thousands seek by every means to learn the hidden things of the future.
                     The result is that Astrology, Card-cutting, and other modes of pretended
                     Fortune Telling, have experienced a revival, and, to-day, thousands bow in
                     reverence, within the Temple of Humbug, erected by the Masters of these
                     self-styled Arts. Even I, yes, I, Invisible, have knocked at the door, obtained
                     admission, bowed at the altars, (but with twinkling eyes!) and sought, (with a
                     very doubting heart,) the revelations of Astrology! Anxious to penetrate the
                     mysterious depths of the humbug, I sought the Book of Pate in several quarters,
                     and—got my money's worth!
                  In company with officer Rose, I called on a Clairvoyant, who advertised herself
                     in the City papers, as being able to see into the future, with an unerring eye.
                     We ascended a narrow flight of stairs to the second story, where we came to a
                     door all be-pasted with the circulars, advertisements, etc., of the
                     Clairvoyant. We knocked, and a young looking woman opened the door, invited us
                     to take seats, and then suddenly disappeared behind a curtain stretched across
                     the room. We found ourselves in company with an elderly woman, who was evidently "in waiting," and who
                     not only manifested a disposition to avoid conversation, but contrived to keep
                     her face hidden from, our view.
                  A whispering behind the curtain gave us the impression that the clairvoyant was
                     "opening up the future" to a customer, and as we could hear nothing distinctly,
                     we occupied the time in examining the room. The apartment was about thirty feet
                     square, a dirty curtain extended across one end, dividing the sanctum sanctorum, from the place allotted to those
                     in waiting. The room was well furnished, but in considerable disorder.
                  A rustling behind the curtain, and a chinking of money, warned us that the
                     clairvoyant was through with one customer. The curtain was raised, and out came
                     an apparently young woman closely veiled. She could not resist taking a good
                     look at us as she passed out of the door, and as she did so, I recognized a
                     pair of black eyes, which I knew belonged to an acquaintance. Her veil could
                     not disguise them.
                  The clairvoyant again made her appearance, and invited the elderly woman to a
                     seat behind the curtain. The fat old lady arose with difficulty from her chair,
                     and tottered to the sacred recess of the oracle, a perfect specimen of deluded
                        womanity. The curtain dropped.
                  "Listen," said the Lieutenant, "we can hear them."
                  "Laws-a-merey!" exclaimed the old lady, "I wonder if you kin tell true?"
                  "The science never fails," replied a voice we had heard before. "Will you
                     choose clairvoyance or the cards?"
                  "It does not matter a mite to me. I just wanted to ax you a few questions, an'
                     I want you tell me the truth, an' I don't care how it is done. Laws-a-mercy!
                     d'you think you kin tell true?"
                  Without replying to the question, the fortune-teller took the cards, and after
                     shuffling them, asked the old lady to "cut," at the same time inquiring of her
                     the subjects upon which she wished information.
                  "I want to know," replied the old lady, with a sigh, "what's a goin' to become
                     of my darter?"
                  "She's had a misfortune?" asked the shrewd clairvoyant.
                  "I know that," sighed the old lady, "but what's a goin' to become of her?"
                  The fortune-teller ran over the cards, and then told the old woman just what
                     her daughter was going to do. Of course, a "black-haired gentleman," and
                     "riches," and "honors" were in store for the girl and her mother. After some
                     further conversation in relation to other members of the family, the old lady
                     paid a half-dollar, and went off satisfied.
                  It was my turn next. I insisted on being accompanied behind the curtain by the
                     Lieutenant, but to this the lady objected, on the ground that the presence of
                     more than one person disturbed her mind. My inquisitiveness at last overcame my
                     modesty, and I consented to go alone behind the curtain, with the good-looking
                     and mysterious woman. In the darkened corner I found two cane-bottomed chairs,
                     a table covered with a dirty cloth, and a lap dog. I seated myself in the
                     nearest chair, at the same time informing the clairvoyant that my fortune had
                     never been told, and I wished her to give it in full, for I was certainly ready
                     to believe it. She sat down by my side, and took my right hand in hers. She
                     then shook her body as if some mysterious influence was overcoming her, closed her eyes, and rested her
                     head upon her left hand for a moment. Then shaking her body again, she drew her
                     fore-finger across her eyes, as if wiping tears away, gave a heavy sigh, shook
                     her body again, and then made a motion as if to assure me she was
                     magnetized!
                  No sooner was she in the mysterious sleep than she commenced talking. She told
                     me I was born near a great water, (Deercreek!) that I had been poor, but better
                     days were in store for me; that I was born under Mars and Venus, the former
                     lucky, and the latter unlucky; in June, the planets would change, and then I
                     would have most excellent luck for seven years. She thought she saw a "dark
                     spot" in my past life. She could not tell exactly what it was, but she could
                     perceive that I had been fortunate sometimes, and unfortunate at other
                     times.
                  "Did you ever deal in lottery tickets?" she asked.
                  "No," was the honest reply.
                  "Well, try it after next June," she replied, "you are sure to be successful in
                     drawing prizes. Try speculation in real estate, too, for under Mars you will
                     certainly succeed."
                  Keeping her eyes closed, she proceeded to describe my disposition, and I give
                     her credit for coming quite near the truth. She next approached a very tender
                     subject, by asking me if I was married? I hesitated; but at last, concluded to
                     deceive her, and responded, "No!" One word threw me back into the miseries of
                     single blessedness. That answer was all she wished, and immediately the
                     following conversation ensued:—
                  
                     Clairvoyant.—Just as I thought. I could see no wife before me.
                     But you wish to get married, do you not?
                  
                     Invisible.—(One fib bringing on another.)—Yes.
                  
                     Clairvoyant.—As I expected. I see standing before me a fair lady,
                     with dark complexion and dark hair. She lives in a red brick house. She loves
                     you, and you desire to marry her, do you not?
                  
                     Invisible.—Yes (Fib No. 3.)
                  
                     Clairvoyant.—She dresses very finely and is fond of show, but she
                     will make you a good wife.
                  
                     Invisible.—"Do you think I will marry her?
                  
                     Clairvoyant.—Beyond all doubt. You are almost a husband to her
                     now, are you not?
                  
                     Invisible. What do you mean?
                  (I respectfully decline giving the answer, particularly as it caused a
                     smothered laugh from our friend the Lieutenant, who, it appears, heard
                     all.)
                  
                     Invisible.—How long do you think it will be before I can call
                     myself a married man?
                  
                     Clairvoyant.—I will never deceive. I might tell you the exact
                     time, but that you may not be disappointed I will say within fourteen
                     months.
                  
                     Invisible. Will I marry the dark-haired woman?
                  
                     Clairvoyant.—Yes, and she will bear you seven children. But you
                     will not have her always. She will die, and then you will get another wife.
                  
                     Invisible.—Indeed!
                  
                     Clairvoyant.—Yes, you will travel a great ways and get another
                     wife, who will bear you nine children.
                  I thought she was coloring the picture rather too highly, and changed the
                     subject by asking her some questions as to the past. She thought I had "seen
                     trouble," had probably speculated
                     too much in real estate, (never owned a foot outside of the graveyard) but,
                     after a certain period my fortune would change. After giving me sundry other
                     items of importance, she roused herself from her magnetic sleep, going through
                     the same contortions of the body, manipulations, etc., she had at the
                     beginning. She then told me I would receive a letter within a week, which fact
                     she forgot to relate while in a magnetic sleep. I gave her a dollar, her
                     regular charge for gents, popped from behind the curtain, and with my police
                     friend bade her good day, and took my departure. She gave me a very earnest
                     invitation to call again, manifesting great desire to tell my future by cards,
                     a method she said she preferred to clairvoyance, and assured me I would find my
                     future the same by both methods.
                  We next visited an old negro, who lived in an alley just above, and who
                     pretended to possess not only the gift of prophecy, but great power in the
                     healing art. We found some twelve or fifteen white women in his parlor,
                     awaiting the good pleasure of Sir Oracle. The only men present were three young
                     mulattoes, whose appearance and conduct led me to believe them confederates of
                     the old darkey. We learned from one of them that this was "medicine day," and
                     as we could not have our fortunes told, we departed. The females present were
                     mostly elderly women, and I judged nearly all poor. Some of them were evidently
                     sick, and had called for advice and medicine. In the doctor's room were various
                     mysterious devices, calculated to impress upon the visitor the belief that the
                     house was inhabited by no ordinary personage. It was tolerably well furnished,
                     but the atmosphere was so freighted with disagreeable smells that it was
                     positively sickening. I was glad to reach the open air again. At the gate we
                     met the old doctor himself, with a bottle in his hand, and a would-be dignified
                     look on his face. I think he is the ugliest "brack man" I ever looked upon.
                  "Hallo, doctor," said the Lieutenant, "I have brought a young friend of mine
                     here to consult you, but it seems he can not see you to-day."
                  "What does the youn' man want?" asked the doctor dignifiedly.
                  "To consult you," I answered.
                  "What for? med'cin' or de future?" he asked.
                  "The future," was my answer.
                  "Den you isn't gwyin to cum in dis day," was the reply.
                  "Why not?"
                  "Kase, 'tain't de right day for dat."
                  "When will be the right day for it, then?"
                  "Dis would be if it war only clar," replied the doctor, slamming to the gate
                     and entering his domicil. We concluded to let him pass.
                  We next visited a German lady, "over the Rhine," and one, too, who has some
                     reputation in the city as a veracious foreteller of human events. Two negro and
                     one white woman were in waiting. The white woman, I found, had come as company
                     with another, who was then having an interview with the fortune-teller. Ten
                     minutes spent in conversation with the master of the house, was all the time I
                     was delayed. I was given preference over the "ladies ob color." I ascended to a
                     room in the second story, where I found the fortune-teller. The apartment
                     contained a table, two or three chairs and a bed. Everything was as clean
                        and neat "as a pin." The
                     fortune-teller was seated at the table, with a pack of cards in her hand. Her
                     appearance was clean and neat, but she was dressed in shocking bad taste. A
                     faded black skirt and a calico waist, were the visible garments. Barring a
                     crooked eye, her countenance was handsome, while her form was of that plump
                     nature for which German females are noted. She apologized for her appearance,
                     stating she had not been in good health for some days.
                  "Vat you want to know about?" was her question, as I took my seat.
                  "I am in search of a wife," was my answer.
                  "Vat, your vife run away?"
                  "No, no—I want to know where I can get a wife."
                  She made me cut a pack of cards three times, and then throwing out three on the
                     table, said she saw a light haired woman, (the clairvoyant said
                     dark haired,) with whom I was in love. She, (the light haired woman, not the
                     fortune-teller,) loved me, and wished me to wed her, but I was jealous of her,
                     and disliked to marry on that account. She assured me the light haired woman
                     was virtuous and true, and if I became her husband I would be a happy man.
                     Jealousy, she knew, was the cause of my distress, but I was jealous without
                     cause. The cards told her that married life would suit me best after I had
                     tried it awhile.
                  "You goin' avay, hey?" she asked.
                  "Yes," I replied.
                  "You goes far, mit a long distance?"
                  "May be to Constantinople."
                  That reply was satisfactory. She then made me choose nine cards from the pack,
                     and spreading them before her, she continued my fortune. The cards, she said,
                     declared, that I, feeling disappointed in the light haired woman, intended to
                     go to Europe to get a very handsome wife, whom I would bring back to this
                     country to tantalize the light haired woman. I would find many friends in
                     Europe, and stay there until Spring.
                  The cards told her I was rich! I had traveled much in my young days, and had
                     been very fortunate in accumulating riches. I had plenty of money, and all I
                     wanted to make me happy was a wife!
                  She asked me if I did not think much of a dark haired woman. I replied, I could
                     not tell. She then said there was a dark haired woman in this city who loved
                     me; and after looking over the cards again, she observed I did not know the
                     woman. She was quite sure, however, the woman loved me, and thought if I would
                     call again she could tell me where I might find that woman.
                  A good deal more she told me, about as correct as the above, which amused me
                     very much. She charged me only fifty cents, which though only half what the
                     clairvoyant asked, was as much as the "fortune" was worth.
                  Our next visit was to an aged woman residing on John street, not far from
                     Richmond. She lived in an old one-story house, and occupied two rooms. Our
                     "call" was made about three o'clock in the afternoon, and we found the
                     "enchantress" at home. Beside herself there was another female present, whom
                     she called Mary. Mary, who appeared to have reached venerable maidenhood, was
                     tall and slim, with red blotches on her face, and anything but agreeable in person. She had a broom in her hand,
                     and scarcely noticed our entrance.
                  Madame was sitting at a table, and as we approached, saluting us with "Good
                     Day," asked us to take seats. She seemed to be about sixty or seventy years of
                     age, and to weigh some two hundred pounds. Her face was much shriveled, and her
                     eyes were dim; but she was quite talkative, and appeared to prosecute her
                     profession with great zest. She had on a dark, dirty dress, an antiquated silk
                     mantilla, and a greasy-looking "hood" bonnet.
                  The appearance of the room was disgusting, being dirty in the extreme. The bed
                     was not made up, the chairs were covered with dust, and the walls looked as if
                     they had not been cleaned for a century. Old rags, bottles, and different
                     household articles were piled up in corners, cooking utensils, medicines, table
                     ware and clothing were packed indiscriminately on the shelves, while here and
                     there upon the walls hung branches of herbs wrapped in remnants of worn-out
                     clothing. In fact, everything betokened a want of tidiness, industry and
                     intelligence. True, the old woman informed us that the apparent confusion of
                     the furniture was caused from the fact that Mary was "cleaning house;" but I am
                     inclined to think that Mary would never, were she to undertake the job, get
                     through with it.
                  "Do you tell fortunes?" asked I of Madam, after the Lieutenant and myself were
                     seated.
                  "Well yes, sometimes," was the reply—"Do you want yourn told?"
                  "Yes."
                  "And yourn, too?" asked she of the Lieutenant.
                  "Well, no, I guess not," replied the officer, "as I am not anxious to know the
                     future."
                  "Just as you like, sir," was the reply of Madam.
                  "Mary, give me the cards, and shut the door, as there's no knowin' who might
                     come in."
                  Mary obeyed, and retired to the back room, and apparently busied herself in
                     domestic concerns.
                  "How will ye have yer fortune told—by the planets or cards?" asked the old
                     woman.
                  "By the planets," was my ready reply, that being, to say the least, the more
                     romantic method.
                  "Well, I'm afeared I can't tell by the planets to-day. You see I've been sick,
                     and I've sorter got the head-ache, and I don't feel a bit like reading the
                     planets."
                  "I would much prefer that mode."
                  "But if I tell ye by the planets, I'd have to charge ye a dollar, when I charge
                     only half a dollar by the cards."
                  "That makes no difference," was my reply, feeling somewhat liberal, on the
                     strength, perhaps, of the Twelfth street Astrologist assuring me I was so
                     immensely rich.
                  "I hardly feel able to read the planets to day, so ye'll have to take the
                     cards," was her answer. As she shuffled the pack, she asked me, "Well, what is
                     it ye seek—love or luck?"
                  "Luck."
                  "And not a bit of love?"
                  "None—I 've had enough of that."
                  "Well, that's strange for a young man; but I suppose ye knows best. Afore I commence, I must tell ye
                     that ye must make the change for me."
                  "I guess I can do that."
                  "Ye see there is so much counterfeit money goin' about, that its mighty easy
                     for one to pass it on them as aint a judge. I can't tell one from tother, and
                     they've got a good deal on me; so I'm detarmined not to lose any more, but jist
                     make them what gets their fortune told give me the change."
                  
                     
                        "Ye has had bad luck, that's plainly to be seen."
                     
                  
                  "That's all right," I replied, "I will give you the change."
                  She bade me cut the pack, which I did, and then running her eyes slowly over
                     the cards, she told me what each one indicated. Her words, as near as I can
                     recollect, were as follows:
                  "Ye has had bad luck, that's plainly to be seen." At present yer luck's good,
                     and there's better days comin' to ye. You've got an enemy—he's been an enemy to
                     ye some years. He's a dark complected man, and has worked hard agin ye. Don't
                     ye know of any dark complected man as is yer enemy?"
                  "I do not."
                  "Well, there is one, certain, and he's tried to injure ye, but without success.
                     He comes behind yer luck all through here. And here's a woman—a fair and lovely
                     woman—and I should say she is yer wife. Aint you got a wife?"
                  "No," answered the Lieutenant for me, seeing I hesitated.
                  "No! I believe ye are telling me a lie, for here's yer house, and yer either
                     got a wife, or yer boarding with a woman; there's no mistake about that. Well,
                     yer to have luck about yer house—everything will prosper amazingly. This woman
                     that yer living with, be she yer wife or not, she's yer friend, and is devoted
                     to ye. But here's another woman, with dark complexion. She's yer enemy. She's
                     been tryin' to make trouble about yer house, an' she is a goin' to keep tryin'.
                     But as she's behind yer luck, she can do ye no harm. Here's a letter for ye; it
                     contains a large amount of money and good news. Ye'll get it in a few days, for
                     it's coming now. Don't ye expect a letter?"
                  "Yes—but none with money in."
                  "Well, this has got good news and a heap of money in it. It's writ and on its
                     way now. Soon after ye get it. ye'll sign a contract or paper of some kind,
                     which will be a fortune to ye. Ye'll sign the paper with a light-complexioned
                     man—now, havent ye dealings with a light-complexioned man?"
                  "I believe I have."
                  "Well he's a friend to ye. Ye'll git a fortun' T think by him. Yer enemy
                     appears here agin', but still he's behind yer luck. Yer to take a journey afore
                     long. This card says yer to go on wheels, and this one that yer to cross water.
                     The journey will be a long one, and ye'll be a little disappointed at first,
                     but ye'll have luck on the journey. Ye'll git what ye go for, and come back
                     pleased. The dark complexioned ioned
                     woman appears during that journey, but she can do ye no harm, for she's behind
                     yer luck. There's good luck all through the cards, and ye'll certainly have it.
                     Now lets try it again," and so saying she commenced shuffling the cards.
                  While she was mixing the cards, the Lieutenant gave me a nudge with the toe of
                     his boot. Looking at him, he directed me to a certain part of the room, where
                     two mammoth rats seemed to be enjoying a social chit-chat. A third and a fourth
                     one came through the hearth, and went capering about the floor apparently in
                     search of food. The Lieutenant stamped on the floor with his foot to frighten
                     them, but they merely gave a roguish look, and then resumed their frolicking.
                     They were afterwards joined by others, and all kept us company until we left
                     the house. They evidently had no fear of the Fortune-Teller.
                  Again I cut the pack, when Madam declared I had cut my own thoughts. Glancing
                     slowly over the cards, she told pretty much the same story as she did before.
                     My enemies she declared were behind my luck all the time, and it was impossible
                     for them to harm me.
               
               
                  INVISIBLE AT A PIC-NIC.
                  I WAS invited to attend a Pic-Nic. The day for the excursion was a lovely one,
                     the sky being clear, the air exhilarating, and nature, refreshed by a late
                     rain, clothed in her fairest garb. We were going on a steamer to North Bend,
                     and were to leave the wharf precisely at 7 o'clock. At that hour I
                     proceeded to the boat, and was not a little surprised to find no one but the
                     crew aboard. Thinking I had made a mistake in the time. I sat down to patiently
                     await "the turn of events." A long, long hour rolled by before any of the party
                     appeared, and they then came leisurely along, and in small crowds. There came
                     old men, with locks of gray, and young ones, who had endeavored to, extend
                     their hight, by rearing enormous pieces of linen beneath their ears. Each had
                     upon his arm a heavy laden basket, covered with a neat white napkin. The
                     ladies, whose countenances displayed dispositions 
                        "From grave to gay, from lively to severe,"
                      clung closely to their protectors or their gallants, as they walked
                     carefully over the miserable pavement of the levee. Our boat had but one place
                     for the party, and that was the boiler deck, so arranged as to make a kind of
                     sheltered promenade. To the boiler deck, then, all came, and for a while we had
                     a scene of beautiful confusion, caused by the hurrying to and fro to stow away
                     baskets and bonnets, the greetings of acquaintances, the smacking of female
                     lips upon female lips, (a horrible
                     sacrilege!) and the exclamations each gave vent to. Let the reader imagine him
                     or herself at Invisible's side, and pay attention to what is going on.
                     Listen:
                  "Bless me! I was so afraid I would be left, that I hardly closed my eyes, all
                     night. It is——"
                  "John, where did you place the basket? You are so careless, that if I don't
                     watch you, we will be without any——"
                  "Just look at Miss Clark, with what care she has dressed herself. I apprehend
                     this is her first appearance at a picnic, for a white dress soon presents a
                     horrible appearance in the—"
                  "How terrible Miss Baker looks in that calico dress and shabby kiss-me-quick.
                     Really, I should think Mr. Thompson would be ashamed of her appear—"
                  "Billy! Billy! come here, darling. If you wander from me you will certainly be
                     drowned."
                  "Oh! gracious, I have left my woodland shoes at home. Mr. Johnson, will you
                     please go after them?—it will not take long." (Johnson flies up the levee.)
                  "Why, Mrs. Jenkins, how do you do? I am so glad——"
                  "Oh! Oh! catch my bonnet; it's flying overboard, and—"
                  "Do you think the boat perfectly safe, Mr. Jones?—I'm so timid when—"
                  "I declare, I forgot those preserves. I told Nancy to set them near the basket,
                     and she—"
                  "What a sweet bouquet you have, Blanche, it is really inspi—"
                  "Where's the music? Ain't we to have no danc—"
                  I'm so fatigued—the walk was so long that—"
                  "How long are we to wait? It is certainly past the hour."
                  A blow from the steam whistle causes a general shriek among the ladies, and a
                     laugh from the gents, but has the good effect of hurrying up a few laggards who
                     are coming down the wharf. The Captain informs one of the committee that he is
                     ready, but one of the committee says he must wait for the music. The music
                     arrives in a half hour, and then it is ascertained that the Wiggins branch of
                     the party have not yet arrived. Another half hour brings the Wigginses, and
                     then we are ready to shove off. The Captain rings the bell for the twentieth
                     time, the planks are pulled in, the hawser let loose, and at half-past 9
                     o'clock the boat leaves the wharf
                  Now it is more pleasant. The speed of the boat gives us a fine breeze, which
                     proves an agreeable offset to the scorching rays of the sun upon the deck
                     overhead, and the heat of the boilers beneath our feet. To be sure, we might
                     have started at the hour named in the cards, and had our ride upon the river
                     before old Sol became so furious. But we are glad to get off at last, and feel
                     confident of having a pleasant time after a while.
                  While passing by the city, we return the greeting of those raftsmen, who stop
                     their work and whirl their hats, and of those ladies in the houses upon the
                     river banks, who wave their handkerchiefs while we are in sight. We are
                     inclined to pity them, as they are laboring in the hot sun, or cooped up
                     between walls of brick and mortar. The contrast between their position and ours
                     makes us feel contented.
                  
                  The musicians now tune their instruments, the floor-managers place with pride
                     their gay rosettes upon their breasts, and preparations are made to commence
                     the dance. The signal is given, and then we have a rush, all striving to be the
                     "head couple" in a quadrille. Those who obtain that honorable (?) position
                     appear glad, and those who don't, very much displeased. But now we discover
                     another inconvenience!—the boat is either too small for the party, or the party
                     too large for the boat. All wish to dance—none will give way—and the
                     consequence is, the deck is crowded, the cotillions considerably "mixed," and
                     there is no room to move without running against somebody.
                  "Never mind," says one of the committee, who appears to be a real philosopher,
                     "we will have plenty of room when we get into the woods." With this consolation
                     we commence the dance, and by squeezing, pushing and crowding, manage to get
                     through the figures. To be sure, corns suffer not a little, while the exercise,
                     with the crowded condition of the deck, draws the perspiration in streams even
                     from the leanest. Those who have been blessed with a good proportion of flesh
                     suffer excruciatingly, and would wish themselves at home, if they were not
                        enjoying a pic-nic excursion.
                  The dance continues with slight intermissions until about half-past 12 o'clock,
                     when we arrive in sight of North Bend. The boat rounds to, lands, and now all
                     our troubles are at an end. How happy we are! The ladies have scarcely patience
                     to await the erection of a gangway, that they may pass safely off, while the
                     gentlemen talk of leaping from the guards to the shore. None venture, however,
                     to perform the daring feat, wisely concluding it better to wait and perspire,
                     than run the risk of a broken neck. The gangway is at last erected, strong and
                     secure, and off we go.
                  There! that lady with the orange-colored dress has had it dreadfully torn by a
                     nail, which so frightened the one with the blue scarf, that she would have
                     fallen overboard had not the gentleman with the brass buttons on his coat
                     caught her. What a distressing occurrence! Will our miseries never end?
                     Heavens! Miss Thompson has become so intimidated in walking ashore, she has
                     dropped her fan into the river, and in trying to catch it, young Mr. Wiggins
                     follows after! How the ladies shriek when they see him spluttering about in two
                     feet water! The mate of the steamer, with a cunning look in his eye, offers to
                     throw him a rope, but Mrs. Wiggins, a heroic lady, protests it needless,
                     because she knows he is a good swimmer! He scrambles out of the water
                     uninjured, the sudden bath doing him more good than harm. After this warning,
                     those who were yet on board were more careful, and in the course of half an
                     hour, the party were all safe on shore. We scrambled up the banks, to a
                     delightful grove, where, throwing ourselves upon the long grass, we soon forgot
                     the troubles of the past in the pleasures of the present.
                  "Oh! what a pleasant place is this North Bend! To us, confined day and night,
                     within the limits of a busy city, toiling over the desk and the work-bench, it
                     is a Paradise. Here, in this ancient grove, we breathe a pure air, which
                     quickly invigorates our system to a surprising degree. The superb scenery
                     around charms us, while the enchanting music of the forest songsters thrills
                     our very hearts. How magnificent the foliage of the trees, here shooting high
                     into the air, and there spreading their giant arms in every direction. How these enormous oaks bow to the
                     breeze which fans our foreheads, careless of the burning sun-rays which here
                     and there pierce through their branches. And there is La Belle Riviere right at our feet, a pretty stream indeed, as it
                     rolls gently at the base of these high hills. The lofty cliff above us looks
                     grand from here, with its dark gray rocks partly covered with green moss. If I
                     can ever be persuaded to move from this spot, I will ascend to the top of that
                     cliff, and view the surrounding country. But here to my left, rugged nature has
                     received an embellishment. Look at that hillock, with its deep green grass and
                     pretty shrubbery. It is inclosed all around, near its base, with a plain open
                     board fence, without even a gate to admit those who would seek entrance there.
                     The massive trees outside the inclosure shade the whole hill, and the slow
                     waving of the long grass, gives it a melancholy look. That spot was chosen by
                     one who died while occupying the Presidential chair, as his last resting-place.
                     It overlooks the country for miles in every direction, including the site of
                     the old log cabin which was once his residence, and the valley which, by his
                     own hands, was, from a wilderness, made to blossom like a rose. How uniform
                     upon all sides is the elevation of that hillock, so regular, that one would
                     think it thrown up by the hands of careful men. Right upon its summit is a low
                     brick vault. That vault is the TOMB OP HARRISON. No monument marks the grave or
                     indicates the gratitude of a people to the slumbering soldier, who battled so
                     nobly during the war of 1812. He 
                        "Sleeps his last sleep"
                      in that lonely, yet lovely spot, selected by himself years before his
                     death. As you approach it, tread softly, for I know you revere the memory of
                     Harrison."
                  Thus spake old Mr. Wiggins, while many of the wearied company gathered around
                     him, upon a grassy knoll; but a few paces from the boat. He was proceeding, at
                     our request, to give some incidents in Harrison's life, when we were startled
                     by a deafening shriek not far from us. It came from Miss Johnson, who, white as
                     a sheet, and trembling like a leaf, cried "snake! snake!" Instantly twenty
                     clubs, supported by twenty hands, sailed through the air to Miss Johnson's
                     rescue. Approaching her with the rapidity of lightning, the deliverers
                     commenced beating—a crooked piece of wood, which, lying in the
                     grass, appeared to Miss J. to be a real live snake, and nothing else. In fact,
                     even after she had recovered from the shock by means of several heavy drafts
                     from a smelling-bottle, she could not be convinced that her fears had been
                     groundless, until young Mr. Wiggins broke the deceitful stick in two, and put a
                     piece in his mouth. After this occurrence, however, the ladies insisted on
                     moving out of the high grass, for fear of snakes. The gentlemen consented, and
                     lugged their heavy baskets up the hill. But there was very little shade there,
                     and the ladies, after hard persuasion, decided to submit to the long grass and
                     run the risk of snakes rather than be exposed to the scorching sun; so down
                     they marched again.
                  While the gentlemen were erecting swings, the ladies prepared dinner. Each
                     emptied her basket upon tablecloths spread upon the grass, and then arranged
                     every article in its place. As soon as they were ready, all commenced screaming
                     "dinner! dinner!!" and laughed and clapped their hands, as the wearied and exhausted men came
                     running from all directions to partake of the welcome refreshments. A merry
                     dinner was that. There was not one but was hungry, and some ravenously so. They
                     talked, chatted, and laughed, as squatting upon the grass they ate without
                     knives, forks, or spoons. Every thing, too, seemed to taste so much-better in
                     the woods, though cooked at home, and then, as Miss Jenkins insisted, there was
                     something so romantic in it.
                  It was three o'clock before the company rose from the table, or rather
                     tablecloths, and then the amusements of the day commenced. While some enjoyed a
                     dance upon the green, others were swinging, or playing with grace-hoops or
                     balls. Conventionalities were thrown aside, and all enjoyed themselves as they
                     thought best. For instance, Mr. Brown put on Miss Jones, bonnet, and Miss
                     Jones, out of revenge, wore Mr. Brown's hat. Then there was a general
                     exchange—ladies strode around with coats and hats on, and gents strutted about
                     with mantillas on their shoulders and bonnets on their heads. Miss Dandy and
                     Miss Scruggs dared Mr. Rush to a set-to, and he, accepting the challenge, the
                     ladies got him by the hair and made him cry "Enough!" Mrs. Johnson and Mr.
                     Potts ran a foot-race, the former winning, by the latter falling over a stump
                     and skinning his nose, Young Mr. "Wiggins made a wreath of clover, which he
                     placed on the head of Miss Jenkins, as he eloquently (as he thought,) delivered
                     a portion of the "May Queen." Some of the elderly ladies jumped the rope, for
                     the first time, as one of them declared, for thirty years.
                  These were some of the pleasures the party enjoyed in the wild, wild woods, but
                     as there is no sweet without its bitter, they also met with many casualties,
                     some of which it will be well enough to mention.
                  The corpulent, Mr. Thumps, slipped while attempting to climb a tree, and came
                     near breaking a leg. As it was, he limped ridiculously. Miss Pattie fainted on
                     discovering a caterpillar crawling down her neck. As she fell into the arms of
                     Mr. Snooks, no great damage was done. Mrs. Brown was accidentally struck in the
                     face with a ball, which caused a circlet of black around one of her blue eyes,
                     that by no means enhanced her beauty. Mrs. Jenkins and Mrs. Jones had a very
                     narrow escape, having been chased by a furious bull out of a pasture, whither
                     they had strayed in search of wild flowers. While descending a hill, the modest
                     Miss Clark, who had been careful to dress all in white, slipped and rolled a
                     distance of some forty feet. As may be imagined her dress was spotless no
                     longer. In endeavoring to save Miss Clark, Mr. Thompson burst his pants in a
                     shocking manner, and was obliged to retire to the boat, until the damage was
                     repaired. While playing blind-man's buff, Miss White ran against a tree with so
                     much force as to set her nose to bleeding. As Mr. Black was endeavoring to take
                     a comfortable snooze in a retired part of the grove, a large bug crawled into
                     one of his ears. It gave him a severe pain and he came dashing into the party
                     like a madman. Fortunately Dr. Pinch was present, and by the use of his
                     instruments, he soon pulled out the intruder. A naughty bee stung Miss Pluck
                     upon the arm and caused her to screech dreadfully.
                  Yet, amid all these mishaps, there was general joy and hilarity. The birds were
                     hushed by the sweet tones of some of
                     the ladies, as they occasionally hummed over a favorite air, while the woods
                     resounded with joyful acclamations and heartfelt laughter. What a treat it is,
                     indeed, to the resident of the city, to spend a social day with friends in the
                     woodlands of the country!
                  At 5 o'clock, the captain of the boat notified us to prepare for our return
                     trip. Fatigued, and almost exhausted as we were, all disliked to leave that
                     lovely spot. But go we must, for steamboats, when chartered by the day, wait
                     for no man. What a time the ladies had, in finding their capes, their fans, and
                     their bonnets!—scattered here, and there, and everywhere. The boat's bell rung,
                     for the third time, and a screeching noise came from her whistle, which could
                     not be misunderstood. Aboard we must go—and aboard we went in a hurry.
                     Fortunately, no one fell overboard this time, and we soon bade adieu to the
                     pretty scenery of North Bend.
                  The trip up the river was very much the same as the trip down, only it was not
                        quite so suffocating. Many were "fagged out," and had no desire
                     to dance; consequently, the deck was not so much crowded. The boat arrived at
                     her wharf in the city about dusk, and each of the party wended his or her way
                     home, all, of course, "highly delighted with the pleasures of the day."
               
               
                  INVISIBLE AMONG THE CLOUDS:
                  HIS PRIVATE JOURNAL OF HIS FIRST AND ONLY ÆRIAL VOYAGE.
                  CITY LOT, MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 3 O'CLOCK, P. M.—Feel aspiring. Ruminate upon the
                     follies of earth, and dwell upon the imaginary pleasures of the heavens. Below,
                     the air is unwholesome; above it is pure and exhilarating: on earth, filth and
                     wretchedness greet one upon every hand; in the skies all is clear 
                        Invisible before he went up.
                      and beautiful, from the tiny glittering stars of the night, to the
                     gauzy clouds which float so sweetly through space, exposing every varying hue
                     to the light of the God of Day. Cast my eyes at the monster passenger balloon,
                     America, in process of inflation, and think I would like to go up.
                  3½ P. M.—Approach the agent to inquire relative to the fare.
                  "Good afternoon, sir," is my salute.
                  "Ah? Monsieur," is his reply; "bootiful day!—bootiful!—bootiful!"
                  
                  "Mons. Godard intends taking several passengers with him this afternoon?"
                  "Godard? Passenger? Oh! yes-sare; seven passenger. Bootiful ride. Rise up ze
                     easy as—as—as dey take sick man from ze bed—sail magnificent as great big ship
                     wizout ze wave—grand, Monsieur! bootiful indeed?"
                  "Are all the seats taken?" I asked, animated by the agent's brief but
                     extravagant description of an aerial voyage.
                  "Ze can have von, Monsieur," was his reply, holding up a finger. "Like ze
                     American omnibus, ze has room for von more, all ze time—ha, ha, ha!"
                  "What's the fare?"
                  "Fifty dollare. Cheap, Monsieur, so beautiful is ze ride."
                  "Fifty dollars! That's a big pile my dear fellow—much more than I can afford. I
                     would like however to take the ride, very much, and I tell you what I am
                     willing to do. If you will dead-head one-half the amount, and—"
                  "Ze dead-head!" exclaims the agent, in amazement, shrugging his
                     shoulders as he continued, "Ah, Monsieur is mistaken—ze balloon no kill—ze
                     balloon no make dead-head. Ze go up so bootiful—ze sail so—so—bootiful, and ze
                     come down gentle as ze baby on ze muzzer—muzzer—vot you call it? oh, yes! ze
                     muzzer's lap!"
                  "You don't understand me. I intended to tell you that I can not afford to pay
                     fifty dollars; but if you will take me at half-price, I will go. I will give
                     you twenty-five dollars."
                  "Twenty-five dollare! Ah! Monsieur, too mooch little."
                  "It is all I can afford to give."
                  "Well, Monsieur you mooch shentleman. I take ze twenty-five dollare. No
                     shentleman give me more, you take ze seat. You understand?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "But, Monsieur, you say nosing to every shentlemans about ze twenty-five
                     dollare."
                  "Not a word before the balloon starts."
                  "Ver good, Monsieur," and we shake hands, both evidently gratified at the
                     result of the interview.
                  FOUR O'CLOCK, P. M.—Examine the balloon, and find all secure. Stiff wind, but a
                     clear sky, Hope no fool, with more money to spare than I, will out-bid me for
                     the seat.
                  HALF PAST 4 O'CLOCK, P. M.—Wind grows stronger; black frowning clouds overcast
                     the sky, and altogether things above look rather dismal. Wish I had my money
                     back.
                  FIVE O'CLOCK, P. M.—Monsieur informs me I can consider my seat secure. Try to
                     feel elated, but after sundry unsuccessful efforts, postpone the attempt until
                     we go up. The enclosure is crowded with ladies and gentlemen, the former
                     everywhere expressing great anxiety to see the "daring individuals who are
                     going up in the balloon." Begin to think I have received
                     twenty-five dollars worth of importance, and ought to be
                     delighted. Tell a few friends confidentially that I am to ascend, and they
                     confidentially tell everybody else. Find I am a lion!
                  QUARTER PAST FIVE O'CLOCK, P. M.—Borrow an overcoat, and with my
                     fellow-passengers, slip into the old steam engine-house, in a corner of the
                     balloon enclosure, to avoid being bored, and to await orders. We cheer each
                     other up, and joyously (?) anticipate delights in store. Try to feel happy and
                     look smiling. Think of the Prophet who went "up yonder" without casting off his "mortal
                     coil," and wonder if he felt then as I do now.
                  HALF PAST FIVE O'CLOCK, P. M.—Receive orders, and the passengers consisting of
                     Col. Latham, Mr. Wm. Hoel, Mr. J. C. Bellman and myself, march out single
                     file—all armed with ove coats—press through the crowd, and step into the car
                     amid the plaudits of thousands. After seating ourselves, cast a glance at the
                     rigging and think it is rather delicate. Friends crowd around to shake hands,
                     wish us good luck and see if we look frightened. Monsieur is afraid they will
                     injure the balloon, and after trying in vain to keep them back, curses like a
                     trooper, in French. Amused at his gesticulations, and really begin to feel
                     merry.
                  TWENTY-FIVE MINUTES OF SIX O'CLOCK, P. M.—"Let go!" shouts Monsieur, and the
                     command being obeyed, we glide gently upward. In the crowd I recognise a score
                     of familiar faces, waving us a hearty adieu. Animated by the scene, I
                     involuntarily rise to my feet, and leaning over the side of the car, return the
                     salutations. I am seized with the most thrilling sensations of pleasure and
                     delight, and speechless I feast my eyes upon the scene below. The great city
                     lessens to our view, until its houses appear like toys, while its streets seem
                     animated with beings no larger than ants. Cheers reach our ears from every
                     direction, and enthusiastically we wave our hats in response to the noises of
                     our fellow-citizens below.
                  QUARTER TO SIX, P. M.—"Great Heavens! gentlemen, look there!" exclaims Mr. H—,
                     our eyes are instantly withdrawn from the fast-receding city and cast in the
                     direction pointed out Oh! what beauty. There lies La
                        Belle Riviere, its placid bosom glistening like silver in the
                     setting sun. It winds its way east and west as far as the eye can reach, the
                     tall hills which border its banks failing to hide it from our view. And what a
                     charming earth! The forests are gone, the cities are gone, and the earth has
                     the appearance of one vast garden, with its tiny groves, clusters of miniature
                     houses, sparkling rivulets, and its well-planned walks. It has changed its
                     form, too. We no longer see the earth of convex, but of concave form, and it
                     lies below us an immense basin with its centre directly beneath us and rising
                     uniformly upon every side. Oh! this is, indeed, delightful!—well worth seeing,
                     even at the risk of breaking one's neck.
                  SIX O'CLOCK, P. M.—Flying on the wings of the wind! How pleasant to be thus
                     floating between heaven and earth, no evidence of propelling power about you,
                     yet conscious you are traveling at almost lightning speed! We seem to float as
                     gaily along as the light clouds of a Summer day. It is glorious-delightful
                     beyond expression! Passengers shake hands, and congratulate each other in their
                     joy.
                  QUARTER PAST SIX O'CLOCK, P. M.—Monsieur Godard, who has been busily engaged in
                     the rigging of his aerial ship, descends to the car, and shaking us all by the
                     hand, exclaims: "Bootiful! bootiful!" We all unite in the expression of
                     delight, whereupon Monsieur draws a bottle of wine from his hamper, and invites
                     us to drink the health of all below us. One declines, for the reason that he is
                     a pledged member of a temperance association. Another replies that the argument
                     does not hold good in our locality. He has some knowledge of law, and is sure
                     the jurisdiction of no temperance
                     ance society was ever extended to our present altitude. The temperance man
                     acknowledges the reasoning good, and as the atmosphere is rather chilly,
                     concludes to take a sip of wine. Company getting rather lively.
                  HALF PAST SIX, P. M.—On! on! we fly. A bright golden cloud below
                     us in the west, excites our admiration. Gradually its brightness pales, and
                     suddenly its beauty changes to a frowning black. Dismal clouds seem to be
                     approaching us from every side, indicating a storm and danger. Delightful as is
                     the airy ride, begin to wish myself again on terra
                        firma.
                  
                  QUARTER TO SEVEN O'CLOCK, P. M.—We are now among the clouds. We seem to be
                     floating between an upper and a lower tier. Above, all is calm, but below, vast
                     masses of vapor roll over and over, as if driven by the fury of demons. We lean
                     over the sides of the car and listen. Old Boreas has his harps in tune, and we
                     can hear his terrible music as he flies o'er hills and through the valleys. The
                     clouds heave and roll below us, and listening still, we hear the storm
                     approach. Following the first gush of wind, comes the rain, and we hear it
                     falling upon mother earth. The sound is not unlike that made by a railroad
                     train when in full motion. We hope to escape the fury of that storm, and to
                     land in safety.
                  TEN MINUTES BEFORE SEVEN O'CLOCK, P. M. "No good! no good!" cries the commander
                     of our ship, as he sees the upper and lower tier of clouds coming together. He
                     drags all his ballast from beneath the seats, and prepares to heave it
                     overboard. The upper layer of clouds still descends, and now we are enveloped
                     in mist. Overboard goes the ballast, and up we fly with lightning speed.
                     Monsieur evidently wants to get above the clouds. On that depends our
                     safety.
                  SEVEN O'CLOCK, P. M.—Still we ascend. The clouds seem to shed a halo of mellow
                     light into the car, enabling us to distinctly read the figures upon the
                     barometer. The air is very chilly and damp, and all experience a strange
                     rumbling noise in the ears. The water pours in torrents from the neck of the
                     balloon into the car, making our position decidedly uncomfortable. Still I wish
                     to go higher. I desire to scale the bank of clouds above us, and again, in the
                     unobstructed ocean of air, gaze upon the bright stars, and witness the rising
                     of the silver moon. Up! up! into the mysterious space, where meteors dance, and
                     worlds vic with each other in brilliancy.
                  TEN MINUTES PAST SEVEN O'CLOCK, P. M.—Our ballast is all gone, and still we are
                     in the clouds. Every moment the, balloon becomes heavier, and now we must sink.
                     Our commander, with his hand upon the valve-rope, shakes his head and says, "No
                     good." The passengers, however, do not seem to apprehend danger. They joke
                     quite pleasantly at their uncomfortable condition.
                  FIFTEEN MINUTES PAST SEVEN O'CLOCK, P. M.—"Down! down!" cries the captain, as
                     seizing first one and then the other by the collar, he forced us to the bottom
                     of the car. Out went the anchor, and then followed a sensation of rapid
                     descent.
                  "Remember," says Mr. Bellman, "not a man leaves the car until it is safely
                     secured."
                  "Not a man," is the response from his three fellow-passengers who lie closely
                     huddled together in the bottom of the car
                  
                  "No good! no good!" fairly shrieked the aeronaut, as throwing one leg over, and
                     resting himself on the side of the car, he grasps the anchor-rope, with one
                     hand, the valve-rope with the other, and casts his eyes into the darkness
                     below.
                  Into the storm sinks our aerial ship, and now with the speed of lightning we
                     seem to fly! Our anchor touches and drags upon the ground as we skim over the
                     fields. Crash! it tears away a fence. The balloon seems to make a spring, and
                     we feel the car gliding over tree-tops. The prongs of the anchor strike a tree,
                     and taking a firm hold, the balloon is checked in its furious career. Like a
                     monster baffled, the frail vessel struggles fearfully to be freed. The winds
                     howl furiously, the rain descends in torrents, as it swings rapidly to and fro
                     over the tall forest trees. Monsieur Godard still keeps his position on the
                     side of the car, holding the valve open to allow the gas to escape, while the
                     passengers lie in the bottom of the car in silent watchfulness.
                  TWENTY MINUTES PAST SEVEN, P. M.—The anchor breaks! The balloon gives a fearful
                     leap, and falls almost to the ground. Now it rises again, and we feel ourselves
                     being dragged through a cornfield. Now we are in a forest, and as we dash
                     along, the weight of the car crushes the upper branches of trees. Again we are
                     in the open fields, and our balloon, its power of ascent much weakened by the
                     loss of gas, can not lift us from, but drags us over the ground. We encounter
                     another blast of the storm, and up we go again, but only to fall heavily to the
                     ground. Are we safe? No, the monster has not yet expended his power. Again we
                     are lifted and borne vapidly through a field. Suddenly the car strikes a tree,
                     and Mons. Godard is hurled to the earth. Thus lightened of its load, the
                     balloon makes another and most fearful leap of it, this time in its descent
                     bringing the car with terrible force against a tree. It was partially upset,
                     and this time Col. Latham and Mr. Hoel were thrown from the car, at a great
                     distance from the earth. The balloon rises again, and death seems certain to
                     Mr. Bellman and myself.
                  EIGHT O'CLOCK, P. M.—Found myself about half an hour ago lying flat on my back
                     on the ground, the trunk of a felled tree partially covering my body. I can not
                     move. I remember an awful crash, which seemed to stun me, and my next
                     recollection was the position described. The rain beating in my face revived
                     me. Looking up, I descried a figure in the dark.
                  "Is that you, Mr. Bellman?" I asked.
                  "Ah! Invisible," he instantly responded, "are you there? I was fearful you were
                     killed. Are you hurt?"
                  "I can not tell—I am pinned to the ground by this tree. Where are the balance
                     of the party?"
                  "Heaven only knows, as I have not seen or heard one of them, since they were
                     thrown out of the car. But you must get out of that position."
                  He instantly commenced removing the earth from under me, with his hands. I was
                     soon able to move, and with his assistance regained my feet. I was rejoiced to
                     find no bones broken, though I could scarcely stand alone. It appears, that in
                     rising, the net-work of the balloon caught in the prongs of a dead tree. So
                     strong was the cordage, and powerful the gale, that the tree was uprooted, and
                     fell with a crash upon the car. Mr. Bellman escaped, but I was thrown out of the car, and directly beneath
                     the trunk of the tree. A stout limb, which penetrated the car, and struck the
                     earth not far from my head, was all that prevented my being crushed.
                  I was scarcely relieved from my uncomfortable position, before Monsieur came
                     running up, frantically clapping his hands, and weeping. He supposed we had all
                     been killed; but when he discovered his error, his joy was as nervously shown
                     as his former grief. Next, Col. Latham came staggering through the dark,
                     earnestly inquiring if we were safe. He reported himself only slightly injured;
                     but said Mr. Hoel was badly hurt. He and Mr. Bellman returned for Mr. Hoel, and
                     soon found him, and conducted him to the spot where I was receiving the
                     congratulations of the little Frenchman.
                  The rain still fell in torrents, and a chilling wind brought it dashingly
                     against us. We had no knowledge of our whereabouts, except that we were in a
                     cornfield. Arranging that their shouts should be responded to, Col. Latham and
                     Mr. Bellman started in search of a house. After wandering through the fields in
                     darkness for some time, they espied a welcome light, which brought them to the
                     farm-house of Mr. Smith, near Waynesville, Ohio. The farmer gave them a hearty
                     reception, and on learning the state of affairs instantly dispatched a
                     messenger for the nearest surgeon, and with his farm hands came to our relief.
                     How welcome were their returning shouts! We are now seated around the cheerful
                     hearth of Farmer Smith, who, with his kind lady, is doing all in his power to
                     make us comfortable. I am done with balloon-sailing.
                  TUESDAY MORNING, 7 O'CLOCK, A. M.—Slept soundly last night, but wake up a
                     dilapidated human being this morning. My arms are stiff, my legs are stiff,
                     while my neck positively refuses to allow my head the slightest motion. I can
                     not walk—can scarcely move. Dear me! but these airy flights do use a fellow up.
                     And my clothes! all torn and soiled with mud! What a plight to return to the
                     city in, after the gay departure of yesterday. Thank heaven, however, I am able
                     to return at all. I've had enough of ballooning.
                  
                     
                        Invisible after he came down.
                     
                  
                  The above ends the journal. Of the party of balloon-excursionists, Mr. Hoel was
                     severely injured, having been thrown with his breast against a stump, when
                     hurled from the car, and it was several weeks before he recovered; Mona. Godard
                     and Mr. Bellman received but trifling injuries; Col. Latham was disabled by a
                     sprained ankle; and it was many weeks before Invisible's "skewed" neck allowed
                     his head to move with freedom.
               
               
                  
                  PICKINGS FROM INVISIBLE'S CITY OBSERVATIONS.
                  
                     A CLIQUE FRIGHTENED.
                     IN the old Algerine Ward, no one commands a stronger influence at a
                        municipal election than Knocking Bill, an individual who has not only
                        exhibited his patriotism as a volunteer on the fields of Mexico, but did
                        some sharp shooting and tall running, (when running was the order of the
                        day), with the unfortunate Lopez fillibusters. At home, he confines his
                        exertions principally to running "wid dermasheen," and putting his friends
                        into office. Ever surrounded with a party of kindred spirits, he may be
                        termed the "Regulator" of his ward. And if things are not conducted to suit
                        him, why—look out for a muss!
                     
                        
                           The Fighting Politician of the Algerine Ward.
                        
                     
                     It was in the Spring of 1852, that Knocking Bill fixed up the ward ticket of
                        his party, some two weeks before the good people were called upon to select
                        their candidates. He made no secret, either, of his work, and told all,
                        "high and low," that must be the ticket, even if the nominating meeting were
                        to break up in a row. Knocking Bill's edict was, of course, supreme, and his
                        ticket was nominated without opposition.
                     The succeeding day, however, the "Regulator" heard that the "Water Street
                        Clique" had publicly repudiated the nominations, and with 
                           "Souls in arms and eager for the fray,"
                         were getting up a ticket of their own, which they were determined to
                        "put through." This repudiation, too, was in the face of the fact that a
                        "Water street man" was on Bill's ticket, and as may be supposed, aroused the
                        indignation of the Regulator. He was not easily alarmed, yet he felt that
                        this occasion was one which required caution to insure success; the more
                        particularly as the ticket of the Water street clique was to be kept secret
                        until the day of the election, which gave him no opportunity to worry the
                        candidates into a declination. He soon determined on his course of action,
                        and proceeded at once to ascertain the time and place of the next meeting of
                        his dissatisfied political brethren. That information was soon acquired—the
                        clique were to meet on a certain night in the parlor of a certain hotel.
                     The night for the meeting of the clique came, and found Bill and his "right
                        bower" the first persons in the room. They had entered it noiselessly and
                        unobserved. Their first business was to seek a convenient hiding-place
                        where, unseen, they could see and hear the entire proceedings. The only
                        place they could find was beneath a sofa, the legs of which, however, were
                        so short Bill could not get beneath it. Nothing ing daunted, ho ordered his companion to
                        elevate the article of furniture until he spread himself upon the floor, and
                        then lower it upon his ponderous frame, and press it down until his
                        compressed body would permit the sofa to rest upon the carpet. This was
                        done, and Bill's companion left the room. Nearly an hour did the Regulator
                        lay under that sofa so squeezed he could scarcely breathe, before any one
                        entered the room. At last the clique arrived, and securing the door, seated
                        themselves around a table, uncorked their bottles, and proceeded to
                        business. They completed their ticket, and in great good humor adopted their
                        plans.
                     Bill was more than once the subject of their conversation, and though many
                        hard things were said of him, he bore it all with patience. To be sure, at
                        one time when the most puny of the clique, heated with liquor, declared he
                        could "wallop" Bill in a fair fight, that individual came near giving him an
                        opportunity to test the matter, but was fortunately enabled to control
                        himself by giving a slight grit of his teeth.
                     About one o'clock in the morning, after the clique had disposed of its
                        business, and a large quantity of liquors had been drank, the chairman, in
                        high glee, remarked, "Now, boys, we'll adjourn. We've got everything fixed
                        for success, and our ticket is sure to win. Ha! ha! won't Knocking Bill feel
                        bad when he's beat, and, ha! ha! he won't know how we headed him. Ha! ha!
                        ha! ha! but it's rich, boys. How he will rip and stave through the ward,
                        and, ha! ha! ha! how we will laugh at him."
                     All joined most heartily in the laugh.
                     "I wish," continued the chairman, "ha! ha! ha! I wish Bill was here to laugh
                        with us, for then—"
                     "Haw! haw! haw!" came in thunder-tones from beneath the sofa. The
                        wine-heated politicians jumped to their feet, and stared each other in the
                        face. "Haw! haw! haw!" came from beneath the sofa again, this time almost
                        shaking the walls of the building. The chairman turned pale, and, seizing
                        his hat, stepped softly toward the door, as he mumbled—
                     "By thunder, that is Knocking Bill's laugh. We're caught and done for. I'm
                        off, sure as you're born, and will have no more to do with this ticket."
                     He left the room as soon as possible, and so did his companions. Knocking
                        Bill kicked the sofa off his body, stretched his limbs, brushed off his
                        clothes, disposed of the untouched drinks upon the table, and then gave one
                        of his heartiest "haw! haw! haws!" His work was accomplished. The Water
                        street clique dare not meet him in open battle; and now that they were aware
                        of his presence at their meeting, they would be glad to "keep dark" until
                        after the election. Such proved to be the result. Knocking Bill's ticket was
                        elected without opposition from his party. He boasted much of that victory,
                        and frequently declared that one of his hearty "haw! haw! haws!" was worth
                        more than all the politicians in Water street.
                  
                  
                     A GLOOMY PICTURE OF LIFE.
                     Not far from the corner of John and Kemble streets, lives a young widow, the
                        mother of some three or four children, whose history presents one of those
                        instances in life which never fail to touch the heart. She is well educated
                        and accomplished, and possesses those intellectual charms which adorn the highest positions of
                        society. Her youth was happy; but in an unfortunate hour she married one who
                        became a drunkard, destroyed her peace, and broke her heart. He is dead, and
                        the wife is left penniless, to feed, clothe, guard and protect her children.
                        Her condition may be readily imagined. She has accomplishments which, if she
                        had been in a condition to use them, would have yielded her ample support.
                        She is capable of teaching music, and those delicate branches of needle-work
                        so much sought after in wealthy society; but she is poor, without friends,
                        and all efforts to obtain a remunerative employment would have been in vain.
                        Knowing this well, she resorted to the widow's last hope—sewing for
                        "slop-shops." And, great heaven! what a life it is to lead! Constant toil
                        from the earliest hour of dawn to the silent moments of midnight will not
                        provide the bare necessities of life for a family like hers. It is
                        unnecessary to recount this poor woman's struggles to keep comfortable her
                        young and beloved children. Self was lost in a mother's devotion, and her
                        constant application to the needle spoke volumes for a mother's love.
                     A few weeks ago, she suffered a heart-rending affliction. Her first-born, a
                        handsome little boy, whose countenance always beamed with innocence and
                        love, whose bright ringlets hung low down over his erect shoulders, and
                        whose sweet disposition made him his mother's idol—that darling boy sickened
                        and died. This event attracted some kind-hearted neighbors to the house, who
                        did all they could to soothe the anguish of his parent's heart.
                     But what comfort could they administer? There lay the lifeless form of her
                        CHARLIE, with that smile upon his sweet face which used to beam front it
                        when he would throw his arms around his mother's neck and beg her not to
                        cry, for he would soon be large enough to work as well as she. True, Heaven
                        had transferred the cherub to a brighter world, but in so doing had newly
                        afflicted an already bursting heart Besides, the mother was poor, and could
                        not even afford those tender demonstrations of love, which serve in a
                        measure to relieve the anguish of the bereaved. She had no silken-cushioned
                        coffin in which to lay his much-loved form, no flowers with which to deck
                        his placid brow, no embroidered shroud to adorn his limbs. In a coffin
                        donated by strangers, the little corpse was laid, and only three
                        sympathizing female neighbors accompanied the mourning mother to his grave
                        No tombstone yet marks the spot where he lies, for the mother, accomplished
                        as she is, requires her entire energies to preserve her own life and that of
                        her remaining children, who, in the midst of all her poverty and sorrow,
                        have power to console her with their love.
                  
                  
                     ATTENDING FUNERALS-MRS. GADABOUT.
                     "DEAR me," said Mrs. Gadabout, one Friday, to Mrs. Thompson, upon whom she
                        had just called, "I really thought I never could get an opportunity to call
                        upon you. Two months have elapsed since my last visit. Do tell me how you
                        have been?"
                     "I have enjoyed good health, I thank you," replied Mrs. Thompson, a good,
                        sensible woman.
                     "Indeed! well, really I am glad to hear that. But poor Mrs. Jones! I presume
                        you have heard of her death?"
                     "Yes, I have."
                     
                     "Poor creature, she lingered so long. I did not know of her
                        death until after it happened, or I certainly would have endeavored to
                        attend her dying bedside. Although obliged to neglect my own business, I
                        attended her funeral yesterday. Poor Mr. Jones took it so hard! Indeed, he
                        was so overcome with grief, he neglected to order sufficient accommodations
                        for the funeral. Would you believe it, wealthy as he—is, he had only four
                        carriages?"
                     "Indeed!"
                     "It is a fact, for I counted them myself. Why, I came near not going to the
                        cemetery myself, and I would not have had the privilege, if Mrs. Jones'
                        brother had not have taken an outside seat with the driver."
                     "Did he ride outside to accommodate you and at his sister's funeral?" asked
                        Mrs. Thompson in astonishment.
                     "O, bless your heart, it was no accommodation to me. I got into the carriage
                        first, and then his wife and sisters filled it up, and he was too much of a
                        gentleman to ask me to get out."
                     "But Mrs. Gadabout, did you do right?"
                     "To be sure I did. I have been to enough funerals to know that to obtain a
                        seat in a carriage, all must look out for themselves!"
                     "But relatives should always have preference."
                     "Certainly, unless they are too stingy to order a sufficient number of
                        carriages for friends. I have no respect for those parsimonious individuals
                        who are sparing of money in the last sad tribute to the dead, I would have
                        gone to Mrs. Jones' funeral if I had been obliged to crowd the husband out
                        of the carriage."
                     "Why, Mrs. Gadabout!"
                     "I mean what I say. When persons pay so much respect to the dead, as to
                        neglect their own families to attend a funeral, they should be accommodated.
                        Now, on Monday I attended Mr. Bloss's funeral. There everything was
                        superb—plenty of carriages, and two gentlemen in waiting at the door, to
                        escort the ladies into the vehicles. On Tuesday, I attended the Rev. Mr.
                        Smith's funeral, and there it was just the reverse. After the family were
                        seated, there was such a rush for the remaining carriage, that I really
                        blushed for the forwardness of our sex. I managed to get a seat, but nearly
                        ruined the skirt of a new dress in the effort. On Wednesday I was at the
                        funeral of the child of Mr. Simple, but I was shocked at the very slim
                        attendance of the neighbors. I actually rode all the way to the Cemetery and
                        back with no company but a gentleman, and I dont know how I would have
                        passed the time if he had not been very agreeable: Yesterday I was at Mrs.
                        Jones' funeral, and I am now on my way to attend the funeral of Mrs. Hobbs,
                        whose husband is an intimate acquaintance of Mr. Gadabout's partner."
                     "Then you will not take off your things?"
                     "O, no, bless you, it is now near the hour, and I want to be there in
                        time."
                     "You seem to delight in attending funerals, Mrs. Gadabout!"
                     "Indeed you are mistaken, Mrs. Thompson. I find it a very sad duty, but I
                        can not bear the thought of a departed friend being conducted to her last
                        resting place without due attendance. But I must be off."
                     "Can't you stay longer?"
                     
                     "No, for I know a large number will be at the funeral to-day, and I want to
                        secure an agreeable position. You understand, don't you?"
                     "I can not say I do. But, Mrs. Gadabout, I neglected to inquire after your
                        family. How is your husband and child?"
                     "Bad enough, Mrs. Thompson. Little Emma is just getting over the measles. I
                        left her with my next door neighbor—a very kind woman—while I ran over to
                        the funeral. Mr. Gadabout is suffering dreadfully with the rheumatism. He
                        has not raised his head for two weeks; but before I left home I fixed him
                        comfortably, and he will need no more attention till my return from the
                        cemetery. But it is now positively time for me to leave. Good-bye—call and
                        see me when you can."
                     We need not give Mrs. Thompson's response, nor presume what her thoughts
                        were. How many Mrs. Gadabouts there are!
                  
                  
                     THE RED FLAG
                     SEE how it flutters, from the window of that princely mansion! What business
                        has it there amid the evidences of opulence? It is the sign of Bankruptcy,
                        the badge of Ruin; and can Ruin ever cast its mouldering hand, and
                        Bankruptcy its withering grasp upon such a home of grandeur? It seems only
                        yesterday eve, when that modern palace resounded with joy. Its wide, deep
                        parlors were illuminated with the brightness of day, its costly decorations
                        dazzled the eye, and the lord of the mansion strutted pompously o'er its
                        downy carpets. Carriage after carriage arrived at the door—proud ladies and
                        wealthy men sought entrance, and seemed honored by the privilege of
                        assembling there, to do homage to unbounded riches. The softest music
                        floated through the parlors, while the gay company enjoyed the merry dance;
                        and though all were stiff with the silly etiquette of the day, the occasion
                        was a happy one. And why should it not be? Such brilliancy was ne'er
                        witnessed in this republican city of ours, for upon the table alone, in
                        delicately wrought silver, lay a fortune. Happiness, we all feel, is in the
                        enjoyment of wealth, and there wealth abounded; and there happiness must
                        have been. Well might the lord of the mansion have been proud that
                        night—proud of his wealth, proud of his unequaled festivals, proud of the
                        homage done him.
                     Yet the red flag waves from the window of that mansion! Where is the lord of
                        the palace? Run away! Where are those who clung around him so fondly, or
                        worshiped at his golden temple so meekly, only a few evenings ago? They
                        curse him! Where is that immense wealth which formed a grand circle for
                        aristocracy? It has vanished. It never belonged to that house: it was
                        cruelly extorted from pinching poverty, from hard labor, and from distressed
                        humanity.
                     What disclosures that red flag has made; and what a change it has wrought!
                        Carriages filled with proud ladies, and apparently wealthy gentlemen, still
                        stop at the door; but they go not to pay homage to Mammon, but to endeavor
                        to clutch the relics of a fictitious fortune. Now that the man who was
                        Esq.'d as long as he lived in arrogance upon other people's money, has taken
                        to flight, they are anxious to take his place as the center of the circle of
                        fashion! Beware, good folks, of that red flag! It may one day wave boldly from your window, and you
                        may be as deeply cursed as he whose princely furniture you now wish to
                        possess.
                     The auctioneer, the owner of the red flag, commences his trusty work. He
                        looks with surprise at the magnificent articles about him, and if his
                        thoughts could be heard, they would, no doubt, say: "For twenty years have I
                        been knocking off rich men's effects, but such grandeur I have never beheld
                        as here. God help the poor people, whose hard earnings were made to
                        contribute to this aristocratic show. What is the world coming to?" He
                        hesitates to touch the first article for fear of soiling it, but he soon
                        grows familiar with silver plate, downy carpets, inlaid furniture, and
                        golden ornaments. Nay, he becomes animated, and with his "goin', goin',
                        goin', gone!" excites the mirth of the visitors, and induces them to bid
                        high. He cracks a joke over a one thousand dollar ottoman, speaks carelessly
                        of splendidly wrought silver knives and forks, and rattles the articles off
                        at railroad speed. The crowd laughs, buys, and soon the sale is closed.
                     The red flag ceases to wave! It hangs stiffly on its rough pole, as if it
                        durst not move. And then the long train of carriages drawn up to the curb,
                        how like a funeral they look. Ah I it is a funeral. That red flag has buried
                        the hopes of many poor men, who had confidently placed their little all in
                        the hands of the once proud owner of that house. It is a death-signal to the
                        expectations of many struggling widows, who had deposited with him the small
                        earnings of Summer, to save them and their children from want during the
                        dreary Winter. It is the funeral emblem to many whose bright anticipations
                        have been blasted, and who have been deceived beyond recovery, wronged
                        without a remedy. God help the poor!
                     Such were our thoughts while witnessing the sale of the household effects of
                        an absconding banker. His assets will give to his depositors, who are
                        numerous, many of them having their all in his possession, at least
                           five cents on the dollar! Really, it seems as if law is made
                        for the rich alone, and that the poor have no friends "at court."
                  
                  
                     VON SWEITZEL ON POLITICS.
                     "Mine neighbor, Vilhelm, vot you think of bolities, hey?" asked Peter Von
                        Slug, of his neighbor Von Sweitzel, the Twelfth Ward blacksmith, one
                        evening, as he seated himself beside him in a "Bierhaus."
                     "I t'inks mooch," said Sweitzel, giving his pipe a long whiff.
                     "Veil, vot you t'inks"
                     "I comes to der conclusion dat bolitics is von great fool."
                     "Ah!" exclaimed Pete, after taking a draught from his mug, "how you makes
                        him dat?"
                     "Vell, mine frien, I tells you," replied Sweitzel, after a few whiffs and a
                        drink. "I comes to dish blace ten years last Spring, by der Dutch Almanack,
                        mit mine blacksmit shop. I builds mine little house, I poots up mine
                        bellers, I makes mine fire, I heats mine iron, I strikes mit mine hammer, I
                        gets blenty of work in, and I makes moonish."
                     "Dat is goot," remarked Pete, at the same time demanding that the drained
                        mugs be refilled.
                     "I say dat I make much friens," continued Wilhelm, relighting his pipe. "Der
                        beeples all say, Von Sweitzel bes a goot man, he blow in der morning, he strike in der night, and he mind his
                        bus'ness. So dey spraken to me many times, and it make me feel mooch goot
                        here," slapping his breast.
                     "Yaw, yaw, dat ish gooter," remarked Pete, who was an attentive
                        listener.
                     "Vell, it goes along dat vay t'ree year. T'ree? Let me see, von year I make
                        t'ree hoondred toller, der next t'ree hoondred and fifty, der next four
                        hoondred, der next four hoondred and swonzy, and der next five hoondred
                        toller. Dat makes five year. Vell, I bes here five year, von old Mike, der
                        vatchman, who bes such a bad man, comes to me, and he say—'Pete, vat make
                        you vork so hard?' 'To make moonish,' I dells him. 'I dells you how you
                        makes him quicker as dat,' he say. I ask him how, an' den he dells me to go
                        into bolitics, and get big office. I laugh at him ven he dells me dat Shake,
                        der lawyer—vat makes such burty speeches about Faderland—bes agoin to run
                        for Congress, and dat Shake der lawyer dells him to dell me, if I vould go
                        among der beebles and dell dem to vote mit him all der vhile, he vould put
                        me into von big office, vhere I makes twenty t'ousand toller a year."
                     "Twenty t'ousand! mine Got," exclaimed Pete, thunderstruck.
                     "Yaw, twenty t'ousand. Veil, by shinks, I shust stops der blowin', an' I
                        stops der striking', an' I goes to mine friens, an' I dells 'em all to vote
                        for Shake der lawyer, and all der Yarmans vote for Shake, and Shake bes
                        elected to der Congress."
                     Here Mynheer Von Sweitzel stopped, took a long draught of beer, and fixing
                        his eyes on the floor, puffed his pipe as if in deep thought.
                     "Vell, mine neighbor," said Pete, after waiting a due length of time for him
                        to resume, "vat you do den, hey?"
                     "Vell, I ask Mike, der swellhead vatchman for der office, and he dells me I
                        gets him der next year. I vaits till after der next krout-makin' time, and
                        den I say again, 'Mike, vhen vill Shake give me dat twenty t'ousand toller
                        office?' 'In two year, sure,' he say, 'if you vork for der barty.' Vell, I
                        stop a blowin' mit mine bellers agin', an' I blow two years for de barty mit
                        mine mout'."
                     "Two year mit your mout'?" asked Pete in astonishment.
                     "Yaw, two year. Den again I go to Mike, der swellhead vatchmans, an' dell
                        him der twenty t'ousand toller about, an' he dells me in von more year I
                        gets him sure; I dinks he fools me, yet I blow for der barty anudder year,
                        an' den, vot you dinks?"
                     "Dinks? Vy, you gets him twenty t'ousand toller."
                     "Gets him?" Py shinks, Mike, der swellhead vatchmens dells me I pese von big
                        fool, an' dat I might go to der bad place, an' eat sour-krout."
                     "He tell you dat?"
                     "Yaw. Sure as my name bes Von Sweitzel."
                     "After you do der blowing mit your mout' for der barty?"
                     "Yaw."
                     "Vat you do den, mine neighbor?"
                     "I makes a fire in mine blacksmit shop, I blows mine own bellers again, I
                        heats mine own iron, an' I strikes mit mine own hammer. I say to mineself,
                        'Vilhelm Von Sweitzel, bolitics bes a humbug, and boliticians bes a bigger
                           von. Vilhelm Von Sweitzel,
                           do your own blowing, an' let der boliticians do deirs."
                     Neighbor Pete coincided in this expression of opinion, and, after wishing
                        all sorts of bad luck to politicians, ordered the mugs to be re-filled, and
                        changed the topic of conversation.
                  
                  
                     THE BABY IS DEAD!
                     A LONG black scarf, trimmed with broad, white ribbon, hangs upon the door
                        knob. A death-like stillness pervades the entire mansion; all within moving
                        with the softest tread, and speaking in whispers, as if fearful of
                        disturbing the repose of some loved one. Those passing along the street
                        observe the sombre scarf, and the instant change in the countenance betrays
                        the thought, "the baby is dead!" Yes, the baby is dead, and not only those
                        who have been familiar with its sparkling eyes, but the stranger, who
                        receives the intelligence solely from the scarf on the door, feels that a
                        home has been robbed of a precious idol. How deep was the love that had
                        clustered around the innocent babe; and oh! how terrible is the blow its
                        death inflicts.
                     The baby is dead! It no longer clings in innocent love to its mother's
                        bosom, or stirs with fondest joy its father's heart. Its prattling has
                        ceased forever, and its once laughing eyes are closed in an eternal sleep.
                        But, even in death, it seems to have lost none of its sweetness. It lies so
                        calmly in its silken-cushioned coffin, prepared with so much care; it has
                        been arrayed in its costliest garments, its pure brow trimmed with a
                        fragrant wreath, and flowers have been scattered o'er its lovely form. As it
                        is thus arrayed, the babe seems only to be sleeping; but alas! it is that
                        sleep which hath no waking.
                     The baby is dead! Around it are gathered many whose sympathies it has
                        aroused, and whose love it has excited. The Minister leans over its cold
                        form, and, touched with the sight, tears trickle down his cheeks while he
                        exclaims, "Thus saith the Lord, 'Suffer little children to come unto me, and
                        forbid them not; for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.'"
                     The baby is dead! It is about to be shut forever from the sight of those who
                        loved it as none others could. Oh! how the mother clings to the lifeless
                        form; and as she imprints the last fervent kisses upon its cold checks, how
                        her very heart-strings seem to break! And the father, though he has often
                        manfully braved toils, cares, and dangers, now feels unmanned, and weeps
                        like a child, as he bends over the corpse of his lost one. Sympathy, at
                        other times consoling, is now of no avail, and the hearts of both suffer the
                        deepest anguish.
                     The baby is dead! Tears have wet its grave, and crushed hopes lie buried
                        with it. Though its mortal existence may have been brief, its death has
                        desolated a joyous home. Sweet babe! Orators may announce a nation's loss in
                        the death of patriots great and true, and poets sing in touching strains the
                        memory of the dead, who have accomplished mighty deeds;—none but angels of
                        heavenly birth will record thy life, so pure and beautiful, so early
                        lost.
                  
                  
                     
                     DRUNK
                     INVISIBLE never experienced "a drunk." His brain, fortunately or
                        unfortunately, was never fuddled with the fumes of distilled extracts, and
                        he has no idea of a drunken man's feelings. What charm there is in
                        intoxication is a query he has put to many, but as yet has never received a
                        satisfactory answer.
                     Some say, liquor drowns sad thoughts; and others, that it exhilarates, and
                        makes one feel joyful. That sad thought are drowned in insensible
                        drunkenness, no one can deny, but that intoxication produces joy,
                        Invisible's observations flatly contradict. To be sure, when a man is just
                        "boozy," or about "two-thirds tight," he appears to feel elevated, and in
                        his anxiety to display his importance, utters volumes of nonsense, and shows
                        himself a fool. He may laugh, shout, and act silly, but still there must be
                        a consciousness in his own heart that he is degrading himself—falling below
                        the level of a man.
                     
                     Drunken men are met frequently in this community, and they are always
                        objects for contemplation. Invisible saw one the other day, and could not
                        avoid pausing and observing his actions. He was an old man, and, like most
                        drunkards, poorly clad. He had fallen upon the pavement, but managed to
                        regain his feet by clinging to an awning post. There he stood, in a
                        half-erect position, the post tightly clutched in his hands, and his clothes
                        bespattered with mud. His dull eyes were fixed upon his support, and, as his
                        body moved to and fro, he seemed to be meditating, whether he was
                        experiencing a reality, or merely dreaming. As if waking from a reverie, he
                        let go of the post, and, with a curse, attempted to walk. He made only one
                        step, when his trembling legs gave way, and he fell backward, as if some
                        instrument of death had pierced his heart. A shout of laughter rose from the
                        small crowd who surrounded him, and vulgar taunts were heard from more than
                        one. The drunkard, however, did not attempt to rise again. He lay as if
                        dead, and soon the blood came trickling from his hat, upon the cold
                        pavement. A policeman came up, found the man had received serious injury in
                        the fall, and roughly hustling him into an express wagon, had him taken to a
                        police station. This is but one case in thousands, and now, where is the
                        pleasure in getting drunk? Who will answer?
                  
                  
                     A CITY NUISANCE.
                     IF there is anything the good wives of our city are troubled with, it is the
                        innumerable hosts of pedlars who go from house to house to sell their wares.
                        They are generally saucy, and oftentimes downright impudent. Imagine, if you
                        please, an industrious, tidy little wife, with her hands in the dough,
                        hurrying with all her might to have a nice dish of hot rolls for her
                        husband's tea. She has been belated, perhaps, by the baby, which she has
                        just succeeded in putting to sleep. There is a knock at the door.
                     "Gracious!" she exclaims, rubbing the dough from her hands, "who can that
                        be!" Opening the door she espies a sickly-looking man, with a tin-shop on
                        his back.
                     "Tin cups," he says, "ladles, pans, and—"
                     "Don't want any," replies the lady.
                     
                     "Pie dishes, dippers, "buckets and—"
                     "I tell you I don't want any. I have tin-ware enough."
                     "Rattle-boxes, pepper-boxes, match-boxes and—"
                     "No, no, no, no, nothing," exclaims the annoyed woman, shutting the door in
                        the pedlar's face.
                     She resumes her work, but is hardly fairly at it, when there is another
                        knock. Again she hurries to the door, and finds a big burly fellow there,
                        with a dirty-looking bag on his shoulder. As soon as the door begins to give
                        way, he exclaims—
                     "Rags, dree cent a bound."
                     "Haven't any," is the answer.
                     "Rags! dree cent a bound."
                     "I tell you I haven't any."
                     "Rags! dree cent a—" Slap goes to the door, and the pedlar pocketing the
                        insult, moves off.
                     May-be the biscuits are made up and in the pan, when a third knock is
                        heard.
                     "Another pedlar!" exclaims the wife. "He may knock until dooms-day, for I
                        won't go to the door again."
                     The knock is repeated, when suspecting that it may come from a visitor, she
                        peeps under the door. She sees two legs, and she knows they belong to the
                        "tea man," so she resumes her work.
                     Still there is another knock, a soft one, just as if made by the kid-covered
                        knuckles of a lady. The door is opened, when a little, delicate fellow, with
                        a basket hanging to each side, squeals forth—
                     "Pins, needles, thread, cheap! Stockings, handkerchiefs,
                        gloves, cheap! Laces, fringes, gimps, cheap!
                        Scissors, kni—"
                     "Go along with you, and don't you come back here again," exclaims the
                        tormented woman, provoked beyond endurance.
                     And thus it is in some parts of the city, hour after hour. Certainly
                        pedestrian pedlars may here be set down as a nuisance.
                  
                  
                     RIDE IN AN OMNIBUS.
                     One day I stepped into an omnibus of the Union Line, intending to ride the
                        entire length of the route, and hoping, with Mr. Micawber, that something
                        would "turn up." I had but one "fellow-passenger," and she was a pretty
                        young lady, dressed in the hight of fashion. She was from Newport, and I
                        presume, from the number of times she examined and counted her gold, had
                        come over to do her "shopping."
                     Driver cracks his whip, shouts, and starts. Proceed but a short distance
                        before young lady espies a Lieutenant from the garrison, running quite
                        nimbly after the "bus." She screams "stop," to the driver. I jerk the strap,
                        and "bus" stops. Young officer gets in—is acquainted with the young
                        lady—congratulations—conversation, mixed with silliness—the "bus" starts
                        again.
                     At the foot of Broadway we receive the accession of a railroad runner. Knows
                        the lady—has a swift tongue, and talks continually to the pretty miss. Young
                        lady introduces him to officer—officer tries to talk, but can't get in a
                        word edgewise—lady partial to railroad—officer bites his now-born imperial
                        and looks daggers. Come to the conclusion that a slick tongue is better than
                        a slick uniform.
                     At the foot of Main street two merchants get in. One is from the East, and has come out to look after
                        some slippery accounts. Shakes his head when companion tells him, thinks he
                        will succeed in getting full amount. He expresses the opinion that a crisis
                        has arrived in mercantile affairs, and complains of the awful condition of
                        our streets.
                     At Walnut street take in a fat lady, from Covington, with her baby and black
                        nurse. Officer helps her in, and pats baby on the cheeks. Fat woman is much
                        fatigued—her replies to the inquiries of the Lieutenant are a mixture of
                        sighs, puffs, and grunts. Baby cries, and fat woman tells black girl to
                        bounce it. Says she is going to Fifth street to buy a bouquet for her
                        grown-up daughter.
                     At Second street receive a hog-butcher, whose clothes are rather greasy, and
                        who is puffing a cigar. He squeezes in between the Newport miss and the
                        Lieutenant, to the great satisfaction of railroad, who politely changes
                        seats with the miss. Butcher requested to throw away his cigar, but with a
                        smile, rubs out the fire and puts the remains of his delicacy in his pocket.
                        Lieutenant throws up his nose at the smell of venerable lard, and the fat
                        lady wonders why such dirty people are allowed to ride in omnibuses.
                     At Pearl street receive a lady. She was helped in by three clerks, and had a
                        pretty boquet in her hand. How ever-body in the "bus" look at her as she
                        comes in. Baby cries, nurse bounces, fat lady scolds, Lieutenant consoles,
                        miss laughs, railroad smiles, merchants look demure, and butcher winks.
                     At Fourth street, receive three more ladies and two walking children. They
                        all get in, but don't find seats. Driver tells everybody to move up—fat lady
                        protests against a tighter squeeze—miss laughs, strange ladies ask the
                        gentlemen to get on top—butcher responds, and I, thinking some thing had
                        "turned up," left the omnibus in hot haste.
                  
                  
                     THE PROSECUTING ATTORNEY'S IRON CHEST.
                     In the office of the Prosecuting Attorney, of this county, stands an iron
                        chest It is of modern make, fire-proof, and will resist the encroachments of
                        the most ingenious burglar's tools. There is nothing peculiar in the
                        exterior of that safe, but unlock it, and allow its heavy door to swing
                        open, and it presents a fearful sight. Murderous implements, many of them
                        spotted with human blood, and ingenious contrivances for the commission of
                        crimes, meet the eye. The most attractive is the remnant of the infernal
                        machine, by which Allison and his beautiful wife were torn almost to pieces.
                        The shattered iron, the burnt wadding, and the dark remnants of the box,
                        call to mind all the circumstances of the horrid murder, and make one
                        shudder.
                     Next to it is a long, much-worn carving-knife, covered with blood. Less than
                        a year ago, a middle-aged mulatto woman, fired to frenzy by the
                        ill-treatment of a brutal husband, seized that knife and plunged it into his
                        side. He died; and a court of justice exculpated the woman from the charge
                        of murder.
                     Next is a pistol, new and not much worn, which has inflicted a serious wound
                        upon a human being. A young husband was happy in newly-wedded love, when
                        rumors reached Mm that another had attempted to sully the character of
                           his wife. Maddened at the
                        thought, he procured that pistol, hunted out the alleged slanderer in a
                        place of amusement, and convincing himself that what he heard was true, he
                        drew the weapon and fired to kill. The wound he inflicted did not prove
                        fatal, and the young husband was acquitted by a jury of his countrymen.
                     Next is a ferocious-looking bowie-knife. Its history is not known, but
                        certainly the man who carried it possessed a malignant heart. That, as well
                        as a neat little dagger by its side, is covered with blood.
                     Next is a dirk, for improperly using which, a man, once honored and
                        respected, is now incarcerated in the State prison.
                     Next, way down in a corner of the iron chest, is a large knife, which,
                        though covered with mould, has been the instrument of an exciting story.
                        Years ago, a woman of great personal attractions, and strong mind, learned
                        that her husband was bestowing his love upon another. Being convinced of its
                        truth, she visited the favored one about dusk one Summer evening. The words
                        which passed between them were few, for soon the jealous wife plunged a
                        knife into the heart of the other. The one fell dead upon the floor, while
                        the other fled to the residence of the Mayor, and delivered herself into
                        custody. It was a bold premeditated murder. Yet the community sympathized
                        with the injured wife, and few sorrowed for the dead. She, who had struck
                        the fatal blow, was tried for murder—the jury knew she was guilty, but could
                        not in their hearts condemn her to the awful penalty of the law. They
                        declared her insane, and to the satisfaction of the whole community, nay,
                        amid the applause of a crowded court-room, she was liberated from custody.
                        Bust on, old knife! In being an instrument of a dreadful crime, thou didst
                        bring sweet revenge to a wounded heart.
                     There is a lot of counterfeit money, which tells plainly how hard it is to
                        resist temptation. A steady, sober, upright citizen of the Third Ward was
                        made a policeman. The business bringing him in contact with all kinds of
                        vice, he soon contracted pernicious habits, which eventually led to his
                        disgrace, by dismissal from the city police. Henceforth he lived an idle
                        life, and was at last caught with that batch of counterfeit money in his
                        possession. He procured bail for his appearance, and then fled—a sure
                        evidence of his guilt.
                     A bank note there tells a curious talc. One evening a well-dressed young man
                        offered that note at the bar of the Theater for refreshments. The bar-keeper
                        immediately pronounced it counterfeit, and called an officer to arrest the
                        person who had offered it. As the policeman seized the young man, he thrust
                        the note into his mouth, and endeavored to swallow it. He was choked until
                        forced to spit it out, when he was conducted to the police station, and
                        locked up. He had a preliminary examination, and was committed for final
                        trial. At the trial it was proven, that the bank note he offered, and
                        endeavored to swallow, was genuine! He was of course acquitted.
                        His statement then was this: He was a country schoolmaster, and but little
                        acquainted with the world. When he found he was accused of passing
                        counterfeit money, believing the bar-keeper to be a judge, he thought that
                        the production of the spurious bill would produce his conviction, and he
                        followed the first impulse of his mind—to destroy the note. Shame for his,
                           disgraceful situation induced
                        him to disguise his name, and keep silent as to his real position, though
                        fully conscious of his innocence.
                     Beside the iron chest, is an old trunk, taken from a house in Newport, which
                        contains evidence of one of the most stupendous schemes of villainy ever
                        exposed. It contains piles upon piles of forged deeds, land warrants, and
                        pension papers, many of the latter going back to the days of President
                        Monroe. Bundles of correspondence show how these fictitious documents were
                        sold for genuine; and no doubt hundreds have by this means been robbed of
                        their honest earnings.
                     But enough of the Prosecuting Attorney's iron safe; its contents might found
                        many an interesting tale.
                  
                  
                     A STONE OR TWO IN IT.
                     An individual well known in the community, and who has held several offices
                        of honor and profit, was reduced to very stringent circumstances, like most
                        public men of late, by the too free indulgence of intoxicating drinks. A
                        warm friend of his who had advised him to a more moderate use of the
                        "ardent," called on the proprietor of the house most frequented by him, and
                        asked the landlord as a personal favor not to sell any more liquor to the
                        individual referred to. He thought a rebuff at that house might bring him to
                        his senses, or make him feel his real position. The proprietor of the
                        coffee-house refused, however, for the reason that the individual was an old
                        customer, and he did not wish to hurt his feelings. Unsuccessful there, the
                        friend thought he would try one more appeal to the feelings of the almost
                        ruined man. He called on him one afternoon, and the two walked out together.
                        After proceeding several squares, the one exhorting earnestly, and the other
                        listening silently, the friend stopped, and pointing to a large and costly
                        mansion, just being finished on the opposite side of the street, he
                        said—
                     "Now look at that fine house, it is being built by a man who has received
                        the most of your money for the last ten years. Your habit of drinking has
                        made him wealthy and you poor. Now," he continued, believing he had touched
                        the heart of his friend in the right place at last, "now, don't you see the
                        folly of your ways?"
                     "Well," replied the drinker, after closely surveying the elegant stone-front
                        mansion from bottom to top, "Well, I guess I have a stone or two in
                           it."
                     His friend was shocked at the naiveness of the reply, and could not muster
                        courage to resume the subject. But how many ruined men are there, who can
                        point to elegant mansions, and immense business-houses, and claim that their
                        money has purchased a stone or two in it, for which they have not had value
                        received.
                  
                  
                     A SPECULATION.
                     "Tim, me boy," said the landlord of the Emigrant's Home, "Tim, me boy, an'
                        wont ye tell us uv yer specelations?"
                     The Tim addressed was a tall, stout Hibernian, who, with some dozen of his
                        fellow-countrymen, was seated in the barroom, if it can be so styled, of the
                        "Emigrant's Home," a story-and-a-half tavern, located on Dublin street. The
                           Emigrant's grant's Home is
                        like most of the Irish boarding-houses in the West, composed of not more
                        than four rooms—a drinking and sitting-room, a cooking and eating-room, and
                        two lodging-rooms. The landlord boards his patrons at cost, looking to the
                        bar, and his weekly dances or "shin-digs" for profits.
                     "An' it's mesel' that'll do that same," was the reply.
                     "An' it's a gintleman I know ye are, Tim," responded the landlord, "an' ye
                        shall have a drop uv the crathur to moisten your lips."
                     "A betther boy than mesel' niver left howly Tipperary for Ameriky," remarked
                        Tim, with a gladdened face, as he helped himself to the proffered grog.
                     "An' yer right there, me boy; so tell us uv yer specelation, man," said the
                        landlord.
                     "None uv yer blarney now, Misther landlord," replied Tim; "its mesel' that
                        can spake for mesel'. I tould ye a betther boy than Tim niver left Old
                        Tipperary for Ameriky, an' hav'n't I me aut'ority for spaken so? Didn't
                        Father O'Roork tell me that, an' did Father O'Roork iver lie, except when he
                        was at praters?"
                     "It's the trut' yer spakin now, Tim; but tell us uv the specelation!" urged
                        the landlord.
                     "That I will. Ye see, me darlings, whin I first landed in Ameriky, I thried
                        hard to be a polaceman, but me legs were too short, an' me tongue too thick.
                        Thin I thought to mesel' I'd try a bit uv a specelation, an' so I married
                        Dinnis O'Garraty's widdee."
                     "Och! but was it that ye done?" exclaimed the landlord.
                     "It was mesel' that did it," continued Tim, "an' the widdee had the money
                        too, I tell ye."
                     "An' a swate crathur was she too?"
                     "Divil a bit! Two weeks afther the weddin' she packed up, an'—an'—an'—run'd
                        away wid Pat McDugan, as ugly a baste as iver broke a poor husband's
                        heart."
                     "Murther! an' was that yer specelation?"
                     "Sure, an' wasn't it?" continued Tim, somewhat excited.
                     "Didn't I git me two weeks bed an' boord for nuthin, an' divil of a
                           cint did it cost me to git away from the wicked widdee?"
                     "Och! an' yer right, boy," said the landlord, after a moment's hesitation;
                        "it was a specelation, shure! Now ye'll trate lad, wont ye?"
                     "An' its Tim will do that," responded the speculator; and drinks were
                        ordered for all hands—on the strength of the speculation.
                  
                  
                     ANOTHER SPECULATION.
                     "PLEASE ma'm, can you tell me where I can get a place?" asked a pale, thinly
                        clad girl, about thirteen years of age, of two richly dressed women, whom
                        she met on Fourth street, one morning.
                     "A place? What can you do, girl?" inquired one of the women.
                     "Most anything, ma'm. I've always been used to hard work."
                     "Who have you been living with—can you produce certificates from your last
                        mistress? I want a girl, and think from your looks you may suit me."
                     "Oh! I do wish you would take me, ma'm. I have never worked out; but now my mother is sick, and I
                        want to get work so I can support her."
                     "You support your mother, girl? Ha? ha! that is decidedly jovial. You must
                        be content with supporting yourself. Why, how much do you expect to receive
                        a week?"
                     "I don't know how much they give girls, ma'm, but I would like to support my
                        mother if I can."
                     "Your ideas of wages are too extravagant, girl," responded the woman, with a
                        pompous air, "but if you can do house-work, I am willing to take you, and
                        give you good wages."
                     "How much are you willing to give me, ma'm?"
                     "Well, I will give you twenty-five cents a week, and let you eat at the
                        second table."
                     "And find me in clothes?"
                     "Gracious, what an idea! In clothes?—no, indeed. You must clothe yourself
                        out of your wages."
                     The girl was evidently sadly disappointed. The woman continued:
                     "If you are disposed to accept of my offer, call at No.—, Seventh street, at
                        9 o'clock to-morrow morning;" and then walking on with her companion, she
                        said, "I am now paying my girl fifty cents a week, and if I can get this one
                        at half that salary, it will be quite a speculation."
                     Speculation, indeed! If it is by such speculations, madam, you bedeck your
                        person so gaily, and live in idleness and ease, Heaven have mercy upon you.
                        Twenty-five cents a week, for the hard services of a poverty-stricken girl,
                        anxious to relieve the sufferings of an afflicted mother!
                     Shame! shame! upon the woman, so heartless as to make such a
                        proposition.
                  
                  
                     A TREACHEROUS MEMORY.
                     MARTIN STUBBS, do you know him? He lives out in the Twelfth Ward, and is
                        noted for his volubility of tongue and treacherous memory. One evening
                        Martin was sitting in front of the Brighton House, reading a newspaper.
                     "That's nothing," said he, concluding a paragraph, to a crowd of half a
                        dozen sitting near him.
                     "What?" was the inquiry.
                     "This feller in here," pointing to the paper, "walked one hundred miles in
                        one hundred consecutive hours."
                     "I guess you never saw it beat," spoke up one.
                     "I haven't? You don't know me, young man. Did you ever see me walk? I'm used
                        to it. When I was six months old, I'd pick up a cheer and run off with it;
                        and when I was a shaver, I always preferred walking to riding. Just the very
                        day I was nine year old, I walked fifty mile in five hour."
                     A laugh followed this declaration.
                     "It's a fact, by ginger! I'll tell you how it was. You see, we lived in the
                        country; and one night a peddler stopped with us, and on the same night he
                        slipped away with ten thousand dollars of the old man's cash, and—"
                     "Ten thousand dollars!" exclaimed a by-stander.
                     "Yes, sir, just even ten thousand. You see, in them days the people didn't
                        care as much for money as they do now. Every feller owned a farm big enough
                        for himself and children, and they worked along sort of easy, and having no
                        use for money, they cared nothing for it. Why, once my old man went to
                        market, and sold his load for five hundred dollars, and—"
                     
                     "Five hundred dollars for one load?"
                     "Yes, sir, they had awful big wagons in them days. My old man's wagon was
                        bigger than our house, and he never thought of hitching up a team of less
                        than twenty head of the—"
                     "Twenty head? Why how did you drive them?"
                     "Easy enough, bless your soul. We'd starve the critters just before we
                        wanted to use them, and then carry oats before their noses along the road.
                        They were always careful to keep within smelling distance. I've driv eighty
                        head that way, and—"
                     "Eighty head?"
                     "Yes, sir, and I was the only boy in the whole neighborhood that ever did
                        it. You see, I was always counted smart, and—"
                     "But about that walking fifty miles in five hours?"
                     "O, yes? I forgot that. Thank you for putting me in mind. Well, as I said,
                        two peddlers—"
                     "Two?"
                     "Yes, two. They stopped at the old man's, and during the night stole twenty
                        thousand dollars, and—"
                     "Twenty thousand?"
                     "Yes, certainly; that's what I said before. And twenty thousand was twenty
                        thousand in them days, I tell you. My old man was the only person in the
                        whole country who had a cent, and he was mighty careful of it, so much so,
                        indeed, that he never went away from home."
                     "Never?"
                     "No, sir."
                     "Not even to market?"
                     "Him? Why, you couldn't get him out of the house except it was to feed old
                        Tom, the only horse in the whole section of country."
                     "The only one?"
                     "Yes, sir. People couldn't afford either horses or wagons in those days.
                        Talk of hard times now! You ought to have lived just about that time. I
                        never had—"
                     "But tell us about walking fifty miles in five hours."
                     "Fifty miles in five hours?"
                     "Yes."
                     "That never was done by human."
                     "Didn't you do it once?"
                     "Me? Never. I always was stupid at walking—couldn't crawl about until I was
                        four years old, and have never been limber in the legs."
                     "Why, Stubbs!"
                     "Fact, upon my honor."
                     "Why, what a liar."
                     "Liar! I can pocket an insult from a man who can't appreciate truth when he
                        hears it," indignantly replied Stubbs, as he threw down the newspaper and
                        walked away. The crowd who had kept serious faces during Stubbs' recital,
                        now gave vent to their suppressed laughter, much to the indignation of
                        Stubbs.
                  
               
            
            
               
               POD III.
               
               
                  POLICE SKETCHES.
                  QUARREL OVER A DISH OF KROUT.
                  EVERYTHING was ready for the trial. Esquire Rowekamp had thrown his dignified
                     personage back in his easy chair, his young clerk had seated himself by his
                     side, like another Sancho by his master, and the constable had posted himself,
                     like a trusty sentinel, at the gate of the inner bar, to preserve the court
                     from improper intrusion. In the outer bar, on either side of a long
                     green-baize-covered table, were arrayed a half-dozen lawyers, two with pen in
                     hand and hair erect, ready for the work; and though they ranked from a judge
                     down to a brainless pettifogger, the great money-making qualification of each,
                     was the fact, that they commanded the ready use of two languages—English and
                     German. Within the same bar, upon one side of the room, were arrayed, Jake
                     Breakstein, the complainant, and his witnesses, and upon, the other side, face
                     to face with their opponents, sat Frau Haverstraw, the accused, and those upon
                     whose testimony she relied. Beyond this, in the space between the outer railing
                     and the front door, was a crowd of spectators—some attracted by friendship for
                     one or the other of the parties, and others by mere curiosity. Their general
                     rough appearance, stained and patched garments, uncombed hair and greasy faces, told plainly that they
                     belonged to the "unwashed" class; while their tiny cloth caps, their
                     short-tailed jackets, their very coarse linen, and their iron-bottomed shoes,
                     indicated beyond doubt their Teutonic origin.
                  Looking at the scene, the stranger might infer he was in "Faderland," and that
                     the "Burgomaster" of the district was about to hear an important case; but the
                     citizen of Porkopolis would know he was in a Magistrate's court "over the
                     Rhine," and that a German trial was about to take place, after the American
                     fashion. Such scenes are frequently witnessed in all our large cities,
                     now-a-days, particularly in those where the foreign population is large, and
                     the languages of other climes are nurtured by the community.
                  "Mrs. Haverstraw," said the court, "you are accused in this warrant, with
                     having assaulted, with intent to injure, Jacob Breakstein. Are you ready for
                     trial?"
                  "Vat?" asked Mrs. H., a stoutly-built woman, with arms like sections of
                     stove-pipe, and a face that would pass for an almanac representation of a full
                     moon, and who had understood only her name, in the solemn announcement and
                     query of the Magistrate.
                  "Sit down mit you," instantly interposed her lawyer, who, after telling her in
                     German that he would do her talking, said, "May it blease der court,
                        ve are now ready to be dried."
                  "Remembcr, sir," announced the attorney upon the other side, "that the trial
                     once commenced, we will allow of no delay. We consider ourselves in personal
                     danger from your client, and shall demand the full protection of the law."
                  "Ve vill put you in shail before you gits t'rough mit us," was the prompt and
                     cutting response of the defense.
                  "Call your witnesses, gentlemen," remarked the Magistrate, "and leave the
                     merits of the case to the Court. Is the prosecuting witness here? Call him, Mr.
                     Constable."
                  "Jacob Breakstein! Jacob Breakstein!" shouted the officer.
                  "Here bes Shake," responded the owner of the name, who was sitting within four
                     feet of the constable. He was ordered to the witness-stand, where the oath was
                     administered in English, in quite a solemn manner, and the nature of it
                     explained in German.
                  "Now, Jacob," said the Court, "proceed and tell us all about this business, and
                     remember, you are sworn to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
                     truth. How, and in what manner, did Mrs. Haverstraw assault you?"
                  "Vell, 'Squire, I tells you all about it," responded Jake, a short, thick-set
                     man, whose form resembled a beer-keg, resting upon short legs, with a
                     cabbage-head on the top. "I live on de Bremen strasse, mit mine frow, an' drive
                     a bier vagon mit der horse."
                  "Vat dat do mit der assault?" interrupted the attorney for the defense.
                  "May it please the Court, we demand the protection of our client," bawled the
                     attorney upon the other side. "We come here seeking justice, and will not be
                     brow-beaten by any member of the bar. We—"
                  "Keep cool, gentlemen," interrupted the Court. "The witness evidently is not
                     familiar with Court proceedings, and must be allowed a little latitude. Go on,
                     Jacob."
                  "Vell," continued Jake, "I live on der Bremen strasse nut mine frow, an? I
                     drive a peer vagon mit der horse. Mine neighbor Haverstraw live in der same
                     room mit me, mit his frow. Vell, I
                     comes home on Donnerstag, mit mine peer vagon: I puts mine horse in der stable,
                     an' I goes to mine house, for mine breakfast-supper. Mine frow sets out der
                     table, mit some peer and some krout, and some pretzel, and me and mine frow
                     sets down, and eats der peer, and drinks der krout and der pretzel."
                  "Trink der krout und der pretzel?" asked the attorney for the defense. "Vy you
                     say dat—vy you no tell the trut'?"
                  "Yaw," replied Jake, not in the least disturbed, "I trinks der pretzel mit mine
                     teeth."
                  "Eat, you mean," interposed his lawyer. "A mere slip of the tongue, your Honor
                     will notice."
                  "Yaw, yaw—by mine tongue—dat's him," responded Jake. "Vell, vhile me und mine
                     frow trink der krout und der pretzel, mine neighbor's frow, der Haverstraw, vot
                     sets over there pehind Shon der blackschmidt—"
                  "Yaw, yaw," interrupted the defendant, as she was pointed out, "frow
                     Haverstraw—yaw, frow Haverstraw."
                  "Yaw, dat vomans, 'Squire; she come und she set down mit me und mine frow;
                     vell, she take her finger, so, (making the motion) she take some krout in her
                     finger, so, und she put it in her mout', so," he said, with vehement gesture
                     and indignant action, which brought forth a roar of laughter from the
                     audience.
                  "Silence! Order in Court!" shouted the Constable, in a terrific manner.
                  "Vell," continued Jake, "I say to mine neighbor Haverstraw's frow, 'vot for you
                     do dat?' Mine neighbor Haverstraw's frow look me in der face mit von eye, so,
                     (making a grimace) und she say, 'Shake, you bes von big Dutch fool. I say to
                     her 'Vat?' und she say to me, 'Shake, you bes von big Dutch fool.' I say, 'Vhy
                     you tinks so, frow Haverstraw?' und she say, 'Shake, you tinks I no like
                     krout.' I say, 'Ha! frow Haverstraw, you no stand under mit me; I tink you
                     don't like your own krout, but, py shinks! you like mine krout too mooch to
                     blease Shake.'"
                  "Stand back, Madam! stand back! No intimidation of witnesses here!" shouted
                     Jake's attorney. His demand was addressed to frow Haverstraw, who, hearing the
                     witness mentioning her name frequently, and being unable to comprehend what he
                     was saying, came forward to get a better understanding of what was going on.
                     The lawyer took advantage of her movement, to endeavor to create an impression
                     of foul play, a little pettifogging trick, often resorted to, in the lower
                     courts of justice. Frow Haverstraw was ordered to resume her seat.
                  "Vell," proceeded the witness, "after I tell her dat, she take her hand, shust
                     so, (making the motion) she put it in mine krout dish, shust so, und she take
                     out all der krout, mitin her hand, und py shinks, she t'row it all on mine
                     cope!"
                  A burst of laughter from the spectators caused another demand for silence from
                     the constable, and a burst of indignation from the witness's attorney, who
                     could not "see anything to laugh at."
                  "Vell," continued Jake, as soon as order was restored, "I scrape der krout from
                     mine cope, und put him in der dish again to eat him once more, when mine
                     neighbor Haverstraw's frow take anudder time some more again an' put him in
                        her mout'. Says I, 'vot for you
                     eat mine krout?' und she say to me, 'Shake, you be von big Dutch fool.' Den I
                     gets madder as not'in', and I takes der krout in mine hand shust so, I catch
                     frow Haverstraw by der head mit von hand, an' I—"
                  "Stop! stop!" exclaimed his lawyer, "you need not tell that."
                  "Yaw," innocently remarked Jake, "I catch her by der head mit von hand, an'
                     I—"
                  "Stop! stop!" shouted the lawyer.
                  "No, no, I nix stop, but py shinks I puts all der krout vot had been on mine
                     head—"
                  "Won't you stop?"
                  "No, I nix stop, but I put all dat krout from mine head into frow Haverstraw's
                     mout'."
                  Even the Court could not preserve its equanimity after this rich development of
                     the termination of the quarrel over a plate of sour-krout, while the spectators
                     roared with laughter. Jake underwent an examination and cross-examination very
                     calmly, and resumed his seat without taking one word from his testimony in
                     chief.
                  "What other testimony have you to offer?" asked the Magistrate of the
                     prosecuting lawyer.
                  "I am prepared to prove the peaceable character of my client."
                  "That is unnecessary," remarked the Court. "Have you anything else to
                     offer?"
                  "No, sir."
                  "Then we dismiss the case. Though the throwing of the krout by Mrs. Haverstraw
                     at the head of Mr. Breakstein may be construed into an assault, we think
                     sufficient punishment was inflicted at the time by Mr. Breakstein taking the
                     krout from his head, and, as he testifies himself, cramming it into the mouth
                     of the lady. Mrs. Haverstraw, you can go home, and Mr. Breakstein, you can pay
                     the costs."
                  "Dunder and blixen!" exclaimed Jake, casting a woful look at his attorney.
                  "Yaw, yaw, dat is goot," shouted Mrs. Haverstraw, who now, for the first time,
                     understood the decision of the Court.
                  As is usual in all legal contests, one party left the courtroom chop-fallen,
                     and the other in the hight of good humor; the friends of each showing their
                     feelings, and the disinterested spectators applauding the decision of the
                     Court. Jake will hardly venture into Court again, particularly if his case is
                     tainted with sour-krout.
               
               
                  MY HUSBAND'S MINIATURE.
                  AMID the lowest degradation, bright jewels of the heart can often be found. It
                     seems almost impossible for the human heart to become so debased, that it is
                     lost to all feelings of kindness and love; and, however low God's creatures may
                     become, they have something around which their hearts will cling with pure
                     affection. An illustration of this occurred in the Police Court one
                     morning.
                  For several months an intelligent, and once a good-looking Irish woman, had
                     been before the Court for drunkenness. Each time she appeared to have sunk
                     lower and lower in the scale of degradation, until at last her associates were
                        the most debased of the negroes
                     of the city. She did not appear to have any shame for her position, receiving
                     her sentence to jail, as a vagrant, with perfect indifference, and always
                     refusing to escape punishment by promising to leave the city. On the occasion
                     alluded to, when brought before the Court, she said:
                  "I've got my locket, now, Mr. Pruden, and if you will let me go this time, I'll
                     leave the city to-day."
                  "Your locket," asked the Court, "what has that to do with your leaving the
                     city?"
                  "It's got my husband's miniature in it, sir, and I could not leave the city
                     without it. Here it is, sir, a little broke, but the face is uninjured."
                  She handed the locket up to the Court. It was a costly gold one, and had the
                     face of a good-looking man in it.
                  "Has it been out of your possession?" asked the Court.
                  "Yes, sir," she replied, a tear stealing to her eye; "one night, when maddened
                     and almost insensible from liquor, I was induced to pledge it for whisky. I
                     regretted it the next day, but, poor woman that I was, I could not get it back.
                     The parting with it made me wretched, and I drank more and sank deeper in sin,
                     until your Honor sent me to prison. I then determined, when I came out to go to
                     work like an honest woman, and save my money until I had accumulated enough to
                     redeem the only thing dear to my heart. I got it last night, sir, and it so
                     rejoiced me that I could not help taking a drop or two. That is the way I was
                     in liquor last-night."
                  "And you are now ready to leave the city?"
                  "Yes, sir. I have my husband's miniature, and I am ready to leave the city to
                     seek new associations, and, I trust, live a different life."
                  "Where do you think of going?"
                  "To New Richmond, sir."
                  "How can you get there?"
                  "Walk, sir. I have my husband's miniature, and I can endure fatigue."
                  Under these circumstances the Court discharged the woman, praying that the
                     possession of that miniature so dear to her heart, might induce her to
                     reform.
               
               
                  AN ETHIOPIAN PLEADING AT THE BAR.
                  "A HARD crowd we have here this morning!" was the side-bar remark of the
                     Prosecuting Attorney of the Police Court one day, as a crowd of about a dozen
                     negroes, male and female, were paraded from the watch-house entrance to the
                     prisoner's bench.
                  "Dey is dat," responded Nat Lytle, one of the party, as he gave a contemptuous
                     glance at his prison comrades. "Dey am hard cases, Massa, an' I doesn't want to
                     be tried wid dem. I ax a seberance, under de constitution an' de laws ob de
                     lan'."
                  "I am afraid we can not grant you a severance, sir," remarked the Prosecuting
                     Attorney. "Have you a lawyer to defend you?"
                  "A lawyer? What does I want wid a lawyer, Massa? Hasn't I been hear nuff to get
                     acquainted wid de law?"
                  
                  "True enough," responded the official attorney, with a smile, as he proceeded
                     to examine the documents in the case. The examination resulted in the calling
                     of three witnesses—two watchmen, and one of the prisoners, who answered to the
                     name of Mary Jane, and who had agreed to make a "clean breast," if, by so
                     doing, she could procure her acquittal. The officers gave the entire party a
                     bad character, and said they arrested them while engaged in a general muss.
                  Mary Jane, however, insisted on the entire innocence of all the party, except
                     Nat, whom she described as "a nasty, ugly, drinkin', cussin', good-for-noffin'
                     nigger."
                  Nat asked the legal privilege of cross-examining this witness, which was of
                     course granted.
                  
                     
                        The Natural Orator.
                     
                  
                  "Mary Jane," said he, after clearing his throat with a cough, "look here at dis
                     chile; Ise got de controllin' ob your language dis time. Look me right in de
                     eye, colored woman, an' answer my questions. Whar did you come from?"
                  "From de watch-house, sure," replied the wench.
                  "Dat am a fac'. Now, woman, what fotch you to de watch-house?"
                  "Why de watchman—what you t'ink fotch me dar?"
                  "An' what did dey fotch you for?"
                  "For bein' in de company of such an ugly lookin' nigger as you is," responded
                     the witness, to the chagrin of Nat, who finding the woman too smart for him,
                     drew himself up, and with a dignified wave of the hand, said:
                  "Resume your seat, woman; resume your place on de bench. De truff am, dere is
                     no truff in your bosom. Your heart am as brack as your face."
                  Nat could not produce a single witness, and all that remained to close the
                     case, was for him to present his argument to the Court. This he proceeded to
                     do. With one hand on the railing before him, he descanted as follows:
                  "May it please de Court. De merits of dis case can be summed up in mighty few
                     words. De law reconnise all do time, de principle, dat ebery tub stan' on he
                     own bottom. Whar does I stan'? Who am de individual what comes here, into dis
                     Court, wid de foul words ob acceptation agin dis chile, upon her polluted lip?
                     She am Mary Jane. An' who am Mary Jane? A brack woman who hab no truff in he
                     eye, an' whose big feet hab treaded de paff ob ruin, lo! dese many years. Shall
                     I, a man of honor, be condemn, jus' to please dat woman? No! de Court hab more
                     ob de white man in he heart, dan do such a t'ing as dat. True, I hab no
                     witnesses, but den my word am as good as dat brack woman's oaf. Now, if de
                     Court will lend he ears, I will gib de whole truf ob de matter."
                  The Court full of laughter, nodded its willingness to listen.
                  "Mary Jane say I knock her down," continued Nat, "Dat am false, false as de teef some beople had
                     in der heads. Dis am de fact. I war a standin' out to de door, on!—no, I is too
                     fast."
                  "Well you is, honey," interrupted Mary Jane.
                  "I war standin' in de jinin house, meditatin' upon de folly ob a nigger bein'
                     rich, when I hear a scream. Ah! did I know dat scream? Was it not from de froat
                     ob Sarah sittin' right dar, an' who is my wife by de laws ob de lan! Did I do
                     but to rush to de rescue? Sartin I did. I flies ober de groun'; I reach de
                     door, an' what did mine eyes see den? On de floor lay Sarah, de woman ob my
                     heart; an' ober her stood de olo woman, a lammin' her like de debbil. Where was
                     Mary Jane? A standin' in de corner shoutin' 'put in de licks old woman.' What
                     did I do but foller de dictate ob my own conscience, an' rush in an' grab de
                     old woman by de har, an' pull her off ob my abused Sarah."
                  Here, the laughter in Court became really uproarious, and Nat was obliged to
                     stop, while the Marshal demanded order. Quiet restored, he continued—
                  "Look at dat (pointing at Sarah,) face—see dem eyes—behold how de flesh am
                     bruised. Who done dat? Why de ole woman wid Mary Jane egging her on. Did I,
                     could I, make dem woun's? Neber. I stan's here innocent ob de charge; yet dat
                     wicked brack woman gets up here an' swars it all on me. I specs to 'pear on de
                     Judgment Day, an' I now say, if it war my dyin' words, dat I neber lay hands on
                     de woman. Yet Mary Jane swars it all on me, an' I spose I must suffer, like de
                     innocent lamb brought to de slaughter.
                  But who is dis Mary Jane? She does nuffin but drink whisky, an' fight, an' kick
                     up musses all de time. Las' night she cum down dar wid six bitts; she buys de
                     whisky, she sets de table, an' she git us all to drink. Who can belieb her?
                     Dar's not one dat knows her, dat would belieb her. She swars to an untruf
                     to-day, jis to git herself out ob trouble. Does you hear dat? I is a man ob
                     peace; I tries to lib in harmony wid all de world, but dat woman (pointing to
                     Mary Jane) wont let me. Dat's de truf, an' dat's all I's got to say on dis
                     occasion. I axes de Court to discharge dis prisoner from de custody ob de
                     law."
                  This speech, so seriously delivered, did not touch the heart of the Court. The
                     whole party, including Nat. were condemned as vagrants, and sentenced to
                     imprisonment for twenty days on a diet of bread and water alone.
               
               
                  ALL ABOUT A PAIL OF "WATHER."
                  MRS. O'DOROTHY is a "gintale" little widow, who, having a half-dozen "childer"
                     depending upon her for support, has opened a little grocery in Friendship
                     Alley. She occupies but one room, and her stock is therefore easily enumerated.
                     She has soap (an article much needed in that locality) for the ladies, candies
                     for the juveniles, and whisky for the men. That the "childer" love her candies,
                     let her numerous penny sales testify; that the men love the whisky poured by
                     her tender hands, and which dances from the decanter to the glass in the light
                     of her large, piercing black eyes, let her extensive traffic in the article
                     bear witness; that the neighboring women are jealous of her charms and whisky,
                     can be established beyond all doubt.
                  
                  Mrs. O'Dorothy is a poor widow, and lives in a frame tenement; Mrs. O'Connell,
                     who has a husband, and resides next door, occupies a brick house. Mrs.
                     O'Connell, like most women with good husbands, despises widows, looking upon
                     them as snares erected by old Satan himself to entrap married men into evil
                     habits. Mr. O'Connell loves whisky, especially whisky sold by bewitching young
                     widows, and long since became a customer of Mrs. O'Dorothy—merely, however, out
                     of sympathy for her forlorn condition. Mrs. O'Connell, though possessing a
                     good-looking countenance, has red hair, and consequently soon learned to hate
                     the next door neighbor, to whom her husband seemed so much attached.
                  One cold Winter's day Mrs. O'Dorothy found her hydrant closed with ice. She
                     could as well live without water as without whisky, so she hied away to her
                     neighbor's hydrant, with the full determination to help herself. She found Mrs.
                     O'Connell's hydrant in running order, and without speaking a word to anybody,
                     filled her pail. She was about returning, when Mrs. O'Connell, with a pitcher
                     in her hand, appeared before her.
                  "Good mornin' to yez, Mrs. O'Connell," sweetly said the widow.
                  "An' it's not good mornin' to yez, ma'm," was the reply. "Yez has no business
                     to be stalin my wather."
                  "I beg yer parthen, Mrs. O'Connell, but it's not staling I'm afther. Sure an'
                     yer own dear husband tould me to help mesel."
                  "Yez lies!" shouted Mrs. O'Connell, the flush of anger covering her face. "Me
                     husband is a gintleman, an' will have nothing to do with the likes uv yez."
                  "Och! an' is it jealous ye are, Mrs. O'Connell? Pace be wid yez, thin; for me
                     poor heart is broke intirely, since me good Mike wint to Purgatory. Not a man
                     do I want to touch since that, at all, at all."
                  "It's nice spakin yez al'ays have upon yer tongue, Mrs. O'Dorothy," replied the
                     jealous woman; "but yer mighty low to be stalin wather."
                  "Stalin wather! Mrs. O'Connell, yez tells a falsehood, if yez tells me
                     that."
                  "It's a liar I am, thin, Mrs. O'Dorothy? That I niver took from man or baste.
                     Take that for yer impedence!" and suiting the action to the word, Mrs.
                     O'Connell brought her pitcher flat upon the widow's head.
                  Where is the Irish woman who is not used to blows? Mrs. O'Dorothy surely was,
                     and she had not only learned how to receive them, but how to pay them back. She
                     dropped her bucket, and made at her antagonist.
                  Their fingers went into each other's hair, then into each other's eyes, and
                     then into each other's mouths. Though the smaller, the widow proved the better
                     fighter, and had just got the jealous wife into a "pelting" situation, when a
                     third person took part in the affair. Mrs. Doolan, another neighbor, saw the
                     fight through her window, and was a disinterested spectator until the widow
                     seemed to be getting the better of it. She then raised the window and yelled,
                     "Watch! murther! watch! Sure an' Mrs. O'Dorothy is a killin' of Mrs. O'Connell.
                     Watch! murther! Watch!"
                  Her screams aroused the neighborhood, and brought Watchman Flack to the spot,
                     who, in duty bound, took both the ladies into custody. They appeared before
                     Judge Pruden, and the above facts
                     having been brought forth, the widow was dismissed, and Mrs. O'Connell fined
                     five dollars and costs. So much for one pail of "wather."
               
               
                  A TATTLER.
                  OF all things in the world, save us from a tattler—one of those ever-moving
                     busy-bodies, who are always ready to construe the most inoffensive remarks into
                     wicked assertions, and to make evil out of an entirely harmless act. With eyes
                     ready to peep into the most sacred privacies, noses continually stuck into
                     premises not their own, ears open to hear every word spoken within hearing
                     distance, feet prepared to fly, and tongues that can run off news faster than a
                     double-cylinder press, they delight only in doing evil to others, even when
                     they can accomplish no good to themselves. They are a pest to their
                     neighborhood, and their breath is as poisonous as the bite of a snake. We hate
                     them, and would a thousand times prefer the company of a skillful pick-pocket
                     to one of these useless, mean and contemptible species of the human race. A
                     tattler! Who can like, or even respect one? Her presence is significant of bad
                     news, dissensions among friends, and difficulties among neighbors; she carries
                     misery wherever she goes, and sorrow, needless sorrow, follows her train. She
                     is a walking contagion, infecting all that come within her influence.
                  We saw one of these venomous females at Esquire Rowekamp's office, one day. Her
                     name was Amanda Blossom, and she was there as the prosecuting witness in a case
                     wherein she charged Mr. Godfrey Vontam with assaulting her, with intent to
                     kill. She was a tall, slim woman, with grayish, sunken eyes, sharp nose, low
                     and narrow forehead, long chin, thin lips, and a very wide mouth. She was
                     dressed rather stylishly, though the slovenly manner in which she wore her
                     garments, gave her a disagreeable appearance. We thought her a busy-body at
                     first sight, and concluded to witness the trial and its results.
                  The defendant, or rather prisoner, in the case, was a Mr. Godfrey Vontam, the
                     keeper of a grocery near the railroad depot in the Sixteenth Ward. He was a
                     small, but stout-built fellow, apparently with about mind enough to buy and
                     sell groceries on a small scale, and to make a little more than a living by
                     devotedly attending to his own business, and not troubling himself with what
                     his neighbors or the world might be doing. Though, as we learned from him after
                     the trial, he had lived in the city ten years, he wore a suit of clothes, which
                     had the appearance of having been made "a long time ago," in some quiet corner
                     of his Faderland. True, they were but little the worse for wear, but might he
                     not have kept them safely locked up, free from dust and dirt, for many a day,
                     only using them on such special occasions as the one we write about?
                  The hour for the trial of the case arrived, and Esquire Rowekamp, with that
                     easy grace which characterizes all his movements, arranged the parties in a
                     proper position; namely, opposite each other. He then read the warrant to Mr.
                     Vontam. Mr. Vontam attempted to explain, but was interrupted by the Magistrate,
                     who knows as well as the most
                     learned judges, just at what points the law allows a prisoner to speak.
                  Mrs. Blossom was then called to the witness-stand, duly sworn, and requested to
                     relate the particulars of the assault committed upon her by Mr. Vontam. After
                     clearing her throat with several coughs, and giving the little German on the
                     other side of the table several very hard looks, she
                     proceeded—
                  "'Squire Rowekamp. I am the most peaceable woman in the world,—I never bother
                     in my neighbors' affairs, or act deceitful toward anybody; but what I have to
                     say, I say it right out. Nobody ever heard me back-bite (looking hard at Mr.
                     Vontam) or scandalize my neighbors. I defy any of them to prove—"
                  "But, Madam, your character is not in question," interrupted the 'Squire; "we
                     wish to know about the assault."
                  "Well, sir, I am going to tell you; but you must let me have my own way. I
                     can't cut a long story short like some people, and I wont, either. Just let me
                     go ahead, and you will save time."
                  "Well, then, be as brief as possible, Madam," rejoined the 'Squire, "and come
                     to the facts of the case as soon as you can."
                  "Yes, sir. Well, this man (Vontam) keeps a grocery in my neighborhood. When he
                     first moved there, he hadn't a cent to buy bread for his dinner. His poor
                     little children were suffering for a morsel of something to eat, and his now
                     mean stuck-up wife, hadn't a change of clothes to save herself. Besides, they
                     were all dirty and filthy, and were—"
                  "Come, come, Madam, I can hear no more of this," again interrupted the 'Squire.
                     "if Mr. Vontam assaulted you, tell us how he did it. I haven't time to sit here
                     and listen to scandal."
                  "It is not scandal, sir," snappishly replied the witness. "I seed
                     it with my own eyes. They needn't laugh, either, the poor, dirty stuck-ups—my
                     memory is not treacherous. Do they remember when I loaned them linen to cover
                     their nakedness, and bought blue ointment to clear their children's heads?"
                  "Never mind that, Mrs. Blossom—tell us of the assault."
                  "Well, sir, I will, You see, some time ago I was at Mrs. Thompson's, to spend
                     the evening. Besides me, there was Mrs. Black, whose husband owns a large
                     distillery in Kentucky; and Mrs. Jones, who has been unfortunate in her
                     marriage, and got a divorce, and is now earning an honest living with the
                     needle; and Miss Johnson, who, in her younger days, declared she would always
                     remain a virgin, and has refused several offers to get married; and Mrs. Smith,
                     whose health is so feeble through the ill-treatment of the man to whom she was
                     bound out when a girl, that she is obliged to have three hired girls to do her
                     work; and Mrs. Brown, who is as nice a woman as ever lived, though her husband
                     treats her like a brute; and Mrs. Baker, who everyday has a crying spell,
                     because the neighbors tell her how attentive Mr. Baker is to Jemima Spriggins,
                     who talks to him as he goes to and comes from work; and Mrs.—"
                  "But what have these ladies to do with the assault?" inquired the 'Squire.
                  "Why, they know all about it."
                  "About the assault?"
                  "No, but about the scandal that was going through the neighborhood. Did not Mrs. Baker tell me that
                     she saw Mr. Vontam put sand in his sugar, and Mrs. Smith that she knew he gave
                     short weight, and Miss Thompson, his next door neighbor, that she saw him,
                     through the cracks of the fence kiss Mrs. Klappingham, who goes there most too
                     often to buy groceries?"
                  "What has that to do with the assault?" inquired the Magistrate, who began to
                     manifest some impatience.
                  "Why, sir, a good deal. The veracity of those ladies can not be doubted, and
                     when they told me these things, I thought it my duty to put the neighbors on
                     their guard, for I do despise a cheat and a swindler. I made mention of the
                     short weights and the sanded sugar to Mrs. Jenkins, and Mrs. Sprouts, and Mrs.
                     Donkers, and other neighbors, and I instantly withdrew my custom from Vontam's
                     grocery. Besides, I intimated to Mr. Klappingham, that he had better change his
                     grocery, or he might hear of something that would arouse his jealousy. I always
                     suspected an undue intimacy between his wife and Vontam, and Miss Thompson's
                     timely observations through the fence-crack confirmed my belief.
                  "When did Mr. Vontam assault you?" asked the Squire, abruptly.
                  "Last Saturday, as I was going to remark, after he had heard—"
                  "Where did it happen?"
                  "In his grocery, where I had gone to buy some articles, being in a hurry, and
                     Mr. Scott's grocery being further off."
                  "Did he strike you?"
                  "No, but he shook his fist in my face, and called me the most outlandish
                     names."
                  "What did he call you?"
                  "Epithets that should never come to the ears of a lady!"
                  "You must tell it all, madam, or you will fail to make out a case."
                  "He said that I was a busybody, a mischiefmaker, and, sir, a
                     liar!"
                  "What else did he say?"
                  "He said I went about the neighborhood injuring his business and character,
                     which is false. I never whimpered a word about his character. I only told that
                     which I heard with my own ears, and saw with my own eyes."
                  "What did you say to him, then?"
                  "I was so thunderstruck, that I said nothing. To think that I should be accused
                     of carrying news among my neighbors, so affected me, that I became nervous—I
                     could hardly stand."
                  "Well, what did Mr. Vontam do?"
                  "He told me—to his shame, be it said—that if I did not go out of his grocery,
                     he would kick me out."
                  "Did he do it?"
                  "No, sir. I threatened to take the law on him, and he dare not do it; but Mrs.
                     Von—"
                  "Never mind his wife: have you told all Mr. Vontam did."
                  "Yes, sir; and, for heaven's sake, aint that enough?"
                  "Not enough to make out a case, and I therefore dismiss it, at your cost."
                  We cannot describe the horror depicted on Mrs. Blossom's countenance, on
                     hearing the decision of the Court. She gave him about four yards of her tongue,
                     and then flew out of the office in a desperate flurry. We don't know, but we'll
                        venture the assertion, that
                     Squire Rowekamp caught "scissors" in her neighborhood, not many minutes
                     afterward. She certainly did not eat, drink, or sleep, until she gave him a
                     "blizzard" in every ear that would listen to the rattling of her tongue.
               
               
                  A COMMODORE BEFOBE A HUMAN JUDGE.
                  CANAL-BOATMEN live a reckless life. Though always afloat, they are ever within
                     stepping distance of the shore, and though used to skimming the water,
                     generally use it internally pretty well mixed. Compelled to slow locomotion in
                     the canal, they are naturally "fast" when on dry land, and once clear of the
                     perplexing changes of the tow-path, and the stubbornness of low bridges, they
                     seek to spend their time gaily, amid the perfumes of the extract of corn, and
                     the merry strains of some canal-boat fiddler. To get "tight," and have a "stag
                     dance" on shore, is the delight of a canal-boatman, be he captain,
                     horse-engineer, steers-man, or guardian of the line. That canal-boat captains
                     sometimes get drunk, can not be denied, for one of them, even the "Commodore of
                     the Whitewater ditch," was before the Police Court one morning upon that
                     charge.
                  "I found the Commodore on Front street, last night," testified a watchman,
                     after the canal-boat captain had been properly arraigned. "He was quite drunk,
                     sir, so much so, indeed, that he was unable to navigate."
                  "What is his business?" asked his honor, the Judge.
                  "He is the Commodore of the Whitewater canal, and commands a boat."
                  "Is he in the habit of getting drunk?"
                  "Can't say, sir. Never saw him intoxicated until last evening."
                  "What have you to say to these accusations?" asked the Court of the prisoner, a
                     thick-set, coarse-fac'd fellow, with shoulders broad enough, seemingly, to bear
                     the weight of Barnum's baby elephant.
                  "I war drunk," replied the Commodore, as he stepped forward. "I war drunk. That
                     story's as straight as a tow-line on a stretch."
                  
                     
                        The Commodore of the Whitewater Canal.
                     
                  
                  "Well, don't you know that is bad business?" asked the Judge reprovingly.
                  "It ar," responded the Commodore, sighing, as he removed his quid from the
                     starboard to the larboard side of his mouth.
                  "Are you in the habit of getting drunk, sir?" inquired his honor, in a serious
                     tone.
                  "I am not," replied the prisoner, at the same time assuming a belligerent
                     posture, as if to resent the insinuation.
                  "But you drink habitually."
                  "That I takes my dram are sartin, but whar's the Commodore modore who don't? Arnt I as good a right to tea
                     It as Stockton, an' all t'other great fellows? But get drunk? That are aint in
                     my bill of ladin'."
                  "Where do you reside?"
                  "In Ingeeanar, when I'm among my folks; on the Rantin' Belle when I'm at
                     home."
                  "And you are not in the habit of getting drunk in Indiana?"
                  "Nary time. They've got the Maine licker-law out thar, and a feller can't git a
                     drap, unless he smuggles, an' you know I'd never do that. I tell you what it
                     is, 'Squire, I haint been drunk afore since I was twelve year old, an' if ye'll
                     jest let me off this one time, I'll give ye all the money I've got, an' on my
                     honor as a Commodore, never git drunk agin."
                  "How much money have you?"
                  "Half a dollar, countin' the coppers."
                  "Is that all?"
                  "I've got more on the boat, but she's left port."
                  "What will you do, then, if your boat has left?"
                  "Take the tow-path an' overhaul her."
                  "Will you do that, if we discharge you?"
                  "Sartin."
                  "And will you never get drunk again?"
                  "Sure as I'm a Commodore."
                  "Then take your hat and leave."
                  The Commodore was overjoyed at the result. He walked briskly to the door; then
                     stopped, took a long look at the Judge, slapped his hat upon one side of his
                     head, rammed his hands into his pantaloons' pockets, and then, as he made his
                     exit, exclaimed:
                  "May my boat sink on the next trip, if that thar aint a human Judge."
                  He moved off in the direction of the tow-path.
               
               
                  THE TROUBLES OF A NEW HOOD.
                  "WHAT do you want, Madam?" inquired the Judge of the Police Court one morning,
                     of a squatty, red-faced, pug-nosed, big-mouthed Irish woman, who had a
                     handkerchief slightly smeared with blood around her head, and who had elbowed
                     her way into his presence.
                  "I'm a witness, yer worship," she replied with a courtesy.
                  "A witness against whom?"
                  "Johanna O'Nale, sur, who sits forninst the watchman there, yer worship; and a
                     swately bad woman she is, too."
                  "Johanna O'Neil," asked the Court, "are you ready for trial?"
                  "Fait, an' I be, yer honor," replied Johanna, quite a young woman, with a
                     pleasant face and sparkling black eyes, who had on a dirty calico dress, with a
                     bran new brown hood, lined with bright blue silk, covering her "frowsy"
                     head.
                  "What is your name, Madam?" inquired the Court of the anxious witness.
                  "Mrs. Raymond, yer wurship.
                  "Your Christian name?"
                  "Before I was married, do ye mane, yer wurship?" inquired the witness, not
                     understanding the question.
                  No, your first name."
                  
                  "Is that it, yer wurship? Well, it's Ann, yer honor, but me good mon calls me
                     Anna, yer wurship."
                  The witness being sworn, she was told to proceed with the complaint she had to
                     make against the accused. She said—
                  "Well, yer wurship, I'll tell yez like an honest woman, that I am. Last night,
                     sur, I was sittin' in me house wid me childer, whin there cum a saft tap at me
                     doohr. I opened it gintalely, yer wurship, whin this woman, Johanna O'Nale, put
                     her ugly head widin the doohr, an' wid her fisht, she sthruck me wid this tay
                     cup, yer wurship."
                  "She did?" asked the Court, "and without your saying a word to her?"
                  "Not a word, yer wurship."
                  "The Saints forgive yez," exclaimed Johanna.
                  "Och! but I'm spakin the trut'," replied the witness.
                  "Satan will get yez!" continued Johanna.
                  "But not till he burns the wickedness out uv yez," promptly returned Mrs.
                     Raymond.
                  Generally in cases of this character, testimony without qualification is as
                     reliable as with it, and his Honor, who is well aware of the fact, always
                     allows the accused to make a statement as an offset to the testimony, and
                     putting all the statements together, endeavors to arrive at the truth.
                  With this object in view, he asked Johanna O'Neil to state how the difficulty
                     occurred between her and Mrs. Raymond.
                  "I'll tell yez," responded Johanna with apparent candor. "This woman, yer
                     wurship, keeps a groggery. Well she sent word to me that she was sick, an' she
                     asked me to plase come an' do up her work for her. Says I, uv course I will, as
                     I am tender-hearted, an' feel in me heart for the sick. Well, yer wurship, I
                     had some money wid me, an' what did I do, but like an honest woman, go down
                     town an' buy wid it this new hood upon me head. Whin I come back. I had fifty
                     cents wid me in me pocket. Sez Mrs. Raymond to me, sez she, 'Johanna, wont yez
                     wet the hood wid a trate?' Sez I to her, 'to be sure I will, me dear.' Well,
                     yer wurship, I spint me half dollar for whisky in the house, an' I got droonk,
                     and thin her baste ov a husband took me by the two arms an' put me out of the
                     house, he did."
                  "Tell the trut', Johanna, tell the trut', me darlin'," exclaimed Mrs.
                     Raymond.
                  "I am afther tellin' uv the trut', yer wurship," continued the accused. "The
                     woman keeps a doggery, an' she entices poor lone women like mesel' there to
                     spend their har-rd-earnt money for her nasty mane whisky. She's now got me
                     locket, sur, worth fifteen dollars, which I pledged to her for whisky, an' she
                     wants to chate me out uv it, yer wurship."
                  "Do you keep a groggery?" asked the Court of Mrs. Raymond.
                  "No, yer wurship," she replied indignantly, "I kape a grocery."
                  "And yez sells whisky Sundays an' week-days, too," exclaimed Johanna.
                  "Out wid yez!" impatiently shouted the landlady witness.
                  The Court very properly came to the conclusion that Johanna had been more
                     sinned against than sinning, and discharged her from custody, much to the rage
                     of the prosecuting witness.
               
               
                  
                  A POOR THIEF.
                  THERE is as much classification among thieves as any other portion of the
                     community. There is the gentleman thief, the genteel thief, the cute thief, and
                     the dirty thief. The last class are those poor fellows who steal because they
                     do not know how to do anything else. As they have no ingenuity, they no sooner
                     commit a crime than they are caught, and consequently by far the greater
                     portion of their lives is spent in prison.
                  Pittsburgh Bill is a fair representative of this class. He is a stout,
                     thick-set fellow, fond of whisky, of a jovial disposition, and a steady,
                     first-rate workman—when laboring for the benefit of the State or County; but
                     out of jail, a lazy, worthless fellow. As a vagrant, or a thief, he has been
                     almost a burden at the Rookery for some months, and the police are so used to
                     arresting him, that they never see him in the street but they pick him up. Bill
                     was brought before the Police Court one morning, and would probably have been
                     quietly sent back to jail, had he not implored the Judge for freedom. After he
                     was arraigned, on the charge of vagrancy, Bill said:
                  "Mr. Spooner, I just got out of jail yesterday afternoon, and I don't want to
                     go back again. If you will only let me off, I will leave town right away; and
                     if any of the officers catch me in town to-night, they can arrest me, and you
                     can send me up, and I'll have no excuse. I'm sorry I ever came back to this
                     place, for they've kept me in jail all the time. But I want to go home
                        now—I want to see my mother —I want to be free again. Do let me
                     go, and I'll leave this town, and never return."
                  'Do you think we can place any reliance on his promises?" asked the Court of a
                     policeman.
                  "Well, I don't know about that," replied the officer, who is something of a
                     wag, "but I paid a quarter of a dollar to get him hauled up here, and I would
                     like to get that before he is set loose."
                  "Let me off, Judge Spooner, if you please," continued the prisoner, fearful of
                     the watchman's testimony; "if you do, I will leave town to-day, as sure as
                     there is a God in Heaven."
                  "Hush! hush! don't make any such promises as that," said his Honor, and turning
                     to the officer, he asked, "was he drunk?"
                  "Well," said the officer, "he was a little limber when I tossed him into the
                     cart, but before he had been there long, he jolted up, gave the driver a bolt
                     under the ear, and bounced out of the wagon."
                  "Indeed!" ejaculated his Honor.
                  "Well, I'll tell you how that was," said Bill. "I met some of the Pittsburgh
                     boys, soon after I got out, and they made me tight. Indeed, I want to leave the
                     city this time—I want to see my mother—won't you let me go?"
                  "On your solemn promise to leave the city to-day, I will," was the answer.
                     Pittsburgh Bill waited to hear no more, but grasping his hat, he left the
                     Court-room, apparently a happy man.
               
               
                  
                  ORIGIN OF THE GOOSE QUESTION.
                  MISS SHARP is what the world terms a "little old maid." She lives, and has
                     lived for many years, in a small, antiquated house, in the northern part of the
                     city, which was once a retired spot, but is now in the midst of that thriving
                     quarter known as "over the Rhine." She lives without any companion, save a
                     snow-white goose, which she has often termed, her "darling pet." Its quacking
                     is music to her ears—its presence happiness to her heart.
                  
                     
                        The 'Squire who decided the Goose Question.
                     
                  
                  Now, a few days since, Miss Sharp's next door neighbor, Mr. Heinrich Von
                     Switchelheim, a sturdy old Dutchman, who loves nothing but money, beer, and
                     krout, and who has never yet been able to see further than his pipe, except
                     when driving a bargain—this near neighbor happened to stumble over Miss Sharp's
                     goose. The poor pet, unused to such rough treatment, instantly set up a
                     quacking which almost frightened poor Mynheer Von Switchelheim out of his
                     regular gait, and instantly brought Miss Sharp to the door. The cries of her
                     pet had aroused her most sensitive feelings, and when she saw the poor thing
                     limping toward her, and her stout neighbor standing near by, with his hands in
                     his pockets and his pipe in his mouth, she soon divined the cause of her
                     beloved goose's misery. Catching her darling in her arms and folding it to her
                     breast, she immediately demanded of Mr. Von Switchelheim why he had presumed to
                     injure her only comfort? Mr. Von Switchelheim is a man of slow motion; and,
                     knowing he had done no intentional injury, hesitated to reply. This affronted
                     Miss Sharp to such an extent, that she suffered her angry feelings to get the
                     better of her judgment, and grasping a small stone she hurled it at the stupid
                     fellow. David took not better aim at Goliah, than did she at Heinrich, for the
                     stone struck Mr. Von S. between the eyes. This aroused him, and made him feel
                     "like fight," as he expressed it; but his belligerent feelings came too late.
                     Miss Sharp had disappeared into her house, and locked herself up.
                  Mr. Von Switchelheim stood awhile, and reflected. He was determined on having
                     satisfaction, but was too honest to destroy property, and too bold to fight a
                     woman in his calmer moments. He would sue her, and teach her better manners. He
                     procured a warrant from Esquire Rowekamp, and the next day stood face to face
                     with the accused. Having all confidence in the integrity of the Magistrate, and
                     in their own ability, neither party employed counsel. Mr. Von S. dressed in his
                     best, and with his largest pipe in his hand, was the only witness. After he had
                     detailed the circumstances, Miss Sharp, who, with her goose upon her lap, had
                     not removed her eyes from him, while he had been upon the witness stand, cross-examined him as
                     follows:—
                  MISS SHARP—Did you, sir, kick my pet?
                  MR. VON SWITCHELHEIM—I walks mit der goose mit der boots, und her go, "quack!
                     quack! quack!"
                  MISS S.—I demand of you to say whether you willfully kicked the poor
                     creature?
                  MR. V.—Oh! yaw, I kicks him mit a stum—stum—stum—vat you calls him?
                  MISS S.—You will please observe Mr. Rowekamp—ah! excuse me—'Squire
                     Rowekamp—that he kicked the poor darling. Poor thing; [kissing the goose]—Mr.
                     Von Switchelheim, have I ever done any thing to you, to cause this unjust
                     attack upon my only companion?
                  MR. V.—Yaw.
                  MISS S.—What is it, sir?
                  Mr. V.—Slap him un der cope mit der brick-stein.
                  MISS S.—When, sir?
                  MR. V.—Ven der goose go quack! quack! quack!
                  MISS S.—But previous to that time?
                  Mr. V.—Yaw, yaw—I sees der fire all der times pefore mit der brick-steines in
                     mine eyes.
                  MISS S.—You don't understand. Did I ever strike you before?
                  MR. V.—Yaw, shust before mine eyes, on der headt.
                  MISS S.—Can't you comprehend plain English, Mr. Von Switchelheim? Did I ever
                     injure you at any other time?
                  MR. V.—Yaw, yaw, I forstay. Der time was shust pehind der sundown.
                  MISS S.—Mr. Von Switchelheim, you destroy my patience. You are a dunce.
                  MR. V.—Yaw, dat ish all right.
                  MISS S.—I think so, and I am confident the Judge—ah! excuse me, (to the
                     magistrate,) I mean the 'Squire—will agree with me on that
                     question.
                  MR. V.—No, by dunder!—der goose say no question, but go quack! quack! quack!
                     for not'ings. Der goose tell you mit a lie.
                  MISS S.—My goose never lied, Mr. Von Switchelheim, and I will let you know,
                     sir, that you shall not add insult to injury here. I appeal to the 'Squire if I
                     and my goose must be thus insulted, even in a Court of justice. Mr. Von
                     Switchelheim, you are a nasty, mean, contemptible pup—
                  "Silence, silence, Miss!" cried the 'Squire, thumping rather loudly upon the
                     table with his knuckles; "personalities have proceeded far enough between you
                     and the defendant. As there is no other testimony, I will now take the case in
                     hand myself."
                  The Magistrate then reviewed the evidence, although several times interrupted
                     by Miss Sharp, who either "begged leave to correct him," or to "assure him that
                     he misunderstood the testimony." He concluded with saying that an assault had
                     been clearly made out, but as the defendant was a lady, and had committed the
                     assault under a false impression, he would fine her only one dollar, and
                     relinquish his costs in the case. Miss Sharp complained very bitterly at this
                     mild sentence, but finally agreed to it, if Mr. Von Switchelheim would enter
                     into a written agreement never to harm her goose again. Under the impression
                     that he was to get the dollar, Mr. V. readily agreed to the bargain, and Miss
                     S. left, apparently well satisfied. Mynheer waited some time for the dollar, but not getting it, he
                     put his pipe in his mouth, his hands in his pockets, and meditatively walked
                     out of the office for home. He no doubt thought there was something in the law
                     entirely above his comprehension. This was the origin of the "goose
                     question."
               
               
                  A RICH TRIAL.
                  ONE day, at the tail end of the prisoners before the Mayor, was a real darkey,
                     who flourished the tremendous name of Junius Brutus. He was an Ethiopian in
                     looks, manner and action. He was charged with assaulting a "little nigger" some
                     ten years of age, named Moses Johnson, the evening previous.
                  Junius Brutus, after having made room for his feet, took a seat by the side of
                     an attorney he had engaged, and the lawyer on the other side having "squatted
                     himself" opposite, the trial proceeded.
                  Mose was called as the first witness, and testified that on the night
                     aforesaid, the aforementioned Brutus did unlawfully strike him in the
                     mouth.
                  LAWYER.—Tell what he previously threatened to do to you.
                  MOSE—Well, he tell my mudder, dat—
                  BRUTUS—Shut your mouf, niggar!
                  MOSE—He say dat—
                  BRUTUS—Wo-wo-wont you shut him mouf, niggar?
                  BRUTUS' LAWYER—Be quiet, sir—I am to conduct your case.
                  BRUTUS—Well den, (rolling his eyes terribly), make de niggar stop he gab.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—May it please the Court, we protest against this rude
                     interference with our witness.
                  MAYOR—What is the matter.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—Why, sir, the prisoner has rudely interfered with the witness and
                     appears disposed to mount him in open Court.
                  MAYOR—Brutus, you must keep quiet.
                  BRUTUS' LAWYER—Please the Court, the matter was on the impulse of the moment.
                     It shall not occur again.
                  MOSE—Well, dat Brutus say de furst time he kotch me he lam me out ob my
                     boots.
                  BRUTUS—Look out colored individual.
                  MOSE—Niggar, you knows I tell de truff, and nuffin but de truff, sure as ye're
                     born.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—Does the Court notice the conduct of the accused? (The Mayor
                     nodded assent.) That is sufficient. Moses take your seat.
                  The next witness called was a white man named Tom Pepper. He said he saw "the
                     nagers blarneying, but divil a bit a stroke was passed."
                  Then came Tom Fire, who proved to be an important witness, "Well you see boss,"
                     he said, "I was stan'in' down on 'Commodation, when who would come 'long but
                     dat ugly niggar, Ingin Bill. 'How is you, Tom?' says he to me, just so. 'Ise
                     well,' says I, just so. Den says he, 'cum 'long Tom, you brack niggar, and wood
                     up,' just so. Says I, 'don't care if I does, distinguished colored man,' just
                     so, Den we gwyes 'long to blin' Pete's, where we takes a slug all 'round. Just at dat moment, in comes
                     dig little niggar, Mose Johnson, yelping like a dog wid his tail cut off, and
                     roaring like Injuns. Who-what's de matter niggar,' says I, just so. 'Dat
                     darkie, Brutus, hit me,' says he, just so. Den I turns round to Brutus, an'
                     says I, 'you'd better not hit dat little darkie 'gin, while Ise about,' just
                     so.—'Go to de debbel, niggar, says he,' just so.—Den he runs his han' into his
                     pocket as if he was gwyn to pull out a shootin' iron, an' says I 'give up de
                     weapon colored man, and go on to de hill, or down into de butcher's hollar, an'
                     I'll lam you out ob yer boots,' just so.—Den Ingin Bill say, 'go 'long niggar,
                     what's use habbin a fuss,' and off I goes, just so.—An' dat's all I know ob de
                     struggle."
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—Ain't Brutus considered a dangerous man?
                  TOM—Nuffin shorter.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—He shoots don't he?
                  TOM—Sure as yer born.
                  BRUTUS' LAWYER—Yet you wanted to fight him.
                  TOM—On de squar, sartin.
                  BRUTUS' LAWYER—Didn't you pull out a knife at him?
                  TOM—I takes de knife from dis pocket and puts it in dat.
                  BRUTUS' LAWYER—Didn't you try to cut him?
                  TOM—Neber.
                  BRUTUS—Bewar' niggar, you under oaf.
                  TOM—I knows de responsibilerty ob an oaf, well as you, Junius Brutus; an' you
                     needn't roll your eyes at me dat way.
                  BRUTUS—(grinning)—See dem teef!
                  BRUTUS' LAWYER—Be still, I tell you, or I will not conduct your case any
                     farther.
                  BRUTUS—Den make de niggar stop his freats at my indiwidual pusson.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—We ask the Court to protect the witness.
                  MAYOR—Do you know anything more about the case, Tom?
                  TOM—If my recollection serbs me right, I doesn't.
                  Tom was ordered to sit down, and Miss Feliciana Rover was called. She said that
                     all she knew about it was, that she didn't see Junius Brutus pull out a
                     pistol.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—Aint Brutus your beau?
                  FELICIANA—No; an' if he is, taint none ob your business.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—Don't he call an' see you occasionally?
                  FELICIANA—Better lookin' niggars 'an him wait on dis chile.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—I insist on a direct answer; does not Brutus pay his
                     addresses to you?
                  FELICIANA—Brutus neber tried to get my lub, and dat's more 'an you can say.
                  MOSE'S LAWYER—Take your seat, impudent Miss.
                  Miss Josephine Bright was next got upon the stand, but not without some
                     difficulty. Hiding her face with her shawl, she refused to answer any
                     questions, until Mose's lawyer asked her if she was married. She then gave him
                     a dignified look, and flirting herself into her seat, said, "Guess I is
                     most."
                  Injin Bill next appeared. He threw some light on the matter, asserting
                     unequivocally, that "de niggar Mose run against de niggar Brutus' hand, and de
                     blow was an accidentul sarcumstance, as far as de measure ob his eyes could penetrate into de facts ob de case,
                     as dey war spread before de vision ob his bodily faculties." Such at least were
                     "de mental impressions ob his mind."
                  Brutus was fined five dollars and costs, and to the surprise of the
                     complainant, "forked over" the cash. He then asked the Mayor, "Am Brutus free?"
                     Receiving an affirmative reply, he "socked" a plug of tobacco into his mouth,
                     gave his opponents a terrible scowl, and walked out of the office as stately as
                     a Numidian prince.
               
               
                  THE REIGN OF PETTICOATS.
                  TIMOTHY BROWN, stand up, said his honor, the Mayor, while trying the watchhouse
                     cases one morning, to a slim, nervous-looking creature, in the prisoner's
                     dock.
                  Timothy stood up, but instead of casting his eyes toward the Mayor, he kept
                     them fixed upon a short and somewhat corpulent lady, with a highly
                     figured shawl thrown over her rather broad shoulders, and a bonnet on her head
                     covered with flowers, who sat on the opposite side of the court-room. At the
                     time Mr. Brown's name was called, she was engaged in packing sundry little
                     articles in a highly ornamented reticule. As he raised his body, however, she
                     raised her head, and their eyes met. A kick from a horse could not have shocked
                     Timothy more severely, for he certainly would have fallen, had not his hands
                     nervously grasped the railing of the dock.
                  "Mr. Brown," said the Mayor, "you are charged with abusing your wife."
                  "Yes—that's the charge," replied the lady mentioned, rising and making a
                     courtesy, "for may it please your honor, I am his better-half."
                  "Has he been abusing you, madam?"
                  "I—I—I—never—did," stammered Brown, "as she—"
                  "Mr. Brown," cried Mrs. B., stamping her foot upon the floor, which stamp
                     apparently chilled the heart of her husband. "Mr. Brown, will you hold your
                     peace while I am speaking? Remember, sir, that we are not now alone in our
                     domicil, where peace once reigned supreme, but which, alas! is now the abode of
                     misery. I stand now under the protection of the law; and Justice, with her
                     blinded eyes and unerring sword shall decide the differences between us."
                  "Mary, for Heaven's sake don't—"
                  "Mr. Brown, hold your peace; you are a prisoner—prisoners are not allowed to
                     speak."
                  "You," said the Mayor to the woman, "charge your husband with abusing you,—did
                     he strike you?"
                  "No, sir—that he dare not do. Strike me! Let him ever
                     attempt that, if he wishes the broom-handle broken over his head."
                  "In what manner, then, did he abuse you? I must know this before I can further
                     proceed with the case."
                  "Please your honor," tremulously said Brown, "I can tell you all—"
                  "Mister Brown, will you be silent?" interrupted Mrs.
                     B., with another stamp of her foot, which effectually stopped the tongue of her
                     husband. Then turning to the Mayor, she said—"That man, sir, was once the idol of my
                     heart. I believe he loved me at that time, but Heaven knows, sir, I have
                     discovered my mistake. He is a tailor by trade, sir—a journeyman tailor—as good
                     a tailor as ever stitched a pair of pants—but it profits me nothing now. What
                     is a husband, your Honor, without affection—devoted affection—that blissful
                     affection which is the admiration of our sex—the acme of our heart's
                     enjoyment?"
                  "Mary! Mary! I do love you," cried Mr. Brown.
                  "You once did, Timothy—you once did, but you do not now. My heart is shrouded
                     in darkness, Timothy—black, dismal darkness."
                  "Will you please to tell me, madam, in what manner your husband assaulted you?"
                     inquired the Mayor, now growing impatient.
                  "Oh, pardon me, sir," replied Mrs. B., but my troubles so distract my mind,
                     that I know not what I say. Timothy, you will one day repent all this." Here
                     Mrs. B. rested her forehead upon her hand for a minute, as if in deep study,
                     and then addressed the Mayor as follows—
                  "I will tell you all, though shame parch my lips. I have told you we were once
                     happy, but a change in his habits has ruined our peace. For your better
                     understanding, allow me to say, that woman naturally yearns to disseminate good
                     among the children of Eve. Her heart, naturally more refined than man's, seeks
                     to penetrate the recesses of darkness, and shed righteous light upon poor
                     humanity. I am a woman, and have the feelings of a woman, and therefore seek to
                     aid with my feeble powers, the various reforms which now agitate the world. I
                     have attached myself to a sewing society for the relief of distressed
                     emigrants, the members of which meet—"
                  "To talk about other peoples' business," slyly whispered Brown.
                  "At Mrs. Smith's, every Tuesday evening, and I am bound to attend it. I am also
                     a member of the Ladies' Society for the Diffusion—"
                  "Of domestic discord," again whispered Brown.
                  "Of Internal Knowledge, which meets every Wednesday evening. Being a member of
                     the Female Improvement Association, I necessarily attend its sittings every
                     Thursday evening, to—"
                  "Learn nonsense and mischief," softly whispered Brown.
                  "See that the important interests of the Association are not neglected. My
                     Friday evenings are spent at Squire Hill's making—"
                  "Mischief among neighbors," said Brown.
                  "Clothing for the suffering Heathen. Every Saturday evening, the Married
                     Women's Debating Society meets, and being Monitress, it demands my attention
                     above—"
                  "Your domestic duties," sarcastically whispered Timothy.
                  "Everything else. Sunday is the day of rest for us all."
                  "Except me," said Brown, bravely.
                  "For relaxation, I attend, every Monday evening, the Rev. Mr. Longbreath's
                     popular lectures on popular ideas."
                  "Does your husband attend you to all these places, madam?" inquired the
                     Mayor.
                  "Bless you! no; and thereby lies my complaint. Formerly he objected not to my
                     doing good; but lately he seems disposed to forbid me all these privileges.
                     Last evening, when I put on my
                     bonnet, preparatory to accompanying my particular friend, Mr. Adams, to the
                     lecture, he threw down the baby, (Mr. Brown began to tremble again,) and
                     declared openly he would neither nurse the brat or clear up the supper dishes.
                     My feelings were so shocked that I nearly fainted; for in six years of married
                     life, Mr. Brown never before refused to perform his share of our domestic
                     duties."
                  "What did he do after that?" coolly asked the Mayor.
                  "Nothing, sir, but obstinately refuse to do his duty. After persuading him in
                     vain, I called in the officers of the law and had him arrested. I intend to
                     show him that law and justice will sustain me."
                  "You are mistaken, madam. He has not offended the law, however much he may have
                     offended you. I discharge him."
                  "Discharge him! Heavens! is there no remedy for our sex? and will even the law
                     insult us when we ask for redress? Oh! woful, woful indeed, is the condition of
                     society!"
                  She looked the Mayor in the eyes for a few moments, as if expecting a response,
                     but getting none, turned to her husband. She gave him a glance which almost
                     melted him in his seat; and then harshly stamping her little foot, she said to
                     him:
                  "Timothy, begone! I'll seek redress among those who deal out justice."
                  Mr. Brown obeyed, but with a trembling step. His wife followed him, amid the
                     laughter of all who had witnessed the rich scene.
               
               
                  HAPPY.
                  "HA! ha! he! he! don't, I tells you—keep your han's off—ha! ha! ha! hi! hi! ho!
                     ho! o-o-o-oh! but you does tickle me," shouted a robust, plump-faced negro
                     woman, with a full and melodious voice, one morning as she was ushered into the
                     presence of the Police Court.
                  "Order!" shouted the Marshal, as every head in the dense mass outside the bar
                     was stretched forth to obtain a fair view of the prisoner.
                  "Order?" was the woman's response, not in the least abashed at her position.
                     "Ha! ha! ha! ha! does you 'spect a body to keep order when dey is tickled? Ha!
                     ha! ha! he! he! he! he! ho! ho! ho! gor-a-mighty but I feels funny."
                  
                     
                        "It makes me langh to t'ink ob him."
                     
                  
                  "Come, no more of this," remarked the Court, authoritatively. "Be quiet, or we
                     will have to punish you for contempt of Court."
                  "Wha-a-at?" asked the woman, as she gave a cunning glance at the Court. "What's
                     dat you'll do, Judge?"
                  
                  "Punish you for contempt."
                  "Contempt! What' dat?—ha! ha! he! he! ha! ha! ha!—gorry a-mighty, but what am
                     dat—ha! ha! ha!—but what am dat, say?"
                  "Take that woman below!" gravely ordered the judge.
                  "No you doesn't—no you doesn't—keep your han's off—ah! gorry, but how you does
                     tickle," shouted the woman, at the same time sending forth a deafening roar of
                     laughter. She wriggled and jumped about so, as she laughed, that the officers
                     found it impossible to hold her; and it was at last thought best to let her
                     have her laugh out. She roared and shouted incessantly, for some five minutes,
                     when she gradually began to calm down, and at last ceased her boisterous
                     merriment.
                  "You appear to be happy," remarked the Court, addressing her after she had
                     become quiet.
                  "Yes, sir-ee," she replied, as she rose to her feet. "You see, Ise a great gal
                     to laugh, an' when I gits in dat way, gor-a-mighty Ise so tickled, dat when dey
                     touch me, I couldn't stop a-laughin, if it killed me."
                  "What put you in such a happy mood, this morning?" enquired his Honor.
                  "Ha! ha! ha! an does you ax me dat! Ha! ha! ha! an' does you want to know dat?
                     I tells you boss; but, ha! ha! gorry, he! he! gorry, ho! ho! but I must
                     laugh."
                  "Go on!"
                  "Well, dis am de fac'. You knows dat nigger what war up here jus' afore now?
                     Lor' what a nigger! ha! ha! ha! but it makes me laugh to t'ink ob him," and
                     away she went into another fit of cachination. Ending her laugh, she heaved a
                     long sigh, assumed a gravity of countenance, and then continued:
                  "You didn't do right wid dat nigger, boss; an' I tell you why. I hab an' ole
                     grudge agin him, an' las' night I pass him up. He wor comin' along de street,
                     an' I ups an' ats him. I sneak along up close to him back, I cotch him by de
                     wool, an' I beat him—gorry how I beat him. Ha! ha! you ought jes' to have seed
                     de—ha! ha!—brack man roll him—ha! ha! ha!—eyes, an' bite him lips, an'—ha! ha!
                     ha! ha! he! he! ho! ho! ho! o-o-h—gorry, but he did squall," she said, with an
                     uproarious laugh.
                  "I whaled de nigger," she continued, as soon as she could. "I whaled de nigger
                     good, an' he didn't gib me nary a scratch. De watchman come along jus' den, an'
                     toat us boff off to de lock-up. I whip de nigger—de nigger didn't do noffin,
                     an' yet you fotch him up here, an'—ha! ha!—you socks him—ha! ha! ha!—for five
                     dollar—ha! ha! ha!—an' de nigger comes down—ha! ha! he! he!—to de
                     watch-house—ha! ha! he! he! he!—an' he looks so brack—ha! ha! ha!—at me, dat,
                     oh! gorry a-mighty, I jus' t'inks I die—ha! ha! ha! ha! ho! ho! ho!
                     o-o-oh!"
                  The prisoner was still laughing, and boisterously, too, when the Court made up
                     its mind, that she had told a true story. The fine of the person to whom she
                     had alluded, was transferred to her, and he ordered to be set at liberty. This
                     appeared to delight her still more, and skipping and laughing she made her way
                     to the watch-house, without escort, where, after being locked up, she "just
                     laid down and roared."
               
               
                  
                  DISAPPOINTED LOVE.
                  A MAIDEN of some forty years standing, entered compliant before Esquire
                     Rowekamp, one Saturday, against a young man of eighteen summers, for an assault
                     with intent to maim. The substance of the lady's evidence was that the young
                     man had been waiting upon her for "some several weeks," and when, after she
                     thought he had been coming quite long enough to arrive at "the point," she
                     intimated that his ultimate wishes ought to be made known, he became
                     aggravated, and besides other ungentlemanly acts, endeavored to bite her
                     ear!
                  The attorney for the accused, who, like many others of his profession, never
                     allows gallantry to interfere with the rights of his client, brushed up his
                     hair and assumed a position which plainly told that he intended to put the
                     witness through a scorching examination.
                  "Miss," said he, with an impudent, brazen look, so becoming lawyers of the
                     lower degree, "Miss, look at me. I have a few interrogatories to
                     put to you."
                  "Well, sir," replied the witness, unawed by his terrible appearance.
                  "You said this young man waited on you?"
                  "I did, sir."
                  "Did he ever say, or even intimate the wish to marry you?"
                  "That is my business," remarked the witness, with a haughty air.
                  "Yes, and it is mine, too. You must answer. Please the Court, we wish that
                     question answered."
                  "The lady can do as she pleases," replied the 'Squire.
                  "As the Court pleases," remarked the lawyer not a whit discomfited. "Now, Miss,
                     you said my client committed many ungentlemanly acts toward you. State
                     particularly what he did."
                  "Must I answer that question?" asked the lady of the magistrate.
                  "Yes," was the reply.
                  "Well, sir, he put his arm around my waist."
                  "Was that all?"
                  "No, sir; he pressed me."
                  "Tightly?"
                  "Pretty tight."
                  "Sufficient to hurt you?"
                  "I can not say, sir, that he actually hurt me, but it was an immodest act, to
                     say the least."
                  "And so it was, but did you never press him?"
                  "That is none of your business, sir."
                  "Hasn't he often pressed you?"
                  "I shall not answer such impertinent questions, sir?"
                  "Very well," replied the attorney, "then we will leave that point. Are you sure
                     he attempted to bite your ear?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Did he not merely attempt to kiss it?"
                  "Kiss my ear? The lips are to be kissed, not the ears, sir!"
                  "I am aware of that fact, Miss, but what I want to get at is this: whether you
                     have not been in the habit of kissing each other, and if you did not tell him on this occasion that no one but an
                     engaged beau could ever kiss you again; and that in endeavoring to kiss you, he
                     accidentally got your ear in his mouth?"
                  "Sir, your impertinence is intolerable," replied the lady, the color rising to
                     her cheeks.
                  "I insist, Miss, on the question being answered."
                  "Well, sir, you wont get a reply from me."
                  "Does the Court hear that?" asked the attorney, in triumph.
                  The magistrate insisted that the question was a proper one. The lady hesitated,
                     but her passion being aroused by repeated appeals, she approached her late
                     beau, gave him a terrible slap in the face, told him she would not "have him
                     for his weight in gold," and then hurriedly left the office. Though jealous of
                     the dignity of his court, the magistrate thought it best to let her go; and
                     with the remark that he supposed the complaint was made from disappointed love,
                     discharged the accused, and entered the costs against the disappointed old
                     maid.
               
               
                  WHAT ARE YOU LAUGHING AT ME FOR?
                  HERMAN KILLER is a Dutchman—but he can't help that. He wears a pair of antique
                     breeches, a half-dozen woolen shirts, and a little green-cloth cap, with an
                     immense leather rim—but he can't help that. Like a genuine Dutchman, Herman
                     scorns the frivolities of fashion, the forms of gentility, and scoffs of the
                     world; and devotes himself to the praiseworthy objects of accumulating money,
                     and increasing the stock of little Deutchers. His home is his castle, and his
                     work-shop his play-ground. He cares for nobody, and is indifferent as to any
                     one's care for him.
                  It happened that at noon, one Saturday, after Herman had demolished his
                     meridian dish of krout, and kissed his wife and all his babies, previous to
                     again departing for the soap-house, where he labors, he was just passing
                     through his gate on Bank street, when a red-faced, red-haired, red-mouthed
                     Irishman came riding by in a furniture car. Herman looked at the Irishman, and
                     the Irishman looked at Herman. Herman thought of his wife and his nest of
                     babies, and smiled. The Irishman, ever ready for a fight, and supposing the
                     smile was in derision of his fiery top-knot, stopped his team and shouted:
                  "What bes yez laughing at me for, ye grazy specimen of a dirty spalpeen?"
                  Herman was too busily engaged in his own thoughts to hear, much less respond to
                     the query of the Milesian. He closed his gate, carefully secured it with a
                     rope, and then with a slow and steady step turned his face soap-house-ward.
                     With his hands in his pockets he wended his way thoughtfully along.
                  The Hibernian was enraged at his indifference. Jumping from his car, he
                     pursued, with that sprightliness for which his countrymen are celebrated, the
                     phlegmatic Dutchman. With the cunning of a cat, he slipped up behind him, and
                     suddenly gave him a kick, which lifted poor Herman from the ground.
                  
                  "Mine shinks!" exclaimed the astonished soap-boiler, as he clapped his hands to
                     his injured parts, "who hits me mit a brick-stein?"
                  "It's mesel' that's a belaborin' uv ye," responded the Hibernian, his face now
                     rivaling his hair in intense redness.
                  "Vat you do dat for, ha?" asked Herman, still rubbing his tender parts.
                  "What did yez laugh at me for, thin, ye ugly booby yez?"
                  "I nix laugh," indignantly replied Herman. "I laugh mit mine frau only—mine
                     shinks! but you hurts mine back bone side."
                  "It's a liar, yez calls me thin," shouted the Milesian, now determined on a
                     fight, seeing that his antagonist exhibited no pluck. "Faith an' the best boy
                     in the ring niver tould me that, an' kept his teet' in his mout'. I'll murther
                     yez in cowld blood."
                  At that, he made "a stroke" at the Dutchman, who seeing himself in imminent
                     danger, at that moment took to his heels, and escaped the lick. He was pursued
                     to the soap-house, where the Irishman succeeded in collaring him, and was about
                     pummeling him, when a pistol was pushed in his face by one of Herman's
                     fellow-workmen. Not liking the looks of the "baste" he retreated, muttering
                     vengeance, however, upon Herman, at the first opportunity.
                  The Dutchman, like a law-abiding citizen, immediately proceeded to the Police
                     Court, and had a warrant issued for the Irishman. The trial came off, and
                     resulted in the defendant being fined ten dollars and costs. Herman left the
                     Court satisfied, but the Irishman came near getting into further trouble.
                  "What are yez laughing at me for?" he asked of a spectator, who, leaning far
                     over the railing, was amusing himself at his red head. The spectator replied
                     with a laugh, and instantly the Irishman's fist was raised, but fortunately his
                     arm was caught by an officer. He was immediately escorted to the lock-up
                     below.
               
               
                  GEORGE WASHINGTON IN JAIL.
                  IN these days of spirit-rappings and supernatural intercourse between mortals
                     and the beings of the heavenly "spheres," the world is being constantly favored
                     with the present opinions of long-departed great men, upon topics which agitate
                     the human mind. Indeed, the dark labyrinth of death—the once impenetrable gloom
                     which shrouded the future existence of the soul—seems to have been illumed by a
                     new light, enabling "progressive" inhabitants of the world to stand upon the
                     brink of eternity, and communicate freely with the spirits of the dead. Has not
                     Napoleon, through a mortal medium, predicted the taking of Sebastopol? Did not
                     Jefferson foretell the great Gasconade Railroad catastrophe? Has not Franklin
                     indorsed Free-Loveism? and has not Paine declared himself a Know-Nothing?
                  But the most astonishing of all is the fact, that George Washington has again
                     really descended to earth, and once more walks among the people of the land! We
                     saw him one morning—saw him, alack-a-day—sitting upon the prisoner's bench of
                     the Police Court! He is a mulatto, with a profusion sion of hair upon his face, of stalwart form,
                     brawny arms and tremendous feet.
                  "Who is the witness against George Washington?" asked the Court, to the great
                     horror of the mixed crowd which daily fills the Court-room as spectators.
                  "Hear-ah she is, honey," responded an old negro woman, with face and apparel as
                     black as charcoal.
                  "Take the stand then, madam."
                  "I does dat, sure-ah," she said, as she hobbled up to the stand.
                  "What is your name?" asked the Judge.
                  "My name, child," answered the witness, "doesn't you know dat? My name's Jane
                     Washington."
                  "Is the prisoner your husband?"
                  "He my husband!" she exclaimed, with a most disdainful look. "Nebber! nebber!
                     My husband is dead, but he was a brack man—none ob
                     your half-way niggers. You knowd my husband, Judge."
                  "We have no recollection of his acquaintance.'
                  "He war small-poxed all over, and was here-ah, I know he was here-ah, afore he
                     died."
                  "Then probably we did form his acquaintance before his decease. But tell us
                     what charge you have to make against the prisoner?"
                  Mrs. Washington, who declared her age to be fifty-six, and who indignantly
                     denied all relationship with George, told a very long story. George and herself
                     were neighbors, and had been living in a neighborly manner. Last night,
                     according to her account, she sent her little girl into George's to borrow a
                     broom. Instead of loaning the article, he gave the girl a sweeping
                     blow, and sent her home with a torrent of curses. The old woman protested
                     against this unkindness, when George, still enraged, entered her apartment and
                     "fotched her a lick."
                  "Did I hit you?" asked George Washington; exercising the law-defined right of a
                     prisoner to cross-examine.
                  "Sartin you did—you knows you did, George," answered the witness.
                  "Whar?
                  "Dar—whar de skin's brack—doesn't you see it?" responded the witness, shoving
                     aside her hood.
                  "Didn't you fotch me a lick on the cocoa-nut wid a stick ob wood? Answer dat if
                     you dar."
                  "De Lor' help de nigger," exclaimed the witness, holding up her hands in
                     astonishment. "Dar has not bin a stick ob wood in my house dis winter. I burns
                     coal, an' ye knows I burns coal, George."
                  Failing to make anything of the witness, the prisoner next turned to the Court.
                     He gave his version of the difficulty, which exculpated him from blame
                     altogether. Notwithstanding the general reverence for the name he bears, the
                     Court was forced to disbelieve him, and, finding him guilty of an assault,
                     sentenced him to the dungeon for two days, and to pay the costs of the
                     prosecution. George Washington in a dungeon! Shame, where is thy blush?
               
               
                  
                  A HUMAN CROSS.
                  IN this country, where the influx of foreigners from other countries is so
                     vast, intermarriage is said to exert a very beneficial influence. It is urged
                     that it has a tendency to dissipate all foreign nationality, and to unite all
                     upon one broad American platform. Be that as it may, there are exceptions, as
                     in the union of Herman Von Slicker-man, as pure a Dutchman as ever smacked his
                     lips over a beer-mug; and Bridget O'Doolan, as plump a woman as ever made the
                     acquaintance of Sir John Barleycorn, in the bogs of old Ireland.
                  
                     
                        A Human Cross.
                     
                  
                  Though six months have elapsed since their hymeneal union, Biddy says she has
                     not enjoyed an hour's "pace," with the "ugly hathen" known as her husband.
                     Indeed their difficulties were so frequent, and at last became so serious, that
                     they found themselves ushered one morning into the presence of the Police
                     Judge. The testimony produced against them by the officers of the law, was not
                     explicit; and his Honor, as is his custom, concluded to hear the statement of
                     each, from which he hoped to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion, as to who was
                     more at fault—the man or his wife. Ordering the unhappy couple to stand up,
                     side by side, he inquired,
                  "Now, what is the difficulty between you?"
                  "Der difficult?" said Herman, looking first at his wife and then at the Judge,
                     "der difficult? Py shinks it pes mooch, Dis voomans bes vorse den dem beebles
                     vot dey calls der—der—der—der—ah! ha! vot you call dem beebles vot gets der
                     election in Newport, eh?"
                  "The Wild-Cats," suggested an Attorney.
                  "Yaw, yaw, dat ish it all der vhile. Vell dish vomans, who, mine Got! bes mine
                     frow by der 'Squire—dis vomans she bes vorser den all dem vild cat fellars, py
                     shinks!"
                  "Arrah! now Herman an' would ye be spakin to his wurship in that way about yer
                     own luvin wife?" pathetically inquired Biddy. "Will yer wurship plase to let me
                     spake a word?" she urged with a courtesy.
                  "Certainly, I wish to hear both sides," replied the Judge.
                  "Thank yer wurship. Didn't I know ye were a gintle-man, because ye thrate me
                     like a lady? It's mesel' that's a dacent woman yer wurship, an' it's niver a
                     word of wrong ye'd hear from me tongue, if the baste uv a husband didn't bate
                     me all the time, yer wurship."
                  "Me peat you?" exclaimed the astonished and indignant Herman, "vot I peat you
                     mit, hey?"
                  "Now aint that a swate question to be a axen uv yer own luvin wife right here
                     before his wurship? Och! an' see how the paple are laughin at ye, ye ugly Dutch
                     spalpeen ye."
                  Boo—dey laugh mit you, you old Irish t'ing," responded Herman with a comical
                     scowl.
                  
                  "Ye know ye bate me, Herman, ye know ye did," continued the wife somewhat
                     excited.
                  "You lies mit your mout'," exclaimed the husband, "I hit you nex time, but you
                     trinks all mine moonish mit your viskey, an' you gits trunk, an' den vhen I
                     comes home I finds not'in' for mine pelly but slap on der cope all der vhile.
                     Ah! ha!" he shouted with an air of triumph.
                  "Murther! but yer a baste to be a talkin' that way to me, so ye are. An' was it
                     for this I took yer dirthy name?"
                  "Yes," responded Herman, who did not seem to comprehend her language, "you do
                     all dem t'ings. You puys not'in' but viskey mit mine moonish—you give me
                     not'in' but dis, (pulling his hair), an' dis, (running his nails across his
                     cheeks), an' dis, (striking his face with his fists), an' dis, (jerking his
                     clothes as if he would tear them to pieces). By tam, you bes von great, pig,
                     grazy wild-cat!"
                  Biddy could stand no more. She made one "lunge" at her lord and (ought to be)
                     master, and had her hands fairly planted in his hair, when Herman mustered his
                     superior strength, and gave her a blow which stunned her. The officers
                     instantly interfered, and separated the unloving couple. His honor, convinced
                     that no good could come out of Nazareth, sentenced both to ten days'
                     imprisonment, to be fed on the simplest diet, and expressed the hope that the
                     jailor would keep them as far apart as possible. This match certainly is a
                     human cross.
                  
               
               
                  A PUNSTER.
                  AMONG the prisoners before the Mayor one morning, was one Deuteronomy Brown, a
                     person who looked as if he belonged to the lower order of the literary species.
                     Watchman Jacobs was the only witness against him, and the following is a
                     faithful report of the trial.
                  "Mr. Jacobs," asked the Mayor, "where did you find Mr. Brown?"
                  Leaning against a lamp-post, sir, unable to navigate."
                  "Ah! indeed, you were drunk then, Mr. Brown?"
                  "Rather toddled from drinking tods," calmly replied Mr. Brown.
                  "What is your business?"
                  "From the evidence, I should judge I was a post man. Had I held
                     the post, I might be call a post-master; but as the post held me,
                     I can not aspire any higher than a post-clerk."
                  "When you let go the post, you fell," said the watchman.
                  "Aye," replied Mr. Brown, "and what a fall was there, my
                     countrymen. Do you mean to insinuate that I am a Falls pilot?"
                  "Not at all, I know not what you follow."
                  "I followed you last night, and have found it a poor business."
                  "Come, sir," said the Mayor, sharply, "no more of this nonsense. If you do not
                     give an account of yourself, I shall commit you as a vagrant."
                  
                  "Please your Honor," replied Mr. Brown, "my accounts would display very empty
                     pockets. Is it my present occupation you wish to know?"
                  "Yes, yes, and be quick with your answer."
                  "I am a gamester."
                  "A gambler?"
                  "No, sir, not quite; but a dealer in gamecocks. They
                        gambol sometimes, but I never do."
                  "You are disposed to pun, this morning."
                  "That is because I hope to escape pun-ishment thereby."
                  "But you can not, you must go up under sentence of bread and water for ten
                     days."
                  "You believe, then, that I belong to up-per-ten-dom,
                     do you? Your sentence is badly composed and miserably pointed, yet
                     I must acknowledge you have done it up Brown."
                  "You can retire below."
                  "Just as you please, but you just now ordered me to be sent up. I
                     suppose, however, I must court the Court if I wish a favor. Please your—"
                  Here Mr. Brown was suddenly seized by a deputy Marshal, and ordered below.
                     After he was locked up, he offered a pair of cross-barred breeches to any one
                     who would make a breach in the bars which confined his person. No
                     one accepted the offer.
               
               
                  AN IRISHMAN'S FIRST SUP.
                  "THOMAS DOOLY, stand up," cried the Prosecuting Attorney of the Police Court,
                     one morning, during the hearing of the watch-house cases. A tall,
                     broad-shouldered individual, with a decidedly Hibernian appearance, responded
                     to the call, bowing as he did so, first to the Attorney, and next to the Court,
                     as if he was used to doing homage to his superiors.
                  "Mr. Dooly," continued the Attorney, "you are charged with having been drunk
                     and disorderly last night. Stand forward, and hear the evidence against you.
                     Watchman Carrol, take the stand."
                  This last expression was made without cause, for watchman Carrol was already
                     upon the stand, and had his hand raised in signification that he was ready to
                     take the oath. A faithful "star" always knows his victims, and Carrol being one
                     of that kind, needed no pressing to compel him to mount the witness-stand. He
                     was there, standing face to face with his prisoner. His story was short. He had
                     found Thomas in Fifth street market-space, drunk, noisy, and riotous.
                  "You hear this, Thomas," said the Court; "what have you to say for
                     yourself?"
                  "Faix an' it's thrue, yer Honor," replied Thomas, with a blush. "Ye see, yer
                     Honor, I went to New York wid me brother; an' he died there, yer Honor, so he
                     did. Well, yer Honor, I came back, an' I took a sup, an' I thought uv me
                     brother an' thin I cried, so I did."
                  
                  "Well, I suppose we must fine you one dollar, Thomas, for getting drunk."
                  "Och! yer Honor, but wouldn't that be thrating me badly? I've no money
                     sur."
                  "It appears you had money enough to get drunk with," returned the Court.
                  "Not a bit uv that, yer Honor," was Thomas' reply. "I was threated by a friend
                     to a sup, an' I took to me only one sup, yer Honor. Sure, an' its mesel that
                     niver took a sup before, in all me life."
                  "You never did?" asked the Court, somewhat astonished.
                  "Niver, yer Honor, in all me life," replied Mr. Dooly, his face coloring with
                     the flush of modesty, as his knees gave way in a spasmodic effort to be
                     humble.
                  "Why, where were you raised?" inquired the Court, still astonished.
                  "In ould Ireland, sure."
                  "And never drunk before, in all your life?"
                  "Be me soul, I niver was."
                  "Then you can go," remarked the Court, in a tone, and with a look which bespoke
                     surprise.
                  "Thank ye, sur," said Thomas, as with another obeisance he made his way to the
                     front door.
                  Mr. Dooly is the first son of Erin brought before our Police Court, on his
                     "first sup," and his Honor therefore did right in bestowing upon him a
                     distinguished mark of esteem, viz: a dismissal without punishment.
               
               
                  LOVE—PISTOLS WITHOUT COFFEE.
                  SAM BROAD, though colored, is a lover. A bright-eyed "yaller gal" has bewitched
                     his heart and tickled his affections. He loves with the intensity of a noonday
                     sun, and is as jealous of the honor of the fair being to whom his heart is
                     devoted, as the Bogens are of the fame of their sausage-meat. He called to see
                     his darling one night. As he sat beside her, upon a rude settee, his arms
                     around her slender waist, her eyes shedding rays of love upon his, and blushes
                     flushing her sun-proof checks as he whispered soft words of bliss into her ear,
                     he was as happy as any nigger can be, beneath the stars of heaven. How sad it
                     is for lovers to part! Sam Broad felt this that evening, when the girl of his
                     heart was torn from his presence to wash the supper-dishes. He stole from her
                     lovely lips one kiss, and then another and another, and would have taken a
                     fourth, had she not, in her modesty, shrunk from the frequent repetition, and
                     softly said:
                  "Don't make a fool ob yourself, niggar."
                  Sam left his fair one's home with a light and joyous heart. He felt as if he
                     could defy the world, when the fair Arderbeller became his. His long heels no
                     longer impeded his step—he walked on his toes, and seemed to skim o'er the
                     pavement, supported by an aerial power. Sam felt big—proud—lofty—far above
                     himself—a man fortunate beyond expression.
                  Under these circumstances, is it a wonder he was confident he could beat the
                     world at a game of poker? Nay, so confident was he, that he stepped into the
                     new "billiard" saloon on East Sixth street, and bantered the house to take a
                        "hand" with him. Sylvanus
                     Thompson, a sporting character of some repute, instantly took him up.
                  "Whar has you been propelling to, Sam?" asked Sylvanus, as he commenced
                     shuffling the cards.
                  "Whar?" responded Sam, in astonishment, "why, down to Arderbeller's, in course,
                     Whar else should you inspect dis darkie ob goin'?"
                  "Arderbeller? Guess I doesn't know dat gal."
                  "Why, yes, you does Syl. De yaller gal what libs down dar on 'Commodation
                     street—de one wid de kurls what kum all down ober her neck."
                  "De one what sings in de Fird street quire?"
                  "De same."
                  "An' whose fader whitewashes wid all colors?"
                  "Ezackly."
                  "Oh, yes, I knows dat gal well," said Syl, complacently, as he made the first
                     deal. "Pretty much ob a gal, Sam."
                  "Nuffin else," replied Sam, his eyes brightening.
                  "Ise got sum notion ob puttin' in dar myself."
                  "No use, niggar, no use," replied Sam triumphantly, Ise de chile dar, sure as
                     you lib."
                  "De Lor' help your ignorance, darkie. Jus' let me tell you one t'ing. Dat gal
                     wink to me last Sunday in church."
                  "Dat's a lie!" promptly responded the lover, rising to his feet and clenching
                     his fists.
                  "None ob dat—none ob dat, niggar," replied Syl, rolling up the white of his
                     eyes. "More'n one brack man's been sent head foremus to 'ternity for sayin' dat
                     to dis chile."
                  "I tell you 'gin dat's de biggest kind ob a lie!" responded the now infuriated
                     Sam. "Dar's only one man in dis worl' dat Arderbeller winks at, an' dat is dis
                     chile himse'f. You try 'gin to stain de honor ob dat gal an' I shoot you froo
                     and froo wid a bullet," shouted Sam, as he drew from his bosom a six-shooter,
                     and pointed it at the breast of his antagonist.
                  Just at that moment Sam's arm was clutched with the firmness of a vice. He was
                     about to make an exertion to release it, when the bright glitter of a star shot
                     across his eyes. He instantly cooled down, and he and his companion were, after
                     sundry explanations, marched off to the lock-up. In the morning they were fined
                     five dollars each and costs, for disturbing the peace, though Sam endeavored to
                     impress upon the Court the fact that he was only defending the honor of an
                     injured girl. The last we saw of him, he was in a cell, endeavoring to persuade
                     a policeman to convey the information of his sad plight—in prison and short of
                     funds—to his "lubly Arderbeller."
               
               
                  A VICTIM OF LOVE.
                  "SIMON GIRTY, what brought you here?" asked the Mayor, one morning, of an
                     inebriated-looking individual who occupied a seat upon the prisoner's
                     bench.
                  "A watchman, please your Honor," replied Simon.
                  "What did he bring you for?"
                  "Ah! sir, that is more than I know," replied Simon, rising to his feet, and
                     assuming a melancholy look. "Since I have become a victim of—"
                  "Intemperance," interrupted the Mayor.
                  
                  "No, sir, not of intemperance, if you please. True, I often drown my sorrows,
                     my afflictions, in the cup, the bitter cup, sir, yet I am not a victim of
                     intemperance, but of love; yes, sir, of love. And as I was remarking, since I
                     have become a victim of love, it matters not to me what becomes of my personal
                     self."
                  "Are you really in love, Simon?" inquired the Mayor, who knew the prisoner
                     well.
                  
                     
                        The Victim.
                     
                  
                  "Oh! please, sir,' replied Simon, apparently in great anguish, "don't pierce my
                     heart with such an inquiry. I am indeed a victim, a heartbroken victim to the
                     strongest of all the passions which rack the human heart."
                  "Can you not tell us your tale of sorrow?" asked the Marshal, his eyes
                     twinkling with merriment, while his tone was grave; "we may have it within our
                     power to relieve you. Here (pointing to the reporters), are a number of
                     gentlemen of the press, and if you only excite their sympathies, they may do
                     something for you."
                  "You who have tears to shed, prepare to shed them now," responded Simon, with
                     great solemnity, "you see, gentlemen, I am a fallen man. The fire of energy no
                     longer lights my eyes the rosy hue of health blooms not upon my cheek, and my
                     scattered locks are growing prematurely grey. Gentlemen, I am a victim of love,
                     and would be much obliged to one of you for a chow of tobacco"
                  The listeners could not refrain from laughing at this odd termination of a
                     serious sentence, but Simon remained as solemn as the grave. He was supplied
                     with a "chaw," and then proceeded:
                  "Two years ago, I first met Mary Mayfield, and ah! heavens, my whole form
                     trembles as my lips pronounce that name. She was matchless in beauty, a queen
                     in action, and a divinity in form. Ah! gentlemen, need I tell you she robbed me
                     of my heart; that my whole soul was fired by her resistless charms; that I
                     forgot all things, saw nothing, felt nothing, save sweet Mary Mayfield?
                  "My love drove me to despair, and forced me at last to lay aside my native
                     modesty. Would you believe it? I actually sought her presence, and prostrating
                     myself at her feet, begged her to accept me as her own. Oh! that fearful
                     moment! I felt as if my destiny lay upon the single word which would fall from
                     her lips. There I was, prostrate before her queenly beauty; tears, manly tears,
                     flowed like rivulets of liquid gems from my adoring eyes. She moved toward me
                     like a breathing dream, as I fondly hoped and believed, to raise my humble
                     form, and clasp it, thrilling with ecstatic bliss, to her high-heaving breast,
                     the home, I thought, of love as true as mine. In a moment my joy was supreme,
                     but the next, oh! horror of horrors, she gave me a kick with her pretty foot,
                     and said, 'Get you
                     
                     gone, you fool, you lunatic, you madman, you dirty scrub!'"
                  Simon was here overcome. He buried his face in his hands, as if in the deepest
                     agony. Recovering in a few moments, he continued—
                  "I sprang from the floor, and in despair rushed to the street. My first impulse
                     was to drown myself, and I fully intended to commit that dreadful deed. But a
                     thought deterred me from acting thus rashly. From my days of childhood, I had a
                     natural dread of the external application of water, and even in my frenzy, that
                     dread induced me to pause. A moment's reflection convinced me that instead of
                     making my body food for fishes, and withdrawing suddenly from this pleasant
                     world, it would be far more congenial to my nature to drown myself by the
                     internal administration of colored fluids. Gentlemen, I have drank, drank, and
                     drank, but as yet I have not succeeded in drowning myself. I am now out of
                     means, and I want help to aid me in accomplishing my determined purpose. A few
                     more drams, and Simon will be in the spirit land. Can't you loan a feller
                        a picayune?"
                  The Mayor was of opinion that water would be more beneficial to Simon's body
                     than any stimulating liquid, and therefore sentenced him, before he had time to
                     effect a loan, to twenty days' imprisonment, to be fed upon bread and water
                     only.
                  "That's cruel, your Honor," responded Simon, "water is a stranger here,
                     (placing his hand on his abdomen), and its intrusion there will certainly bring
                     me to an untimely end. But 'tis well; if I die, I die a victim of love—"
                  "Of whisky!" exclaimed the Marshal, as he pushed the prisoner into
                     the stairway leading to the cells in the watch-house below.
                  Simon, no doubt, is a victim, and a victim, too, to love—of whisky.
               
               
                  STUCK OR NOT STUCK? THAT'S THE QUESTION.
                  IN the Police Court, one morning, a burly Irishman, named Michael Fitzpatrick,
                     accused a little Dutchman, who acted as bar-keeper at the "Olive Branch," with
                     assaulting and beating him. Michael came upon the witness-stand with an immense
                     black neck-cloth around his head, and took the trouble to make various
                     grimaces, that the Court might see he was suffering great pain. Patrick's
                     statement, under oath, was, that he went into the "Olive Branch" in the
                     evening, and bought a half-gallon of beer, and gave a bank bill in
                     payment. After he drank the beer, he asked for the change, but the bar-keeper
                     refused to give it to him. He sat down on a chair to wait awhile, and presently
                     he asked the bar-keeper again for his change. This seemed to enrage the
                     glass-washer, and he rushed out from behind the bar, and drawing a knife, stuck
                     the said Michael right in the eye.
                  "Right in the eye?" asked the Court, with a shudder.
                  "Aye, yer Honor, right forninst my eye it was," responded the witness,
                     contorting his countenance.
                  "That is frightful. Was the gash deep?"
                  "Och! but it was, yer Honor."
                  "Let me see it," continued the Court; "that is, if you can exhibit the wound without inconvenience or
                     great pain."
                  "That I will, yer Honor," replied Michael, lifting the cloth a little.
                  "I see nothing yet. Can't you raise, the cloth higher?"
                  "Aye, yer Honor. Och! but it hu-urts!" said the witness, lifting the cloth
                     clear off his eye.
                  "Why, where is the wound?" asked the Court, somewhat astonished.
                  "There, yer Honor," said Michael, laying his finger on his eyebrow.
                  "There! Why I see no wound there."
                  "Right here, yer Honor," replied the witness, stretching his eyebrow with his
                     fingers. "It is right betwane the hairs.
                  
                  The Court still failed to see the frightful gash; but satisfied with the
                     witness's honesty, ordered him to resume his seat.
                  The witnesses for the defense told another story. They stated, that Mike
                     offered a bad bill for the beer, and that was the reason the bar-keeper refused
                     to give him any change. After he had poured the half-gallon of frothy liquid
                     down his gullet, he sat by the stove, and was soon in an unconscious stupor.
                     While in that condition, he endeavored to rest his head on the hot stove, and
                     being burnt, supposed he had been cut, and went after a police officer to
                     arrest the bar-keeper.
                  The Court came to the conclusion, that Michael Fitzpatrick had not been
                     "stuck," and therefore discharged the bar-keeper from custody. As Mike left the
                     court-room, he shook his head, as if he thought the law was partial, when the
                     contest lay between krout and paratees.
               
               
                  POOR OLD MAN.
                  IT is a sad sight to see an old man, his hair frosted with age, a victim of
                     intemperance; and especially so, when we know that in his younger days he was
                     respected and beloved. John Livinton is such a man. Ten years ago he was a
                     cheerful, prosperous mechanic, and with a devoted family around him, lived
                     comfortably and happily. Whatever induced John Livinton to fly to the cup, has
                     ever been a mystery to his friends; and what was more mysterious still, he
                     drank deeply from the very start. Ten years ago he was a sober, and respectable
                     citizen—and a few Saturdays since he was a prisoner in the Police Court. What a
                     change those ten years of debauchery had wrought! Poor John Livinton, now a
                     bloated, staggering wretch. As he sat upon the prisoner's bench, his silvery
                     hair scattered over his still noble brow, one could but pity the condition of
                     the poor old man.
                  A policeman testified, that he found the prisoner insensibly drunk, in an alley
                     in the Thirteenth ward. Livinton was indifferent to the testimony, and only
                     raised his head when the Judge, who had known him in his better days, inquired
                     of him, whether he had any witnesses
                  "None, your Honor," was his reply.
                  "There is still no improvement in you, John," remarked the Court; "a fatality
                     seems to attend you, and neither the persuasions of your friends, nor the
                     rigors of the law, will save you from a drunkard's grave. You have been
                     repeatedly before us of late. We at first treated you kindly, with the hope that our kindness might
                     produce your reformation, That failed, and we were at last obliged to commit
                     you to prison."
                  The prisoner gave a heavy sigh, but said nothing.
                  "Where have you been living, since your release from jail," asked the
                     Court.
                  "I stopped one night in the Broadway House, somewhere up town," gruffly
                     responded the prisoner.
                  "Where did you stop last?"
                  "Why I have been to the country, and I just came in to get my clothes."
                  "Whereabouts in the country have you been living?"
                  "Out on the Hamilton road, may-be about five miles."
                  "At what were you working?"
                  "Why gardening—that's what I work at."
                  "For whom did you work?"
                  "I don't know who owned the place—can't say whom I worked for."
                  "When did you return to the city?"
                  "Yesterday, I, believe. I walked in and stopped at the Broadway House. Then I
                     went down town after my clothes, and I met some acquaintances, got to drinking,
                     and I don't know anything more."
                  "Did you have him hauled to the lock-up?" asked the Court of the officers.
                  "No sir, we carried him. He said he had an order to go to the Infirmary, but
                     lost it," was the reply.
                  "Worse and worse. We will commit him to jail again, and this time as a vagrant,
                     for twenty days."
                  "Oh, for God's sake, don't send me up," cried the old man, while tears streamed
                     down his cheeks. "That place is too bad—the sentence is too hard, it will kill
                     me; just let me off, this time—for God's sake, do, and in half an hour I will
                     leave this city; all I ask is time to get my clothes; for God's sake, grant me
                     that privilege, this once, and I will leave town."
                  "Will you refrain from drinking?"
                  "Oh! don't ask me that. I can't—you know I can't. The time was, your honor,
                     when I could have paused in my downward career, but now it is too late. Oh!
                     pity me. Let me go to the country, where I can drink and die. True, true, I am
                     doomed to a drunkard's grave."
                  The agony of the poor old ruined man, touched the heart of his Honor. He orderd
                     that John Livinton be released; and with all the hurry that trembling, feeble
                     limbs would permit of, the aged drunkard tottered out of the court-room.
               
               
                  PROVING CHARACTER.
                  ATTEMPTS to prove character in the lower Courts, are often very amusing. Once a
                     German, accused of abusing his mother-in-law, called upon a reporter of a
                     German newspaper, to testify to his good character. The following ensued:
                  
                     Judge—How long have you known the defendant?
                  
                     Reporter—About five years.
                  
                     Judge—What are his habits?
                  
                     Reporter—Not very steady.
                  
                  
                     Judge—Does he drink?
                  
                     Reporter—He is quite intemperate.
                  
                     Judge—Does he work?
                  
                     Reporter—But very little, if any.
                  This satisfied the Judge, and a, penalty was inflicted upon the defendant.
                  On another occasion, an Irish woman, who had numerous "tinants," with whom she
                     could not agree, and who was charged with beating one of them, called upon a
                     watchman to testify to the general uprightness of her behavior. The following
                     was the result:
                  
                     Judge—Do you know this woman?
                  
                     Watchman—I have been acquainted with her several years.
                  
                     Judge—What is her character?
                  
                     Watchman—She is drunk very often, and so quarrelsome, that she is
                     a nuisance to the neighborhood.
                  
                     Prisoner—Och! an' how can yez say that now?
                  
                     Watchman—She has been drunk almost constantly for the last six
                     weeks, and has given us a good deal of trouble. She wont behave herself any
                     how.
                  The Court increased the fine to double of what was contemplated, previous to
                     the testimony of this witness.
               
               
                  USES IT FOR MEDICINAL PURPOSES.
                  ANTHONY FOUR!" called out the Attorney of the Police Court one morning.
                  "Present," responded a man some six feet in hight, whose straight and slim form
                     was disfigured by a bruised face. His coat was buttoned to his chin, and in his
                     hand he held a flimsily-bound novel. As he stood erect, his head towering high
                     above those of his watch-house fellows, his arms akimbo, and his large bright
                     eyes cast in meditative position toward the floor, he might have been
                     taken—barring the dirt—for a colossal statue of some great statesman.
                  "What has this man been doing?" asked the Court of Watchman Marshall, who,
                     knowing his duty, had stepped upon the witness-stand.
                  "We found him drunk, sir," responded the watchman. "He was quite unruly, and it
                     was with great difficulty we got him to the watch house."
                  "Sir," said the prisoner, raising his head and addressing the Court, "I was not
                     intoxicated. I went over to Newport, I know not how. There I took some medicine
                     to recuperate my physical system, and I was obliged to mix it with spirits to
                     make it the more palatable. Sir, no one deprecates the use of spirits as a
                     beverage more than myself. I detest it, heartily detest it, sir, but in
                     medicine I always consider d it harmless, sir. I was not intoxicated, sir."
                  Here he paused a moment to recover his breath, and then proceeded—
                  
                  "How is it, sir, that I, who am honest in thought and intention, should be
                     treated in this manner? I assure you, sir, upon my honor, that it was medicine
                     I took. There may have been spirits in it. Who gave it to me I know not—they
                     were strangers; I never saw them before, and what they put in that
                     mixture, I have not the remotest idea. Ah! sir, I have been imposed upon; I
                     know it—I feel it—and for that reason, sir, I demand a vindication. I, sir, ask
                     for my discharge!"
                  "Unfortunately, Mr. Four," said the Court, "we have had a previous acquaintance
                     with you."
                  "Ah! that is true, and that is unfortunate," said the
                     prisoner, a shade of disappointment covering his countenance. Reviving,
                     however, he continued—"But, sir, in this case I am honest. Indeed, sir, I took
                     nothing but medicine."
                  "What kind of medicine was it that affected you so strangely?"
                  "Indeed, sir, I do not know. It was an admixture—a preparation—something merely
                     to stir up a sluggish system."
                  The Court seemed to have but little confidence in the statement of Mr. Four,
                     sentencing him to three days' imprisonment, probably to give him an opportunity
                     to sober off. He received the sentence with a burst of indignant eloquence, but
                     when tapped upon the shoulder by the Marshal, and invited to walk down stairs,
                     he put on his haughtiest look, and strutted down into the watch-house with all
                     the dignity of a statesman.
               
               
                  AN OLD HOUSE WITH LOW TENANTS.
                  THERE is an old house located in Gas alley, noted in the Police annals of this
                     city. It has witnessed more than one murder, and "they say" an honest man never
                     lodged within its walls. It is an old house, a rickety house, a dirty house, a
                     dilapidated house; just such a house as one would choose in which to devise
                     stratagem and treason, and contrive means to accumulate spoils. It is not as
                     might be supposed, in these degenerate days, a political head-quarters, or a
                     place where politicians are wont to meet, to discuss over bottles and glasses
                     the best means of getting possession of the spoils—it may be used for a nobler
                     or a baser purpose.
                  Who owns this old house we do not know, but certain it is the landlord has no
                     care for the reputation of its tenants. Their hearts may be as rotten as its
                     timbers—if he gets the rent it is all he asks. It is now inhabited by a gang of
                     fifteen or twenty hard cases, a sort of informal association of Free Lovers (of
                     whisky,) who worship old King Alcohol, and claim the inherent right to live
                     without working. They are mostly negroes, and many of them are familiar with
                     the interior of our County Prison.
                  One night, Nat Bright, a slim, bony negro, whose countenance, not satisfied
                     with the deepest color of his race had sought the addition of soot and coal
                     dust, until it was pure black, visited this old house to rest his wearied body.
                     There were no beds, so he took a chair, and a three-legged one at that, and
                     resting his back against the wall, dropped off into a refreshing snooze. Nat
                     was hardly fairly asleep, when Bob
                     Johnson, "the greatest nigger of them all," entered the room, accompanied by
                     two white men and a bottle of whisky.
                  "Hurra!" shouted Bob. "Ise got the clar stuff, an' we's all gwyin to hab a
                     spree. Wake up, boys."
                  Nat, however, was too sleepy to wake up, and Bob observing it, gave him a
                     "clew" alongside the head.
                  "What's dat drap?" asked the startled negro.
                  "Drap? I hear nuffin drap," replied Bob.
                  "Drap on my head, I mean, nigga. Didn't you see nuffin?"
                  "Ya! ha! ya! ha!" roared Bob—"dat was dis chile's fis'. Ise got a bottle ob
                     whisky, and two white men to help us drink it; so wake up, all you drowsy brack
                     gemmen!"
                  For a wonder, Nat just then preferred sleep to whisky, and, instead of waking
                     up, tried to drop off into a sleep again. Bob gave him a shake, asking:
                  "Isn't you gwyin to drink wid de white gemmen?"
                  "Go 'way," said Nat.
                  "Does you know who you's talking to?" asked Bob, indignantly.
                  "Go 'way, I tells you 'gin," continued the sleepy darky; "you is a nasty
                     nigger, and you knows it."
                  "What's dat?" shouted the indignant Bob; "you calls me a nigger, does you? an'
                     you wont drink wid a white man? Take dat for your impertence"—and a blow laid
                     Nat on the floor. He had recovered, and was on the point of returning the blow,
                     when two guardians of the night entered. A stampede was made for the back
                     window, but the watchmen secured the belligerents. The party were about moving
                     watch-houseward when "Yaller Zack," a strapping fellow, unrolled himself from a
                     quilt in the corner, and asked:
                  "Whar's you gwyin, niggers?"
                  "To de calaboose," sullenly replied Bob.
                  "Is ye? Den I goes along wid you, an' fotch dis quilt for you to sleep on."
                  "Don't trouble yourself, Zack," replied one of the watchmen, "you whaled your
                     wife to-night, and we've been looking for you. We'll take you
                     along."
                  "Gorry a-mighty!" shouted Zack, "wish I'd knowed dat fus time, an' de debbel
                     wouldn't kotched me here-ah."
                  The trio were marched to the lock-up, and from thence the next morning to the
                     Police Court, where a full exposition was made. Nat obtained his release by
                     turning witness against his comrades—a fashionable mode now-a-days of escaping
                     the punishment of the law. Bob indignantly refused to offer an explanation to
                     the Court, while Zack only made matters worse by abusing his wife. They were
                     both fined and sent to prison.
               
               
                  NATIONAL PLUCK.
                  IN an oil-mill in the eastern part of this city, England could have been seen,
                     at a late hour one night, in the person of a genuine Johnny Bull, shaving down
                     oil-cakes. Near him sat Young America, stirring oil in a cask, and between the
                     two was "Ould Ireland," in the shape of the fireman of the establishment,
                     leisurely smoking a dudeen! Their conversation was at first upon the disputes
                     between Britain and the United States; and, as might be expected, Johnny
                     supported the course pursued by the government of his native land, while Young America, backed by "Ould
                     Ireland," gave the British Ministry a severe overhauling.
                  From this they commenced discussing the relative merits of certain animals in
                     the different countries, until they at last took up the subject of horses.
                  "You 'aven't no 'orses worth nothink, in this country," says Mr. Bull.
                  "Well, I calculate we haint got nothin' else," replied America. "Shavetail and
                     Grey Eagle can just lam any English hoss you're a mind to bring out. Can't
                     they. Patrick?"
                  "Sure, an' ye're right, my darlint," replied Pat.
                  "Shavetail's no 'orse at all," said the Englishman. "In Hengland, we've 'orses
                     that can beat him as easy as—"
                  "Your brag sailers beat the America, eh?" interrupted America.
                  "Be jabers, an' ye hit him that time, me boy," instantly put in Ireland.
                  "You don't know 'ow to run 'orses in this country," said the Englishman,
                     spitefully.
                  "And I guess they don't know how to stop them in England," said America.
                  "Fait', an' they don't, my darlint," responded Ireland.
                  "They stop 'orses in Hengland same as vot they do 'ere." replied Bull.
                  "How's that?" asked the Yankee.
                  "By saying vo!" answered England.
                  "You're a liar," cried America.
                  "I vont take a hinsult from no man,' said England, giving America a fierce
                     look, which reminded Ireland that the fire under the boiler needed stirring up,
                     and off he went to attend to the duty.
                  "If you don't like the hin-sult," replied America, "take that,"
                     giving England a slap on the face.
                  "I don't want a fight 'ere," calmly replied Mr. Bull, "but I'll fight you fair
                     for five-and-twenty dollar stakes."
                  America declined the offer of a prize fight, but expressed his willingness for
                     a "rough-and-tumble" just at that moment. In fact he appeared so eager for it,
                     that Johnny Bull left the mill, and hunting up a watchman, had America taken
                     into custody.
                  A legal investigation resulted in both being fined—England for provoking an
                     assault, and young America for committing one.
               
               
                  ILLUSTRATION OF A HISTORICAL FACT.
                  A VENERABLE Irishman, in giving testimony before the Police Court, one morning,
                     stated that the prisoner pulled his hair out by the handfuls—acting worse
                     toward him than Cromwell did to his ancestors in Ireland.
                  "Did Cromwell pull the hair out of the heads of the Irish, when he visited the
                     Green Isle?" asked the attorney for the prisoner.
                  "Fait' an' he did, sir, an' in the manest way too, shure."
                  "In what way did he do it?" inquired the lawyer.
                  "If ye'll allow me, I'll show ye, shure."
                  
                  "That's just what I want—proceed."
                  "But it'll hurt ye, sir."
                  "Never mind—go ahead, and when it hurts, I will tell you to stop."
                  "Fait' an' I'll do it, shure," and suiting the action to the word, he turned up
                     his coat-sleeves and went to work. Taking a lead pencil about four inches long,
                     he twisted the lawyer's bushy hair tightly around it. Then seizing both ends of
                     the pencil with the fingers of his right hand, he braced himself for a pull,
                     and gave a slight jerk.
                  "Oh!" cried the lawyer.
                  Patrick gave a little stronger pull.
                  "Ouch!" screamed the attorney.
                  The Irishman, holding the pencil tightly, gave a tremendous pull.
                  "Hold, for Heaven's sake!!" screeched the disciple of Blackstone, as the roots
                     of the hair gave way, and the tears came streaming from his eyes.
                  It is almost needless to add, that the court-room resounded with the laughter
                     of spectators, jury, and officers. Even the gravity of his Honor was destroyed.
                     The attorney appeared satisfied with this practical demonstration of how
                     "Cromwell persecuted the Irish."
               
               
                  WATCH-HOUSE LOAFERS.
                  WE visited the watch-house at a late hour one night. In the room devoted to
                     males, we found quite a number of persons spread out on the bare floor.
                  "Who are these?" we inquired of the keeper.
                  "They are loafers, was the reply, "who have no homes, and they
                     come here for shelter. The floor of a warm room is all the accommodation we can
                     give them."
                  
                     Loafers! The word implies a lazy, good-for-nothing specimen of
                     humanity, one who, though able, will not work, and whose aim is to get through
                     the world with as little energy as possible. Webster says a loafer is "an idle
                     man; a low fellow;" and the common acceptation of the word is, a lazy, debased
                     being. If we are to believe the watch-house keeper, there was a crowd of them
                     right before us, and while they were asleep on the hard floor, we thought we
                     would examine them.
                  The first was a middle-aged man, his clothes all tattered and torn, his bloated
                     face besmeared with dirt, and his body swelled by a life of intemperance. He
                     slept soundly, for he no doubt was used to such a bed as that. He certainly was
                     a loafer in the fullest meaning of the word.
                  The next was a mere stripling, a German, we thought, from his appearance. A
                     check shirt, a pair of pants, a boatsman's belt, and a coarse pair of shoes,
                     were all he had on. As he lay flat on his back, his long auburn curls partly
                     covering his handsome face, we looked in vain for anything like the appearance
                     of a loafer about him. His hands were hardened by labor, and the expression of his countenance was really
                     pleasant. He assuredly was not a loafer. He must have been a stranger in a
                     strange land, without means to pay for a night's lodgings, and in these
                     ill-fated times unable to procure labor enough to prevent him from becoming a
                     beggar. Poor youth! he was judged by the company he was forced to keep.
                  The nest two were confirmed vagrants. We had seen them often before the Police
                     Court and in jail. They never worked and seldom ate. Drink—the most burning,
                     vicious deadly drink—was their joy, their sustenance. They had lost all
                     manliness, and were dragging out their miserable existence to a drunkard's
                     grave. How we would like to know their history—whether they ever enjoyed a
                     mother's heart, or were the pride of a devoted father. Could such debased
                     beings ever have been men, loved and respected as such? But these
                     thoughts are out of place. The world takes people as they are, and it is now no
                     matter what these loafers had been. The world now adjudges them as lost, and we
                     must consider them so, too.
                  The next was a young man with but one leg. He was wide awake and sitting up. He
                     said he came here for medical treatment, and having no money expected to get
                     into the Hospital. The law prevents his admission, however, and he was forced
                     to take lodgings in the watch-house. He did not know what would become of him
                     on the morrow, but good naturedly remarked, he hoped to be able to "hobble"
                     along some way. Crippled, sick and moneyless—what a fate!
                  Next lay a stout Hibernian, with shoulders broad enough to bear the weight of a
                     barrel of flour. He was thinly clad, and from his appearance we would have
                     taken him for a faithful son of toil: but the neck of a bottle of whisky,
                     peeping out from a pocket, led us to fear he was in a fair way to become a
                     loafer. Who would take the trouble to stop him in his downward career?
                  Near him, in a corner upon a quilt, with a chair-back for a pillow, lay
                     "General Jackson," a very old negro, who had made the watch-house his home, for
                     several months. In pity for his age, and perhaps in remuneration for his many
                     interesting incidents of the "olden time," which he delights to relate, the
                     watchmen supply him with an abundance of food.
                  What a pitiable object lay next to the "General." He was asleep, but he moaned
                     most grievously. The fever-flush was upon his cheek, and it was evident the
                     hospital, and not the watch-house, was the place for him. But he does not come
                     within the terms of the law, and therefore can get no aid; he has no money, and
                     sick as he is, dying may-be, the floor of the watch-house is his only bed. Well
                     may he moan!
                  But enough of watch-house loafers. We are satisfied more than half
                     of them are worthy men, whose only fault is their extreme poverty. What a world
                     of good a true philanthropist could do among them!
               
            
         
      
   
