
    ----CITATION----
        Cobb, Sylvanus, (1823-1887). The Sea Lion, or, The Privateer of the Penobscot .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6113 wright2-0584
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               THE SEA LION:
               OR, THE PRIVATEER OF THE PENOBSCOT.
               
                  
                     
                        THE GOOD SHIP ISAAC HALL LYING TO IN A GALE.-See Chapter I.
                     
                  
               
               BY
               AUSTIN C. BURDICK.
               PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCH,
               CORNER OF SPRUCE AND NASSAU STREETS, . . NEW YORK.
               
                  A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.-J. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit-E. K. WOODWARD, cor. Fourth & Chesnut Streets, St. Louis.-WM. & HENRY TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore Street, Baltimore.-A. C. BAGLEY Main Street, Cincinnati.-S. S. DOTY, 236 Camp Street, New Orleans.-W. W. DANENHOWER, 123 Lake St., Chicago, Ill.-C. P. KIMBALL, Long Wharf, San Francisco, Cal.
               
            
         
         
         
            
            
               THE SEA LION:
               OR, THE PRIVATEER OF THE PENOBSCOT.
               A Story of Ocean Life and the Heart's Love.
            
            BY AUSTIN C. BURDICK.
            
            
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCH, 
                     151 NASSAU, CORNER OF SPRUCE STREET.
                  
               
            
            1853.
         
         
         
            
            PUBLISHER'S NOTE.—The following Novellette was originally published in THE FLAG OF OUR UNION, and is but one among the many deeply interesting productions emanating from that source. The FLAG has attained to a circulation unrivalled in newspaper literature; its contributors form a corps of the finest talent in the land; and its romances, tales, and poetical gems are of a high order, and such as enrich the columns of no other publication.
            The following is the Prospectus of the FLAG:
            
               THE FLAG OF OUR UNION,
               AN ELEGANT, MORAL AND REFINED
               MISCELLANEOUS FAMILY JOURNAL,
               Devoted to polite literature, wit and humor, prose and poetic gems, and original prize tales, written expressly for this paper, and at a very great cost. Published every SATURDAY, by 
                     F. GLEASON, corner of Bromfield and Tremont Streets, Boston,
                     S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce Street, New York,
                     A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
                     WM. & HENRY TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore Street, Baltimore,
                     A. C. BAGLEY, 169 Main Street, Cincinnati,
                     E. K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Street, St. Louis.
                     S. S. DOTY, 236 Camp Street, New Orleans, La.
                     W. W. DANENHOWER, 123 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
                  
               
               It is generally acknowledged that the FLAG is now the leading weekly paper in the United States, and its literary contents are allowed, by the best judges, to be unsurpassed. In politics and all sectarian questions it is strictly neutral. Nothing of an immoral nature will ever be admitted into its columns; therefore making it emphatically, A PAPER FOR THE MILLION, AND A WELCOME VISITER TO THE HOME CIRCLE.
               It contains the foreign and domestic news of the day, so condensed as to enable us to give the greatest possible amount of intelligence. No advertisements are admitted to the paper, thus offering the entire sheet, which is of THE MAMMOTH SIZE, for the instruction and amusement of the general reader. An unrivalled corps of contributors are regularly engaged, and every department is under the most finished and perfect system that experience can suggest, or money produce. Lacking neither the means nor the will, we can lay before our hundreds of thousands of readers an ORIGINAL PAPER, the present circulation of which far exceeds that of any other weekly paper in the Union, with the SON'S PICTORIAL.
               
                  TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
                  subscriber, one year, $2 00
                  subscribers, " 5 00
                  4 " " 6 00
                  8 " " 11 00
                  16 " " 20 00
               
               One copy of the FLAG OF OUR UNION, and one copy of GLEASON'S PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION, one year, for $1 00
               Invariably in advance.
               No further reduction made from the above terms.
               ***All orders should be addressed POST PAID, to the PUBLISHERS OF FLAG OF OUR UNION.
               The FLAG can be obtained at any of the newspaper depots in the United States, and of newspaper carriers, CENTS per copy.
            
         
      
      
         
            The sea lion, or, The privateer of the Penobscot
            THE SEA LION.
            
               CHAPTER 1.
               A BURIAL AT SEA.
               IN the month of October, 1813, the American merchant ship, "Isaac Hall," was in the northern tropic of the Atlantic, homeward bound from the Indies. She belonged in Castine, Maine, and had been gone from the States nearly two years, being commanded by an old veteran in the merchant service, Jacob Draper. When Captain Draper learned that war had been declared between his own country and Great Britain, which was of course not till some months after the event, he immediately set sail for home by the way of the Pacific. The ship had passed Navigator's Islands where she was considerably damaged in a heavy gale, and she was consequently put into the port of St. Christina, one of the Marquesas, for repairs. This detained her some time, so that the war had been going on over a year when she crossed the Equator and entered the northern latitudes of the Atlantic.
               It was nearly noon, and the wind was howling and shrieking like an infuriate beast. The gale had been revelling upon the ocean since midnight, but by the most unremitting care the ship had escaped with only the loss of a few pieces of canvass. At the present time she was lying-to under a close-reefed main-topsail and main-spencer, and though an occasional sea broke wildly over her, yet she stood bravely up and defied the storm.
               [SEE ENGRAVING.]
               The "Isaac Hall" was now under the responsible command of Gordon Warren, a young man, some twenty-five years of age, who had entered, two years before, as third mate. Death had removed both the first and second mates, and Warren was promoted to be second in command. While the ship lay in St. Christina, Captain Draper contracted a fatal disease, and at the time of which we write he lay at the point of death.
               Shortly after noon, Gordon Warren received summons to attend the captain in the cabin. He gave particular directions for the management of the ship, and then he obeyed the call.
               Captain Draper lay in his birth, and his breath was growing weaker and weaker, yet his eye was bright, and his face was unclouded. By his side, and holding him by the hand, stood a young girl upon whose head twenty summers had shed their rays of sunshine and shadow. She was Mary Draper, the only child of the old captain. Those who knew her called her beautiful. The hardy seamen swore she was an angel; yet had one sought in the features a model for sculpture it would not have been easily found; and even the painter might have found it a difficult task to give her beauty on canvass. But Mary Draper had beauty—a beauty which could be easily seen, and full as easily appreciated. It shone forth in the melting kindness of her deep blue eyes, it dwelt in the heartfelt expression of her fair features, and it was imaged forth in the sweet smiles that were wont to play about her dimpled cheeks. In form she was fair and comely, giving a strong vital organization to support the active mental powers that moved within her soul.
               By the side of Mary stood a young man, somewhat slight in his frame, and betraying a good share of intelligence. His name was Aaron Damon. He was the supercargo of the ship, and the owned a large share in both ship and cargo. He was well enough to look upon, but when compared with Gordon Warren, the contrast was against him. Young Warren was a picture of manly beauty—tall, stout, noble and fearless in his carriage, with eyes of piercing blackness, but yet kind in their flooding beams; and the raven locks that curled about his neck and temples gave a sort of classic beauty to features which bore in every lineament the stamp of true manhood.
               Yet Aaron Damon was good-looking, and, save a sort of inherent petulance and shrinking from slight dangers, the crew had never seen anything to blame in his disposition. The seamen respected him because he was a heavy owner, but they idolized Gordon Warren for the very MAN they found in him, and to obey his commands was held by them to be more of a pleasure than a duty.
               "Is that you, Gordon?" asked Captain Draper, as the young man approached his berth.
               "Yes," returned Warren.
               Aaron Damon moved one side to allow the mate to stand by the captain's side.
               "How is the storm?" resumed the captain.
               "It is breaking up, sir. It looks lighter to windward, and I think that by sunset it will have entirely passed over."
               "I am glad of that," returned Draper, "for I and the storm will both sleep together."
               "You will rest easier, sir, after the storm is over," said Gordon.
               "Ah," returned the captain, with none of that dread in his tone which might have been expected from a dying man, but with a quiet smile upon his features. "I shall rest that rest which knows no more storm on trouble. Gordon, my cruise is about over. My sails are all torn and tattered, blown away in the gales of a long life, and the hulk is fast sinking."
               "Not yet," earnestly uttered the young mate, as he bent over the form of the captain, "you may yet recover."
               "No, no," returned Draper "there's no use in working my life-pumps any longer. There's but one more item to put into my log, and that is, 'In port at last.'"
               "I think my father is dying, Mr. Warren," said Mary, in a calm tone. "His pulse weakens fast, and his hands are growing cold."
               "Yes, Gordon; she is right. I am dying, and upon you will come the whole cafe of the ship, but I know I leave the old craft in safe hands. If I have held a doubt of your ability, your management during this storm has removed it all, for I know how you have handled the ship since midnight. Now it is my wish that you should go directly to Castine. It will not be so safe to attempt to run into New York, for in all probability the British cruisers will be on the lookout off the Sound. Such portions of the cargo as you own will of course be at your disposal, but Mr. Damon will see to all the rest. He will attend to the ship, and to the entering."
               "I will bear this in mind, sir," returned Gordon.
               "There is one other thing," resumed the captain. "My child I leave to the charge of Mr. Damon, but I hope you will lend her your protection if she should need it. These are troublous times, and I know your heart is willing and your arm is strong. Aaron is the same as a child to me, and he will care for Mary, but to your good care I commend them both. You will be faithful in this?"
               "Yes," said the young mate; and as he spoke he trembled, for Mary's head was half-reclining upon his arm.
               "Now, Aaron, where are you?" asked the old man.
               Gordon stepped back, and the supercargo approached the cot.
               "And you, too, Mary," continued the captain. "There, this is all I can do for you. Be faithful to each other, and let your love never grow dim," he said, as he placed the hand of his daughter within that of Aaron Damon. "To your father, Aaron, I owed much of my early success, and when he died I promised him that I would bestow the hand of my daughter upon you, if I found you all that he represented. This you already know, and I have only to say, that I have not found you wanting. Mary, my child, you will be true to your plighted faith—you will love Aaron, and you will be ever faithful. I know he will make you happy. This is your father's dying injunction. Shall it be obeyed?"
               "Yes," murmured the girl, as she bent forward and rested her head upon her father's pillow.
               "God bless you, Mary—God bless you. There, don't weep, for I am not falling asleep in the arms of my Father. To die is not hard, my child. I leave behind me a world which I have never wronged; and I can say, at least, that it has been made no worse because I have lived in it. I die happy, Mary, and I hope you will be sustained by those blessed gleams of faith which I have endeavored to throw around you."
               "O, I have not lost my faith," returned the fair girl; "but it is hard to lose my only parent thus."
               "Then remember that what is your loss is my gain," said Draper, in a low, soft tone. "I would not ask to be given back to earth not. I am so near the verge of the grave that I can see the glorious light beyond. Already have I heard your sainted mother whisper, 'Come!' O, my child, I did not use to think that I could die so easily. I have weathered many a storm and many a tempest that have called thousands of my fellows home, but the sand in my glass has nearly run out. Be comforted, my daughter—be comforted. Tell me, would you wish me to stay longer in this vale of troubles?"
               "Yes, my father, I could wish that you might stay to be with me, but yet I shall not sorrow as do those who are without hope."
               "You will be happy, my child, when I am gone. Of course, you will mourn for me—that is part of your nature; but the world of life is before you, and you must turn your attention forward. Gordon, let me speak to you one word more."
               Young Warren again approached the side of the captain's cot.
               "Gordon," said the dying man, while his accents were growing more and more feeble, "if you get the ship safely into port, why can you not join your country against the enemy?"
               "The Briton shall feel my hand if I live," returned Gordon, with a proudly flashing eye. "My country has suffered indignity enough. O, God! before thee I give myself to my native land. My life is offered for her welfare."
               "Spoken like a man," uttered the old captain, as he turned heavily upon his side. "Spoken like a man, Gordon. By my soul, if I could wish for longer life, it would only be that I might strike a blow for —. But no, that is not a thought for a dying man. Aaron, be faithful to my child, and let her not suffer while you live. And you, too, Mary, will remember your father's dying wishes. Gordon, hand me down that roll of stars and stripes."
               
               The mate reached up into a locker near the captain's berth and took down a folded flag. As old Draper took it, the broad bunting unrolled, and the glorious flag of our union was displayed.
               "For over forty years I've sailed beneath this flag," uttered the old man, as he folded it to his breast. "I first stood beneath it when the Briton thought to trample it in the dust; but he failed in his purpose. O, the gallant sons of Columbia beat the tyrant from their shores, and they can beat him again. I was young then—almost a boy—and yet I helped gain that independence that has made us the foremost nation of all the earth. England is a fool to put her foot again upon the lion than has once bitten her."
               As the captain ceased speaking a sudden change came over his countenance, and his eyes grew glassy.
               "Father, father," uttered the weeping girl, as she laid her cheek close to his own, "are you dying?"
               "Going home!" fell from the old man's lips, as he strained his eyes to get one more view of his child. "Going home, Mary, where God, and where your mother are. I am going to the spirits' happy home, and I am going fast, too. I'm almost gone. Even now I can hear them whispering for me to come. Gordon?"
               "Here, my dear captain."
               "Ah, you are captain, now."
               "The office falls to one who will sadly mourn to receive it."
               "You will be a faithful captain, Gordon, and a faithful friend. Where are you?"
               "Here."
               "I cannot see you."
               "Do you not feel my hand?"
               "Yes. Gordon, let me be buried in the deep blue ocean. It has been my home, and it shall be my grave. You will pray for my soul?"
               "Yes."
               "And let this flag be about me. Let it be my pall."
               "It shall be so."
               "Then I commend you all to God. You, Mary, I leave well provided for. Mr. Blake holds my property in trust for you. There's enough there for you. Aaron will see to it. Be kind to her, Aaron."
               "Father, father," murmured Mary.
               "Ah! See there, my child. See where your mother stands. O, she smiles upon me, and beckons me forward. I come—I come."
               "Father, father."
               Thus spoke the girl again, but no returning answer came.
               "He has gone!" said Gordon.
               Mary Draper looked up into the young captain's face. A moment she gazed there, and then she fell upon the cold form that but a few short minutes before had held her father's spirit.
               Gordon Warren went on d, and the anxious men crowded about him.
               "He is dead!"
               The words fell heavily upon the hearts those hardy seamen, for they had loved their captain, and in their honest grief they wept One by one they descended to the cabin and gazed upon the form of him they had loved to serve, and when they returned to the back, they were sad and sorrowful.
               On the next morning, the storm had entirely passed, and the bright sun was shining over the swelling ocean, as the crew were collected to pay the last tribute of respect to the remains of their late commander. The corse had been shrouded in the bright flag of Columbia, and then sewed up in a clean white hammock. A plank was balanced across the rail at the starboard gangway, and the corse laid carefully upon it.
               For a few moments not a sound broke upon the air save the requiem of the moaning breeze. Then Gordon Warren stepped forward to the gangway. He trembled, and the tears were starting forth from his eyes. Twice he tried to speak, but his words failed him. At length he bowed his head upon the shrouded form of the departed, and his prayer came forth. It was a warm, heartfelt appeal, and his words were eloquent with soul-sent power. While yet he prayed he felt a warm cheek near his own, and he heard a low sob break close upon his ear.
               When he closed he arose from the corse and found Mary by his side. He waved his hand with a slight motion—those who held the plank raised the inner end—and in a moment more a heavy plunge in the water told that the burial was over—that earth had taken back all that belonged to her of the man who had gone.
               Mary Draper gazed long upon the empty plank, and the tears flowed freely down her fair cheeks. At length a half-breaking smile—a sort of heavenly look—passed over her features, and turning towards the young captain, she gently murmured:
               "My father is in heaven!"
               Gordon caught her hand—held it a moment in his own, and then, overcoming the emotion that moved him, he led her towards the cabin companion-way. Mary did not look up into his face again, but her hand trembled violently, and her bosom heaved with more than a passing emotion.
               When the captain again turned towards the men they silently gathered about him and awaited his orders.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               THE FRIGATE. THE COWARD AND THE HEROINE.
               ON the next day after the burial of Captain Draper, things had assumed their wonted aspect. The men were at their posts, and ready for any emergency. The crew of the "Isaac Hall" had been increased by the taking on board of the crew of a New York brig that had been wrecked in the Indian Ocean, so that the ship had now on board forty-one able men besides Gordon Warren and Aaron Damon.
               It was near the middle of the day when a sail was made out to the eastward, and as that was the point from which the wind came, the stranger loomed up rapidly. In less than an hour, she was made out to be an English frigate. The Yankee captain held a consultation with his crew, and it was agreed that they would arm themselves, and then act as he might direct To run away was impossible, for the frigate was by far the best sailer; yet the ship kept on with all sail set.
               The sun was now an hour past the meridian, and the breeze was dying away. Another hour passed, and the frigate was almost within gunshot, but the breeze had gone, save that now and then a light whiff would belly the canvass and then let it flap back against the masts.
               The Yankee had caught the l breeze, and had shot ah came-to nearly in her w fifteen minutes of sailing  canvass had lost it, and  single  wind was all in all to the winner.
               "Ah, there goes a gun," said Gordon as he saw a cloud of smoke swell forth  frigate's starboard bow.
               "Yes," returned Damon.
               "Wonder what he wants?" said the  who was a stout, middle-aged man,  Jones. "It can't be for us to heave-to,  sails are all to the masts now."
               "He wants to see our flag, I suppose."
               Ah, yes. I didn't think. Upon my soul, captain, I think I'd show it."
               "Of course I will," returned Gordon. "I am neither ashamed nor afraid to show the stars and stripes to any body of men on earth. We can but die beneath them. Williams, go below and bring up our largest ensign."
               In a few minutes the stars and stripes were hanging at the peak, but there was no wind to open them.
               
                  
                     THE GOOD SHIP ISAAC HALL LYING TO IN A GALE.—See Chapter I.
                  
               
               
               "Shake it out," exclaimed the young captain. "Shake it out so that they can see what we sail under."
               Williams lowered and hoisted the ensign several times, and the movement caused it to flutter open.
               "There," uttered Jones, "I think they know us now. What'll their next move be, I wonder?"
               "They will probably send their boats after us," answered the captain, as he approached the taffarel and looked off upon the frigate.
               The American was well provided with cutlasses and pistols, for when she left home, matters had looked squally, and her owners had given her all the means of protection they could. These weapons had been brought upon the deck and placed ready for use.
               "Back, back, my men!" cried Gordon as his men began to press aft. "The enemy must not see how many men we've got."
               "There goes somebody aloft with a glass," said the supercargo, who had himself been looking through an instrument of the same description.
               "Go below, all the larboard watch," ordered the captain. "They shall not see our full strength. By Jupiter, if they attack us they'll have to do it in their boats, and we can give them a hard one there. Take your weapons with you, and stand by for a start if you are needed."
               The larboard watch hurried below, and that left twenty men on deck besides the captain and supercargo. Gordon took the glass and turned it upon the frigate. In the foretop he saw a lieutenant with a glass just levelled upon his own vessel. Upon the poop-deck of the Englishman he saw the officers in close consultation. Ere long the lieutenant descended from the foretop, and soon afterwards Gordon saw him go up on to the poop. For a few moments longer the officers were huddled closely together, and then they separated.
               "There go her two quarter-boats," said Jones. "They're after us."
               "Let them come," returned the captain, as he passed the glass to the supercargo.
               After Gordon had spoken, he turned towards his men. The watch were all upon the quarter-deck, and their young commander gazed steadily upon them for several minutes in silence. Not a cheek among them was blanched—not a lip trembled; but they were all firm, and all looked fearless. Their hands were clasped firmly by their sides, and their lips were compressed with decision.
               "My brave boys," said Gordon, in a low, calm tone, "if those boats come alongside, shall their men come on board our ship?"
               "No, no!" spoke every man.
               "Then I have no fear for the present. Be cool, and be determined."
               "Gordon," spoke a sweet voice by the young captain's side, "what danger have we to apprehend?"
               Warren turned and found Mary Draper standing by him. Her large blue eyes were fixed earnestly upon him, and one of her small hands was laid upon his arm. For a moment he forgot to answer her question as he found her bright orbs beaming upon him, but he soon remembered himself, and kindly replied:
               "I cannot tell, lady, all the danger we may have to encounter. We may all be taken prisoners, and we may escape. At least, we intend to defend ourselves as far as lays in our power. Mr. Damon will take you under his charge."
               Mary's eyes fell as she heard the concluding sentence of the young captain, and with a slow step she turned towards the taffarel where the supercargo stood.
               By this time the frigate's quarter-boats had been lowered and filled with men, and shortly afterwards they put off. They contained fifteen men each besides their respective officers. Gordon watched them till they had got well clear of the frigate, and then he turned once more his men.
               "Boys," he said, in a cheerful tone, "there come thirty-two Englishmen. We are twenty-one, I would like to have those fellows think we have no more men. What say you—can we take care of them, or shall I call some of the other watch?"
               "We'll take care of 'em," cried an old foretopman, named Lubins.
               And to this plan all the rest of the watch fully agreed. The captain went to the forward companion-way and stated his plans to the men who were there concealed. He knew that some of the enemy might board his ship, but he hoped with one watch to beat them off. Then when they returned to the frigate they would give the number of men as they had seen them, and another force would be sent accordingly, which would not of course be so large to overcome twenty men, as it would, were it known by the Englishman that instead of the twenty there were over forty.
               "Now mind that you don't let your eagerness overcome your judgment," said Gordon, as he was about to turn from the companion-way. "Do not under any circumstances show yourselves on deck unless I call you. Obey me in this."
               The men pledged themselves to abide by their captain's wishes.
               When Gordon returned to the quarter-deck the enemy's boats had reached half the distance between the frigate and his own ship. In ten minutes, at least, they would be alongside.
               "Now for your arms, my boys," said the captain. "Look well to the priming of your pistols, for much depends upon your powder. If we can knock a dozen of them back with cold lead we shall have it all our own way. O, we have nothing to fear yet."
               "Captain," said Aaron Damon, as he approached with a trembling step, "I think I will go below and look out for Mary."
               "She can look out for herself, Mr. Damon. Nothing can harm her in the cabin."
               "Yet I should feel better to be by her side," urged the supercargo, while a peculiar livid spot appeared upon either cheek.
               "Very well," returned Gordon. "As you please, Mr. Damon. Your arm might be of service here, but if you think you are needed more below, where there will be less danger, I should advise you to go by all means."
               The captain could not repress the bitter sneer that arose to his lips as the supercargo turned away, for he saw plainly the marks of fear upon his countenance. A murmur of indignant surprise ran from lip to lip among the men, for they, too, guessed why the supercargo went below.
               "How is this?" asked Mary Draper, as she saw Aaron Damon not only enter the cabin and close the door behind him, but also deposit himself upon a stool. "Are not the enemy going to attack us?"
               "Yes, dear Mary."
               "Then why are you here?"
               "I have come to protect you, Mary."
               "To protect me, Mr. Damon?"
               "Yes, dearest."
               "But I need not your protection here. If you would really protect me, you should be upon the deck. There is the danger."
               "No, no, Mary, I cannot leave you. I should not feel easy to know that you are here alone."
               "O, Aaron, Aaron," exclaimed the girl, starting to her feet, while a deep crimson suffused her face, "is it possible that you are afraid?"
               The supercargo trembled and quailed.
               "Hark!" uttered Mary, as she bent her ear to listen. "There they are. I can hear the strokes of their oars. Take my father's pistols sir. There they hang. They are both loaded. Take them, Aaron, and hasten on deck. O, do not let the men think you are a coward."
               "Coward," tremblingly repeated the supercargo, as he gazed half wonderingly upon the noble girl before him "No, Mary, I am not a coward; but to you I will tell the truth. I never could bear the smell of gunpowder. It unnerves me entirely. But if any of them force their way to the cabin, I will defend you. I cannot go on deck."
               "I did not think this of you," returned Mary Draper. "But stay here, if you choose. I will take the pistols, for I may have to defend myself."
               Aaron Damon's eyes fell beneath the glance of the proud girl, and above the fear-marks upon his face appeared the shades of mortification. He did feel ashamed of himself, but he had not the courage to go on deck.
               "Mary," he said, at length, as he moved nearer to where the fair girl had again seated herself; "I trust you will not judge of my character by this? I shall make you a good, kind husband; for when once we reach our home there will be no need of fighting."
               "When once we reach our home, sir! And how are we to ever reach it, if we are taken by the British?"
               "Perhaps we shall not be taken."
               "Perhaps! In truth, sir, if the ship's company were all like you, there would be no perhaps about it. What would you think to see Captain Warren come down here and hide himself from the enemy?"
               Mary Draper trembled as she spoke, and Damon started as he noticed the expression that rested upon her countenance.
               "But stay," continued the girl, in a calmer tone. "If danger threatens you here. I will defend you! Give me my father's pistols. I do not like the smell of gunpowder, but I prefer it to the disgrace of unresisting defeat. Do not tremble, Aaron, for I will defend you. Hark! The enemy are alongside. You are safe, sir."
               Mary sprang forward as she spoke and seized the heavy pistols that hung in the berth which had been her father's, and with a careful movement she opened the pan to see that the priming was safe. Damon gazed upon her, but he did not speak.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               THE DOUBLE BATTLE.
               CORDON WARREN walked his quarterdeck like a monarch. His tall, stout form was borne erect—his deep black eyes flashed with impatient zeal, and the boldness of his defiant look shed a sort of halo about him. His men gazed upon him with feelings akin to worship, and as they looked they felt the victory already won.
               "They are coming up under the starboard main and mizzen chains," said the young captain. "Lay low beneath the bulwarks, my brave boys. Lay low. Wait for my word, and when you fire be sure that your ball does its duty. We have nothing to fear from this batch. Down! down! Here they come. — sh! Not a word. Cock your pistols. Hold them steadily. Have your cutlasses ready."
               The boats were now fairly alongside, and the officer of the first boat hailed the ship.
               "Ay, ay, sir," returned Warren, looking over the quarter-rail.
               "What are you?"
               "There is our flag."
               "Yes, I saw it, but we'll have another one in its place very soon. I have come to take possession of, your ship."
               "Very well," returned Gordon. "Here she lays."
               "Where are your men?"
               "They are about the deck."
               "Let me see them."
               "You shall if you come on board."
               "Ha! that smacks of resistance," cried the Englishman, starting up in the stern-sheets and waving his hand to his men. "Lay along under the chains," he continued; and then turning to the other boat he added: "Lay you under the mizzen. We'll take the pride out of that fellow. Leap now, boys!"
               "Up, my brave men!" shouted Gordon, as the Englishmen began to clamber up the chains. "Fire!"
               The American seamen aimed their pistols carefully, and over a dozen of the enemy fell back—some into the boats, and some into the water. The remainder hesitated for a moment, and then, at the command of their officer, they sprang up the side of the ship.
               "Now for the Yankee flag!" cried Gordon. "It hangs at our peak. Don't let it come down, boys. Back with them! Back with them!"
               The Americans had every advantage, and the enemy soon discovered it, for not one of them gained the ship's deck. Many of them reached the rail, but they were no sooner up than a well-directed blow knocked them back; and in less than five minutes the lieutenant called his men back to the boats, and then shoved off. There were thirty men under command of the lieutenant when he left the frigate, but he returned with only fourteen.
               "We shall have heavier work the next time," said the young captain; "for see—the frigate is preparing to get out her heavy boats."
               The frigate had clewed up her courses, braced in her fore and main yards, and the Americans could see that she was getting up her yard and stay tackle falls, and by the time the two defeated boats had reached her, she had hoisted out two of the cutters and had hooked on to the launch.
               Warren hastened to the forward companionway, and told the men there not to come up yet, for their deck was being watched from the Englishman's foretop. He bade them have their pistols ready, but not to move till he bade them.
               "They will report that we have but about twenty men," he said; "and we may have an advantage in that. Go, lay low till you are wanted."
               One of the Americans had been wounded, but none had been killed, and even the wounded man had only received a flesh cut in the left shoulder, and as soon as it was bound up he declared himself ready again for duty.
               "Mr. Jones," said the captain, calling to his mate, "in less than an hour it will be dark. The sun is not more than fifteen minutes above the horizon, and in all probability we shall have a breeze when he goes down. Don't you think the atmosphere feels light?"
               "Very," returned the mate. "I noticed it some time since."
               "Lubins, go below and see how the barometer stands."
               The man went to the cabin, and when he returned he reported that the mercury stood at not quite twenty-nine inches!
               Gordon started.
               "Not quite twenty-nine?" he repeated.
               "No, sir."
               "It was at thirty this noon. By heavens, Jones, there's a blow in store for us. God grant that it hold off till after dark, and then we will give that fellow the slip. Ah, here they come. Hand me that glass, Lubins."
               The captain levelled the glass upon the boats which had left the frigate's side. There were the launch, and the first and second cutters.
               "There are thirty men in that launch," said Gordon; fifteen in the first cutter, and fifteen in the second. Sixty of them, besides three officers. Sixty-three in all. Now, my men, we've got work to do; but upon my soul I believe we can do it. Among us all we have fifty pistols. Ha! there comes another cutter," he exclaimed, as he saw the frigate's third cutter come around under the bows from the starboard side. "Twelve men in her—that makes seventy-five. If they take us it shall be at their cost."
               As Warren spoke he closed his glass and hung it upon its beckets by the side of the binnacle. The courses were clewed up, and the deck cleared, and then the captain turned his attention upon the boats again. They were within hailing distance, and in three minutes would be alongside.
               "Now, my men," cried the captain, approaching the forward companion-way, "hurry on deck. Do not show yourselves. Crawl along upon your hands and knees and lay beneath the rail."
               The men obeyed the injunction of their commander, and again the latter went aft. As the enemy's boats approached the ship they separated, the launch and third cutter heading for the starboard side, while the first and second cutters came up under the opposite chains. As first Gordon was somewhat disappointed by this movement, but he resolved to accommodate himself to it, and to this end he divided his men, placing nineteen under the larboard rail, and twenty-two under the starboard. One half of the men were to fire at the first word, they having only one pistol each, and then the others were to rise and fire when the second word was passed. The nine extra pistols were placed in the hands of the coolest men, to be used in cases of emergency after the enemy had boarded, Gordon keeping one for himself.
               At length the boats touched the ship's sides, and with a loud shout the enemy sprang for the chains. As soon as some forty of them had reached the channels the Yankee captain gave the word.
               "Shove your pistols close to their heads," he cried. "Don't, on any account, waste a ball."
               The fire was given, and it proved a destructive one, for the pistols were almost resting their muzzles upon their objects. The check, however, was but momentary, for as the dead men fell back, the others gave another loud shout and sprang up again.
               In another moment, Warren again passed the word to fire, and on the instant the party in reserve sprang to their feet. Some twenty of the enemy were already upon the rails, and nearly every ball took effect. The few who were not knocked back by the fire were struck down with the heavy cutlasses, and for some moments all was consternation in the boats. At least thirty of the enemy were either killed or totally disabled, so that not quite fifty were left for service; but the quiet was not of long duration, for as soon as the dying men were pulled back into the boats, the officers sprang up the ship's sides and their men followed them. They came over both rails at nearly the same time. They had fired many of their pistols from the boats without much effect, and as they reached the merchantman's deck they discharged only a few shots, and then took to their cutlasses.
               The fight was now hand to hand, and the Americans fell together upon the quarter-deck. Warren's tall form was conspicuous wherever the blows fell thickest, and his heavy cutlass was reeking with the blood of the enemy. He felt that all depended upon him; but he knew that brave hearts and stout arms were with him. He saw the leader of the British in a stout lieutenant, and he sprang towards him. Their cutlasses met, and for a moment they clashed together without effect. The Briton was an adept in the art, and he pressed our hero hard; but yet Warren was the superior. He heard the deafening clash about him—he knew that his men were gallantly doing their duty, but he saw some of them falling. In another moment his cutlass would have cleft the lieutenant's skull in twain had not two more of the enemy fell upon him. One of them he struck upon the shoulder, and then he fell back towards the taffarel. It was only a slight wound he had given to the third man, and he now had the three upon him. Warren had discharged both his pistols, and for some moments he held himself unharmed before the opposing trio.
               But the Yankee captain knew that such a contest must soon terminate, for he could not hold out. Twice had he wounded the lieutenant, but still the blows fell upon his blade as thickly as ever.
               "Stand back!" at that moment sounded a silvery voice by his side. "Stand back, Gordon!"
               The captain instinctively moved upon one side, and on the next instant the report of a pistol rang out upon the air, and one of the Englishmen fell. In another moment a second report followed, and a second of the trio fell, and as the last man fell backwards upon the deck, Warren's cutlass came down with a death-stroke upon the lieutenant's head. Then Gordon Warren turned, and by his side stood Mary Draper with the two empty pistols in her hands. He met her beaming look, and an electric shock went through his frame.
               "Don't stop to speak," she uttered. "See, see—the enemy are giving way!"
               A simple "God bless you!" fell from Warren's lips, and then he dashed forward to where the fight was still going on in the gangway. A few more strokes of his cutlass had felled two more of the enemy to the deck, and then came the cry for quarters.
               "Hold!" shouted Warren, as he waved his dripping cutlass above his head. "Strike not another blow. We have gained the victory, and that is enough."
               In an instant the clash of arms ceased, and all was silent. The men brushed the reeking sweat from their brows and gazed around upon each other. In the starboard gangway were huddled thirteen of the enemy!
               
               "Go," said the Yankee captain, as he turned to this sad remnant of the number who had been sent to capture him. "Go back to your ship, and tell your commander that we are not to be easily conquered. Your third cutter will hold you all. The other three boats we will keep. Go, now."
               The Englishmen turned towards the mizzen rigging, below the chains of which lay their third cutter, and one by one they descended to the boat. The sun had sank to its western home, and the deepening shades of gloom were settling upon the broad Atlantic when the boat put off. An hour before, seventy-five stout men had come forth from the frigate on an errand of war, but now only thirteen of them were returning to tell the tale of their conflict with the Yankee ship!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE GALE.
               FOR some time after the enemy had gone young Warren stood by the wheel and gazed upon his men. Only eleven of them had fallen. Thirty brave fellows were still left to him, and though a few of them were wounded, yet most of them were fit for duty.
               "Heaven bless you, my brave boys!" he uttered, as he took a step forward and raised his hands towards them.
               A loud shout burst upon the air, and then the young commander turned to where Mary Draper still stood.
               "Mary," he said, "my whole soul is yours, my life, my all."
               The maiden's bright eyes beamed—a deep flush suffused her face, and she bowed her head to hide the emotions that had sprang up to view.
               "I saved your life, and I am content," she murmured; and while the glad crew pealed forth their encomiums upon her she turned and descended to the cabin.
               Warren gazed for a moment upon the spot where she had just stood, and then, while a deep sigh escaped his lips, he turned his attention to the ship.
               "See there," said the mate, as he pointed his finger off to where the sun had set. "See that long streak of light. That is not the light of the sun."
               Warren looked off to the western horizon, and there he noticed the strange appearance which Jones had pointed out. It was a long bank of light, and might at first have been taken for the last glow of the departed sun; but a closer examination proved to the contrary, for it bore a sort of deathly hue, and it did not rest upon the surface of the water.
               "That's a bank of wind," said Warren.
               "Yes," added the mate; "and a heavy one, too. There'll be snapping work when that fellow opens his batteries, you'd better believe. So we'd better fix for it."
               The men understood the nature of the new danger that threatened them, and they set at work with a will.
               "Cheerily, my boys," cried Warren, as he passed the word for furling the top-gallant sail and getting the yards ready to send on deck. "This gale will be our salvation. If it were to remain calm an hour longer, the frigate might be towed alongside of us and blow our ship out of water. So work lively."
               With the aid of his glass the captain could see that the Englishman was also preparing for the gale, for her royal yards had been sent down, and her men were furling the top-gallant sails.
               Ere long the American ship was in fit order for the blow. Her top-gallant masts had been sent on deck and securely lashed, her topsails close-reefed and then furled, and her courses were also furled. The only canvass left spread were the fore and main staysails.
               "Captain Warren," said the mate, after the ship had been thus trimmed, "will it be fit for us to keep all these bodies upon the deck? We must clear up and sand down, sir."
               "I know it, Jones, but I hate to throw the Englishmen overboard without a word of ceremony."
               "So do I; but what can we do? I think we might lower the bodies into the launch and then set her adrift. We shall have time to do it before the gale breaks, if we hurry."
               "I will be governed by the wishes of the crew," returned Warren.
               The men were accordingly consulted, and they were unanimously in favor of the mate's proposition. Lanterns were lighted, and after searching over all the bodies, thirty-two of the enemy were found. The others who fell had never reached the ship's deck, so it was evident that thirty men had been either shot or drowned before the enemy had boarded. These thirty-two bodies were lowered into the frigate's launch, and then the boat was shoved off. The first and second cutters were also cut adrift from the larboard chains and pushed off out of the way. Then the bodies of the eleven Americans who had fallen, were gathered together and laid upon a spare sail in the hold, after which the hatch was replaced and battened down.
               All hands now awaited the coming of the gale. Not a breath had yet fanned the staysails, and the atmosphere was becoming more and more oppressive. It was dark—too dark to see the frigate, and though there seemed to be no clouds, yet not a star could be seen. The whole vault of heaven looked ghastly in its hue, like one great eyeless face of death. It was hard work to breathe—the expansion of the lungs required an effort. When one spoke, the voice sounded dead, seeming like a dull report in an exhausted air-bell. That bank of dull light in the west was still visible, but its color had changed to a more sickly hue, and it reached up higher into the heavens.
               "This cannot last much longer," said the mate.
               "No," returned the captain. "Something must soon come to fill this vacuum. It will be here soon enough."
               "Let it come," resumed Jones. "We are prepared for it, and I think the old ship will stand it. Will you lay to, or shall you scud?"
               "I shall scud. In all probability the frigate will lay to if she can, and the further we get from her the better. Under our staysails we can easily get before it when it comes, and then we'll let her go. We have see room enough, and nothing in our way. Let the staysail sheets be well eased off, so that they shall not be struck too flat, for this gale will take us nearly on the beam."
               Five minutes more passed, and then a low moaning sound broke upon the ear. It seemed like the roaring of a goaded bull in the distance, but it came swiftly on. The men instinctively grasped whatever stood in their way for support, and in a moment more the demon of the gale burst upon them. The ship quivered at every joint as the mad tempest rushed upon her—she bowed low down beneath its power, and then, seeming to shake off the first terrific grasp, she arose and leaped forth upon the boiling waters. The sheet of the main staysail snapped like a piece of pack-thread, and the convass was instantly stripped into ribbons; but the fore staysail held, and beneath its influence the ship was put before the wind. In a short time the headway was steady, and having ing put two of the best men at the wheel, Captain Warren went below.
               "Ah, captain," said Mary Draper, "this is a terrible blow."
               "It is a hard one."
               "Think there will be danger?" asked the supercargo.
               Warren turned his eyes upon the speaker, and a slight look of contempt curled about his lips.
               "I think our worst danger is passed," he replied, with peculiar emphasis. Then he added:
               "But after all, I know not but that our safety may be all owing to the noble heroism of this fair lady."
               "Do not flatter me too much, sir," murmured Mary.
               "There's no danger of that," said the young captain.
               "I only did my duty, sir."
               "Duty, Miss Draper? Ah, it was not your duty to risk your life in a battle from the din of which even one of the sterner sex might shrink. But since you saved my life, I shall not be inclined to find fault."
               "Gordon," said Aaron Damon, as he approached the captain with a trembling step, "you will think I am a coward?"
               Warren looked upon the supercargo, but he made no reply.
               "O, sir, do not blame me for what has passed. It is not my fault—it is my nature. I was made so, and I cannot help it. Had I gene on deck I should have been but a useless body in your way. The sight of blood unnerves me. The men will hate me. They will scorn me. O, Gordon, pity me, but do not blame me. This storm has no terror for me compared with the sight of a loaded pistol."
               Warren did fairly pity the poor fellow, for he saw where was the infirmity.
               "I have no blame for you," he said. "Everything is as well as it could have been had we have had another man with us. If here was a gap, your fair betrothed has more than filled it up."
               "You will not blame me, then?"
               "No. You are not to blame for that which you cannot avoid."
               Warren felt himself softened towards the poor supercargo, for he saw that he was really suffering in consequence of his natural weakness, but he could not look upon him as a true man; when he thus lacked the heart of even a delicate woman; for the thought forced itself upon him that even to protect the fair girl before him, Damon would not possess the requisite courage.
               The lamp that hung in the cabin was lighted, and opening a locker at the foot of his berth the captain took out a chart of the Atlantic, and opened it upon the table. Some ten minutes he examined it, and then he rolled it up and put it back.
               The wind howled and shrieked through the rigging, and the heavy masts creaked in their steppings, but the ship was yet quite steady. She flew off freely before the gale, leaping from sea to sea like a stag.
               At nine o'clock, Mary retired to her state room, and having left the deck in charge of the mate, the captain sought his berth, leaving directions that he should be called at midnight.
               Warren was much fatigued, and he quickly fell asleep, but before midnight he was awakened by a heavy shock, and as he sprang from his berth he heard the rushing of water above him. He hastened on deck, where he found that a heavy sea had broken over the stern. The gale was still in power, but it was not so wild as it had been.
               "Some of these heavy seas roll on faster than we do," said the mate, as Warren came on deck.
               "Yes," returned the captain, while he cast his eyes over the deck to see if any damage had been done; but everything had been so faithfully attended to that no injury had been sustained. "Yes," he repeated, "and we must keep out of their way, or we shall get knocked under. You'd better call all hands, sir, and set the fore-topsail. It is nearly midnight, and by the time the sail is set, it will be time to change the watch."
               All hands were accordingly called, and ere long the starboard clew of the fore-topsail was sheeted home. It was a dangerous place on the fore-topsail yard, but the men went bravely at the work, and in due time the larboard clew was loosed and sheeted down. It will be remembered that the sail had been close-reefed before it was furled, so all that was now necessary, after the sheets were belayed, was to hoist the yard clear of the cap. As the ship felt the force of the topsail she started forward with renewed speed, and it was soon evident that for a while, at least, she could keep clear of the heavy seas that were rolling in after her.
               As soon as the deck had been once more cleared up, the mate went below, and Captain Warren took charge of the ship. As he was left to himself his thoughts and feelings were almost as wild as the troubled sea that raved so furiously about him.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE MAIDEN'S SECRET.
               FROM an hour after midnight till the first streaks of dawn appeared in the east the gale gradually lost its power. A close reefed foresail had been set to keep the ship ahead of the heavy seas, and the most experienced and able men had been kept at the wheel. At daylight, however, the gale had gone, and when the sun rose it came up from its billowy bed all bright and clear. The sea yet looked wild, for great mountains of water rolled along upon the ocean's bosom, and it was not until two hours past sunrise that it was deemed safe to bring the ship to the wind.
               As nearly as could be ascertained from the reckoning, the ship had made two degrees of easterly longitude since the observation of the day before, though she had made but a few minutes of northing. By the middle of the forenoon the wind was out from the southward and eastward, and the ship's head was put upon her true course for home, which gave her the wind somewhat abaft the beam.
               As soon as the top-gallant masts had been fidded, and the yards sent aloft, and the rigging all set up, the decks were cleared for the performance of the melancholy service that awaited the attendance of the crew. The bodies of those who had fallen in the late gallant action were brought on deck and sewed neatly up in their respective hammocks. Enough of ballast was placed at the feet of each to cause them to sink immediately, and when all had been prepared, Captain Warren stepped forward, and offered up a heartfelt prayer for the souls of the departed. There was a moment's pause—a silence—and then a heavy plunge. The eleven bodies had sunk at once beneath the bosom of the ocean grave, and when the men turned away from the scene they were very sad and thoughtful.
               A week passed away, during which the ship kept on her course with fair winds. Mary Draper had recovered from the first pangs of her grief, but had not been seen to smile. When she walked the deck it was with a grave, 
                     melaneholy
                     melancholy
                   countenance, and often the color would entirely forsake her cheeks beneath the influence of some thought of her own.
               It was a calm, beautiful night, with just wind enough to fill the sails, and Captain Warren had taken the deck. It was past midnight—perhaps half an hour—when Mary Draper came up from the cabin. The stars were twinkling in the heavens, and for a long time she stood by the weather rail and gazed up into the glittering firmament. Then she crossed over to the leeward, and leaning over the rail just forward of the mizzen rigging, she gazed down upon the sparkling water.
               The young captain had spoken but little with the fair girl during the week that had last passed. He had even avoided her, and he could not but notice that on more than one occasion she had seemed anxious to avoid him. On the present occasion, however, he could not resist the temptation to speak with her, and accordingly he approached her. As he came near he thought he heard a low sob break from her bosom, and in a low tone he pronounced her name. She turned her head, and Warren could see where the starbeams were reflected from tears that had found a resting-place upon her cheeks.
               "Mary," he said, as he drew more closely to her side. "I can mourn with you for the death of your parent."
               The maiden started, and gazed up into the speaker's face.
               "Yes," she returned, in a half absent manner, "I know you sympathize with me."
               "I do, indeed; for I know how good a father you have lost."
               "He was good. He's in heaven now, and I ought not to weep for him. People must be happy in heaven, Gordon."
               "Ah, yes," murmured the captain, not a little moved by the strange manner and tone of the maiden's voice. "To me it seems that all is calm and peaceful there. There are no sins and no suffering. Beneath the smiles of God all is genial love and joy. It is a happy thought, Mary, that we have a home beyond this world—a home where grief can come no more—where tears shall be wiped from off all faces, and all our troubles cease. I have a father and mother there—a brother and a sister. They have left me all alone upon the earth. No—not alone; for I have good friends left to love me—friends who care for me and wish me well. Look up there, Mary, where those bright stars shine. They look to me like diamond steps upon which our souls can climb up to God—where your parents and where my parents dwell."
               The heart of Mary Draper was hushed, and for a moment she calmly gazed up into the starlit heavens. Then her eyes rested upon the face of him who had spoken to her, and tears again started forth upon her cheeks.
               "You yet feel your loss," continued Warren, as he instinctively laid his hand upon her shoulder.
               "Yes," she replied, in a trembling voice. "My heart has—"
               The fair girl hesitated, and as her eyes were bent upon the flashing water she trembled like an aspen. In an instant a strange truth flashed upon Gordon's mind. Every look, every movement, confirmed him in the thought, and under the impulse of a feeling which he could not repress he resolved to speak. He cast his eyes about him, but none of the men were near. There were two of them at the wheel, but all the rest were forward.
               "Tell me," he whispered, with his hand still resting upon Mary's shoulder, "was not your father ever kind?"
               "Yes, yes," quickly replied she.
               "And has he not left you well provided for?"
               "Provided for?"
               "Yes, Mary. Has he not left for you a world of happiness in the future?"
               The maiden trembled, but did not answer.
               "Speak to me, Mary. Tell me if you will not be happy as soon as the grief for the loss of your parent wears away?"
               "Alas! no!"
               "And why?"
               "O, Gordon, I cannot tell you."
               "Yes, tell me?"
               "I must not."
               "But for my own sake I would know."
               "No, no," murmured the maiden. "Let my cause of grief remain with me."
               "Mary, I have reasons for asking this question. Answer me, O, answer me?"
               "It could not benefit you to know."
               "Yet I would hear your answer."
               As Gordon Warren spoke, his hand slid across to the maiden's opposite shoulder, and he drew her upon his bosom. He could fancy that he heard her heart beat, and he knew that she must feel the throbbing of his own. She did not resist the young captain's movement, but she pillowed her head upon his breast, and there it quietly reposed.
               "Ah, Mary. I, too, have sorrow for what has happened. Blame me not that I now tell you the truth. I may be wrong in doing it, but I must speak. Two years of companionship with you has not been lost upon my heart. I first learned to love your society because you were like the sister I had lost; but love like mine could not stop there. One by one the strong cords of my love went forth, until at length my whole heart was gone. It was all yours—all, all. I loved you as a pure heart alone can love. You were the first to awaken the voice of the gentle god in my bosom, and about your soul my strong affection has wound itself. I spoke not of it, for I deemed that the season had not come. When your father died he spoke that sentence which went like an ice-bolt to my heart. I knew not till then that any engagement existed between yourself and Mr. Damon. But it is past, and I shall try to seek for other joys. I may not find them, unless, indeed, you should prosper and be happy, that would give me some joy, at least. I cherished the hope in my soul that my love was returned. I thought I had seen in your looks, in your tone, some beams of affection for me. At least such thoughts have made me happy, and they are treasured up as bright tints in my memory. Forgive me for having thus spoken. You are not offended?"
               "Offended?" murmured the maiden, raising her eyes to her companion's face. "O, no."
               "Perhaps you knew that I loved you?"
               "I thought you did."
               "And was your heart mine in return?"
               "All, all."
               "Great heavens! All mine own, and yet not for my possession."
               "You know all now," said Mary; and as she spoke a deep sob broke from her lips.
               "Too late! too late!" groaned Gordon. "O, I might have spoken with your father. I know he would have been kind to us."
               "He was pledged to do as he did, Gordon," returned the fair girl, striving with all her power to suppress her wild emotions, and at the same time rising from her reclining posture. "For years Aaron and myself have been pledged to each other. When my mother died, I went to live with Aaron's father. I was then thirteen years old, and Aaron was eighteen. My father sailed in Mr. Damon's employ. Three years ago, Mr. Damon died, and my father and myself were by his bedside. He asked me if I loved his son, and I told him that I did. Aaron had been like a brother to me—I never had a brother of my own—and I did love him; but it was a sister's affection that warmed my soul then. Ah, I did not know all the mysteries of the human heart then."
               "The heart is a strange thing," replied Gordon; "but yet it seldom deceives us. We may sometimes misinterpret its language, but could it speak for itself—could it tell in unmistakable words all its emotions, we should be wiser men and women."
               "So I know it now," resumed Mary, "but I knew it not then. I told Mr. Damon that I loved his son, and before he died my father promised that I should be Aaron's wife if the young man proved himself worthy. From that time Aaron has been with my father. You know the rest. It is a fearful sacrifice, but it must be made. I meant that my secret should never leave me, but you have dragged it from me."
               "But Aaron—he may—"
               "No, no," quickly uttered Mary; "he loves me."
               "Not as I do. I know from his very nature that he is not capable of such love."
               
               "He is kind, nevertheless," murmured Mary. "I think he looks more with the eye of business upon our nuptials than with the heart's holiest love; but that is his nature. His property and mine are left together; and it all rests upon our union. My fate is sealed, and I must abide by it."
               "O, say not so. Some kind providence shall sever these bonds. Your heart is all mine, and I am wholly yours. I cannot see you another's."
               "Yet so it must be."
               "No, it shall not. I will tell all to Damon. I will tell him how miserable he will make you."
               "Hush, Gordon. Damon did not bind these chains upon me. You know the last pledge I gave my dying father. O, if you love me you will not speak of this to him. Promise me this?"
               "I cannot refuse you. I will do as you bid me. But, O, why could not your father have known the truth!"
               "Hush! Speak no more, or I shall be more miserable," said the unhappy girl, as she wiped the tears from her cheeks. "I shall try to be happy when I am Aaron's wife. I shall look to God for strength."
               "Then I will not make your heart heavier," returned Warren. "It is a hard fate. I hope Aaron will love you as I do."
               At this moment the man at the wheel struck two bells, and called for his relief. The captain turned towards the binnacle, and Mary Draper hurried below. Her presence had caused no particular notice from the crew, for she often came on deck at night when the weather was pleasant.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               CAPTURED.
               WHEN Warren was once more left to his own reflections his thoughts were painful and torturing. In his youthful days he had seen Mary Draper. They had been children at the same school, and though Gordon was five years her senior, yet he had loved to listen to her cheerful prattle and enjoy her sweet smiles. At an early age he was obliged to commence the earning of his own fortune, and the sea had been chosen as the scene of his labors. From that time he saw little of his pleasant schoolmate until she entered the ship two years previous to the present. This last companionship had ended in love.
               As the young captain walked the deck, his mind dwelt upon the character of him who was to be the husband of the being he himself so fondly loved. He knew that Aaron Damon was not the man to make a noble husband, and in the height of his misery he tried to make himself believe that Damon would be really unkind; but he had no ground for this conclusion. He knew that the supercargo was timid and in a great degree selfish; and that he was also avaricious, but further than this he knew of nothing against him.
               It was hard—it was painful—thus to give up the object of the heart's strong love, but when calmer reason came, the young commander prayed for strength to bear it like a man.
               Time passed on, and the ship made her course well towards home. Between the young captain and Mary Draper there was an unusual degree of reserve. They tried hard to be sociable without betraying the real feelings of their souls, but the task was a hopeless one. Such love as theirs was not to be tampered with, and gradually they grew to be silent and sad when in each other's company. The supercargo was not blind. He saw the continual sadness that dwelt upon Mary's features, and he noticed, too, the corresponding manner of the captain. He asked Mary what troubled her, but she dared not tell him the truth. She said she still mourned for her father. He professed to believe her, and he tried to comfort her. He was really kind and gentle towards her, and in her heart she felt grateful to him.
               
               Damon's manner towards Warren was changed. He seemed to shrink from the young commander's companionship, and often did the latter find the supercargo's eyes fixed strangely upon him.
               "Mr. Warren," said Mary, as she laid her hand upon his arm, while he stood by the cabin table one evening, Damon having just gone on deck; "Aaron fears that I love you better than I do him."
               "Ah!" uttered Gordon, dropping the chart he held in his hand, as he met the trembling gaze of the maiden.
               "He spoke with me about it this afternoon; and O, I dared not tell him the truth. But he was kind."
               "Mary," returned young Warren, in low, tender accents, "I may not smother the love that burns in my bosom. Its fire is too strong, too ardent; but I will endeavor that it shall no more be seen by others. Tell Mr. Damon that he has nothing to fear from me. I cannot be base enough to be treacherous. I have some comfort in the knowledge that I possess your heart, but I will make no opposition to the fulfilment of your father's will. Henceforth Damon shall see nothing of my love for you."
               "O, it will be an empty hand that I give him," said Mary; "but his it is, and I would not pain him by giving him cause for uneasiness. O, Gordon, do not be cold towards me. Let me see you smile sometimes. Let us be friends."
               Warren could not speak. Burning words were upon his lips, but he dared not give them utterance.
               "You will love me, even when I am another's," murmured the fair girl, as she bowed her head.
               The youthful commander saw how her sunny curls trembled, and he saw, too, that a tear had dropped upon her hand. The impulse that moved him then he could not repress. He stooped over and pressed his lips upon the maiden's cheek. He gave her one warm, burning kiss, and then turned quickly away and went on deck.
               Mary Draper quickly raised her head and murmured the name of Gordon, but he had gone. She gazed a moment into the vacancy about her, and then, bursting into tears, she sought her own state-room. Her's was a heart most strangely worked upon. With her whole soul she loved Gordon Warren, for he was to her the perfect type of a man. She had found in him all those qualities of generous sympathy and manly nobleness which were so congenial to her own exalted feelings, and with him her love could find a sure foundation of esteem and respect. But with Damon—alas! how different. The latter was kind, and that was all. Yet the maiden thought not of disobeying her father's will. Her own sense of justice moved her to this, and though in her obeyance she sacrificed the very heaven of earth, she was resolved upon the course.
               Captain Warren remained on deck till midnight, and then he gave the ship in charge to his mate. The ship was now within two days' sail of the Penobscot, and the wind was not only fair, but the prospect was good for its holding so. The air was cold and bracing, for the year had reached well into November.
               "Mr. Jones," said the captain, as he was about giving up the deck, "I wish you to keep a bright look out, for we are just about in the latitude where the English cruisers will be most likely to be plenty."
               "Ay, ay, sir. We will keep our eyes open," returned the mate.
               "Because," resumed Warren, "we shall not have another calm to bless ourselves with."
               "True, we can't expect a calm on the New England coast in November. I wish there could be a moon, though, for the eye don't reach far now."
               "Never mind. The stars shed a little light. Sweep the horizon once in a while with the night-glass."
               Warren took one more look about upon the deck, and then descended to his cabin. At four o'clock he went on deck again, but shortly before daybreak he went below to examine his chart. He had been thus engaged—marking off the night's reckoning upon the chart—some fifteen minutes, when the mate came hastily down.
               "What's the matter?" asked Warren, as he noticed the haste of his officer.
               "There's a sail in sight, sir."
               "A sail?"
               "Yes—a ship."
               "That's unfortunate," said the captain, as he arose from his seat and followed the mate on deck.
               "There, sir," said Jones, pointing off to where the sun was about to rise; "don't you see her tall spars looming up against that red sky. Here, take the glass, and you can make her out more easily."
               Warren took the glass and levelled it.
               "It is a ship," he uttered, "and a man-of-war, too. I can make out her topsails and top-gallant sails. She cannot be over five miles distant."
               "Not more than that?" responded Jones. "But how do you think she's standing?"
               "This way, this way," replied Warren, "and she comes down fast too."
               At this time the ship was heading a very little west of north with the wind east-north-east. The strange sail was directly upon her weather beam, heading nearly west, and consequently had the wind full upon the quarter.
               In fifteen minutes more the sun was up, and the stranger was made out to be a sloop-of-war.
               "I'm afraid our game is up," said Jones.
               "Unfortunate!" uttered Warren. "Unfortunate."
               At that moment, Mary Draper came on deck, and behind her followed Damon.
               "Is there any trouble, captain?" she asked.
               "Look at that?" he returned, pointing to the English man-of-war.
               "Is that an Englishman?" asked the supercargo, while a perceptible tremor shook his frame.
               "Yes."
               "Then we are lost."
               "Not quite so bad as that. Say we are rather found," returned Warren.
               But the poor supercargo could not relish the captain's little bon mot.
               "Of course you will not think of resistance?" he said, while his fear of gunpowder and cold steel made him shudder.
               "There would be but little use in that," replied Warren; "but you must make up your mind to lose all the property you have in this ship, for you see the sloop is heading for us, and we cannot run away."
               "Let it go then," said the supercargo. "I have property enough beside. Only don't fight."
               The captain's lip curled.
               "We shall be taken prisoners, of course," said Mary Draper.
               "Most probably," returned the captain.
               "O, that will be worse than all else."
               "Do not fear too much, for they will be brutes indeed if they treat you ill."
               Damon could not fail to see that in the hour of danger the maiden instinctively turned to Warren for protection; but his own common sense told him the reason of it, and he felt no other pang than a mortification for his own weakness.
               By this time the sun was well up, and the sloop-of-war was unmistakably on the chase; yet the American ship kept on her course. The men saw that their capture was inevitable, and at the request of their young commander they gave up all thoughts of resistance, for they plainly saw that it could not only be of no use, but it might make matters worse for them.
               "Is n't it strange that the fellows don't fire a gun?" said Jones, as the sloop began to come to under the ship's weather quarter, and not more than a quarter of a mile distant.
               "It is curious," returned Warren. "But, by my soul, I'll stand on till he asks me to heave to."
               "Of course we will."
               Fifteen minutes more passed, and the Englishman was so near that the Americans could see the buttons upon the jackets of the men in the sloop's tops.
               
               "Ah, what does that mean?" uttered Jones. "She's luffing up."
               "By heavens, she's going to fire!" replied Warren. "Miss Draper, you had better go below."
               "Yes, Mary," added the supercargo; "let us go down. We can be of no use here."
               But before the maiden had turned to obey, the sloop fired one of her bow guns. The shot—a twenty-four-pounder—came crashing through the quarter-rail, and struck the mainmast just above the pin-rack, passing entirely through and cutting it nearly off. But the captain's attention was for an instant called in another direction.
               Just as the shot struck the mainmast, Aaron Damon uttered a sharp cry of pain, and tottered against the binnacle. Warren sprang to his side.
               "O," he groaned, "I'm killed. Carry me below."
               "But where are you hurt?"
               "Here," he replied, as he pressed his hand upon his left side.
               "It's a splinter from the rail," said Jones.
               Poor Damon groaned with pain, and Mary hastened to his assistance. Two men were called, and just as they started to carry the wounded man below, the mainmast went over the larboard side with a thundering crash, carrying with it the mizzen top-gallant-mast and snapping the fore-topmast off at the cap. None of the men were hurt by the catastrophe, for they had foreseen it and crowded over to the windward.
               "That was a cowardly trick," uttered Warren between his clenched teeth.
               "But it's no loss to us," returned Jones, "except it be the wounding of Mr. Damon; but I hope his hurt is not dangerous."
               "It's a bad one, I fear. But we may as well take in what sail we have left. Clew up the foresail, sir, and haul down the staysail. Lay aft here, a few of you, and clew up the mizzen topsail."
               Ere long the sail was all in and the sloop-of-war had ranged up alongside and hove to, and in fifteen minutes more the American was boarded by a British officer.
               "We didn't mean to give you quite such a blow as that," said the Englishman, as he cast his eyes around upon the deck.
               "Never mind, sir," returned Warren, keeping back the indignation which he knew it would be useless to show. "You only burned your own fingers."
               "You take it coolly, at any rate."
               "Because I have at present no other course."
               "That's philosophical. But come, I want to see what we've got."
               The officer soon made an examination of the ship, and then returned to the sloop. Fifty of the man-of-war's men were sent on board, and in little over an hour the ship had been cleared of the wreck of the masts, and put in as good sailing order as possible. The Americans were all ironed, but left to remain on board their own ship, she having been taken in charge by a lieutenant, and passed midshipman, and twenty men. After this was done the sloop put her head towards Halifax, and the prize fell into her wake. The wind had veered to the eastward since the sun rose, and the crippled vessel made a respectable headway under her forestaysail, foresail, mizzen topsail, spanker, and mizzen staysail, the mizzen stay having been set up to the stump of the mainmast.
               The prisoners were allowed such clothing as they wished for, but they were forced to remain on deck, where they were closely watched. Captain Warren was put upon parole, and allowed the freedom of the deck and his cabin.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE SEPARATION.
               TOWARDS the middle of the afternoon Aaron Damon's wound began to give him, more pain, and at length the torture became almost insupportable. It was a long time before the captors would take any notice of him further than to ask him the cause of his suffering, but when his cries of pain broke so sharply upon their ears they could not help feeling for him. The lieutenant examined the wound, and though the main splinter had been pulled out, yet it was evident that there were pieces of the wood still remaining in the deep wound.
               "Mercy! mercy!" groaned the sufferer, as the officer replaced the rough bandage. "O, give me something for relief."
               "We can do nothing more," said the lieutenant.
               "Then kill me. Do something—anything. I cannot bear this."
               The lieutenant went on deck and conferred with the midshipman. In a few minutes he came back and informed the supercargo that if he desired it he could be sent on board the sloop, where there was an experienced surgeon.
               Damon caught eagerly at the proposal, and the officer went to make the necessary signals.
               "Let me be carried on deck where there is fresh air," he said. "I am burning up here. Where is Mary?"
               "She is here," returned the maiden, bending over the wounded man, and bathing his heated brow with cold water from a dipper which she held in her hand.
               Aaron turned his head and gazed up into the girl's face, but he did not speak, and in a few minutes more he was lifted from the berth and 
                     caried
                     carried
                   on deck, Mary Draper following him. Captain Warren remained in the cabin, and after the party had gone he rested his elbows upon the table and laid his brow upon his open palms. He had been in this position some five minutes, or more, when he heard a light step upon the ladder, then a hand was laid upon his shoulder, and as he raised his head he found. Mary standing by his side.
               "Gordon," she said, in a low, hushed tone, "I am going on board the other ship."
               "With Aaron?"
               "Yes."
               
               "It is your duty."
               "I know it, and hence I go. He wishes me to accompany him, and I cannot refuse. I have come to bid you farewell. You will think of me sometimes?"
               "I shall see you again, Mary."
               "Perhaps not. Indeed, Gordon, it were better that we should meet no more."
               "What, Mary! never meet again?" uttered Warren, as he put forth his hand and laid it upon the maiden's arm. "Never meet again?"
               "We ought not to," murmured Mary, striving hard to speak calmly. "You know my secret, and you know how my heart is ladened. To be near you only makes me more unhappy."
               "Alas! Mary, I had not thought of that. I knew not—"
               "Stop, stop," quickly interrupted the fair girl. "O, do not misunderstand me. You know my heart is all yours. You know I love you as I can never love another; but I can never be yours. It is only making anguish more keen to dwell near that which we love and which can never be ours. You will not misunderstand me."
               "No, no. I know what you mean, Mary, and I know that you are right. But yet, perhaps in after years we may meet."
               "Yes," returned the maiden, while she began to tremble—"when you have found one whom you can love, and who will share her hand and her heart with you—then we may meet. We shall be calmer then—the pangs of the present will have been soothed, and our wounded hearts healed. Then, Gordon, we may meet. We will be friends then."
               "Ah, Mary," uttered the young captain, as he gazed half-reproachfully, half-sadly, into the maiden's face; "you know but little of such a heart as mine, if you think I can ever share it with another. I should wrong the maiden whom I made my wife, for I should have no heart to give her. But we shall meet again. I know we shall. Forgive me for this. It is pure."
               As he spoke, he drew the fair girl to his bosom and imprinted a warm, tender kiss upon her lips. She returned the pledge. How could she help it? Her heart was not to be crushed thus without one token of its love.
               When Mary Draper again lifted her face it was wet with tears. She had thought to pass that interview without letting her soul thus speak, but it was beyond her power. Until the present moment she had not known the ordeal through which she was to pass; but now the whole truth was open to her mind, and she found that the severing of those tender cords upon which her love had so long lived in secret must cost her a keener anguish than she had conceived of. Again she was unresistingly pressed to the bosom of the man who so truly loved her, and again she felt a warm kiss upon her lips.
               "There," she murmured, "I must go now. O, God bless you, Gordon. Remember me, and sometimes pray—pray—"
               She could speak no more, for deep sobs choked her utterance.
               "Mary, Mary!" exclaimed Warren, starting forward and folding the fair girl once more within his arms. "O, must this thing be? God help me! God help me! Why, why are we thus sundered? Your father did not know your heart—he knew not of your love. O, he meant not to make you miserable. Be mine, be mine!"
               "My father would curse me from heaven."
               "No, no, he would bless you in that you were so happy."
               "And I should break the pledge I gave him, should trample upon his dying charge. Alas, Gordon, that can never be. I must do my duty, even though I break my heart. Hark! There comes the boat. I must go. Farewell!"
               "We shall meet again."
               "In heaven at least," returned Mary; and as she spoke she turned towards the ladder.
               Captain Warren brushed the tears from his face and followed the maiden to the deck. The sloop-of-war had hove to, and sent a boat alongside the prize, and preparations were being made to lower the wounded supercargo into it.
               "Captain," groaned the poor fellow, as he saw his young commander bending over him; "they tell me that I shall be exchanged when I reach Halifax. I shall go home to Castine. If ever you get away from them, I shall see you there."
               "Yes, Damon, I shall see you if you ever return, if we both live to get there."
               "O, I shall live," cried the supercargo. "They tell me I shall."
               "The boat waits," said the lieutenant, who commanded the prize.
               "Then let me be gone. Good-by, Gordon. Mary, come."
               The wounded man was placed upon a grating, to the corners of which were lashed stout lanyards, and thus he was lowered into the boat. Mary Draper trembled violently as the officer laid his hand upon her to lead her forward, and instinctively she drew back.
               "Are you not going, lady?"
               "Going? Yes, yes."
               "Then you must hurry."
               The maiden turned her head towards Warren. There were no tears in her eyes, but a look of intense suffering rested upon her features, and her hands were clasped upon her bosom.
               "God bless you," murmured Gordon.
               Mary's lips trembled, but she spoke not. She turned suddenly pale, and bowing her head she suffered herself to be led towards the gangway, and in a few moments more she was being rowed away from the ship.
               "Upon my soul, captain, I think that girl loves you," said the lieutenant, after the boat had gone.
               Warren took no notice of the remark, but silently he stood and watched the departing boat. At length it reached the sloop-of-war, and the young American captain saw Mary Draper go on board the enemy's ship. Until the sloop had filled away did he stand and gaze upon the gangway where last he had seen the form of her he loved, and then he walked forward where his men were confined. Jones was sitting upon one of the spare spars which came out near the fore-hatch, and as the captain approached him he arose to his feet.
               "Captain," he said, as he smote the irons of his wrists together, but speaking in a tone that could not be heard by the sentry, "can we not contrive some means to get clear of this scrape?"
               "None that I know of," returned Warren.
               "But you are at liberty, captain, and might contrive some means of—"
               "Stop, Jones. I am at liberty only on my word of honor. I would not break that, even to gain my ship back again."
               "Then our case is hopeless."
               "Perhaps it is; but we must bear up as best we can."
               "And yet it's hard for thirty of us brave fellows to be kept here in British irons."
               Warren started at the thought, and while he gazed upon the manacles that confined the wrists of his mate a change came over his countenance. He forgot the maiden he had lost, and his mind dwelt upon the fate of his faithful men.
               "Jones," said he, as he laid his hands together with a decisive expression, "if we get clear of this durance we will scour the seas till England shall know the weight of our hand. If you can manage to get clear of your irons I will not be behind when it comes to blows. But I think you will find that a hard job, for you are closely watched. But never mind—we will not rest long as prisoners. Hold your heart strong—there is hope yet. We will yet sail under the flag of Columbia, and when once we unfurl the stars and stripes to the breeze, we will wipe out the stain of these bonds."
               At that moment the sentry came by the spot, and Warren walked aft, but before he went he noticed that the features of his mate were lighted up with hope.
               When it had become dark a double guard was placed upon the prisoners, and shortly afterwards Warren went below. It seemed gloomy and lonely there, now that Mary had gone, and the parole prisoner sighed as he thought of his own and the maiden's fate.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE SEA LION.
               DURING the night Warren was aroused by a scuffle on deck. He slipped out from his berth, but ere he reached the ladder all was quiet, and in a moment more the lieutenant came down.
               "Ah," uttered the latter, "you heard the row, did you?"
               "I heard something. What was it?"
               "Nothing, only some of your men got their irons off; but it liked to have been an ugly job though. That mate of yours is a rough fellow."
               "Somewhat," returned Warren.
               "Somewhat! Why, he's a regular savage. Blast him, he knocked down five of my men before we got his irons on again. But we'll fix him when we get into port."
               "And when will that be?"
               "Perhaps to-morrow night. This old hulk don't make much headway."
               "You mean to go into Halifax, I suppose?"
               "Of course."
               Warren again sought his berth, and there he remained till morning, and when he last awoke he was startled by another unusual sound upon the deck. It was a hurrying of feet to and fro across the deck, accompanied by the lieutenant's voice calling for signals. Then came the blows of an axe, and shortly afterwards there was a crash, as though the foremast had gone over the side. The young American captain sprang upon the deck as soon as he could dress himself, where he found things in strange confusion. The foremast had been cut away, and the axe was just being laid to the mizzen, and our hero found that the sloop of-war had hove to and was lowering a boat. The sun was half an hour high.
               "What does all this mean, sir?" asked Warren, in surprise, as he approached the lieutenant.
               "Mean? Why, it means that you wont have a very valuable craft to make port in."
               "I don't understand."
               "Ah? Then just look off there," replied the officer, pointing with his finger to the south.
               Warren looked, and an exclamation of joy escaped his lips as he saw an American frigate looming up astern.
               "That does look agreeable, doesn't it?" said the Englishman.
               "I must say that it does," returned Warren.
               The frigate was not more than three miles distant, and was coming up rapidly on a bowline, the wind being nearly east-north-east. The merchantman now lay a helpless hulk upon the water, with the wrecks of her fore and mizzen masts hanging alongside. In a few minutes the boat from the sloop was at the gangway, and the stern-boat of the prize had been lowered. The prize crew were hurried into them, for there was not a moment to lose.
               "Hold a moment," cried Warren, as the lieutenant was about stepping over the side. "Let some of my men go with you and bring back the wounded supercargo and the girl."
               "Could n't think of it, sir."
               "Yes, yes, it will not detain you."
               "Nonsense! The fellow wont be fit to move; though I suppose it's the girl you want most?"
               "I want them both," returned Warren, hardly realizing what he said.
               "And you wont have either of them," retorted the lieutenant. "You had better thank your stars that we are forced to leave you with liberty."
               As the officer spoke, he leaped into the boat and then ordered his men to bend themselves to their cars. Both boats shot swiftly away from the hulk, and they were but a few minutes in reaching the sloop. The boat that had been taken from the prize was set adrift, while the other one was run up to her davits, and then the Englishman filled away. She could stand on her course for Halifax with a taut bowline, and the frigate kept on after her, leaving the dismasted merchantman two miles to leeward as she passed her.
               Warren's first movement was to set his companions free, which job he accomplished without much difficulty, and then he took his glass and followed the movements of the two men-of-war. It was soon evident that the frigate did not gain much, if any, on the sloop, and our hero was forced to believe that Mary Draper would be carried into Halifax. It was of her he thought, for his soul was filled with bitter grief on her account. He could not give her up as lost to him, and yet reason told him that it must be so. Perhaps he had a faculty of hoping against reason.
               But he was called from his unpleasant reflections by the exigencies about him, and he turned his attention to the care of his ship. The masts and sails were yet drifting alongside, held by portions of the larboard rigging, and it was resolved upon that some sort of jury masts should be rigged. The sails were unbent with some difficulty and got inboard, and by noon two jury masts, composed of the mizzen-topmast and the fore-yard, were rigged, and as much sail set upon them as possible. The ship was then headed west-north-west, on which course she stood till dark, making about three knots an hour. The wind continued steady through the night, and at midnight the course was altered to northwest.
               Shortly after daybreak the lookout at the head reported land. In half an hour it was made out to be Mount Desert Rock, and bore three points upon the weather-bow.
               "Thank God! that looks like home," fervently ejaculated Warren.
               "Yes," returned Jones. "We can reach the old Penobscot before dark."
               "If this wind holds we certainly shall. You may let her fall off a point."
               Early in the afternoon Isle Au Haut was passed, and just at dark the old ship let go her anchors in the channel near the southern extremity of Isleborough, some fifteen miles south of Castine. On the next morning the anchors were hove up, and taking the flood tide the ship made her way without difficulty to Castine. Warren sought out Mr. Adam Blake, the attorney of both Captain Draper and Aaron Damon, and into his hands he resigned the ship and cargo.
               Blake was an elderly man, of a pleasant countenance, and after the young captain had given him a full account of the voyage, he expressed a desire to visit the ship.
               
               A dense crowd had collected about the wharf where the merchantman lay, and when Warren and Blake approached the spot a volley of huzzas rent the air. The people had heard the story of the young man's exploits, and they were anxious to express their feelings of admiration. Warren returned their salutations, with thankful bows and smiles, and when he reached the deck of the ship he conducted Blake at once to the cabin.
               "The cargo, then, is all safe?" said Blake, after he had spent some time in examining the ship's papers.
               "Yes, sir."
               "How much of it, do you own?"
               "My share was shipped for eight thousand dollars."
               "So much as that?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "And you ought to have a salvage on the rest."
               "O, no, sir."
               "But I say, you had. Had it not been for you, the ship would never have reached her destination."
               "That may be, sir; but yet I did only what my duty required."
               "Yet you are entitled to a salvage. This whole cargo is worth at least a hundred thousand dollars."
               "As much as that, sir?"
               "Yes," returned the old gentleman. "And now, Captain Warren, I think you've hit the Penobscot in just the right season. How many men have you?"
               "Thirty, besides myself."
               "And you say they are brave fellows?"
               "Brave?" repeated the young man, with a look of animation. "Upon my soul, sir, thirty braver men never trod a deck."
               "I believe you. Now tell me what you intend to do."
               "I mean to sell out my share of this cargo, and purchase a share in the first good privateer I can find."
               "And your men will join you?"
               "With their whole souls."
               "Then you've hit the spike exactly on the head," cried Blake, as he leaped to his feet and brought his hands together with a slap. "Captain Warren, I have just the vessel for you. She is a brigantine of over two hundred tons. She was built in Maine, sir, on the Penobscot, sir; and I doubt much if you can find anything out of Baltimore that can show so clean a pair of heels. I bought twelve guns—short eighteens—of a privateer who had taken them from an English brig-of-war, and I have put on board a brass gun—a long one, sir, 'twill send a ball as far as you please. Say the word, and I will take your share of this cargo and give you my brigantine."
               Warren could hardly credit his senses.
               "Do you mean what you have said, Mr. Blake?"
               "Most assuredly I do."
               "But you only mean to lend me the brigantine?"
               "Rather an unsafe thing to lend to a set of fiery fellows in such times as these," returned the old man, with a smile. "No, sir, I mean to make an exchange with you. To be sure, the little craft cost me, as she stands, a number of thousand dollars, but I had her built for service, and into service she must go. You will feel better to tread a deck of your own than you would to tread one that belonged to somebody else. However, if you are fortunate, you may at some future time let me share, perhaps, in your profits; but that is not binding."
               Warren now saw that the old attorney was in earnest, and he began to express his thanks, but Blake stopped him.
               "Wait till you have seen the little beauty," he said. "Come, we'll go now."
               Warren followed the old man on deck, and called upon Jones to accompany him. Blake led the way to the western part of the town, and there lay the brigantine in the river, some dozen rods from the wharf.
               "What do you think of her?" asked the attorney.
               "What can I think, but that she is a beauty?" returned Warren.
               "A perfect angel," uttered Jones, with an emphatic meeting of his fists.
               "What a run!" ejaculated Warren.
               "And what a cutwater!" added Jones.
               "What an impudent swelling of her cheeks behind that sharp nose!" resumed Warren, half lost in admiration.
               The craft was, in truth, just such a one as a practised seaman would fall in love with at first sight. She sat upon the water like a playful duck. Her masts were tall and tapering, but yet stout in their material, and they were stayed with more than usual caution. As she sat now she really looked as though she had thoughts and feelings of her own, and, like a curbed steed, was anxious to start forth from her confinement.
               A boat was procured, and the trio went on board. The deck was white and clean—the guns polished and bright with jetty gloss—the rigging all coiled neatly away, while the long gun amidships, of solid brass, with a quaint old lion's head for the muzzle, the glistening jaws of which were stretched wide open, looking like a mighty genie presiding over the place. The deck was wide and roomy—much wider than it appeared from the shore, and the bulwarks were stout and firm.
               "Will you take her?" asked Blake.
               "Take her? Yes, and bless God for the good fortune."
               "What!" uttered Jones, for the first time daring to hope that his suspicions might be true. "Are you going to have this beauty?"
               "So our good old friend says," answered Warren.
               "It's his," said Blake.
               "And me?" hesitatingly dropped from the mate's lips.
               "You shall go with me, Jones; and so shall all the rest of our brave fellows. O, now let us meet the enemy upon the open sea."
               "And they are ours," added Jones, as he caught his hat from his head and waved it.
               The three men returned to the shore. Blake went towards his own house, where Gordon promised to call and spend the night, and then the latter, accompanied by Jones, hastened back to the ship. The men were informed of the arrangements that had been made, and they were really frantic with delight. They crowded around their young commander, in wild enthusiasm, waved their hands on high, and swore to be faithful to him while he and they should live.
               In less than a week all the necessary arrangements had been made. From out the hundreds who had presented themselves for admission to the privateer's crew, Gordon had selected forty-five of the best men he could pick. They were all stout, firmly-built men; but the captain had not been governed by the development of muscle alone—he had selected those of pleasant, agreeable manners, and who had sharp, clear, bold, and quick-motioned eyes. He was a bit of a physiognomist in his way, and he knew that he had picked out a set of men who had not only all the daring courage requisite for the business upon which they were about to enter, but who also possessed intelligence and humanity. He wanted nothing of cold-blooded cruelty beneath his flag.
               The brigantine was fully armed and equipped, and provisioned for a six months' cruise. She had about three hundred pistols, over a hundred good cutlasses, besides round, double-headed, chain, grape, and canister shot. At her main truck floated a flag of white silk, upon which was painted a lion crouched beneath an arch of stars. Gordon had given her the name of the "SEA LION," which had been first suggested by the quaint muzzle of the long gun.
               Our young captain now had seventy-five men under command, and he knew that his vessel would not deceive him. The broad sea was open to his patriotic ambition—he knew that thousands of enemies to his loved country were prowling about upon the broad Atlantic, and he hoped—he prayed—that he might do his country some service.
               It was a bright, fair morning when the Privateer of the Penobscot spread her wings to the breeze, and a thousand voices shouted forth hopes of success to her brave crew. Gordon Warren was now in truth a monarch.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE TWO BRIGS.
               "WHAT do you think of that?" exultingly asked Jones, as he held the log-line in his hand with his thumb some three feet outside of the ten knot mark. "What do you think of that for a beginning?"
               "Glorious," replied Warren, while his eyes sparkled.
               To be sure the Sea Lion had the wind free, but then it was only a fair topsail breeze. The truth was, the brigantine was a smart sailer—a really wonderful sailer, and then she worked to a charm. She had been on the wind, and she had gone about without losing half her headway. On a taut bowline she leaped along over the water like a gull, and carried a dry deck, too. She felt her helm quickly, and answered it prettily.
               "I tell you what it is, captain," said the mate, "we have nothing to fear, for in anything of a decent sea we can run out of harm's way if we choose; and I think we could fight some, too."
               "I hope we may soon have a chance to try," returned Lubins, who had been rated as second mate, and placed at the head of the larboard watch.
               "Never fear for that," said Warren, with a smile. "There are plenty of the enemy upon the sea, and it will be strange if we do not fall in with one ere long."
               The privateer's head was put towards the tropics, as that would be most likely to be the place for prizes, and then the weather was not very agreeable in the northern latitudes, for December was at hand with its frosts and cold winds.
               For a week the Sea Lion stood on her course in a south-easterly direction, and on the morning of the seventh day the Bermudas were in sight upon the starboard bow. The wind was from the northward and eastward, and shortly after the islands had been made out the brigantine braced up on the larboard tack and stood to the eastward.
               In less than an hour after this last movement, the lookout at the masthead reported a sail upon the lee bow. The captain sent Lubins aloft with a glass, and in a few moments he returned with the intelligence that there were two sails instead of one. The privateer's men were all upon the alert. The second mate again went aloft, and in ten minutes more he reported that the sails were both brigs, and they were braced sharp up on the starboard tack.
               "Are you sure they are brigs?" asked Warren.
               "Yes, sir,"
               "Can't you make out their colors?"
               "They have none flying."
               "Then keep a sharp lookout," said the captain; and then turning to Jones, he added:
               "I have a mind to keep away and run down."
               "We can do it without danger, at any rate," returned the mate; "for if we should find them too heavy to engage, allowing they are enemies, we can easily run away from them."
               "Then down it is," uttered Warren. "Man the braces fore and aft. Up with the helm, there."
               The privateer soon put her sharp bows towards the strange sails, and ran the "stars and stripes" up to her main peak, the gaff being over far enough to show the ensign.
               "There go their flags!" shouted Lubins, from the top. "Both Englishmen!"
               "Come down and bring the glass," ordered Warren; for the brigs had now been brought so near that he could see their hulls.
               As soon as the captain got the glass he levelled it upon the enemy. They were both of them eighteen gun brigs, but he was soon convinced that they were no match with the Sea Lion for working. They were clumsy compared with his own fairy craft.
               "Lay aft here, all hands," shouted Gordon, as soon as he had completed his observation. "There are two of the enemy's brigs," he continued, as his men were gathered upon the quarter-deck. "They are either of them heavier than we, and each of them carries more guns; yet I will risk the Sea Lion in the encounter, if you will stand firmly by me. What say you?"
               Every man was anxious for the conflict. During the past week they had practised daily at the guns, and they believed they could work them well.
               "Then let the deck be cleared for action as soon as possible," said the captain. "See that every rope is clear and ready for running. Let her come to the wind, Mr. Jones, with her main-topsail aback. We shall not have time to prepare if we stand on."
               The privateer was accordingly hove to, and in fifteen minutes everything was in order. The preventer braces had been rove, the shroud and stay stoppers placed ready for use, the running rigging all cleared, and the guns cast loose and primed. By this time the two brigs were almost within hailing distance, and as the privateer filled away her main-topsail she brought one of the enemy upon her larboard quarter, and the other upon her starboard, all three vessels being upon the larboard tack.
               "Williams, can you bring the long gun to bear?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Then let her drive."
               In a moment more the old brazen lion belched forth a sheet of flame and smoke, and her ball struck the larboard brig just abaft the cathead, causing the splinters to fly in all directions.
               "Well done, Williams!" cried the captain. "Try it again."
               While the gun was being loaded the starboard brig put up her helm and fired a broadside, but it did no damage, though it was found that she was sufficiently near to hit, if her guns were properly levelled.
               "At her again," cried Warren, as he saw that the long gun was loaded.
               Again Williams fired, and this time the ball struck the brig's main chains, knocking a hole through her side some three feet above the water line.
               "Now, my men, stand by for lively work," said the captain. "Man the larboard battery all the larboard watch—the starboard watch to the braces. Give her a good pull. Work with a will, now, and we'll take the larboard brig by surprise. Ready about!"
               The privateer came around like a top, and in a minute more she was running down under the weathermost Englishman's bows. The brig tried to prevent the raking, but she was too late.
               "Let every gun be aimed at her bulwarks," shouted Warren, as his broadside ranged just fore and aft the enemy's deck. "Fire!"
               The brigantine was nearly thrown out of water by the shock, but the effect upon the enemy was severe. Her head braces were shot away, her fore-stay was gone, and the sail was fluttering, and as she came into the wind she fired a broadside, but she fired too late, for the brigantine had run upon her quarter, and her shot did no other damage than to carry away the Yankee's main royal backstay.
               The other brig had come about, but she fell into a bad trap, for just as she was bracing in on the starboard tack she caught the Yankee's remaining broadside right in her teeth, bringing her fore-topgallant-mast on deck, carrying away all her weather fore shrouds, and knocking a hole in her bows between wind and water.
               Captain Warren found that he had not been deceived in his estimate of his men. They were thorough seamen, cool and self-possessed, and understood exactly how to obey an order. In this last qualification of the men lies the great secret of our most brilliant naval achievements. Men may know everything of marine tactics—each separate man may be fitted to command—and without the simple faculty of obeying orders on the very instant and to the very letter, they may be good for just nothing.
               Young Warren was calm and calculating, and his orders were given with clearness and precision. In Mr. Jones he possessed an able assistant, for the mate could calculate to a certainty upon the result of every movement of the sails and helm, and the consequence was, that the Sea Lion played around her enemies like a thing of calculating power.
               For over an hour the combat continued, and not once during that time did the privateer receive a raking shot, nor was she seriously damaged.
               "One more chain-shot and a canister in that old lion, Williams," said the captain. "Double shot fore and aft."
               This was said after one of the brigs had lost her foremast, and the other her fore and maintopmasts. The guns were loaded, and the "lion" was carefully aimed, and fired, and the result was a total severing of the whole line of starboard main rigging of the brig that had lost her foremast, and in a few moments more the Yankee ran up under her stern and commenced raking her.
               "There goes her ensign," cried Jones.
               "Perhaps it's shot away."
               "No, it's hauled down."
               "There's one disposed of. Now for the other."
               The other brig had just got new main-braces rove, and had got clear of the wreck of her topmasts, and was coming down under her courses, but those sails were upwieldy to work, and the privateer easily chose and maintained her own position—now raking with a broadside, then wearing and presenting the opposite side, without once giving the enemy a chance to bring a gun to bear, save now and then one from the bow ports.
               The unfortunate brig could not stand this long, and at length her flag came down amid the deafening cheers of the conquerors.
               The engagement had lasted tow hours and fifteen minutes, and the Sea Lion had received but about ten shots that had done any damage, and even that was mostly in the rigging. Only one of her men had been killed, and that was by a splinter from one of the anchor-stocks. Seven of them were wounded, but not dangerously.
               The brigs were found to be the Thorn and the Croxton, with a complement of sixty men each. The former had lost forty-seven men in the engagement, and the latter thirty-six. The prizes were too unwieldy to take into port, and having removed the prisoners to the Sea Lion, and taken out such articles of value as could be easily moved, Captain Warren caused them both to be sunk.
               The Yankee crew had behaved gallantly throughout the action, and though they owed much of their success to the excellence of their vessel, yet they deserved the highest credit, and they received it, too. Of one thing they now felt sure, and that was, that they were in their true element. The captain felt grateful towards his brave men, and they, in turn, felt the highest confidence in him.
               The privateer ran into Savannah and landed her prisoners, and after some few repairs she set sail again in quest of new adventures, all but two of her wounded men having recovered and returned to duty.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE PRISONER.
               IN a well-furnished apartment of a large dwelling near the King's Yard, in Halifax, sat Mary Draper. Nearly a fortnight had passed since she had entered that dwelling, and only once during that time had she seen Aaron Damon. The wounded man had been placed in the prison hospital, and every one must know that that was no place for a modest female; yet Mary would have willingly attended upon Damon, even there, could she have been of service to him. The last time she had seen him he had told her that he should soon be well, for he then felt much easier, and the physician had given him some encouragement of recovery.
               Poor Mary Draper! She had suffered much since she had been in that dwelling. She was lonesome and heart-sick, and things looked dark before her. Her face was pale, and her features bore the marks of extreme mental suffering. Often, while she sat there alone, did her thoughts turn to Gordon Warren, as turns the mind of the lost wanderer towards home. Upon him she looked with the warmest feelings of her soul, and with all the stern realities that were gathered about her she could not divest herself of the inclination to rest her highest hopes of earth upon the man who alone possessed her heart.
               "He can never be mine!" she would utter, with her hand pressed upon her fair brow. "He can never be mine! Then why should I think of him? Perhaps when I see him again—if that shall ever be—he will have found another to share his love—another whose hand may go whither her heart shall direct. Alas! my poor heart! how miserable! Yet, my father, I will obey you."
               And then, when she thought she had fixed her resolution, her mind would directly return to the young American captain, and there it would dwell, revelling in the cold moonlight which might never give place to the warm light of love's sun.
               But the maiden had other cause for fear. It was a subject which she strove to drive from her thoughts, but it would oft return to make her miserable. The lieutenant who had taken charge of the "Isaac Hall" while she was a prize had since taken charge of her, and him she feared. His name was Hardy—Thomas Hardy, the second son of an old English nobleman, and one who possessed a little good feeling accompanied by a great deal of vice.
               It was towards the middle of the afternoon. Mary sat near the wide old fire-place gazing abstractedly at the bright forks of flame that leaped up from the burning wood, when her attention was called to the door. It opened, and Lieutenant Hardy entered.
               "How fares my lady this afternoon?" said the man, as he drew a chair near to the fire and sat down.
               "Far from well," returned Mary.
               "Ah, I am sorry for that. But you will be better ere long. You are anxious now."
               The maiden gazed up into Hardy's face, and she trembled as she saw how ardently he was gazing upon her. His small eyes were gleaming with a strange glow, and a look of sensual admiration was spread over his whole face. He was a tall, stout man, with a pug nose; thick, sensual lips; a sandy complexion, which was somewhat freckled, and sandy hair. He had the name of being a thorough seaman, and that was the most that could be said in his favor.
               "You have no father, lady?" said he, after he had gazed several moments upon the fair girl.
               "No, sir."
               "And no mother?"
               "No, sir."
               "And no brother?"
               "No, sir."
               "A sister?"
               "No, no—no near relative on earth. I am left almost alone."
               "Not alone, fair lady—not alone."
               "Mr. Damon is left to me, but he is not a relative—only a friend."
               "Were you bound very strongly to him?"
               "Bound, sir?" repeated Mary, looking earnestly into Hardy's face. "Were I bound? I am bound."
               "Ah! you must prepare yourself for a different result. Aaron Damon is dead!"
               "Dead, sir!" uttered Mary, starting to her feet. "Dead, and I not with him—let me see him?"
               "That cannot be, lady."
               "But it must be, Mr. Hardy."
               "No, for the man is buried."
               "Buried, say you?"
               "Yes."
               "O, what hearts you must have, thus to hurry the remains—"
               "Stop, my dear girl. You must not blame us till you know why we have done this. Damon died from entire mortification, and his body could not be kept. You would not have thanked us had we let you seen him."
               For some time Mary remained silent. She did not wonder, as she thought upon the subject, that she had not been called to the hospital; yet a sense of increased loneliness crept upon her, and she wept.
               "You will now send me home to Castine?" she at length said.
               "You have no relatives there."
               "But I have friends."
               "So you may have friends elsewhere," said the lieutenant, as he drew his chair nearer to the fair girl's side. "Even here you have them."
               Mary's cheeks turned pale, and instinctively she shrank from the man who had placed himself by her side. She read the very feelings of his soul upon his face, and her heart almost ceased to beat as she realized how completely she was in his power.
               "You will not detain me, sir," she uttered.
               "Calm yourself, lady, and I will tell you how much I love you."
               "Love me! O, if you love me, let me go to my friends?"
               "Ah, that is hardly the way in which I should wish to treat the thing I loved, to send it away from me. No, no, fair lady, you must make up your mind to remain with me."
               "Never! never!"
               "You speak unadvisedly now."
               "I speak as I feel, and as I shall ever feel. O, sir, if you have one spark of kindly feeling left—one grain of humanity in your bosom—you will let me return to my friends—to the home of my childhood."
               "Ah, my lovely lady," returned Hardy, with a look that might have passed with the sensualist for love, "you would have me break my own heart. You must go to England with me."
               "Go to England with you, sir? O, you do not mean this?"
               "I do mean it, Mary."
               "No, no. O, no!" cried the poor girl, sinking upon her knees and clasping her hands together. "Upon my knees I pray you to let me go. Let me go to my home."
               "Get up, get up," returned the officer, taking the maiden by the arm and lifting her to her feet. "You will think better of this. When once you are in England I will make you my wife."
               "God have mercy on you, if you persist in this!" murmured Mary, as she moved away from the man's grasp and folded her hands together. "But you will not do it—you dare not."
               "You don't know how much I dare do for one I love."
               "I will appeal to the governor."
               "Will you?"
               "Yes."
               "I think Sir John will hardly think fit to meddle with my affairs; so you had better calm yourself," returned Hardy, arising from his chair; and then with a kinder tone he added:
               "Come, come—do not let this affect you so. You shall have everything to make you comfortable when you are once mine; and I do not fear to warrant you that you will not wish to return to America again."
               "Do not talk to me any more, sir," exclaimed Mary, rising above the dejection that had bowed her down. "I am not to be made the plaything of yourself, to be carried whither you list. I shall not leave these shores in your company. I know that some means of escape will be provided. You will not dare to carry me on board one of his majesty's ships, for the commander would—"
               "Would what?" interrupted Hardy, as the maiden hesitated.
               "Would not allow it, sir."
               "Ah, and suppose I was the commander? Ha, ha—I see that staggers you. You can rest easy on that score, however, for I am to command the ship myself. And now listen to one more thing: I had hoped you would have been glad to accept my love, for you could have expected but little kindness from an enemy; but if you mean to be stubborn you will find I can be stubborn, too. I meant to have been very kind, and I will be kind yet if you will only let me be kind. Now, in one word, you shall be mine, and when I go to England you will go with me."
               Mary Draper sank into her chair and covered her face with her hands. Again the thought came over her that she was completely in Hardy's power, and with all her strength of mind she felt that she had reasons for the worst fear.
               "Think of what I have said," added the officer, as he turned to depart; "and remember the assurance I have given you. It lies in your own hands to be happy or miserable—happy, if you accede willingly to my proposals, but miserable, if you think of resistance. You will not leave this place till you go in my company."
               Then, as he ceased speaking, he turned towards the door. He laid his hand upon the latch, but he went not out. He hesitated a moment, and then turned back towards Mary. The anger had gone from his face, and an earnest look of persuasion had taken its place.
               "Pardon me, if I have been rough," he said "but you moved me to it. I know this is not the way to woo and win a fair maiden? I do love you, lady, and I have loved you ever since you have been under my care. I will be kind to you if you will let me?"
               "Go, sir. Leave me to myself," said Mary.
               "I will go; and I shall hope to find you in a more pleasant humor when I visit you again."
               In a moment more the officer had gone, and Mary Draper was left alone. Her first impulse was to weep, but she overcame the weakness and started to her feet. She felt sad that poor Damon had gone from earth, but on his account she could not feel miserable. No strong cords of affection had been sundered by the separation, and she could only feel as feels one who has lost a dependent friend. But for the time it was only a passing thought she gave the departed. To the man who now held 
                     her her
                     her
                   mind was turned, and she set all her energies at work to devise some means of escape. That the man might love her she did not question, but it was a love from which she shrank with horror. That he would make her his wife she had reason to doubt, but even was that his intention—and perhaps it might be—the fate would be full as cruel and repulsive.
               Thus thought the maiden, as she stood there in her prison-room, and when she had fixed her mind upon what she would do, she began to think of the means by which it was to be accomplished. In half an hour an old woman who attended to her wants came into the room, bringing with her a waiter upon which was the maiden's supper.
               "Stop a moment," said Mary, as the woman turned to go out: "How long am I to occupy this apartment?"
               "I'm sure I don't know, ma'am."
               "Suppose I should wish to walk out this evening, would you accompany me?"
               "Lor sakes, ma'am, you wouldn't think of going out such an evenin' as this."
               "Perhaps I might."
               "O, no, I guess not."
               The woman had a shrewd, cunning look about her, and she spoke and acted like one who knew more than she chose to tell. There was a meaning in the quick glances she cast upon the girl, and she appeared anxious to avoid further conversation. Mary noticed it all, and with a decision that was part of her character she Kept her suspicions out of sight and appeared calm.
               "I should like to walk out," she said, "and if you do not wish to go, I will go alone."
               "Not to-night, ma'am."
               "Yes, to-night. I am weary of this confinement, and I wish to get a snuff of the fresh air, even though it be a bit frosty. I think I will go after I have taken my supper."
               "I think I wouldn't."
               "Why, I hope there are no objections," said Mary, completely hiding her real feelings.
               "Well, ma'am, as for that matter, there be a few," returned the woman, in a nervous, uneasy manner.
               "Ah, what can they be?"
               "Why, you see, Mr. Hardy don't think 'twould be safe. There be a good many rough men around the streets, an' you wouldn't be safe out all alone, "Ah, 'twould n't be the place for a young, pretty girl like you."
               "But of course, Mr. Hardy did not forbid my going out?"
               "Why—yes—kind o' forbid it."
               "And I am a prisoner, then?"
               "O, no. Of course you know what Mr. Hardy means to do. He's told you, hasn't he?"
               This question entirely upset Mary's self-control, and she trembled. It brought her back to the source of her trouble, and the color forsook her cheeks.
               "O, I am not to be confined here," she uttered. "You will not lend your aid to keep me here against my will?"
               "'Tis n't nothing to me, ma'am."
               "But tell me plainly—am I to be held a prisoner here?"
               "Well," returned the woman, with a slight hesitation, "seein' as you want to know, I s'pose I can tell you. Mr. Hardy says you mustn't leave this room; or at any rate, that you must n't go away from the house; and when you do leave the room I must go with you. Now you understand it all, and you'll know how to govern yourself."
               "Yes," murmured Mary to herself, as the woman left the apartment, "I shall know how to govern myself. Come what may, I will escape from this place. God be with me, and help me!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE STORM WANDERER.
               ON the following day Hardy called again upon Mary Draper. He was ardent in the protestations of his love, and he swore most solemnly that she should be his wife. Before he left her, she learned that the sloop-of-war in which she had come to Halifax, was to return to England in two days, and that Hardy was to command her." Again the maiden begged that she might be allowed to return to her own home, but her captor was inexorable. He assured her that her fate was fixed, and that as soon as the sloop was ready to sail she should go on board.
               It was a purpose which Hardy had fixed in his mind, and he would not give it up. Accustomed from childhood to have his own way, and being of a reckless, untameable disposition, he was not the man to relinquish a claim like the present. The beautiful American girl had fascinated him, and he had resolved to possess her. He had hoped, when Damon died, that she would be willingly his; but her rejection of his proposals had only added fuel to the flames already kindled, and now he determined upon forcing her to do that which she would not do willingly. He would have made her his wife in Halifax—or at least, he offered to—but she had refused that, and now he said she should be his wife in England.
               When the lieutenant again left her alone she could not avoid weeping, for her sorrow overcame her, but gradually she dried up her tears, and began to look about her. Two days! And in that time the ship would sail. No time was to be lost. Mary now knew that she must depend upon her own exertions, for she had no friends upon whom to call for assistance. She was in a strange place, among enemies of her country, and in the power of one who had much influence with the provincial government, Sir John C. Sherwood, the governor, being a near relative of the lieutenant's; and furthermore, Sir John had given his sanction to the movement. So Handy had told her, and she had no reason to doubt it, though she believed that the case had been misrepresented to the governor. But, at all events, she had one of two things to choose: either to escape from that house, or else be carried off to England. She chose the former.
               
               The room which Mary occupied was in the end of the building, and both its windows overlooked a yard which opened to the street through a small gateway. It was in the second story, and some fifteen feet from the ground. The yard was enclosed by a very high fence, the coping of which was armed with sharp spikes, but the gate had no lock, only fastened upon the inside by means of a bolt. Into this yard Mary knew she could easily make her way by means of the quilts of her bed, and for the present all that she feared was detection by those in the house; but she resolved that she would that very night make the attempt.
               Shortly before sundown the wind came out strong from the eastward, and a heavy snowstorm set in. This tended at first to dampen our heroine's ardor; but to stay where she was would be worse than even death by the storm, and she made up her mind that no state of the weather should keep her from her purpose.
               At the usual hour the maiden's supper was brought to her by the same woman who had heretofore attended to her wants.
               "Perhaps you'd like to take a walk out this evening?" said the woman, as she looked out at the window with a shudder.
               "No, not to-night," returned Mary.
               "I should think not. My soul, how the snow flies; and just hear the wind blow, too. I guess you'll be contented to stay in to-night; and then there'll be but one more night for you to stay here. Mr. Hardy tells me he'll sail the day after to-morrow. Lor me, what a nice man he is."
               "Very," said Mary, with a slight curling of her pretty lips.
               "I thought you'd think so. I s'pose you felt kind o' bad when you first heard that Mr. Damon was dead, but I'll be bound to say you'll like Mr. Hardy ten times the best. Mr. Hardy's rich—that's something."
               "Yes," responded Mary, as she sipped her tea.
               "And he loves you, too."
               Mary shuddered, but the woman did not see it. She felt sure that no watch would be kept upon her movements on such a night as that, and hence she felt thankful for the storm. The woman made a few more remarks about the lieutenant, and when Mary had finished her supper she gathered up the dishes and left the room.
               Mary arose from the table and went to the window. The wind was howling wildly about the buildings, and the shutters were flapping against the walls. The snow was being piled up against the sash, resting in a tiny bank upon the sill, and the broad flakes were driving through the air in whirling clouds. The fair girl could not see the street, so beclouded was the air, nor could she see the next high building beyond. She could just distinguish the high fence, and she could see that the gate was shut. She could not but shudder as she dwelt upon the fearful storm, but she thought not for a moment of remaining where she was.
               Night shut in, and the hours passed slowly away till the bell upon the arsenal rang for nine o'clock. Then Mary went to the door of her room, and, as she had thought, she found it fastened upon the outside. She then went to the closet where her clothes were hung, and having taken down her cloak and hood, she placed them upon a chair, and then drew off both the long quilts from her bed, which she knotted together at the corners, and then made one of them fast to the bed-post. This being accomplished, she moved the foot of the bed close to the window, and then she put on her hood and cloak. The hood she tied firmly under her chin, and the cloak was not only hooked, but she secured it more closely about her by means of a silken sash which she had used for wearing about her neck.
               All was now prepared save the opening of the window. The girl listened a moment at her door, but she heard nothing save the howling of the storm. Then she went to the window, and with much difficulty she raised the sash, but for a moment she was driven back. The wind rushed in through the opening with a wild power, hurling in a dense cloud of snow, putting out the candle, and nearly taking away the maiden's breath. For a while, Mary was frightened. The tempest howled so fearfully, and roared so loudly about her, that she feared it would arouse every soul in the house; but she soon reflected that she was exposed to all its fury, while they were shut off by thick partitions, and she took courage. She approached the window again, and again for the moment was she driven back. Once, then, came the thought to her mind to remain where she was; but on the same instant came the reflection of her certain fate if she stayed, and with renewed courage, and a fervent prayer to God, she went to the window again. She could not see—she could only feel out the way of her operations, for the snow was coming in at such a rate that the bed was already covered, and high ridges were already formed about the corners of the room.
               At length Mary managed to get the quilts out of the window, but it was a long time before she could get upon them, they capered so wildly in the wind; and had she not have spent a long time at sea, where she had gained a steady head for a balance, she could not possibly have accomplished the difficult task. As it was she came near losing her hold several times by being knocked against the building, but at length her feet touched the snow-covered ground, and with an exclamation of thanks she sprang towards the gate. The snow had been piled up against it, but as soon as she moved back the bolt the wind helped to open it, and with one more movement she gained the street.
               Poor Mary! She had a terrible enemy to encounter now. The howling tempest drove furiously against her, and for more than a minute she stood there trying to summon strength to make headway against it. The house she had just left was at the northern extremity of the city, and her object was, to make her way to the southern suburbs, and there to find some shelter, hoping that Hardy would be obliged to sail before he could find her.
               The fair fugitive at length gained strength and resolution for the task before her, and drawing the cloak tighter within the scarf that was about her she set forward. The storm was in her face, and it was utterly impossible for her to see ahead, even to the distance of her own outstretched hand, but she could see the dusky forms of the buildings close by her side, and by these she was guided. The wind was sharp and bitter cold, and the snow lay in high banks upon the sidewalks; yet Mary kept slowly on—now forcing her way with almost superhuman power, through a deep drift, and then stopping a few moments to gain breath. Often was she obliged to turn about to sweep the blinding snow from her eyes, and often, too, did she lose the sidewalk.
               Thus the poor girl fought the storm for half an hour, pursuing her way at a venture, clambering over the huge drifts, sometimes sinking in up to her waist, often losing the walk, and often turning to regain sight and breath. She knew not where she was, nor did she now know that she was going in the same direction in which she had started. She only knew that the storm was still in her face, but the wind rushed so wildly around the corners that it seemed to revel in all points of the compass. Yet Mary knew that she was going from the house where she had been confined, and this had sustained her.
               At length, however, the poor girl began to falter. She was becoming weak from her overexertion, and her limbs were becoming numb with the cold. She came to a corner where the street opened into a square, and here she stopped. She tried to gather strength to keep on, but the effort failed her. She gazed about, but no glimmer of a light could she see, and while her heart sank in her bosom she realized the terrible truth that she must give up. The thought came to her that she had better have remained in the house she had left, but a moment's reflection gave death to her mind as far preferable, and she almost felt resigned to the death-grasp of the storm.
               
               Once more she tried to move on, but it was of no use, and she was about to sink upon the pavement, when she heard a voice by her side. Then another, and another, and another voice. She started back to momentary consciousness, and was just able to realize the fact that she was surrounded by men.
               "Who are you!" asked one, as he supported her in his arms.
               "O, save me! save me!"
               "But where do you belong?"
               "You are Englishmen," uttered Mary, supporting her wavering senses with a powerful effort.
               "No, we are Americans; but that shall not prevent us from helping you."
               "Thank God!" fell from Mary's lips, as she sank upon the breast of the man who supported her. "I am an American, fleeing from a British prison-house. Save me! Save me!"
               That was the last effort of the fugitive. She realized that she was lifted from the snow-covered pavement, and the hum of voices rang for a moment in her ear; but she knew no more.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               "FRIENDS INDEED."
               WHEN Mary Draper came to herself it was yet dark, but a fire had been burning in an old fire-place near the couch upon which she lay. She could hear that the storm still continued, though the wind had abated. She moved, and found that her limbs were free from stiffness, though she was somewhat weak. At length the embers upon the hearth sent forth a flickering flame, giving light enough to reveal the outlines of the place, and the maiden found that she was in a small boarded room, the single window of which was stuffed with rags in place of the missing glass, while the walls were all black and rough.
               For some minutes Mary lay upon the bed after she had regained her thoughts, and then she arose and stepped off upon the floor. Her hood and cloak had been taken off, but the latter garment she found had been thrown over her. It was a thought of gratitude that first took possession of her soul when she found herself thus cared for, and then she moved towards the fireplace. The slight flame had died away, and Mary stooped down to see if she could not revive it again. She found pieces of wood upon the hearth, and having gathered them upon the coals she soon had a flame blazing up once more. She noticed that the pieces she had placed upon the fire were of some manufactured fabric, for she found bits of iron among them. She found a hinge, and from among the embers she poked out an iron latch; so it must have been a door that had been burning to keep her warm.
               At length the fair girl began more seriously to reflect upon the situation in which she had found herself. Perhaps she had been left here alone to find her way off as best she could. She went to the door, and found it unfastened. She opened it, and beyond was a sort of entry, the door of which was gone, and which looked out upon the snow-clad ground. She stepped forth into the entry. The snow was still falling, but it came in only occasional flakes, and the wind had subsided even since she had first awoke. It was quite dark, and after gazing about for a few moments, the maiden went to the door. There were no other houses to be seen, and it appeared as though a steep hill arose near her to cut off her view. She could hear the roar of the sea, and from its sound she knew that she must be quite near it.
               Mary had on no outer garments, and she cared not to venture further out, so she returned to the room from which she had come; but she had not been there long before she heard the sound of voices near the house, and in a few moments more four men entered the apartment where she was.
               "Ah, so you're up? I'm glad of that," said one of the men.
               They were all four of them dressed in the garb of American seamen, and at that moment there was not another class of men on earth with whom Mary would have sooner trusted herself.
               "How do you feel?" continued he who had already spoken, approaching the girl and looking into her face.
               "Well, kind sir, well."
               "You told us last night that you were an American, and that you were escaping from prison?"
               "So I was, sir."
               "And do you mean that you were really held a prisoner?"
               Mary hesitated a moment, and then, in as few words as possible, she told her story to her eager listeners.
               "Ye gods, Jack!" exclaimed the questioner, turning to one of his companions, "the daughter of old Jacob Draper. And so you say he's dead?" turning back to Mary.
               "Yes, sir."
               "I don't wonder that tear starts to your eye, for you've lost a noble father. I sailed with him ten years, and should have gone out the last cruise, only I was hove down with a fever, and Gordon Warren took my place. If you were in the old ship on her last cruise you must have known young Warren. Shiver my old hulk, but he was a fine fellow. Zounds, my pretty lady, what's the matter?"
               "Nothing, kind sir. O, could you but carry me where I might see Mr. Warren once more."
               "Oh-h-h! I understand," uttered the first speaker, whose name was Thompson, and who had, as he said, sailed with Captain Draper. "But don't blush about it. I understand."
               The fire was still burning, one of the men having thrown on a few pieces of board, and by its light Mary could see that the men regarded her kindly, and with interest. She had often heard her father speak of Thompson, and she knew that she was now among friends. In a few hurried words Thompson told her his story. He and ten others had been captured about a week before in a brig, and had since been confined in Halifax. About an hour before they met her on the previous evening they had made their escape from the prison. The little house, in which she now was, was on the western shore of King's Bay, whither they had brought her, carrying her by turns in their arms. Near at hand was a small schooner, the crew of which had been captured and securely bound by the Yankees.
               "Do you feel like going with us, now?" asked Thompson, as he finished his account of himself and his companions.
               "Any time, and any where," returned Mary.
               "Then we'll be off at once, for it is now six o'clock, and in three quarters of an hour it will be broad daylight. It is but a short distance, lady, and we can easily carry you."
               "I can walk, sir."
               "Not through the deep snow. We have fixed a litter for you."
               Mary put on her hood and cloak and followed the men to the door, where she found they had a sort of a litter formed by a piece of stout sail suspended between two oars. She sat down upon the canvass, and then the four men placed the oars upon their shoulders and set off. It was not more than ten minutes before they set their burden down, and when Mary stepped from the litter she found herself upon the seashore. A boat was near at hand, and having helped her on board, the men got in and shoved off, and in a few moments they reached the side of the schooner they had captured, the whereabouts of which they had learned before they left the prison.
               The snow had been mostly shovelled from the deck, and everything was in readiness for getting under weigh. There had only been three men on board the schooner when the Americans had boarded her, and they were securely bound and stowed away in the caboose. The seven Yankees who had been waiting on board the prize crowded about the maiden as she stepped upon the deck, and they evinced much pleasure when they saw her safe.
               It seems that at first the men had been at a loss what to do with the girl they had found; but they dared not stop in the city to gain her admittance to any house, and they would not drop her. It was over ten miles that they had carried her in their arms, and it was by accident that they found the unoccupied house—a house which they had since learned from their prisoners belonged to them. In the house they found the bed, and they tore down the outer door with which to build a fire. Then they had left her and gone in search of the schooner.
               Mary was conducted to the cabin, and shortly afterwards the anchor was hove up. The three Englishmen were then set at liberty and placed in the boat, with instructions to row themselves where they pleased. This left the Yankees without a boat, but they minded not the loss. The wind was still from the eastward, and in order to stand out from the bay the little craft was close-hauled upon the larboard tack. She pitched into the seas like a mad duck, but yet she held her own bravely. It was soon evident that she would not clear the southern point at the entrance of the bay, so she was put upon the other tack, and having stood across to the other shore she again took her larboard tack, and by the time it was fairly daylight she was in the open sea.
               It was the plan of Thompson to run down around Cape Sable, keeping at a respectable distance from the shore, and then make the Penobscot as soon as possible. This was partly to accommodate Mary Draper, and partly because they had as lief run in there as anywhere else.
               It was near noon when Mary was startled from a gentle slumber into which she had fallen by hearing some one upon the deck report a sail. She sprang from the small berth and hastened up the ladder.
               "What is it?" she asked.
               "There's a brig just come around that point," returned Thompson, pointing to the southward. "Of course she is an Englishman, and of course, too, she will cut us off."
               "I pray to God that we may not be taken!" uttered Mary.
               "So do I," added Thompson. "I am going to run for it, at all events."
               The schooner was brought up to the wind, and headed just southeast. This brought the brig upon her starboard quarter, and of course to the leeward, so in that the schooner had the advantage. It was soon seen that the brig had hauled out her bowlines upon the starboard tack, and had given chase.
               "Never mind," said Thompson. "She can't overhaul us before dark, that's certain, for we've got the weather gage, and that's worth a number of miles."
               Yet it was soon seen that the brig was by far the best sailer, and when Mary again went below to escape the cold, she went with the fear of re-capture hanging like a storm-cloud over her fate.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               BOUND AGAIN.
               IN three hours the brig had tacked and fallen into the schooner's wake, and was not more than two miles distant.
               "I'm afraid we are goners, Jack," said Thompson. "That fellow's overhauling us fast."
               "Just so it appears to me," returned Jack Long. "We have no advantage now, and she is the best sailer."
               At that moment Mary Draper came on deck. Instinctively she cast her eyes over the stern, and a moment's look told her how matters stood.
               "There are no arms on board," she said, half interrogatively.
               "No," returned Thompson, looking inquisitively upon the fair girl.
               "Then we must go back to our prisons in Halifax!" she said.
               "Perhaps so."
               "You cannot think otherwise, Mr. Thompson, for that brig will surely come up with us. We have no means of defence, and we must surrender. O, God, have mercy on me!"
               "Calm your fears, Miss Draper."
               "How can I calm them? What hope have I left me now?"
               "That, even should we be carried back to Halifax, your persecutor may have sailed before we reach there; or, at least, before he can learn that you are re-captured."
               Mary started at the idea, and a pleasurable emotion found a resting-place in her bosom, for she thought that, if Mr. Hardy should be gone, the English officers would allow her to return to her own people as soon as she could find opportunity to do so.
               When the sun sank behind the western bank of waters, the heavens were clear from clouds, and the broad moon was left to shed its light upon the earth. The brig had now come so near that there were no more hopes of escape, for the vessels were in full view of each other by the moonlight. The unfortunate Americans felt badly in view of their certain re-capture, but they bore their fate with fortitude. Yet, as is natural in such cases, they began to call up ideas wherein it was made to appear that had something different been done they might have escaped.
               "Never mind now, boys," said Thompson. "What we have done can't be helped. You all know that we've done just as well as we knew how, and this coming of the brig is something that none of us could see beforehand, so we'll bear our fate like men. Don't let the enemy see us whimper, for 'taint our nature. For you, Miss Draper, I feel sorry, but, if I'm not mistaken, you'll fare much better than we shall, for I'm thinking they'll settle the irons on to us a little stronger than they did before."
               "I am more sorry for you than I am for myself," said Mary. "You have worked hard for your liberty, and it is cruel for you thus to be cut off from it."
               "It is hard; and it comes harder, too," uttered Thompson, as he bit his fingers in vexation, "when I think how we might have escaped it."
               Mary looked up inquisitively.
               "If we had kept right on when we first saw the brig, I think we might easily have passed as Englishmen bound around into the Bay of Fundy. Our coming down the coast so would have made it appear reasonable; but I thought the schooner might be the best sailer, and if she had been we should have run no risks. However, it's too late now, and we may as well—"
               He was cut short by the firing of a gun from the brig, and the dash of a ball in the water astern.
               "We may as well heave to," said Jack Long. "There's no use in being fired into."
               "Heave to, it is," returned Thompson.
               Accordingly the main-boom was hauled over to windward and the helm put up enough to keep her from coming into the wind. After this the brig came up rapidly. A short consultation was held among the men as to the course they should pursue—whether it were best to prevaricate, or whether they should own at once their real character. It was decided that they should boldly avow the truth, for they had no hopes of being able to deceive the Englishman. The fact of their having attempted to escape would betray them.
               "Schooner ahoy!" came from the bows of the brig.
               "Ay, ay," returned Thompson, in a voice that sounded like a young tempest.
               "What schooner is that?"
               "Don't know."
               "What schooner is that?" came in a louder key.
               "I tell you I don't know."
               "Answer me, or I'll fire into you. What schooner is that?"
               "An English schooner with a Yankee crew. Now do you understand?"
               There was a moment's consultation held on the deck of the brig.
               "Where are you from?" asked the Englishman.
               "From a British prison."
               The officers on board the brig seemed to be somewhat puzzled, and again they held a consultation.
               "Send your boat on board," at length came from the Englishman.
               "Have n't got one," returned Thompson.
               "Have n't you got a boat?"
               "No. So you'll have to send one of yours on board here."
               "You don't come any of your infernal Yankee tricks over us; so just fill away and go about. Put your head north-west-by-west and stand on so, and we'll stand on after you. Now fill away, and go about; and if you vary from the course I've given you, we'll blow you out of water."
               "Upon my soul," said Thompson, as he 
                     tnrned
                     turned
                   towards his men, "he thinks we may be contriving some means to capture him. Guess he's been bitten before."
               "Come, go about!" shouted the Englishman.
               "Ay, ay," returned Thompson.
               Accordingly, as soon as the schooner had gained sufficient headway, she was put about, and with the wind upon her starboard quarter, as she fell off to the required course, she stood on towards Halifax.
               The moon continued to shine nearly all night, and the brig kept close upon the schooner's weather quarter. There was no escape for the Americans, for the enemy's battery could be brought to bear upon their little vessel at a moment's warning, and the only thing they could do was to allow themselves thus to be driven into port. The wind held itself steadily in the eastward through the night, and when morning dawned the capacious harbor of Halifax was in sight directly ahead, and not more than eight miles distant.
               "Schooner ahoy!" shouted the captain of the brig, as they were passing the island fort at the mouth of the harbor.
               Thompson responded.
               "Run your schooner close in to where you see that seventy-four, and come to."
               The Americans obeyed the order, and in less than half an hour their little craft was anchored and a boat from the brig was alongside.
               The English commander stepped upon the deck of the schooner with a deal of consequence. He was an extremely short man, with a decided predominance of fat, and a countenance that betokened a love of good cheer.
               "Aha!" he uttered, as he gazed upon the Americans, who were all assembled upon the quarter-deck. "Aha, my fine fellows; you look natural. I think I saw you a week ago in our prison. So you thought you'd slip your cables and run, eh? But you see I've brought you up with a round turn. What—and a lady, too?"
               "Yes, sir," returned Thompson, biting his lips till the blood almost started. "You have captured us, and I suppose we shall get another taste of your irons."
               "That you will."
               "Say, old fellow," uttered Jack Long, "were you afraid of us last night?"
               "Afraid?" repeated the Englishman, contemptuously. "Silence, fellow!"
               While Long continued to parley words with the short commander, Mary Draper's attention was turned in another direction. Only a short distance from where the schooner had come to her anchor laid a sloop-of-war which she had at once recognized as the one that had first brought her into Halifax. She saw some one from the poop looking towards her through a glass, and shortly afterwards one of the ship's boats was hauled alongside.
               The poor girl's heart sank within her as she saw the boat approaching the schooner, for she recognized Hardy in the stern-sheets. She dared not meet him in the presence of those who stood about her, and with a heavy, trembling step she descended to the cabin.
               It was not long before she heard Hardy's voice upon the deck, and she heard him inquire for her. She shrank back as though she had heard the shrill alarum of a rattlesnake, and in a moment more her unwelcome lover was in her presence.
               "Ah, lady," he uttered, as he stood at the foot of the ladder and gazed upon her, "you served me a cruel trick."
               "I cannot be so cruel as you are, sir," returned the maiden, shuddering as she saw the features of the lieutenant.
               "Cruel? And can one be cruel in loving? No, no, my lady, you make a wrong application of words. It is you alone who are cruel; for even after this I can love you as well as ever. But come; this is no place for you."
               As the man spoke, he approached Mary and laid his hand upon her arm. She shrank from his touch and burst into tears. After suffering so much—after having risked even life itself, to flee from his power, to find herself now crushed again, was more than she could hear. The weakness which had resulted from her exposure two nights before, but which she had stoutly borne up against, now overcame her, and with a whirling, aching head and tortured limbs, she sank against the bulkhead. She felt Hardy's arms about her, but she could only groan in her anguish. She knew that she was carried on deck, for she felt the cold air strike upon her brow, but she had no sense of anything else.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE BETRAYED.
               WHEN Mary returned once more to consciousness, she found herself in a respectably furnished apartment, and near her sat the same old woman who had before attended her. She experienced much pain, and it was some moments before she could bear the light. The woman noticed her movement, for she immediately arose from her chair and approached the bed whereon Mary lay.
               "Ah, my dear young lady, you've come to at last."
               The poor girl opened her eyes and looked up into the woman's face. There was such a world of imploring anguish in her face that the old nurse could not but allow her heart to open with sympathy.
               "Am I back here again?" murmured Mary.
               "Yes, in the same house, but not in the same room. Ah, ma'am, you served the other room a sad trick. When we went into it in the morning, it was piled full of snow. Mercy on me! what could have put it into your head to venture out on such a night as that?"
               "It was to escape from the power of that man who so basely, cruelly wrongs me."
               "No, no, ma'am, he don't mean to wrong you."
               Mary started and raised herself to her elbow.
               "Has he gone?" she whispered.
               "Who?"
               "Mr. Hardy."
               "Gone where?"
               "To England."
               "Lor sakes alive, no. He couldn't leave you, so he had to get leave to remain behind a fortnight."
               The poor girl sank back upon her pillow. The sudden gleam of hope was gone, and she felt the fangs of the serpent still upon her.
               "How do you feel, ma'am?" asked the woman, as Mary once more opened her eyes.
               "I am very weak."
               "I thought so. We feared you would have a fever, but I guess you'll run clear of it now."
               "Have I been here long?"
               "This is the third day. Why, you've no idea how completely you was run down. Mercy sake! it's a wonder to me that you didn't die."
               "Alas! it would have been a mercy if I had."
               "Poor thing!" compassionately uttered the nurse; "you haint wholly come to your mind yet."
               "You know not my mind," returned Mary. "Do you not believe I was in my right mind on that terrible night when I left this house?"
               "Perhaps you was."
               "I faced death then, and I would rather have died in the street than to have returned here."
               "—sh! Don't tell Mr. Hardy so, for it would be worse for you."
               As the woman thus spoke she east her eyes furtively about her, and then turning towards Mary again, she added:
               "Let me tell you something in confidence, for it may be a benefit to you. Mr. Hardy wont be always kind to you if you treat him so. He can be hard-hearted if he is pushed to it; so you had better be kind to him, if you want him to be kind to you. I just tell you this so that you may profit by it."
               Mary made no reply, but she shut her eyes from the light and sank into her own reflections, and shortly afterwards the woman left the apartment to bring some cordial for the sufferer.
               It was three days after this that Mary was sitting up. She was quite strong now, and all that troubled her was a painless debility of the nervous system. Hardy had been to see her twice. She had been too weak to express any indignation or bitterness, and he had been all suavity and gentleness—professing the most ardent love and enduring affection. He had told her that when he discovered her flight he had obtained permission of the governor to remain in Halifax two weeks longer, and at the end of that time he should sail, with her for his companion.
               Mary was sitting in a large cushioned chair, having just been up to put some wood upon the fire, when the door of her room was opened, and a female, enveloped in a thick cloak, entered. The new-comer threw back her hood, revealing a pale, but handsome countenance and with a trembling step she approached the fire. She was young, and bore upon her countenance the marks of long borne grief. The first glance she cast upon Mary interested our heroine in her favor. There is a magic power in the countenance of grief—of modest, shrinking grief—that no really humane person can withstand. There is something in that tearless look of woe—in that night cloud of sorrow, that utters a language more touching in its silence than tongue or pen can make it.
               The stranger sank into a chair, and instinctively Mary arose and moved to her side.
               "Be seated, lady—I pray you be seated," uttered the new-comer, in a tone of melancholy sweetness. "Your name is Draper—Mary Draper?"
               "Yes," answered Mary, as she moved back to her seat.
               "My name is Fanny Gray. Have you ever heard that name?"
               "No."
               "Forgive me, Miss Draper, for thus intruding upon you. They do not known I am here."
               The speaker cast her gaze about, as she uttered the last sentence, with a quick look of alarm, and there was a tiny spark of intense brilliancy in either eye.
               "Forgive me," she repeated. "I have not come to break your heart. I have only come to—to—"
               She hesitated, and tears started to her eyes.
               "Of what would you speak?" asked Mary, gazing with wonder into the beautiful features of her companion.
               "Ah, I do not wonder he loves you," murmured Fanny Gray, gazing up into Mary's face. "And they tell me you love him—that you are going to be his wife."
               "Of whom do you speak?"
               "Of Thomas—of Mr. Hardy."
               In an instant Mary Draper guessed at the truth. Those deep marks of suffering—those tear tracks, told the sad tale of the wronged and trampled heart.
               "Did they tell you that I was to marry Mr. Hardy?"
               "Yes."
               "He has asked me to marry him, and I have refused."
               "Refused! Did you say, refused?" exclaimed Fanny Gray, starting from her seat, and laying both her hands upon Mary's arm.
               "I did say so."
               "Then you do not love him?"
               "No."
               "And you never will?"
               "I never can, for my whole heart is given to another."
               "O, bless God for that!" ejaculated Fanny, as she sank upon her knees, and clasped her hands towards heaven. "They lied to me! they lied to me! You do not love him, and you will not be his wife?"
               Mary Draper forgot her own weakness—she forgot for the moment that she had ever suffered, or that there could be suffering for her. She took her visitor by the hand and raised her to her feet.
               "You speak of Mr. Hardy," she said. "It is he who holds me here—who means that I shall be his wife. I am a prisoner, and am bound by a power stronger than my own. What are you to him? Tell me, for I would know," she added, kindly.
               "Can you not guess it?"
               "I think I can; but yet not all," replied Mary.
               "I will tell you," said Fanny Gray, as she brushed the rich auburn curls back from her white brow. "Thomas Hardy found me a poor orphan, and he professed to love me. I knew not then that such words as his could have deceit. O, I knew not that such hopes as he raised were but as the mists of morning. I loved him with my whole heart and soul. I confided my heart to his keeping, never dreaming that he could break it. One day he came to me and told me that a priest was with him, and that I must become his wife. I placed my hand confidingly in his, and we were solemnly pledged as man and wife. That was two years ago. Now he swears that that man who married us was no priest, and that I am not his wife! He would cast me away from him! He is the father of my child, and—and—O, God have mercy! He says he is not my husband!"
               Mary Draper wound her arm about the unfortunate girl and drew her to her bosom. Their tears were mingled together, and it was some moments ere either of them could speak.
               "Before God you are his wife," whispered Mary, at length.
               "I am! I am!"
               "Then let that thought soothe you."
               "Alas! but he will leave me—he will love me no more."
               "Then you love him yet?"
               "Love him? O, 'twould break my heart to tear it from him."
               O, the power of woman's love. Poor Fanny Gray could forget all else in that one thought. An Olympus of other suffering could be hidden by that one impulse of the soul—LOVE!
               "And this is the man who threatens to make me his wife!" uttered Mary, half to herself.
               "He must not! He shall not!" cried Fanny, in the earnestness of agony. "I have come to beg of you not to love him."
               "Love? Ah, I can only hate him."
               "No, no, Miss Draper, do not hate him; but do not become his wife."
               At that moment Mary Draper wondered if she could ever love with such a love as that—if she could ever hold to her heart the man who could prove himself so base a being as Hardy had done.
               "I think I could never love such a man," she said, as she gazed earnestly into her companion's face. She spoke slowly and thoughtfully.
               "Ah, we know not our own hearts till they are tried," returned Fanny Gray. "You are not a mother."
               What a world of meaning there was in that last sentence. It went to the soul of Mary with convincing power, and she pressed her lips to her companion's cheek in sympathy.
               
               "Weep no more," she said. "I will tell Mr. Hardy how basely he would wrong you by his course. When he finds that I know all, he will surely relinquish his designs."
               "But you will not tell him that I have been here—that I have told you all this. He would be angry with me."
               "No, no—he shall not learn it from me. I will not tell him how I gained my knowledge."
               "Bless you for that. O, if you do not love him—if you go not with him to England—perhaps he will love me once more. I could forgive him all his wrongs if he would but take me to his heart once more."
               "Alas! that man can be so base!" uttered Mary. "I never knew till now that such feelings had a home in the human bosom. I knew that men could be wicked, but I never knew of such a heart as this!"
               Mary hesitated a moment, and then, while a sudden beam of hope lit up her features, she continued:
               "Perhaps you can help me to escape from here. You are at liberty, and you might contrive some means for enabling me to get away from this place."
               "Alas! I fear not. Yet I will try."
               "Do you know the woman who owns this house?"
               "Only that she is ready to do anything for money. She does not know me, or I should not have been allowed to come in here."
               At that moment, the woman in question opened the door and looked in.
               "Come, my young lady," she said, "you've been here long enough. There'll be a gentleman here before long, so you'd better be going."
               "For mercy sake, contrive some means to get me clear of this place!" whispered Mary, to her sorrowing visitor.
               "I will if I can," returned Fanny. "O, do not love him!"
               There was a fervent pressure of the hands of those two unfortunate girls—an exchange of prayerful glances—and then Fanny Gray turned away from the room.
               For a long time after her visitor had gone did Mary sit motionless in her chair, and gaze into the smouldering fire. Her thoughts were all crowded together in a confused mass without any clear point. When she was aroused from her reverie it was by the entrance of Hardy.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE CAPTIVE AT SEA.
               DURING the present interview Mary had not the will to say anything about the facts she had learned from Fanny Gray. It was a difficult subject to broach, and she had not had time to frame the manner of its delivery in her mind. Yet the knowledge palpably affected her manner towards the lieutenant—she loathed him more than ever before, and she shrank from him with a cold shudder.
               Hardy could not but notice the change in Mary's manner, but he said nothing of it. He only asked after her health, and made his usual protestations of love. Several times, as the maiden coldly repulsed him, did a quick flush of anger spring to his face, but he forced back the feeling and maintained his calmness. He did not remain long. When he arose from his chair he approached the place where Mary sat, and bent his head close to her own, and before she was fully aware of his intentions, he had imprinted a kiss upon her fair cheek. She uttered a low cry and started to her feet, but Hardy made no other movement towards her, He spoke no more, but only smiled a dark, exulting smile, then he turned and left the room.
               When he reached the entry Mary heard him stop, and on the next moment she heard the sound of the old woman's voice. She could not hear distinctly all that was said, but she could make out that the woman was telling of Fanny Gray's visit. Then she heard Hardy's voice in tones of anger and disappointment, and presently the two descended the stairs.
               When next the woman came to Mary's room she was taciturn and lofty. She would give the maiden no reply to her questions, and seemed angry at being asked concerning things pertaining to the poor girl's conferment.
               For a whole week, Thomas Hardy came not to the room again; but during that time Mary knew that Fanny Gray had called at the house and been refused admittance. She knew, also, that Hardy had been to the house, for once she had heard his voice; but he had not came near her. She had come to the conclusion that he avoided her because he did not wish to be presented with the subject of his treatment towards the unfortunate being who was really and honestly his wife; and in this conclusion she was right.
               
               On the evening of the seventh day, Mr. Hardy came. He was dressed in full uniform, and his countenance bore the marks of anxiety.
               "I am happy to see you look so well," he said, as he approached the maiden's chair. "You have entirely recovered from your sickness."
               Mary had in truth regained most of her wonted strength, but she made no reply to that effect.
               "I am glad that you are well," continued Hardy, "for I have now come to have you accompany me."
               "Accompany you?" repeated Mary, while a quick shudder ran through her frame. "Where?"
               "On board my ship, love. So haste and prepare yourself."
               "No, sir. I cannot go with you."
               "Ah, my fair one."
               "I cannot go, sir."
               "Tut, tut. You are foolish. Don't think of thwarting me now, for I have not left the result of my endeavors thus far at the disposal of your own will. I wish you to accompany me on board this evening, for I am to sail with the first flood to-morrow—perhaps before daylight. Come, I have not long to wait."
               Mary summoned all her resolution for one last effort, and rising from her chair she looked the man steadily in the eye.
               "Mr. Hardy," she said, in a tone of deep calmness, "I know the full baseness of your heart—I know the real color of your character. You have a wife, sir—a fond and loving wife, whom you have cast from you and trampled upon. You have coldly crushed her heart when you knew it was all your own; and now you seek another upon whom to let fall the curse of your love."
               "Stop, Mary. I know to whom you allude. I know that she visited you here, and told you her story; but she is no wife of mine."
               "She is your wife, base man!" exclaimed Mary, her face burning with the indignation she felt. "Before God Fanny Gray is your true wife, and you cannot blot the fact from God's book of judgment."
               "It was no priest who said so."
               "O, craven! And is your heart so base, so black, that it can hang upon so villanous a subterfuge? Is your soul so linked with Satan that its solemn oath is nothing? Can you look upon that poor girl—the mother of your child—she to whom you swore eternal fidelity—and not shrink from your own blackness of character? O, if there be a just God, why does not he crush you to atoms beneath his avenging wrath?"
               Thomas Hardy quailed for a moment beneath the look and words of the fair girl, but he soon regained his wonted coolness, and then he replied:
               "Let me tell you, my fair girl, that how much soever I may like your spirit, you will be wise not to provoke me too far. With regard to Fanny Gray, I may have loved her, but I have loved you better, so there is a simple answer to that part of the business. Come, come, we have need of haste. Throw on your cloak directly, for I have not long to wait."
               "I cannot, will not, go," uttered Mary.
               "Beware! You can be carried."
               It was Mary's turn to shrink now, for Hardy's features assumed a fearful aspect as he spoke, and it required but little observation to read danger in his looks.
               "Put on your outer garments," continued the officer, in a sort of hoarse whisper. "I hope I shall not be forced to drag you on board my ship; but it can be done!"
               What more could Mary Draper do? She had no one near to protect her—none upon whom she could call. She was so absolutely in the power of the man who now stood before her that not even a hope was left, and with a weak, trembling step she moved towards the small closet where her cloak had been hung.
               "You will not escape me again," said Hardy, as he stood by and watched the poor girl's movements. "Even were I not going to sail, I should hardly dare to leave you here another night."
               Mary looked up into the man's face, as though she would have asked him what he meant.
               "By the powers of darkness, my fair lady, but your Yankee crew have slipped their cables again. May I be blessed if they haven't run."
               "My Yankee crew, sir?" uttered the girl, not quite comprehending what he meant.
               "Ay, the crew that picked you up in the snow-drift. The whole eleven of them slipped their chains last night, and made off in an old hulk that laid outside of the island; but they'll be brought back; and they may rest assured that they wont escape again. I should say that the sedate old gentleman with the cloven-foot lent them a helping hand."
               "A just God lent them a helping hand," said Mary.
               "Pooh!"
               "Sneer, sir, as much as you please."
               "Perhaps you think he'll lend you assistance, too?"
               "If my prayers are answered, he will. He may not free me from your power, but he may give me strength to bear your presence."
               "Upon my soul, you are keen. But I see you are ready. Come."
               As he spoke, Hardy took the girl by the hand and drew her towards the door. She made no resistance, for she had given up all hopes of gaining anything by it, and without a word she was led from the room. At the street door there was a sledge in waiting. Hardy lifted her into it, and then the driver was ordered to start off. The distance to the dock was but short, and when they reached it one of the ship's boats was found there in readiness to take them off.
               When Mary reached the sloop-of-war she was shown into a small state-room that led out from the cabin, and there Hardy told her she would make her quarters during the voyage. She saw nothing more of her captor during the night.
               It was a long time before the poor girl moved from the position in which the lieutenant had left her, but when she did move, it was only to throw off her cloak and sink upon the cot. She soon lost her keenest sense of suffering in an uneasy slumber; but she was often awakened by fearful dreams—though it would have been strange had she dreamed anything more terrible than the reality of her position.
               Before daylight, Mary was awakened by the sound of tramping feet upon the deck, and a moment's listening told her that the anchor was being hove up. She arose from the cot and looked out at the small window in the stern, and she could see that the horizon to the eastward was growing red. Then she went to the opposite side of the state-room and sank down upon an ottoman. She heard the orders for the loosing of the sails—she heard the cry of the officer on the forecastle when the anchor had broken from the ground, and she knew when the ship began to move through the water. At this moment all her fortitude left her, and with a heavy groan she bowed her head upon her bands.
               Mr. Hardy came into the state-room and spoke to her, but she gave him no answer. He spoke to her again, and placed his hand upon her head, but she did not speak nor move.
               "You'll soon get over this," said the newly raised commander, as he gazed upon the poor victim of his baseness. "Is there not something that you would like—some wine or cordial, or some food?"
               "No, nothing—only that you will leave me to myself," groaned Mary.
               Hardy stood and gazed upon the fair form for a moment longer, and then, while a deep flush passed over his face, he turned away.
               When Mary Draper arose from the ottoman it was broad daylight, and again she went to the window. She could just see the snow-clad hills receding in the distance. British territory though it was, still it was part of America, and she felt that the last cord of her already lacerated heart was snapped in sunder. She watched the distant shore till its outlines came to her eye no longer, and then she tottered from the window, and sank back with a groan upon the ottoman.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE WRECK, AND ITS CREW.
               IT was on a cold, clear morning that the Sea Lion left the harbor of Boston. She had been in there to carry a heavy merchant ship that she had captured from the British, and again was she bound out in search of more adventure. After considerable deliberation with his officers and men, Captain Warren had concluded to run over towards the coast of France, and try his fortunes there. He had learned that many convoys were sailing to and fro between England and the Mediterranean, and he wished to try his hand at cutting out a prize.
               The wind was fair, and through the day and the succeeding night the privateer stood on her course due east. On the following morning the lookouts were stationed with strict injunctions to be watchful, and to be particularly careful that they kept the northern and eastern horizon well swept.
               Warren had been into Castine twice since he left that port in his new command on purpose to inquire after Mary Draper, but he had gained no tidings of her. Though it seemed to him probable that Damon might still be sick, and that Mary remained to nurse him, yet he could not divest himself of the fear that some misfortune had befallen her. At times when the affairs of his vessel did not engage his attention he would walk up and down the quarter deck in a sad and thoughtful mood. The men all knew the subject that thus moved him, and in the fulness of their generous hearts they freely sympathized with him.
               Young Warren suffered, however, far more than his men imagined. He had often tried to remove the fair being from his thoughts—to shut up his heart against the fire that burned there, but the efforts had all proved fruitless. The love he had cherished was too deeply rooted to be torn up, and he could only suffer whenever he thought of the girl from whom he had been separated.
               It was a few minutes past nine o'clock on the second morning out from Boston. The young captain had been for half an hour walking up and down the deck in a moody, melancholy silence, when his attention was arrested by the voice of Mr. Jones, whom he saw in the foretop with a glass in his hand. As Warren started to walk forward the mate came down.
               "What is it?" asked the captain.
               "There's something off in that direction that looks like a wreck," answered Jones, pointing directly over the larboard cathead.
               "A wreck?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Has she any distress signals flying?"
               "None that we can see, sir."
               "Then there's probably no one on board her. We had better stand on."
               "They may have some small signal flying, and we not see it," suggested Jones. "Should we keep away a couple of points we should fall in with her, and it would not put us much out of our way, either."
               "I have no objections, then."
               "Then we may fall off, sir?"
               "Yes. Certainly. Of course."
               The mate shook his head as he walked aft, for he saw that his beloved commander had fallen into one of his melancholy fits, and he knew that when those spells were upon him he suffered exceedingly.
               The wind was out from the southward, having chopped around from the northward and westward since sunrise, and though it was evident that the wreck was now being slowly driven to the northward, yet for a day or two, at least, she must have been driving in the opposite direction.
               In half an hour the wreck could be plainly seen from the Sea Lion's deck, and Warren began to arouse himself from his moodiness. He took a glass and examined the object, and found it to be a hulk without either masts or bowsprit. It sat deep in the water, and the wind was having but little effect upon it, save to throw the spray of the breaking sea over it.
               "I think I can see a man upon her deck," said Jones, who also had a glass.
               "Is that a man?" rejoined Warren, who had discovered the same object.
               "It is, certainly. And upon my soul there's another."
               "By heavens! you are right, Jones," exclaimed the captain, now entirely aroused to the nature of things about him. "There are several men upon her deck. Let her fall off another point. We'll take those men off, sir."
               The brigantine was now standing directly towards the wreck.
               "We'll run around her to the westward, and come up alongside with our maintopsail aback," said Warren, as he shut up his glass. "Lay aft here all the third cutter's crew, and get your boat ready for lowering."
               The third cutter was run up at the stern, and her lashings were soon cast loose, and she was ready for lowering. In a few minutes afterwards the privateer had passed the wreck and come up to the wind on the opposite side. The crew of the cutter were lowered in the boat as soon as the brigantine's headway was stopped, and without much difficulty they rowed alongside of the hulk.
               There were ten men on board, and after a few words of explanation on the part of the cutter's crew, they got into the boat. The Americans were crowded about the lee gangway as the cutter came alongside.
               "Thank God, I've found a Yankee deck once more!" fervently uttered the first of the strangers who came over the side.
               "What! Bill Thompson?" exclaimed Jones, as he sprang forward.
               "Is that you, Jones?" returned Thompson, grasping the outstretched hand of the mate.
               "Yes, it is," returned Jones. "What? and Jack Long, too?"
               "Blow me, if it aint old Jack," uttered Williams and Lubins, both at a breath.
               By this time, Warren had recognized his old shipmates in the two men who had just come over the side, and he pressed forward to greet them.
               "Thompson—Long—this is our captain," said Jones. "Don't you recognize him?"
               "Recognize him?" replied Thompson, bounding towards the Yankee commander with a look of joy. "Who could ever forget the number of that face?"
               "I haven't forgotten yours, at all events," said Warren, with a smile, as he grasped the hands of both Thompson and Long. "But who are the rest of your men?"
               "I guess you don't know them; but they are true Yankees, though, and men that know how to handle a marline-spike."
               "But what sort of a craft have you there? Where are you from?" asked Warren, as he cast his eyes upon the hulk, that now lay bobbing up and down under the privateer's starboard quarter.
               "O, that's the best craft we could pick," returned Thompson; "though she's been damaged some since we got her. But I'll explain," he continued, as he and the captain walked aft, after the boat had been run up to her davits and the maintopsail filled away. "You see we have escaped from a British prison. We dug out of our room, knocked down and gagged three sentries, and then cleared. We found a boat, but it wasn't good for much, so we took it and made for an old hulk that lay outside of the island fort."
               "What island? Where was it?" asked Warren.
               "O, Halifax, to be sure. The old hulk had been used for a light-boat, but there was nobody aboard when we found her, so we slipped her cable and run. You see she had a stump foremast and a bowsprit when we started, but night before last we had everything carried away in a gale, and we lost one man, too. There were eleven of us when we started, and there's ten left. Since yesterday morning we've been knocked about by all sorts of winds; but, thank God, we've brought up safe now."
               "Have you been long in Halifax?" asked Warren.
               "Yes, over a month."
               "Then perhaps you heard of Aaron Damon?"
               "Ah, yes. Poor fellow! he's dead!"
               "Dead?" repeated Warren. "There was a girl with him!"
               "Yes, yes—I know. Mary Draper."
               "And do you know anything of her?" the young captain asked, trembling like an aspen.
               "Perhaps I do. I'll tell you all about her."
               And thereupon Thompson related the strange story of the poor girl's flight in the storm—of her falling into his hands—of her subsequent re-capture, and of her departure in the sloop-of-war. Young Warren was for the moment rendered powerless by the emotions that had been called up at the recital of Mary's sufferings; but at length he found tongue to speak:
               "Did you say that Mary wished to be carried where she could find me?"
               "Yes, Captain Warren. Poor girl! her heart was set on you, and she didn't try to conceal it, either."
               "But do you know that she has sailed?" asked Warren, with increasing agitation.
               "Yes. The sloop-of-war passed us yesterday morning, but we were so low in the water that they did not see us."
               "And yet it may not be that she was on board."
               "I will stake my life that she was, sir. I knew the ship, and I know the villain Hardy commands her. You have reason to know the ship, too; for it is the same that took the old 'Isaac Hall,' and then had to let her slip."
               "Yes, and I know that Hardy, too. He was on board the prize," said Warren, as he started across the deck.
               The men had, most of them, gathered aft to hear Thompson's story, and they now gazed earnestly upon their captain as they saw how strangely he was moved. They all felt for him, for they all knew the occasion of his emotions.
               Young Warren paced the deck, to and fro, a dozen times, and gradually the trembling of his features ceased, and a look of iron resolution had settled over his face.
               "Mr. Jones," he said, turning towards his mate, "have the starboard studding-sails set below and aloft, sir; and clear away the maintopmast staysail."
               "Do you think she'll bear it, sir?" asked the careful mate.
               "She must bear it, sir," quickly replied Warren. And then, in a more gentle tone he added:
               "Never fear, sir. Our spars are strong enough to bear all the sail we can crowd upon them in this breeze."
               "Do you mean to run for the sloop-of-war?" asked Thompson.
               "Yes, sir!" quickly and energetically returned the captain; "and I mean to board her, too!"
               "She has a complement of two hundred men."
               "I would board her if she were a line-of-battle ship with a thousand men," returned Warren, as his eyes flashed fire.
               "Wont you give us a rating on your books, Captain Warren?" asked Thompson.
               "That I will; and I shall be glad, too, of your good arms."
               Ere long the studding sails were set, and the ten new men were entered upon the privateer's books. This gave the Sea Lion a crew of eighty-four men besides the captain, and they were just such men, too, as were needed.
               "Throw the log," said Warren, as all the sails began to draw.
               The log was thrown, and Jones reported eleven and-a-half knots.
               "What do you say to that, Thompson?"
               "I should say you will easily overhaul the sloop."
               "Ay, that I will," cried Warren, with much warmth; and then turning towards the men, he passed the word for all hands to lay aft upon the quarter-deck.
               "Now, my boys," said the captain, as he ran his eye proudly over the stalwort men who were collected about him, "there is an English sloop-of-war ahead of us, and her commander is basely dragging a poor Yankee girl away from her native land. Some of you know her well, and you know that she is virtue and purity itself. This vessel of ours will easily overtake the ship. I am going to board her. She has two hundred men. Will you follow me?"
               For a moment the men were silent. But it was not with fear. They only gazed in admiration upon the proud features of him who had spoken to them. When they did speak it was as one man, and they swore to follow their commander wherever he would lead them.
               "As true as there is a God in heaven," exclaimed Warren, raising his right hand high above his head, "I will teach that Englishman that American women have protectors in American seamen. Show me the man who would not risk his life to save a virtuous female from the fiend-grasp of such a villain, and I will swear to you he is not a true Yankee sailor."
               What a shout of applause went up from that deck when Gordon Warren thus spoke. He had touched one of the noblest cords in the sailor's heart, and the men gave ample token of the effect it had produced. At that moment he could have led them against a force ten times their own number, and they would have followed him with a cheer.
               When the men returned to their duty the captain descended to the cabin, and called Thompson to follow him. When once seated the old sailor had to relate again the story of his meeting with Mary Draper, and as he concluded, he was not at all surprised to see large tears upon Warren's cheeks.
               "She is a noble girl, Thompson."
               "That she is, sir."
               "She saved my life once."
               "Ah."
               "Yes."
               And Warren related the circumstance of the encounter with the frigate.
               "By my soul," uttered Thompson, "she must be saved."
               "And by my soul, she shall!" added Warren.
               For a few moments after the captain thus spoke he gazed silently into the face of his companion. Then he went to a locker against the bulkhead and took out a chart, and as soon as he had determined upon the course he should 
                     rnn
                     run
                   he went on deck and gave directions to the officer who had the watch.
               The Sea Lion was headed east-north-east, and Captain Warren prayed that he might find the sloop, and in this prayer he was heartily joined by his whole crew.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE CHASE.
               DURING the whole of the day and the following night the wind held out from the southward, and until midnight the Sea Lion carried her studding-sails; but at that time they were taken in. Eight days passed and not a sail had been seen. Captain Warren began to grow somewhat uneasy, but he felt confident that he could not have passed the ship; and yet, unless she was a better sailer than he had thought, he should by this time have had her in sight. But then the ship had nearly two days the start of him, and that was considerable to be overcome in a chase.
               "Never fear, sir," said Thompson, to whom Warren had just been expressing his doubts. "We shall come upon her yet. She is doubtless a good sailer, and you know it's a long run across the Atlantic, especially on a chase."
               "I know it," returned Warren; "but then we've been running very fast. There's hardly a leg less than ten knots on the book, and most of them over. It may be that we run her by last night."
               "I think that is hardly possible, sir; for if we had, she would certainly have been in sight this morning."
               "Perhaps she would," answered Warren, gazing nervously into the binnacle, and then casting his eyes aloft. "Perhaps she would. We'll stand on another day, at all events."
               Poor Warren was tortured with anxiety. Had his own life been the thing at stake he could not have been more solicitous. In a measure he had allowed his ardent desires to away his calmer judgment, and hence he had underrated the sailing powers of the sloop-of-war. He could only picture Mary Draper in the hands of her villain captor, and with this picture harrowing up his soul had he spent the past eight days. He had hardly slept during that time. He had sought his berth, and closed his eyes, but he had only dreamed of the maiden whom he had sworn to save from the destroyer's power. Most of the time he had spent upon the deck, sometimes watching the sparkling water as it gathered in the vessel's wake—then nervously pacing the deck, and sometimes falling into a drowse as he leaned over the quarter rail.
               Noon had passed, and the men had cleared up their mess-dishes. Warren had gone below for the twentieth time to look at his chart. The wind was from the northwest, and the brigantine was bowling off with the breeze upon her larboard quarter.
               "Sail ho!" came from the fore-topmast-crosstrees, in a tone that sounded like the waking of a young earthquake.
               Captain Warren leaped upon the deck like a shot.
               "Who passed that word, sir?" he asked of Mr. Jones.
               "It was from the forward lookout," returned the mate, who had not yet had time to go forward.
               The captain sprang to the gangway.
               "Fore-topmast-crosstrees, there!"
               "Hallo!"
               "Where is that sail?"
               "Right ahead, sir."
               "Can you make anything of her?"
               "No, sir."
               "Where's Williams?"
               "Here, sir."
               "Take a glass and go aloft, and let me know as soon as you can make anything of that sail."
               "Ay, ay, sir."
               Williams took a glass and hurried up to the crosstrees.
               "I think we've hit her," said Thompson.
               "I hope so," returned Warren, with his lips pressed hard together. "I hope so."
               "I think there's no doubt of it."
               "I pray God there be not."
               During the next fifteen minutes the captain paced the deck in painful anxiety. At the end of that time he went forward.
               "Fore-topmast-crosstrees, there!"
               "Hallo."
               "Can't you make her out, yet?"
               "I think it's a ship, sir."
               "She must be on the same course that we are," said Jones.
               "Of course," returned Warren, "or we should have had her hull up by this time."
               "It is a ship," shouted Williams, ten minutes afterwards.
               "Then it must be the sloop-of-war," uttered the captain, for there is no other ship that would be here at this time."
               "You may be assured you are right," added Thompson.
               "And the Englishman may be assured that he has lost his fair prize."
               In half an hour more the heads of the ship's topsails could be seen from the privateer's cross-trees, and Williams knew them to belong to the same craft that had taken the "Isaac Hall."
               "Mr. Jones," said the captain, after he had become assured that the sail ahead was the one he was after, "I think we had better haul upon the wind and stand to the northward further. I do not think we are seen yet from the ship. I want to keep on all sail, and yet keep about the same distance. In that way we can work to windward, and then when it comes dark we can run down as we choose. We are no match for the sloop at a broadside, for six of her waist guns are thirty-two pounders; or at least, I wouldn't run the risk of such an encounter, for I have no desire to throw any shot that may be dangerous to the very being I wish to save. I will wait until after dark, air, and them I'll run her on board."
               "I like your plan," said the mate.
               "And I think I shall get ahead of the ship, if possible, in the dark, so that I can come down across his bows."
               "That'll startle him."
               "I think it will."
               The brigantine was now heading northeast by east, and the ship the same. The former was headed up to northeast half north, and thus she stood till dark, keeping the ship in sight.
               Shortly after sundown it could be seen that the sloop was shortening sail for the night. She had taken in her royals and set her topgallant-sails over double-reefed topsails.
               "Now we may come back to our former course," said Warren, "and that will carry us two miles to the windward of the ship. She wont make us out at half that distance."
               "We shall soon run by her with this sail on," observed Jones, after the helm had been put up. "Four hours, at the farthest, will bring us abreast of her, and then we can do as we see fit."
               All sail was kept on the privateer, and trusty lookouts were stationed, and after these arrangements were completed Warren went below to his supper. He now felt sure of his object. Not a doubt entered his mind but that his men would easily overcome their enemies and place him in the possession of the being he so fondly loved. His own arm felt strong, and his heart beat high with the glowing hopes that had dawned upon him. As soon as he had finished his meal he returned to the deck.
               At ten o'clock the lookout at the starboard bow reported that he could see the top-hamper of the ship looming up against the sky. The night glass was brought to bear upon the object, and it was found to be as the man had reported. The ship bore about two points upon the bow, and could not have been over two miles distant.
               "Let her fall off a point," said Warren, as he came aft. "We must run him by without being seen."
               In an hour longer the ship was upon the brigantine's quarter, and at midnight she was out of sight astern.
               "Now get up the arms!" shouted Captain Warren, as soon as the enemy could be no longer seen. "Williams, unlock the arm chests and distribute the pistols, and then bring a large canister of cartridges from the magazine. I want every man to have three pistols. Go below, all the maintopmen, and help load them, and mind, now, that they are carefully loaded and primed. Lubins, I want you to take a bolt of the finest duck you have and tear up about ninety strips, each of them to be four inches wide and three feet long"
               In half an hour the pistols were all loaded and brought upon the deck. Each man took three of them, placing them securely within the cutlass belt, and then the captain ordered each of them to take a strip of the white duck and tie it around his hat.
               "It will be close work on the deck of that ship," said Warren; "and it is necessary that we should know our friends. These wide strips of white upon the hat will be easily recognized. Stand by to wear ship now. Put up the helm slowly. Ease off, and round in on the braces handsomely."
               Ere long the Sea Lion was braced sharp up on the starboard tack, and upon a taut bowline she could easily stand directly down upon the ship. In less than ten minutes after the braces had been belayed the ship was in sight—or at least her tall spars could be made out against the starry sky.
               "Now, my boys," said Captain Warren, speaking in quick, distinct tones, "we've got a very nice piece of work to do. I don't know what the ship will do when she makes us out—she may down helm, and luff—very likely she will. She will not put her helm up, for we shall be under her lee bow. Now my plan is this: As soon as we are within a suitable distance, I want to take a good pull and come about so as to lay alongside that fellow directly under his lee fore chains. You all see how exactly every order must be obeyed. The missing of a single rope may spoil all. I would not have the Sea Lion miss her stays for every ship in the royal navy. Every man to his station now. Williams, to you I entrust the grapplings. Take as many of the starboard boarders as you need to assist you. Now stand by, every man, for my orders. Handle your helm handsomely."
               As Warren thus spoke, he went forward and stationed himself at the starboard night-head. Everything on board the privateer was quiet and orderly. Not a whisper fell from the men as they awaited the orders of their captain. Every rope that needed to be used was already in hand.
               Nearer and nearer came the ship. Warren could just distinguish her black hull upon the water, and he found that he was exactly under her forefoot. For an instant his heart beat with a quick throb, but with the quickness o thought he was calm again.
               "Starboard!" he cried.
               "Starboard!" repeated Johnson, who had the helm.
               "Steady!"
               "Steady it is."
               "Ready about!" shouted the captain, as soon as the brigantine had got well off, and room enough.
               At this moment came a hail from the ship.
               "Down with your helm, or you'll be aboard of us!" cried Warren, calling out to the ship through his trumpet; and then turning to his mate, he ordered him to put the brigantine about as quickly as possible.
               On the next instant the roll of a drum was heard on board the sloop-of-war, and she began to luff.
               "I thought so," exclaimed Warren, as he sprang aft. "She's luffing and calling her men to quarters."
               "Ay, and there go her battle-lanterns," added Williams. "By the powers, she's taken the alarm quickly."
               "If she don't open her battery before we get alongside I don't care," returned Warren. "Ah, our little fairy comes up handsomely."
               "Mainsail haul!" cried Jones.
               The main yards came around rapidly, and by the time the braces were belayed the vessel was off, and the order was given for letting go, and hauling forward.
               As the braces were all belayed the brigantine was heading nearly the same as the ship, the latter having luffed almost to the wind; but the Americans could not have asked for a more favorable position, for they were running directly towards the sloop-of-war's lee fore-chains, and before they lost the wind from their sails by the intervention of the ship's canvass, their vessel had got headway enough for their purpose, though they were obliged to lay under the main and mizzen chains of the enemy instead of the fore.
               "Look out for your grapplings!" cried Warren.
               In a moment more the two vessels touched, and the grapplings were faithfully thrown and secured.
               "Arms! arms! arms! Repel boarders!" cried the captain of the ship.
               "Quick, boys!" shouted Warren, as he sprang upon the ship's mizzen channel. "Shoot down the pikemen!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE PRIZE. REUNION.
               MOST of the ship's battle-lanterns had been lighted and hung over the guns, but yet all was confusion upon her deck. The men from below were tumbling up half-dressed, with their cutlasses in their hands, and as yet none of her crew had been regularly stationed. Most of those who had been on deck had seized the boarding-pikes from their racks around the masts, and at the order of their commander they had sprang to the starboard bulwarks to repel the invaders.
               "Shoot down the pikemen!" again shouted Warren, as he mounted the ship's hammock-netting and shot down a quarter-master who opposed him.
               "Where is the commander of this ship?" shouted our hero, as he gained the quarter-deck.
               "Here," answered Hardy. "Now who and what are you?"
               "I am captain of the Yankee privateer, Sea Lion."
               "Ye gods! The young merchant captain!"
               "Yes—I was your prisoner once, you had command of my ship; but now I'll take command of yours, and you are my prisoner!"
               "Am I?" hissed Hardy, at the same time making a pass at the young American with his cutlass.
               "Yes you are," coolly returned Warren, parrying off the blow that had been aimed at him. "Dastard! you tear our defenceless girls from their native land!"
               "Ha! are you there? So you are after the pretty girl!"
               "Ay, to save her from the fangs of a serpent."
               "Then thus shall you meet the reward of your meddling!" yelled Hardy, as he pressed hotly upon his antagonist.
               Gordon Warren knew that there were two fates now resting in his good sword. His own, and that of one as dear to him as his very life. This thought gave him additional strength, and he met his adversary with a power that was irresistible.
               "Back! back!" he cried, as Hardy began to give way. "Your ship is mine!"
               Hardly were the words spoken when Warren gained a chance stroke, and his cutlass came down with a crash upon the side of the English lish commander's head. Hardy sank upon the deck like a felled ox, and in a moment more the Yankee captain turned to where the hot battle was going on among the men. His heart leaped joyfully in his bosom as he saw that his own men were firm and regular. He could see the white badge upon their hats, and he could see that the enemy were fast giving way.
               The ship's crew had had no time to station themselves with any regularity, and besides, many of them had only reached the deck as the assailants came rushing over the side. Thompson, at the head of the nine men who had shipped with him, made a stand at the main-hatch, and already more than twenty of the enemy had fallen beneath their blows. The Americans were all of them cool and determined, while their opposers were beginning to be panic-stricken.
               The English were brave men—men who could fight well—but at the present time it must be remembered that they were taken by surprise. They knew not how many of the enemy they had to contend with. They could see the white hats in all directions, and to their excited imaginations the number of those strange hats seemed trebled. Ere long the word ran over the deck that the English commander was killed. This announcement had a visible effect upon the ship's crew. They began to give way faster, and at length the Americans had entire possession of the quarter-deck.
               Warren's voice was heard above the din of battle, cheering his men on to the victory that awaited them. Three lieutenants had sought him, and all three of them had fallen before his stout, quick arm, and yet the Sea Lion's captain moved through the battle unharmed. Wherever his eye caught a man of his own too hotly pressed, there his arm was sure to fall, and it fell, too, with effect.
               At length the conflict grew less hot in its rage, and the ship's crew stood upon the forecastle. There had they been driven, and there they held out till all hope was gone, and then they cried out for quarters.
               "Then down with your arms!" thundered Thompson.
               In another instant the cutlasses rattled upon the deck, and the battle was finished. The sloop-of-war was conquered!
               "Go below, some of you, and bring up the irons," said Warren. "Here, you youngster," he added, laying his hand upon the head of a young fellow who belonged to the ship, "go down with my men and show them where the irons are. Do you understand?"
               "Yes, sir," returned the boy; and so saying he turned and led the way down the fore-hatch.
               When the men returned they bore with them a heavy chest, which was nearly full of the required shackles.
               "Where is Mr. Jones?"
               "Here, sir—and safe," returned the mate, himself answering.
               "I wish you to attend to putting the prisoners in irons," said Warren, "while I attend to matters in another direction."
               As the young captain thus spoke, he turned towards the cabin. With a quick step he passed over the blood-stained corses that covered the deck, and his heart was hushed to a strange stillness as he opened the cabin door.
               Upon a low ottoman in the main cabin sat Mary Draper. She was pale and trembling, and her hands were clasped in painful anxiety. As she heard the door open she raised her head, and instinctively shrank back.
               "Mary!" spoke the intruder, in a soft, tender tone.
               The fair girl bent quickly forward, and for a moment she gazed up into the speaker's face. Then she started to her feet, and slowly she put forth her right hand as if to feel that it was no phantom of the brain that had thus made its appearance.
               "Mary—Mary—you are safe!"
               "Gordon! Gordon!" fell in trembling accents from the fair girl's lips, and while yet the cadence hung in the air she fell upon her lover's bosom.
               "Safe! safe!" murmured Warren, as he wound his arms about the form that reclined upon him.
               "O, is it possible? This is no cruel phantasy—no fatal image of groundless hope?"
               "No, no, dearest girl. You are safe now—safe from all further harm. This ship is mine, and your base persecutor can have power over you no more."
               "O, bless you! bless you! God be praised for this!"
               "But tell me," whispered Warren, as he gazed with a look of fearful anxiety down into the girl's face; "has the villain harmed you? has he dared to trample upon you in your helplessness?"
               "No, no," cried Mary, starting up and raising her hand towards heaven. "Thank God, you have come in season!"
               The young man's highest, holiest hope was realized, and while the tears of joy coursed down his cheeks, he pressed the maiden more closely to his bosom, and lifted his murmuring voice in words of thanksgiving to the Being who had not forsaken the poor girl in her hour of trial.
               As Mary grew calmer, and as her thoughts came back to things about her, she asked her preserver how all this had been brought about. Warren told her how he had fallen in with Thompson, and how he had thus learned of Hardy's purposes.
               "And now," he continued, "God has given you into my hands, and what shall separate us more?"
               "Nothing," murmured Mary.
               "Bless you for that. Now I must return to the deck, for I am needed there, but rest you here in peace till I come back. You had better not come from the cabin, for the scene on deck is not one for you."
               The young captain imprinted a warm kiss upon the fair girl's lips, and then he turned and left her. When he reached the deck he found that the prisoners had all been ironed, and that his men were busy in removing the bodies from the gangways.
               There were seventy-four prisoners, all told, it having been found that the commander, Hardy, was still alive. This made the list of the killed on the side of the enemy count up to the round figure of one hundred and six, the ship having had one hundred and eighty men. Warren mustered his own men, and there were twenty-six of them missing. A sadness was felt among the crew as their brave shipmates were found to be missing, but they had fallen in a cause made doubly holy—the protection of innocence, and the protection of their own native country, and silently the dead were shrouded for burial.
               Long before daylight the deck of the ship had been cleared up, and the dead all consigned to the ocean grave, while the wounded were placed in the care of the English surgeon who pledged himself to perform his duty faithfully. Hardy was not able to speak, but the surgeon expressed his opinion that he might possibly recover. Besides those killed, Warren found that seventeen of his men were so badly wounded as to be for the present unfit for duty. This left him only forty-one able men. He felt puzzled as to what course he should pursue.
               "Jones," he said, "we can't take this ship into port."
               "That's just what I've been thinking," returned the mate. "It would take all our men to handle her. There's Williams and Lubins both wounded."
               "Yet I would rather have our own little craft for our use," said Warren.
               "Most assuredly. For us she is worth a whole fleet of ships."
               "Then I know of no other way but to remove the prisoners and sink her."
               "It seems hard," returned Jones, "but it's the best we can do. We could never get her to the States without running too much risk. However, there's one consolation, at any rate. It will give our enemy one ship the less."
               Captain Warren felt much relieved when he found that his men were all in favor of sinking the prize, for it seemed that none of them wished to undertake the task of sailing her, especially at that season of the year, when storms and high winds were so frequent; so arrangements were at once made for removing the prisoners to the brigantine. After this had been done the Americans turned their attention to hunting up such articles of value as could be easily removed. Several thousand pounds in gold money was found in the purser's department—much valuable clothing, a large quantity of provisions and ammunition, a lot of charts and instruments, and the ship's signal books, were also taken; and when she had been cleared of all that was worth the trouble of taking, she was scuttled, and then the privateersmen hastened on board their own vessel.
               It was nine o'clock in the morning when the Sea Lion got well clear of her prize, and in fifteen minutes afterwards the heavy ship went down. Warren gazed upon the spot where the sloop had found her grave for some minutes in silence. He felt almost sad that he had been thus obliged to throw away his prize; but there was no help for it. Then he thought of the being he had saved, and his heart lost its sadness, his features were lighted up with a happy look, and in this frame of mind he turned from the scene where the waves had gathered over the sunken ship. He gave the helmsman his course, saw that the prisoners were provided for, and then he turned towards the cabin to seek the fair being whom he had there provided for, now indeed, doubly dear to him.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               STRANGE FEARS.
               THE brigantine was ten days in reaching the Bay of the Penobscot, and during the first part of that time Gordon Warren was a happy man, though he could not have been more happy than most of the time was Mary Draper. They talked of the past, of the present, and of the future, and not a cloud arose to darken the horizon of their joy till the voyage was mostly completed. Many times did the young captain urge Mary to promise to be his own wife, and she had at length pledged herself that when once she was her own mistress she would accede to his wishes. Often had she been upon the point of giving herself unreservedly to the noble man who had preserved her, and as often had some strange misgiving held the magic words back. She knew not why she should hesitate, but yet she did. She remembered the dying words of her father, and something whispered the thought to her soul that she should see Mr. Blake before she unreservedly made any new disposition of her hand.
               Mary did not tell Warren all the feelings that moved her. She did not tell him of one thought that had begun to trouble her. Until within one or two days of the vessel's arrival the fair girl had dwelt upon no fixed point for her doubts, for she had been too busy with the blessings that had so unexpectedly fallen to her lot. But when for the last time Gordon Warren had earnestly pressed her for a kind answer to his wishes, she had acknowledged to herself the fear that hung over her; and the more she thought of it the more plainly did it arise before her.
               "O, Mary," urged the young captain, as he held the fair girl by the hand, "why should you keep me in suspense. I know you love me, for you have confessed it to me often; and you know that my heart is all yours. Then why refuse to speak that simple word that shall make you mine?"
               "Ah, Gordon," returned Mary, gazing up through the moisture that had gathered in her dark blue eyes, "I do love you, and I know you speak the truth when you tell me that I am loved in return; but yet I cannot promise now what you ask of me."
               "But why, Mary? Does not your love for me make you happy? and are you not happy because I love you?"
               "Yes, yes. O, I should be miserable if I thought you loved me not."
               "Then why this reserve? Why refuse the boon I ask?"
               "Do not press me to tell you now. Wait till I—"
               "Till you what?" asked Warren, as Mary hesitated.
               "Alas! I know not what. Do not ask me."
               Mary reclined her head upon her companion's bosom as she spoke, and for the moment Warren was undecided what to do. He was puzzled by the girl's manner, but he saw that she was sincere and earnest. At length he raised her head, and gazing imploringly into her face, he said:
               "You are cruel, Mary, thus to keep from me the true cause of your action. Tell me all, I beseech you?"
               "You will think me foolish."
               "No, no—I cannot think that."
               "But you may blame me?"
               "I shall almost blame you if you do not tell me."
               "It is no foolish fancy, Gordon, though I could hope for your sake that my fears might prove groundless."
               "And not for your own sake?" uttered Warren, in a tone almost reproachful.
               "I could not pray that they might be groundless," returned Mary, in a tone of strange tremulousness.
               "Come, come—you must tell me the meaning of all this. Let me know the worst, even though it crush me."
               A moment the fair girl bowed her head, and Warren felt her hand tremble violently within his own.
               "Speak," whispered our hero.
               "Then, Gordon, listen to me. As I come calmly to reflect upon the past—as I think of Hardy's villany, I cannot banish the thought from my mind that I have no clear proof that Aaron Damon is dead! Now you know all."
               Warren started as though he had felt a knife-point at his heart.
               "Not dead!" he uttered. "O, do not hold such a thought as that."
               "But I cannot drive the thought from me. I did not see Aaron but once after we went into Halifax; and after he was carried to the hospital, I saw him not again. From Hardy's lips alone have I heard of his death, and I know what a villain he is. Why was not I allowed to know of his approach to death? why was not I allowed to see him?"
               "Why, you told me his disease was a loathsome and contagious one."
               "So Hardy told me. Yet Aaron would have sent me some word—some token. He would have asked, at least, to see me."
               "So perhaps he did. He is dead, I know he is," exclaimed Warren. "Thompson told me so. Long told me so."
               "But I told Thompson of it, myself."
               "Ay, but he heard of it before that, I am sure. He learned of it before he made his first escape from prison."
               "Then perhaps he knows?" cried Mary, in a tone of hope. "Send for him."
               Thompson was accordingly called into the cabin.
               "Thompson," said the captain; "is not Aaron Damon dead?"
               "Certainly he is, sir," confidently replied the old seaman, looking curiously into the anxiously working features of his commander.
               "You saw Damon, did n't you?"
               "I saw him once, but not to speak with him."
               "Yet you know he is dead?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "How do you know it?" asked Mary, in a trembling tone.
               "Why—why—Let me see. Ah, I heard the order given to the jailor to scratch Aaron Damon's name off from the prison list."
               "And it was because he was dead?"
               "Yes, sir."
               
               "Then there can be no doubt of it?"
               "Why, bless me, no," returned Thompson, looking somewhat puzzled. "What should make you think otherwise?"
               "I'll tell you: Miss Draper thought it might be possible that Hardy had fabricated the story of Damon's death to answer his own base purposes."
               "And surely I had reason for such fears," said Mary; "for not a word was lisped to me till after it was said he was buried. I knew that Hardy was base enough for that."
               "But there's room for no more doubt, since Thompson had it direct," said Warren.
               "But now, upon my soul," uttered Thompson, while a new light shot athwart his bronzed features, "perhaps the poor supercargo aint dead, after all. Blow me, if it may n't all be a sham. It was Hardy himself who told the jailor to scratch Damon's name off; and there was something else about the business, too."
               "What was it?" breathlessly asked Warren.
               "Something that was said by one of the sogers one day when we were eating our dinner. I can't think now. But Jack Long 'll remember. I know it was after Hardy had gone, and while the jailor was putting away his book; for you see our gang was in the room right next to the office, and that's the way we got out so easy."
               "Go and call Jack down."
               "Alas! I fear 'tis too true!" murmured Mary, after Thompson had gone.
               "Wait, dearest, till we hear all," said Warren, striving to hide his anguish.
               In a few moments Thompson returned followed by Long. Poor Jack, still had his left arm in a sling, for he had been seriously wounded in the late conflict.
               "Long," said the captain, "I have been questioning Thompson about the matter of Aaron Damon's reported death, and he says you will probably remember a circumstance which he has forgotten."
               "Don't you remember, Jack, the day that Hardy come into the prison and ordered the jailor to scratch off Damon's name?" asked Thompson.
               "Certainly," answered Long.
               "And don't you remember that after Hardy had gone, one of the sogers said something about Damon?"
               "Yes, certainly. He said that he guessed Damon must have dropped off kind o' sudden like; and then he said something about his body's being carried out in the night. I kind o' thought then that everything was n't right."
               "Did you hear any more?"
               "No, sir."
               "That will do."
               Thompson and Long left the cabin, and they thought they had helped make Mary and the captain happy by throwing some strong doubts upon the reported death of Aaron Damon!
               "O, and shall this thing come now to crush my heart back into its night of misery!" groaned Warren, as he bowed his head in his hands.
               "Alas!" murmured Mary in reply, "I fear I am still bound by my promise to my father. You could not ask me to break that?"
               "I will not ask you, Mary, for I know the feelings of your soul. But, O, it is cruel that we should be thus torn asunder—that our loves should thus be trampled under the heel of such a fate. I wish I could have known this when first I wrested you from Hardy's hands. I might have schooled myself to it then; but now those cords of love have only gained strength that they may pain me the more in being rent in twain. O, if I could only have known it before."
               "But you will not blame me, Gordon?" urged the poor girl, gazing imploringly up into her companion's face. "Do not blame me, for I only gave the thought a home in my bosom three days since, and even then it came as comes the faint memory of a half-forgotten dream; but I cherished it, and it grew stronger, and, when you urged me to pledge you my hand, that thought took substance to itself and fell like an ice-bolt upon my heart. But let us say no more about it. If we both live, I may be free—I may be free to love you as I love you now—and—and—should you then wish it, I may have a hand to give you."
               Warren could speak no more. Words were burning in his heart, but he knew that their utterance would only pain the unfortunate girl, and he did not speak them. He could read her heart—he could see how faithful that heart was to its plighted honor—he could see how Mary clung to the truth—how she shrank from disobeying the injunctions of a dying father; and though that obeyance made him miserable, though it snatched from him the fairest treasure of earth, yet he knew that it all was the result of those very qualities that made Mary Draper the noble girl she had proved herself to be.
               For some time, Warren calmly reflected. The thoughts we have mentioned passed rapidly through his mind, and at length he gazed into Mary's face with a calm, kind look. He took her hand in his own, and in a low, tremulous voice, he said:
               "Forgive me, if I have spoken thoughtlessly, Mary, for I have been sorely tried. I cannot, will not, blame you for the course you take, for I know every feeling of your heart. I know why you act as you do, and though it takes the brightest beacon of my earthly hopes from me, yet I cannot but commend you for it. You have my heart's whole love, and you have, too, my free confession of your justness in taking the course you do."
               "O," cried Mary, as she threw her arms about Warren's neck, "bless you for this! You have relieved me of a load that made my heart ache more than all other misfortune that has befallen me."
               "You may be free, yet, but we will wait." whispered the young captain, as he pressed his lips upon the fair girl's cheek. "We shall both be calmer when we meet again. To-morrow, perhaps, we shall enter the Penobscot. You will be safe then."
               As he thus spoke, he turned away. Mary could make no reply, for her heart was too full.
               Warren's first movement upon reaching the deck was to seek Hardy. The English commander was in an airy position upon the berth-deck, and he had as yet showed no signs of improving. The wound he had received from Warren's cutlass had broken through the skull, and as yet he had given no signs of sense. Warren went to the side of his cot and spoke to him. The sick man turned his dull eyes upon his captor, but he betrayed no signs of intelligence. Twice did Warren ask him of Aaron Damon, but Hardy spoke not.
               "It's no use," said the surgeon, who stood by. "He wont speak for some time yet."
               "Do you think he will recover?" asked Warren.
               "Perhaps so."
               "May he not speak in a week?"
               The surgeon shook his head.
               "It may be possible," he said; "but I doubt it."
               "You remember the young man who was taken from the merchantman—our supercargo. He was wounded with a splinter."
               "Yes. He was under my charge."
               "And do you know anything of him after he went on shore in Halifax?" asked Warren, with considerable earnestness.
               "Only that he died."
               "Do you know that he died? Did you see him?"
               "No. I was not at the hospital; but Mr. Hardy told me that he died of the small-pox."
               "And all you know is what Hardy told you of the matter?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "O, I would that I could open the villain's mouth!"
               Captain Warren gazed into the face of the wounded man as he spoke, and his lips were pressed tightly together. Then he turned and walked away, and the surgeon followed him with a wondering look.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE ORDEAL.
               WHEN the Sea Lion entered the Penobscot she carried the American ensign at her peak, and below it was the flag of Great Britain. All along the shores the people were gathered, and loud and long were the shouts of joy that rang out upon the clear frosty air. The channel was free from ice, and with a fair wind the privateer had no difficulty in making her way to Castine. The news spread like wildfire through the town that the gallant Sea Lion had captured and sunk a heavy ship of the enemy's, and the people came in crowds to the docks and wharves to welcome back the heroes:
               Old Adam Blake was among the first to greet the young captain as he landed, and when the attorney learned that Mary Draper was on board the brigantine his joy knew no bounds. He went immediately on board, and the fair maiden wept tears of joy as she rested her head upon the bosom of her old friend. Her scanty wardrobe was soon made up, and both she and Warren accompanied Mr. Blake to his residence, where the old gentleman listened with the utmost interest to the story of Mary's perilous adventures.
               After Warren had concluded his account of the capture of the sloop-of-war, the old man leaped from his chair in a frenzy of delight. He was wild in the expressions of his joy, and more than once he knocked his big chair over upon the floor in his quaint antics.
               "Captain Warren," he said, after he had resumed his seat, "already is the country resounding with your fame. Let me assure you that your countrymen do not fail to appreciate your services. Thank God, that I found so worthy a commander for my vessel."
               "Be not too lavish of your praise," returned the young captain, while a rich blush suffused his handsome countenance. "Let my crew have their share."
               "Ay, that they shall; but yet, Mr. Warren, you know how much of such brilliant success must depend upon the ability of the commander."
               "Perhaps so; but yet my abilities were of little avail without my gallant crew. Ah, Mr. Blake, I am not alone in the world of conquest. All over the seas the Yankee flag is flying triumphant. Even in the very jaws of the British channels our little privateers are flying about, and an English merchantman can scarcely venture out of sight of home without being captured. And then look at our navy, too. Look at Hull, at Bainbridge, at Macdonough, at Decatur, at Morris, at Perry, and at Porter. Their names are even now a terror to our enemy. O, sir, America need not fear while Yankee hands and Yankee hearts keep the sea. Ere this war is closed you shall know who suffers most upon the ocean."
               Again the old man leaped from his chair and caught Warren by the hand.
               "I wish I were young again," he said. "I should like to strike one blow. But never mind—my country does not lack for stout arms."
               The conversation continued for sometime longer, and after dinner Mr. Blake and Captain Warren went on board the privateer. The prisoners were removed from the vessel, and most of them conveyed to Thomaston. Hardy was sent on shore at Castine in charge of the English surgeon, proper measures being taken that neither of them should escape. Such articles as had been taken from the sloop-of-war, that were not wanted by the Sea Lion's crew, were easily disposed of and the proceeds divided. From Belfast and Thomaston our hero received numerous applications from good seamen to be admitted among his crew, and on the very next day after the arrival he had made up his complement to eighty men.
               The third day after the privateer had come into port, Warren spent mostly at the residence of Mr. Blake, and the two men spent much time in talking about the strange affair of Aaron Damon's probable existence.
               "It may be that he's alive," said Mr. Blake, after he had heard a full statement of all the circumstances from the lips of his young friend; "and if he is he will probably be here when he finds strength enough to come. I pity you, Gordon, and I pity poor Mary, too; but yet I see not how she can well avoid giving her band to Damon if he comes to claim it. Perhaps if I were in her place, and had my present feelings, I should for once set aside my father's injunctions; but I know Mary's feelings. She would never be happy to live upon an act of disobedience to her father's wishes."
               "I do not blame her, sir, for the course she has chosen to pursue. It is hard for me to give her up—very hard—but she is right. All I can hope is, that if Damon comes back, he will be a kind husband. I hope he will love her as I love her."
               Mr. Blake was considerably moved when he saw the large tears gathering in Warren's eyes, and for some time he gazed in silence upon the carpeted floor.
               "Perhaps," he said, at length, "Aaron may never come back. After all, my dear young friend, this is only surmise. Upon my soul I think the chances are in favor of the supercargo's death. Not that we should wish him dead, but that such an event has been the will of Providence. Were I in your place, I should hope at least."
               "So I do, sir," returned Warren; "but I dare not hope too much. Already have I suffered enough from that."
               The attorney saw that the subject was becoming painful, and he changed the tone of conversation; but before they turned upon other matters Warren asked if Mary's property was safe.
               "Yes," answered Blake; "and a handsome property she has; but of course, you are aware that her father left it almost wholly under the management of Damon?"
               "Yes. So Mary has told me," answered Warren.
               
               "But I have no fears on that account, for Aaron is an honest man."
               "Very," responded Warren.
               After this there ensued a long silence, and it was not broken till Mary Draper entered the room. There was a faint smile upon her features as she took a seat near the young captain, and an observer could have seen that she labored hard to maintain an easy, and unruffled composure.
               The evening had worn half away, when one of Mr. Blake's clerks entered the room in considerable of a hurry.
               "What's to pay, now?" asked the old man, as the clerk approached the place where he sat.
               "There's a man at your office who wishes to see you."
               "Who is he?"
               "I don't know."
               "Don't you know his name?"
               "No, sir."
               "Well, what does he want?"
               "I could n't tell you, sir. He came in a short time since and offered to wait till you came. I told him that perhaps you wouldn't be in this evening, and then he wished me to come and call you."
               "Go and tell him that I will see him in the morning," said Blake, not at all liking the idea of being called away from his company.
               "He was very particular, sir," returned the clerk.
               "I guess there's nothing that can hurt before morning."
               "I think you had better come and see him, sir."
               There was something peculiar in the tone of the clerk as he uttered this last sentence, and Mr. Blake arose from his chair.
               "Mr. Warren," he said, while a strange shadow flitted across his countenance, "you must excuse me for a while. I will return as soon as possible."
               Warren assented, and the old man left the apartment.
               "Mary," said the young captain, some time after Blake had gone, "I have a strange thought."
               The fair girl looked up into the speaker's face.
               "I think that individual who has called for Mr. Blake, is Aaron Damon," said Warren, in a husky tone.
               "So do I," whispered Mary, while her countenance turned pale.
               "I heard the clerk whisper something into our old friend's ear just as they were going out through the doorway, and I thought I heard Damon's name," said Gordon, as he drew his chair nearer to the maiden's side. "I may be mistaken, but I think not. I know we must separate, but before I go I must snatch one moment of joy from the darkness that surrounds me. Let me press thee once more to my bosom, let me leave one more kiss upon thy fair cheek, and then I'll give thee up."
               As Warren spoke, he placed his arm about Mary's neck and drew her towards him. She did not resist the movement, and on the next moment her head was pillowed upon his bosom sorrowfully.
               "This is the last of love's joy," uttered Warren—"the last of devotion's bliss. Henceforth we must be only as strangers to each other."
               "No, no," murmured the fair girl, "not as strangers. We must be friends."
               "Ay, friends we ever shall be; but yet we must be strangers, too. We should wrong our own hearts to think of intimacy again."
               "O, and must we part!"
               "You have spoken the word."
               Mary started. The trial had now come, and she felt all the woe of the fearful ordeal. It sank more heavily upon her heart than she had thought for.
               The fearful she had anticipated as possible had now come. It was, indeed, an event, that with all the schooling she had sought to accustom her feelings to, was yet quite too deeply charged with misery and forebodings of evil to be met with the degree of resignation and composure which her own judgment dictated to her was imperative. For the moment grief seemed to paralyze all her energies, and almost to overwhelm her soul within its dark and sorrowful waves. She felt as if the very light of life was about to be extinguished in utter gloom and darkness.
               "O," she cried, as she clasped her hands in agony, "would that I had died in the grasp of the storm. I would rather now that I were lying beneath the frozen snow of the enemy's land than—"
               "Stop, stop," said Warren. "You torture me—you make me miserable."
               He hesitated—a quick emotion sprang up in his bosom, and he trembled. He pressed, Mary's hand more tightly within his own. Looking tearfully into her face, as if a new hope incited him—
               "It is not yet too late," he uttered. "One single word, and your fate may be changed. I have wealth enough."
               "No, no," quickly returned the maiden, endeavoring to be more calm; "I know what you mean, but that cannot be. I have weighed the consequences, and I have chosen that which seems my duty. Alas! the trial is more severe than I had thought, but I must pass through it. Forgive me, Gordon. My heart is breaking, but I am doing my duty. If my father can look down from heaven and see my soul, he will know that I am willing to obey him. Gordon, forgive me!"
               The poor girl sank upon the bosom of her companion, and she sobbed bitterly. Our hero wiped the streaming tears from his own cheeks, and prayed that God would give him strength to bear his fate.
               At length they were aroused by the sound of approaching footsteps, and while they strove to banish the marks of their deep sorrow, Mr. Blake entered the room. He looked troubled, and he sank into a chair without speaking. Gordon Warren was the first to break the silence. A tremulous nervousness oppressed him, and the grief that was gnawing at his heart's centre quite unmanned him. But he resolutely held it back for the moment.
               "Mr. Blake," he said, in a trembling voice, "was not that Aaron Damon who called for you?"
               "Yes," returned the old man, starting suddenly from the painful reverie into which he had fallen.
               "I thought so. He has come to claim the hand of his promised bride?"
               "Yes," said Blake. "But he is weak yet, poor fellow. You shall see him in the morning," added the sympathizing attorney.
               "No, no," quickly cried the young captain. "O, I could not bear that. Some other time I will see him, when I can better bear the sight."
               Warren started to his feet as he uttered the last sentence, and pressed his hand upon his brow. Again he gazed into the face of his old friend, and while new tears trembled upon his lids, he added:
               "Tell him I am glad he is safe. Tell him to be kind to Mary—to love her—to cherish her. And you, sir, will watch over them both," uttered the heart-stricken Warren.
               "I will—I will," said Blake, looking wonderingly upon the pale face of the young man.
               "God will bless you then. Mary, Mary, farewell! God bless and protect you."
               "Will you leave me now?" cried the poor girl, starting to her feet.
               
               "I cannot stay. Be happy—be blessed. Farewell. Take her, Mr. Blake."
               "Poor girl! she has fainted," uttered the old man, as he took her from Captain Warren's arms.
               The young captain pressed one more kiss upon Mary's pallid cheek, and then grasping Blake warmly by the hand, he whispered:
               "Watch over her, sir. Be a father to her. I shall see you again." And before the old man could speak he had gone. It was some moments before Mary opened her eyes, and when she did so the name of Gordon trembled upon her lips.
               "He has gone!" said Blake.
               "Gone!" murmured the stricken girl; and with the word her senses again left her. With a sorrowing heart the old man called for assistance, and had her conveyed to her chamber.
               In a short time she had sufficiently recovered from the swoon into which she had fallen, to be cognizant of her situation. As the remembrance of the sad scene through which she had passed became more tangible to her mind, she began again to realize the wretchedness which threatened to fill her cup. Still she determined to meet her fate with all the resolution she was capable of assuming, and, if need be, yield herself a martyr-spirit to the vow made to her dying father.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               CASTING OF THE DIE.
               IT was during the afternoon of the following day that Mr. Blake and Mary Draper sat in the parlor of the former. The fair girl was calm and collected, for she had striven hard to compose herself for the performance of the task that was before her. She was pale, but one who knew not the exact nature of her position would never have guessed the misery she had suffered.
               "I will see him now," she said, as she turned her face towards her companion.
               "You will be calm?"
               "Yes, yes. Tell him to come in."
               Mr. Blake arose and left the apartment, and ere long afterwards the door opened, and Damon entered. Mary arose and advanced to meet him.
               "Mary," he said, in a husky, weakened tone, "you did not expect this?"
               "It has not taken me entirely by surprise," she replied, as she laid her hand within that of the young man and strove hard to keep it from trembling.
               "Then you are glad to see me?"
               "Yes."
               As the maiden thus replied, she looked earnestly into Damon's features, for there was something strange in his manner—something that seemed to betoken a doubt—and yet there was more than a doubt, too. There was a tiny spark in his eye that shone with a peculiar power.
               "I am not strong yet," said the young man, letting go Mary's hand and sinking into a seat, "but I shall be strong, soon."
               Mary also seated herself, and then she more particularly noted the appearance of her companion. He had changed much. His eyes were deeply sunken, his face had turned to a dark, sickly hue, and his sufferings had made him look nervous and testy.
               "So they told you I was dead?" he said, while a faint smile broke over his features.
               "Yes. Mr. Hardy told me so."
               "He is a base man. When I was the sickest he had me moved from the hospital and confined in an old house some way from the city; but he did not succeed in his foul purpose. I suppose you thought me dead at first?"
               "Yes."
               
               "But you are glad now that I am not?"
               Again Mary met that strange look, and she trembled.
               "Of course I could not but be pleased that you are restored to your friends again," she said.
               "Mr. Warren has been very kind to you?" said Damon.
               "Indeed he has, sir."
               "Very kind," added he, with peculiar emphasis.
               Mary was troubled. She liked not Damon's manner, for she thought she could detect in it a spice of jealousy.
               "He saved me from a fate worse than death, and he risked his own life to do it."
               "Then you should be very thankful to him; and I suppose you are?"
               "Indeed I am, sir."
               Mary spoke with considerable spirit, and Damon seemed to notice it, for his eyes fell to the floor, and for some moments he was silent.
               "You will pardon me," he said at length, with some anxiety in his manner, "if I come rather abruptly upon a matter that interests me; but the sooner we understand each other upon that point, the better. You of course remember the relations that exist between us by virtue of your father's dying injunctions?"
               "I have not forgotten them."
               "And do you mean still to adhere to them?"
               "If it be your wish, I shall."
               "I thank you—from the bottom of my soul, I thank you," exclaimed Damon, while his countenance was lighted up by a sudden glow of satisfaction. "I feared you would break your pledge."
               "Then you did not know me."
               "I know the circumstances by which you have been surrounded, and you must not wonder that I had some fears. But I am satisfied now that you mean to be true to me. I trust I shall have no further reason to doubt you?"
               "No further reason?" repeated Mary, unable to conceal the wound that had been inflicted upon her feelings. "What reason have you now for doubts?"
               "O, nothing, nothing," quickly returned Damon, wincing beneath the half indignant look of the offended girl. "I only meant that perhaps you would prefer Gordon Warren to myself?"
               "And suppose I should?" calmly returned Mary.
               "Why—I don't think you would dare to do so, after what you promised your father. But let us change the subject. I hope I have not hurt your feelings?"
               He had hurt her feelings, and she was justly pained and indignant. She had not expected such deportment on the part of her visitor, and she was not prepared for it. She had thought he would be all gratitude and joy, but instead of that, he was jealous and ungenerous.
               The change of subject which Damon had proposed did not bring any more grace to the conversation, and the time dragged heavily, tediously away. At the end of an hour the young man signified his intention of departing, and Mary felt relieved.
               For a few moments after this, Damon hesitated as though he had something more of importance to say. He gazed into Mary's face with an earnest look, and at length he said:
               "There is one thing we may as well speak of now as at any other time. Since our lot in life is cast together, and since our property is based upon our union, we had better have some understanding as to the time when we will be married."
               Poor Mary shuddered at the sound of that word.
               "Do you not think it best to have some time set?" continued Damon.
               "We will confer with Mr. Blake," faintly articulated Mary. "I would like his advice before setting any time."
               "Very well; but—but—of course, you will have a time fixed?"
               "Yes."
               "Then good-by, till I see you again. It will not be long. I must have one kiss. Don't be frightened."
               That was the hardest of all, and though she did not refuse the boon, yet she shrank from Damon's touch. He took the kiss, and then he withdrew.
               When Mary Draper was left alone, she sank back in her chair and covered her face with her hands. Shortly afterwards Mr. Blake entered the room.
               "Well, Mary," he said, in a kind tone, as he took a seat by her side; "how passed the interview?"
               The poor girl turned her eyes up towards the old man's face, and they filled with tears.
               "What! Did it make you miserable?"
               "Alas! I am not happy. Aaron is almost unkind—he is ungenerous."
               "Perhaps his sickness makes him so. I do not think he would be really unkind."
               "I ought not to say so, but yet he appeared ungenerous."
               "Because he has been unfortunate. Perhaps you discovered what troubled him?"
               "What was it?"
               "Could you not tell?"
               "I thought he dwelt with some feeling upon the circumstance of my connection with Mr. Warren."
               "That is it, my dear girl; but that will soon wear off; and since you intend to carry out your father's wishes, it will be best for you to humor Aaron some during his bodily weakness. I suppose you mean to abide by your decision?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Then you must take heart to bear up. Aaron has spoken with me about his property, and though he is anxious to assume the control of it, yet there is nothing strange in it. When his father died, the whole property was left in my hands—and it was left with this proviso: When Aaron married you he was to have the whole; but if he married any one else, one half of the property only was to fall to him, the remaining half going to you. Your property was left in my hands in nearly the same way, as both your father and Aaron's father were present at the time the business was done. There is the sum of fifteen thousand dollars left in my hands for your use, in interest until you are married. Then, if you marry Damon, the whole is your portion, and the same in case of Damon's death; but if you marry another while Damon is living, only six thousand goes to you, the remaining nine thousand to be put on interest for the use of your children, should you have any, and otherwise to go to some distant relatives which your father named."
               "I care little for the property, sir."
               "Yet the property is considerable, and the sooner it is settled the better."
               Now Mr. Adam Blake, with all his generous feelings, was a business man. He had been brought up in the midst of business, and a driving business had been the main feature of his life. He had pitied Mary in her disappointment, but now that she had made up her mind to carry out the provisions of her father's will, he only looked upon the matter in a business light. He may have still sympathized with the poor girl, but since he believed it was her fate to be united with Aaron Damon, he had too much good sense to help make her more miserable by pouring useless pity into her ears; so he only thought of consummating business as speedily as possible.
               "I will be governed by your advice," said Mary, after having regained her composure.
               "My advice in what, my dear?"
               "In this matter of which we have been speaking."
               "I have no advice to give respecting the main point at issue. You must make up your own mind as to whether you will marry with Damon."
               "I have made up my mind on that point."
               "And you have resolved to marry him?"
               "Yes. I will not trample upon the dying injunctions of my father—I cannot. When he died he placed my hand within that of Aaron's, and I promised to do as he bade me—and then he blessed me. I shall be unhappy in my obedience; but I should be miserable in disobedience. I will marry him."
               A word of sympathy trembled upon the old attorney's lips, but he did not give it utterance.
               "Courage," he said. "If you feel that you are doing your duty you should try to be happy."
               "I cannot be happy, sir; but I will be calm. Now when shall our union take place?"
               "The sooner the better. I will consult with Mr. Damon. I should not suppose he would wish to be married until he gets stronger, at least."
               "Then I will leave it for you to set the time," said Mary.
               "I will assist you, my dear," returned Mr. Blake; "but you shall have the casting vote," he added.
               Thus the matter was left, and the poor girl resolved to let her old friend know no more of her sorrows. She had freely chosen her course, and whatever of suffering was the result, she determined to keep it within her own bosom.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               DOOM-DAY.
               DURING the two weeks that succeeded the interview last recorded, Damon visited Mary Draper several times, and each time that he came, the fair girl grew more and more unhappy. The young man had sadly changed in her eyes, and he was, in fact, disagreeable. The approaching consummation of his wishes seemed to be held by him as a sort of triumph, and he took no pains to conceal his spirit of selfish gratulation.
               At times, when Mary contemplated the approaching union, she would turn from the picture with horror, for with all her firm resolves she could not but loathe the man she was to marry. She had never seen him in his true light before—she had never before seen him where he could act for himself. Sometimes she would compare him in her mind with the man whom she so fondly loved, and at such times she would fairly cry out in alarm, or groan in agony. She believed that Damon cared more for her money than he did for herself. She felt sure of this, and to one so noble as she was the thought was cruelly humiliating.
               At length Damon was so far recovered that Mr. Blake thought him well enough to enter upon the charge of his property, and accordingly the young man waited upon Mary with the information.
               "Now, Mary," said Damon, after he had made known the old gentleman's decision, "all that remains for us to do is, to fix upon the day for our marriage. What say you to one week from to day?"
               "I have no objections to make," returned Mary. "Let the time be as you and Mr. Blake can determine."
               "Upon my soul, you don't appear to feel very anxious about the matter," uttered Damon, with a slight show of ill feeling.
               The fair girl bowed her head, but she could make no reply.
               "Tell me," resumed the young man, "what is it that ails you? Don't you wish to be my wife?"
               "I have consented to become so," she tremblingly replied.
               "Yes, to be sure you have; but that is n't the question. I don't like the way you behave about it. It seems to me that you have but precious little liking for my company. Now you'd better get over that as soon as possible, for you wont find it very comfortable to carry that sort of a face after you are married. I know the secret of your ill behaviour towards me. You love Gordon Warren the best. O, you need n't start so, for I know it. Now just let me tell you that this wont answer any longer, so you'd better commence a new chapter in your manners."
               This rough, unfeeling speech had a fearful effect upon Mary Draper. At first she was indignant, and her eyes flashed with the feeling; but reflection told her how useless her indignation would be, and she fell to weeping. She knew that Damon was watching her—she knew that he was looking sternly upon her, but she shrank not, for the thought of a final leap for freedom had crossed her mind. She quickly calmed herself, and summoning all her fortitude she looked her companion in the face.
               "Mr. Damon," she said, "you know the manner in which our property has been left. You may have it all in welcome. I will relinquish all my claims, even to the last penny—you shall have the whole—both your own and mine, if you will relinquish your claim upon my hand."
               "Relinquish my claim upon your hand!" repeated Damon, with a bitter sneer. "So you've spoken out at last! No!" he continued, in a harsh tone, "I shall do no such thing. Even were it all as you say, I would not give you up. But you are sadly at fault. You have not the power to dispose of your property at all. Only our marriage, or the death of one of us, can wipe out those wills. Perhaps you think our fathers were a couple of fools to leave such testaments?"
               Mary started with horror at this last remark. She looked up into Damon's face, and she found a cold sneer resting there.
               "There is no love between us!" she groaned.
               "You have no love for me," tauntingly returned Damon; "but you know nothing of my love for you. I had thought you would come to this, and it may be well that you have mentioned it in season. I shall know better now how to act, since I understand your feelings. But I can love you if you treat me as you ought. You must be my wife."
               "No hope! no hope!" murmured the poor girl to herself.
               "No hope for what?" uttered Damon, who had caught the words. "Do you forget the oath you gave your dying father?"
               "It was no oath, sir."
               "It was a solemn pledge, though."
               "And I will fulfil it."
               "Then let the time be one week from to-day," said Damon, with a strangely sparkling eye.
               "It may as well be then as any time," returned Mary, gazing with a tearless look upon a point of vacancy before her.
               "Then that shall be the time. I will see that everything is prepared, and in the meantime, I hope you will try to cultivate a more pleasing disposition."
               Mary still remained calm—she did not even wince at this last remark; but it was the calmness of despair.
               "I will be your wife," she said, in a hoarse, husky whisper; "and when that is accomplished, I shall have fulfilled my pledge."
               "Not wholly, my dear girl. But you shall be instructed in time."
               Damon spoke again, but Mary knew not what he said, for she had lost herself in the terrible fate that awaited her. When she awoke to the full sense of things about her she was alone. She started to her feet and gazed about her, and as soon as she realized that Damon had gone, she sank upon the sofa that stood near the fire. When she was again aroused it was by the voice of Mr. Blake.
               "Are you not well?" kindly asked the old gentleman, sitting down by her side.
               "Yes, yes," she replied. "It was but a sudden weakness that overpowered me. I feel better now."
               It required a powerful effort for the unhappy girl thus to command her speech, but she was firm in her resolution not to trouble her old friend with the recital of her sorrows. She saw that he was ready and willing to do all for her that laid in his power, but over her present troubles he could have no sway. He had had no hand in bringing about the present state of affairs, nor was it by any advice of his that she was now following out her father's will.
               Mr. Blake, too, thought some things that he would not speak. As he gazed now into Mary's features he could not help seeing that she was very unhappy.
               "Damon tells me that you have fixed upon one week from to-day, as the time for your marriage," he said, speaking in as calm a business tone as he could assume.
               "Yes, sir," returned Mary, also crushing her real feelings from sight.
               "Then I shall have the necessary steps taken for the execution of the business part of the contract, shall I?"
               "Yes, sir."
               Blake hesitated. Once he started to rise from his seat, and then he settled back again. At length a pitying look settled upon his countenance, and in a low tone he said:
               "You are resolved, then, upon marrying young Damon?"
               "Yes, sir."
               The old gentleman was startled at the sound of Mary's voice, the tones were so sepulchral, so hollow. He looked into her face, and he wondered to see how calm it was. He said nothing more.
               Time flew on, and the week was running by-Each day Mary became more dejected, and she believed that she should not long survive her marriage. The very person of Damon had become repulsive to her, and when she saw him she shuddered. He grew more and more insolent, often insulting the poor girl's feelings in the most wanton manner, and never failing to exult in the power he possessed over her. Of these things Mary spoke not to Mr. Blake. The old gentleman knew that Damon had the most care to get the dependent property into his hands, but he did not know the young man's real character, for towards him Damon had been careful to use the more scrupulous exactness in personal propriety.
               At length the fatal morning arrived. Mary was pale as death, moving about like a piece of marble mechanism, and only answering in monosyllables to such questions as were asked of her. Mr. Blake followed her movements with an aching heart, for he now knew the real state of her feelings. She could hide them from him no longer.
               "Mary," he said, laying his hand upon her white brow, "take one more thought ere you proceed in this business. It is not yet too late to stop."
               "I have made up my mind," returned the fair girl, in a fearfully calm voice. "My fate is fixed. Let the business go on."
               The old man sighed as he turned away, for he knew that the poor girl's heart was nigh breaking.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE PRISONER'S STARTLING REVELATION.
               FOR over a week the Sea Lion had been running off towards the tropics. Captain Warren had, during that time, suffered much, and he felt as though life was almost a burden. He cared not how soon he could throw it away if it could be done at the post of duty. He had little to say to his men beside the necessary orders for the sailing of the vessel, and towards his officers he was equally reserved. Some of his new men had even whispered among themselves that they did not like their captain, and they almost persuaded themselves that he was not so brave as had been represented; but they were soon to be undeceived.
               Early one clear, bright morning, a sail was discovered to the southward and eastward, standing in towards the American coast. In half an hour after it was first reported it was made out to be a ship, and in fifteen minutes more it proved to be a sloop-of-war with the ensign of England floating at her peak. The wind was at this time northeast—the brigantine was heading a little to the southward of southeast, and the ship was heading due west.
               Captain Warren took a glass and went aloft, and when he came down he looked like a new man. The fire had returned to his eye, his handsome face was flushed with excitement, and he was all animation.
               "Show our ensign, Mr. Jones," he said, as he came aft.
               The men had instinctively gathered towards the quarter-deck.
               "What do you mean to do?" asked the mate.
               "Take that ship, sir," replied Warren.
               A murmur of surprise ran along the deck, and the new men gazed at each other with significant looks.
               The ensign was hoisted, and in a few moments afterwards the ship luffed and stood directly towards the brigantine.
               "Call all hands to quarters!" said Warren. "Cast loose, and double shot the guns. Mr. Williams, load your long gun for a sure shot."
               As the roll of the privateer's drum rang out upon the air the men began to awake to the reality of the captain's meaning. They sprang cheerfully to their duty, and in less than ten minutes everything was ready for action. The double and preventer rigging was all up, the deck sanded down, the guns loose and ready for working, and the men for working ship at their stations.
               "Now, my brave boys," cried the captain; "if you will work as I know you can, that ship is ours. She has more guns than we have, but they are not so long by a foot. She has more men, but they have no such craft under their feet as we have. I believe we can rake her without being raked in return. If we sail our craft as we ought, we can even keep clear of her broadside. I shall trust you as I have trusted you before. Now to your stations. Point your old brazen lion over the starboard bow, Williams, for I shall luff when you fire."
               Both vessels were now approaching each other on opposite tacks. Warren watched the enemy with a careful eye, and at length he deemed her near enough to risk a shot; so he ordered the helm down and bade Williams secure a good aim and fire.
               By this time, Williams had become familiar with the long gun, and he was pretty sure of his aim. Practice makes perfect in all things—at least comparatively so—and it was with a confident look that the gunner applied the match. The faithful gun belched forth its load of fire and smoke, and Warren clapped his hands with joy as he saw the enemy's fore and jib stays shot away, and the head sails flapping at the mercy of the wind.
               The effect of this was, to cause the ship to broach-to, and as the brigantine was instantly put off again, she was down to within good cannon distance before the ship got off to her former course. Warren saw his vantage, and he gave the order for going about.
               Had the brigantine began to veer instead of tacking, the Englishman might have suspected her plan; but as it was, she seemed to think the Yankee meant to run away, for she eased off her mizzen to counterbalance the effect of the loss of the jib, and fired one of her bow-chasers.
               "He's mistaken now," uttered Warren with a smile. "But we'll soon undeceive him. Stand by your guns."
               Just as the privateer's head sails began to shiver, her broadside was presented fair upon the enemy's bows, and Warren gave the word to fire.
               Never did a ship suffer more from a single mistake. Her fore-topmast was shot off, and her fore-yard was carried away in the slings. The brigantine came quickly about on the starboard tack, and then wore as soon as possible, and before the ship could be got out of the danger, she received the privateer's other broadside, which went sweeping fore-and-aft her deck with terrible effect.
               The Englishman was now at the privateer's mercy. His heavy batteries were of no use to him, and his majority of men only gave so many the more marks for the Yankee's balls and the flying splinters. Broadside after broadside swept his deck, and at the end of half an hour from the loss of his fore-topmast his flag was hauled down, the stump of the mizzen-mast and the spanker gaft being the only spars standing upon his deck.
               The Sea Lion had received three shots from the ship's bow guns, two of which went through her side, while the third struck her quarter rail, wounding the man at the wheel with a splinter. Not one of her men were killed, for the ship had had no chance whatever to bring her guns to bear.
               Warren had his boat lowered, and in company with Jones he boarded the prize. He shuddered as his eyes rested upon the fearful work he had done, and for a moment he wished that it might have been otherwise. But when he thought of the cause of all this, he only regretted that England had seen fit to take the tyrannical step which made such scenes necessary.
               As Warren stepped over the side, a lieutenant approached the gangway and presented his sword.
               "Where is your captain?" asked our hero.
               "Dead, sir."
               "What ship is this?"
               "His majesty's sloop, Arncliffe."
               The ship was in a sinking condition and Warren had the prisoners removed to the brigantine as quickly as possible. There were over a hundred of them, and there was some difficulty in making room for them, but they were at length satisfactorily disposed of, and after having taken out some few articles of value, and removed all her money, the ship was blown up, and then the privateer filled away for Boston, where Warren had concluded to land his prisoners.
               It was towards evening of the third day after the capture of the ship that Captain Warren was walking his quarter-deck, while several of the prisoners were sitting upon the gun carriages near him. He had again sunk into his melancholy mood, from which even the memory of his recent brilliant victory could not rouse him. He had just been to look at the compass, and was again walking forward, when he heard his name pronounced by one of the prisoners. He turned and found that the man who had spoken to him was the sergeant of marines, an old, weather-beaten soldier, who had breasted many a fight beneath the flag of England.
               "Captain Warren," said the man, respectfully raising his manacled hand to his hat, "excuse me, sir."
               "No need of ceremony," returned Warren. "What do you want?"
               "Wa'n't you captain of the Isaac Hall merchant ship?"
               "Yes."
               "I was on board the sloop that took you, sir. I was sick then, and when we got into Halifax I was sent to the hospital. My ship had to sail without me, and the next week I was put aboard the Arncliffe."
               "Well, sir," said Warren, "what of that?"
               "Was n't Mr. Damon one of your men?" asked the sergeant.
               In an instant, Warren started from his moody manner.
               "He was. My supercargo. What do you know of him?"
               "He was in the hospital at the time I was."
               "Well, well. Speak on."
               "He left a letter for a Miss Mary Draper. He did n't know then as he should ever get well."
               "A letter? For Mary Draper?"
               "Yes, sir, and it was directed in your care."
               "Did he give it to you?" asked Warren.
               "No, sir; but you see I got hold of it."
               "And have you it with you?" asked the young captain, trembling with the most intense excitement.
               "It's in my bundle among my clothes, sir."
               "Mr. Williams—Lubins—Jones—where are you? Here, Thompson, get the armorer's keys and take off this man's irons!"
               Warren was excited, and he stood like one possessed while Thompson was removing the irons from the old sergeant's limbs.
               "Now go and bring the letter."
               The man hurried away forward to where the prisoners had been allowed to stow their necessary clothing, and ere long he returned with the letter. It was dirty and crumpled, but as the captain cast his eyes over the superscription he at once recognized the hand-writing of the supercargo. With a trembling hand Warren tore open the letter, and when he had read it he turned pale as death.
               "Did you know what Damon had written?" he gasped.
               "Partly, sir."
               "Follow me—quick!" Warren said, as he noticed that the men were beginning to draw near.
               The captain hurried into his cabin, whither the sergeant followed him, the men gazing after them with wonder.
               In fifteen minutes, Captain Warren returned to the deck. His face was flushed, and his frame trembled with strange emotion.
               "Mr. Jones," he said, turning to his mate, who had charge of the deck; "up helm, sir, and square away for the Penobscot. Set the studding-sails, and keep them on. O, let the Sea Lion leap the seas now, if ever!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               CONCLUSION.
               IT was evening. The large parlor of Adam Blake was lighted, and a select party were there assembled to witness the nuptials of young Damon and Mary Draper. I say a select party, because Mr. Blake had chosen a few who should be present as legal witnesses, and then some who had been schoolmates with Mary had urged their right, and received permission to be present.
               Within a small drawing-room stood Mary, and by her side was one who had been her companion from youth.
               "No, no, Lydia; put no roses in my hair. The dead of winter is not the season for flowers."
               "But this rose I have saved on purpose for your bridal jewel. Let me place it in your hair."
               "No, no. I bless you for your kindness," said Mary, with a look of sweetness like that which sometimes rests upon the features of a dying saint. "No roses to night. You may come and plant some over my grave in the spring."
               "O, Mary!" cried the affectionate bridesmaid, as she dropped the flower and threw her arms about the neck of her friend; "I know you are miserable. I have seen it all through the day. Ah, you cannot hide it from me. O, why will you sacrifice yourself thus? I know your secret, for Mr. Blake told me. Throw off these—"
               "—sh! My fate is fixed?"
               "No, no, it is not fixed. Throw off these chains, and be happy. Think of Gordon Warren."
               "O, O!" groaned Mary; and on the next moment her head sank upon the bosom of her friend. She had fainted.
               At that moment Mr. Blake came in, and at the sound of his voice, Mary revived.
               "What ails you, my dear?" tenderly asked the old gentleman.
               "A passing spasm—a faintness. I am better now," murmured the poor girl.
               A tear trembled in the old man's eye.
               "It is not yet too late," he whispered, as he took the maiden's trembling hand. "Your father did not dream of this."
               "I cannot disobey him. He would frown upon me if I met him in the home of spirits. I will obey him, and then I shall be happy when I go to his arms in heaven. I am ready now."
               Mr. Blake gazed sorrowfully into the pale features of the fair girl, but he said no more. After he had gone, Mary summoned all her strength for the final trial, and ere long Mr. Damon stood in her presence.
               "Are you ready?" he asked, in a husky voice.
               "Yes," returned Mary.
               "Then come, for the minister waits."
               Mary Draper placed her hand within that of Damon's. He seized it with a nervous grasp and led her forth into the parlor.
               Those who sat there wondered what made Mary so pale—what made her eyes so set and glassy—what made her lips so colorless, and why they were compressed so tightly together. Some of them wondered that she did not blush and tremble when they saw her stand so cold and rigid.
               This was Mary's last effort, and to its purpose she had brought every mite of strength she was capable of commanding. She tried to smile as her friends greeted her, but the smiles were not in her soul, and she could bring none upon her features.
               "We are ready, sir," said Damon, in quick, nervous tones, as he found that nearly the whole of Mary's weight was resting upon his arm. "Let the ceremony proceed at once."
               It was the old minister to whom he spoke, and the white-haired old man arose to his feet.
               "Let us pray," said he, as he folded his hands reverentially together.
               "No, no," quickly interrupted Damon. "Never mind the prayer. Let us be married at once. After that you may pray as much as you please."
               The aged clergyman stood aghast.
               "O, let him pray," murmured Mary.
               "No! what need we of prayers?" exclaimed Damon. "You came here to marry us, sir. Go on with the ceremony."
               "Hark!" said a young girl, who sat near the door, starting from her chair and trembling. "There's some trouble in the hall!"
               "Where is the room? Where are they?" came in loud tones from the entry.
               The bridal party started to their feet, and on the next moment the door was burst open and Gordon Warren sprang into the room. He was followed by the old sergeant and an English lieutenant.
               "Are they married?" gasped the young captain.
               "No, no."
               "Mary! Mary! You are safe!"
               It was all he could say, and springing quickly forward he dashed the waiting bridegroom to the floor and caught Mary in his arms.
               "What is all this?" tremblingly asked Mr. Blake, as soon as he could command the power of utterance.
               "She is safe! safe!" cried Warren, still holding the fainting girl to his bosom.
               "But what—who—"
               "You shall know it all. Miss Warndridge, support this girl."
               Lydia Warndridge took Mary to her own embrace, and then Warren turned to where Damon was just arising to his feet.
               O, villain!" exclaimed the young captain, grasping the scoundrel by the collar, "you are caught in season."
               "For heaven's sake, explain," uttered Mr. Blake, as he saw how Damon trembled in his captor's grasp.
               "In a moment," returned Warren; and then turning to the English lieutenant he asked:
               "Is this your man?"
               "Yes, sir," returned both the lieutenant and sergeant at once.
               Damon made one or two efforts to break loose from the grasp that was upon his collar, but his captor transferred the grip to his neck, and he remained quiet.
               "Mr. Blake," said Warren, "do you remember that Aaron Damon once had a brother?"
               "A brother!" repeated the old attorney, in a sort of stifled cry. "Yes, he had one once—a twin brother. He was lost at sea."
               "No, sir. He was not lost."
               "But he must have been, for the ship went down, and not a soul could have been saved."
               "That may be sir, and yet Moses Damon was not drowned. He ran away from the ship in Liverpool, and at length enlisted in the English Marine Corps. About two months ago he deserted from Halifax. This is he, sir. This villain whom I now hold here by the neck! Here, gentlemen, take your prisoner."
               The two English officers stepped forward and took Moses Damon from Warren's hand.
               "I see you are yet curious," continued our hero, as he gazed around upon the company after he had resigned the charge of the prisoner. "A few words will explain the whole. Since I was here last, I have captured an English sloop-of-war. This sergeant was one of the prisoners. He knew that I was captain of the Isaac Hall, and one day he spoke to me—he had in his possession a letter which Aaron Damon had written to Mary, and superscribed in my care. Can you wonder that I opened the letter and read it? Here it is; I will read it."
               Warren opened the letter and moving near to a lamp, he read as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Halifax, Dec. 3d., 1813.
                           
                           "DEAR MARY:—I am sick, even unto death. A fatal disease has fastened upon me, and I know that I cannot recover. I shall never see you more, and perhaps it is best as it is. I have long known that Captain Warren loved you, and I have thought that you loved him. He is a noble, generous man, and he will protect you. If I have still a claim upon you, I exercise it by resigning you to the charge of Gordon Warren. Think of me sometimes, and pray for me. I am weak, and can write no more.
                           
                              AARON DAMON."
                           
                        
                        
                           "P. S. The bearer of this, is my long lost brother. He will tell you his own—"
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Here the sick man's strength must have failed him," said Warren, as he held up the letter; "for the last word ends in a scrawl, and here you can see where the pen dropped from his hand and fell upon the paper."
               Mary Draper had heard the letter read, and as Warren passed it over to Mr. Blake, she tottered forward and sank upon our hero's bosom. She raised her streaming eyes to his face, but she could not speak. She could only sob under the influence of the wild emotions that raged in her bosom.
               Warren saw that the party were yet anxious, and turning towards the sergeant, he said:
               "My good sir, you must tell your story. I cannot."
               The captain drew Mary to one of the sofas, and as all eyes were turned upon the old soldier, he commenced:
               "Well, I aint much of a hand at talking, but howsomever, I shan't find much trouble in tell-in' a straight forward truth. Now this Moses Damon enlisted in the marine corps about six years ago. He has told me himself what made him do it. He stole money from the captain of the ship in which he sailed, and then ran away in Liverpool. There he got on a high time, and when the money was all gone he enlisted, and since then he has been in my company. When our ship took the Isaac Hall, Damon was sick in the hospital at Halifax, and afterwards I was taken sick and sent to the hospital, too. Well, before long, Mr. Aaron Damon came to the hospital, and there Moses met him. They found each other out, and they were together a good deal. By-and-by, Aaron died, and as soon as he was dead he was carried right off and buried. I know there was some talk in the prison about it, for it seems that somehow the idea got wind there that the prisoner had escaped."
               This last remark was made in reply to a question from Warren.
               "Well," continued the sergeant, "the very next day after the supercargo was buried, Moses came to me and told me all his plans. He told me how he had lied to his brother about what made him enlist, and how he had told that he was going to be discharged as soon as he got well; and then he asked me if he didn't look enough like Aaron to pass for him. I told him that perhaps he might, seein' as they'd both been so sick. Then he told me all about what he meant to do. Aaron was to have married Mary Draper if ever he went back, and there was a good many thousand dollars in the business, too. Moses had got a pretty thorough history of matters from his brother, and he thought he could make his plan go without bein' detected. He meant to desert the first chance he got, and then take his brother's name and go and marry Mary and get the money. He showed me the letter that his brother had given him, and when I asked him why he didn't burn it up, he said that he kept it so as to learn to imitate Aaron's hand-writing.
               "Well, one dark night, Moses Damon made his escape, but he left the letter behind him in his hurry, and I got it. I had seen Mary Draper on board our ship, and I pitied her; so I resolved that if ever I got a chance I'd send the letter to the poor girl, and save her, if I could from the hands of one whom I knew to be a villain. I've done that thing, and it seems I was just in time, too."
               "You were, in truth," uttered Mr. Blake.
               "Ay," added Captain Warren, arising from the sofa, "you have proved yourself a noble fellow. You and your lieutenant shall have a safe passport back to Halifax, and your prisoner shall go with you."
               "Then turning to Moses Damon, he continued:
               "As for you, sir, I can only say, go back and receive the penalty such as your adopted country bestows upon your crime. Any flag will be disgraced by your fighting under it, and I pray God that I may never see you again."
               Then Warren turned once more to the English officers.
               "Gentlemen," he said, "take him with you to my vessel. My first officer will land you at Grand Menan. You have your liberty upon the condition that you deliver your prisoner safely into the hands of your government Farewell, gentlemen; and I hope we may never meet again while existing circumstances make us enemies."
               Moses Damon uttered not a word. With a coward, crest-fallen look he was led from the room, and those who stood there never saw him nor heard from him again.
               "Now, Mary," whispered Lydia Warndridge, as she wound her arm about the redeemed girl's neck, "let me place the rose in your hair. O, I have not plucked it in vain."
               Mary felt Lydia's arm removed from her neck, and as she raised her eyes she found Warren gazing down upon her.
               "Are you not happy now?" he asked.
               She could not speak her answer in words. She could only lay her head upon the bosom of the man she so fondly loved, and weep in the excess of joy.
               
               Summer came and passed. The English gained possession of Castine, and such British prisoners as were there confined fell into the hands of their own countrymen. Mr. Blake had received, very fortunately, ample warning of the probable occupation of the town by the enemy, and he succeeded in removing all his own wealth, together with that of Mary Draper's and Gordon Warren's, which was still in his hands, to the opposite shore of the Penobscot.
               The war went on, and the American forces gained fresh laurels. The name of the Sea Lion had become a "household word," and her brave commander was honored by his country. At length England was brought to terms, and when peace was finally declared, and the Privateer of the Penobscot was withdrawn from the clang of war, her men each had an independence to settle down upon.
               Then it was that Mary Draper became the wife of the hero captain. The whole of the Sea Lion's crew were at the wedding, and the fair bride received an hundred kisses from as many honest Yankee lips. The 
                     ceremory
                     ceremony
                   was performed in the house of Mr. Blake, and the old man was among the happiest.
               One day after the spring birds had begun to sing their merry songs, Mary sat in her tidy parlor engaged in looking over for the twentieth time the Sea Lion's log-book. Her husband opened the door and entered. He stepped to where Mary sat, and having imprinted a kiss upon her fair brow, he said:
               "My dear wife, there are some friends in the other room who would see you."
               "Then let them come in, by all means," returned Mary, not a little puzzled by her husband's manner.
               Captain Warren left the apartment, and when he returned he was followed by a man and a woman. The man was pale, and his step was tremulous. Mary gazed a moment into his features, and then, as she shrank nearer to her husband, she uttered: "Mr. Hardy!"
               "Yes, lady," returned the Englishman, "I have come once more to see you before I return to my native land. I have come to ask you to forgive me for whatever of wrong I may have done you. I have been sick, very sick, but I have had a loving, faithful nurse, and I have escaped the grave for the present. Ah, when I came so near dying, I thought of the life I left behind me. I prayed that I might get well to be a better man. This is my wife. You know her, lady."
               The lady who had accompanied Mr. Hardy removed her veil, and revealed the beautiful features of her that had been Fanny Gray, now the wedded wife of Hardy.
               "O, I am happy now," murmured Fanny, as she wound her arms about Mary's neck. "I am his own wife, and he loves me. And you must be happy."
               "Yes, yes," returned Mary.
               For some moments those two fair beings remained locked in each other's arms, and when they separated they were both weeping.
               "I go now, and I shall probably never see you again," said Hardy. "Tell me that you forgive me?"
               "Yes, Mary, do forgive him," whispered Fanny, looking imploringly into Mary's face. "For my sake, forgive him?"
               "Mr. Hardy," frankly returned Mary, giving her small white hand into the officer's grasp, "I do forgive you. With my whole heart I forgive you; and in return I pray that you will never cease to love and protect this noble, generous, trusting woman, who has proved herself so worthy."
               "Upon my knees I have sworn all that," responded Hardy, in a fervent, feeling tone; "and God knows I will keep my pledge. And you, too," he continued, turning to our hero, "you, too, Captain Warren, must forgive me."
               "Yes," returned Gordon, frankly extending his hand, "I forgive you freely. He that knows the true joys of life will never hesitate to forgive an enemy, for he who carries enmity in his soul can never be a happy man."
               THE END.
            
         
      
      
         
            
            NEW WORKS JUST PUBLISHED
            BY SAMUEL FRENCH,
            CORNER OF SPRUCE AND NASSAU STREETS, NEW YORK.
            And for sale at all the Periodical Depots in the United States and the Canadas.
            
               WHOLESALE AGENTS.
               WM. V. SPENCER, 128 Washington Street, corner of Water Street, Boston.
               A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
               WM. & HENRY TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore Street, Baltimore.
               A. C. BAGLEY, 169 Main Street, Cincinnati.
               J. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.
               E. K. WOODWARD, Corner Fourth & Chesnut Streets, St. Louis.
               S. S. DOTY, 236 Camp Street, New Orleans.
               W. W. DANENHOWER, 123 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill.
               C. P. KIMBALL, Long Wharf, San Francisco, California.
            
            
               
                  Roderick the Rover: or, The Spirit of the Wave. By Lieutenant Murray. 25 cts.
               The Silver Bell: or, The Heir of Motcombe Manor. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts.
               
                  Wildebrand: or, The Buccaneer and the Cardinal. By Austin C. Burdick 25 cts.
               
                  The Lost Heir: or, The Duke and the Lazzarone. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. 25 cts.
               
                  The Knight of Leon: or, The Monarch's Last Bride. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. 25 cts.
               
                  Convado de Beltran: or, The Buccaneer of the Gulf. By F. Clinton Barrington. 25 cts.
               
                  Esmerelda, the Italian Peasant Girl. A Romance of Ravenna. By Geo. Canning Hill 25 cts.
               
                  The King's Talisman: or, The Young Lion of Mount Hor. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. 25 cts.
               
                  Zuleika: or, The Castilian Captive. By Martha A. Clough 25 cts.
               
                  Annie, the Orphan Girl of St. Mary: or, The Golden Marriage. By Shortfellow 25 cts.
               
                  The Storm-Children: or, The Light-Keeper of the Channel. By Austin C. Burdick 25 cts.
               
                  Rosalthe:, or, The Pioneers of Kentucky. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts.
               
                  Fernando: The Moor of Castile. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. 25 cts.
               
                  Rodolpho: or, the Mystery of Venice. By Geo. Canning Hill 25 cts.
               
                  The Young Fisherman: or, The Cruiser of the English Channel. By F. Clinton Barrington 25 cts.
               
                  Turkey and the Turks: or, Travels in Turkey. By Dr. Jerome V. C. Smith 25 cts.
               
                  Marion's Brigade: or, The Light Dragoons. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts.
               
                  The Mameluke: or, The Sign of the Mystic Tie. By Ben: Perley Poore 25 cts.
               
                  The Heroine of Tampico: or, Wildfire the Wanderer. By Harry Halyard 25 cts.
               The Yankee Champion: or, The Tory and his League. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. 25 cts.
               The Spanish Musketeer. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts.
               Corrinne Almanza: or, The Magician of Seville. By Frederick Hunter 25 cts.
               The Armorer of Tyre: or. The Oracle and its Priest. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. 25 cts.
               Eustatia: or, The Sybil's Prophecy. By Miss Sarah M. Howe 25 cts.
               The Heart's Secret: or, The Fortunes of a Soldier. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts.
               Fitz-Hern: or, The Free Flag of the Irish Seas. By F. Clinton Barrington 25 cts.
               The Mistake of a Life-Time. By Waldo Howard, Esq. Nos. 1 to 10, complete. Price 10 cents per number. Bound in cloth, gilt back, $1 00
               The Knight of the Silver Cross: or, Hafed, the Lion of Turkestan. By Edgar W. Davies, Jr. Our $1,000 prize tale. 280 pages. Price, in paper, 50 cents; in cloth, 75 cts.
               Paolina: or, The Sybil of the Arno. A Tale of the Time of Cosmo III. By Martha Ann Clough. Our $500 prize tale. 280 pages 50 cts.
               Lilias Fane, and other Tales. By Fanny Forrester 25 cts.
               The Child of the Sierra: or, The Gipsy Brigand. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts.
               The Brinley Shell: or, The Miser and his Niece. By John Meadows 25 cts.
               Nancie: or, The Witch of the Ruined Abbey. By H. P. Forrest 25 cts.
               Dark Sybil: or, The Fortunes of the Catherwoods. By Aria Ashland 25 cts.
               The Monk of the Grotto: a Story from the French. 25 cts.
               The Prince and the Queen: or, Scenes in High Life. By Harry Hazel 25 cts.
               Hermione: or, The Foundling of St. Antoine. By Fred Hunter 25 cts.
               Gregory's History of Mexico, from the Darliest Time to the Present. By Samuel Gregory, A. M. 25 cts.
               The Secret Service Ship: or, The Fall of San Juan D'Ulloa. By Charles E. Averill 25 cts.
            
            All the above-named publications may be obtained at all the Periodical Depots, and of the News Agents in any part of the United States and the Canadas.
            EIGHT of the 25 cent books will be sold for $1 00. Select from the above, and the books will be sent according to wish, either by mail or by express.
            All orders will receive prompt attention at either of the above places.
         
      
   
