
    ----CITATION----
        Church, Pharcellus, (1801-1886). Mapleton, or, More Work for the Maine Law .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6053 wright2-0526
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               MAPLETON;
               OR, More Work for the Maine Law.
            
            
               
                  
                     "The law which restrains a man from doing mischief to his fellow-citizens,
                        though it diminish the natural, increases the civil, liberty of
                        mankind."
                  
                  —BLACKSTONE.
               
            
            
               BOSTON:
               JENKS, HICKLING AND SWAN.
            
            1853.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1853, by JENKS, HICKLING
                  & SWAN, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of
                  Massachusetts.
               STEREOTYPED BY HOBART & ROBBINS, NEW ENGLAND TYPE AND STEREOTYPE
                  FOUNDERY, BOSTON.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            THE parabolic and dramatic style is as old as literature. It was adopted by Him who
               had lessons of highest import to impart; because truth in action is far more
               effective than truth in abstraction. Humanity in the story of the good Samaritan, and
               penitence in that of the Prodigal Son, touch the heart as they could not in the most
               finished disquisition.
            Those who brand every book of the kind as a novel, in an offensive
               sense, are at war with the constitution of our nature. This form of literature meets
               an instinctive want, which must be met in some way,—if not with sentiments to
               enlighten, enlarge and ennoble, then with those to weaken, wither and debase. Instead
               of carping against light literature, it were better to charge it with truths and
               influences purifying, profound and enduring, and send it abroad on a mission of love
               to mankind. The evil is not in the use, but in the abuse.
            Not the rocks, mountains, and valleys of Greece, nor the physical scenery of England,
               has made it what it is in the world of mind; but the creations of genius by which it
               is adorned. So, till a national literature of our own has cast its diviner hues upon
               our scenery, not even Niagara can rise to its proper position in the regards of
               mankind.
            This work is a draught upon materials which have been some years accumulating, in the
               author's endeavor to form a style coincident with the habits and sympathies of the
               living age. The didactic and abstract, much as he might prefer them, are not the
               weapons for a steam and lightning movement. If the mountain will not come to Mahomet,
               why, then, Mahomet must go to the mountain. If witches can only be shot with silver,
               what is the use of firing lead? Are any grieved that the age will not bear elaborate
               writing, "I more;" but who is able to fight against destiny?
            This story is not so extraordinary as the facts which it adumbrates. The caricature
               is not here, but in real life. Had the author's sketches reached the extreme limit of
               history, they would have lacked the essential requisite of an air of credibility.
            "A love-story on so grave a theme!—is this admissible?" This objection the author can
               better meet than vouch for his tact in managing so delicate a subject. It is only in the social relations
               of a drunkard's children that the injury to them fully appears. Especially is this
               true of those who are born to a higher destiny than their unfortunate domestic
               connections will permit them to reach. They are eaglets with plucked plumage and
               broken wing, falling prone from their native sphere. O, the pangs and tears thus
               extorted are too deep, too intense, too profuse, for pen or pencil!
            The work is a humble contribution to a great reform in morals and legislation. The
               profounder depths of the subject have not been reached, much as has been spoken and
               written in the temperance reformation. The alcoholic currents flow deep down under
               forms of religious manifestation, under inspirations of genius, under legislative,
               diplomatic and judicial agencies, under military prowess and valor, under hereditary
               disease and degeneracy, yea, under all the interests of humanity; nor have they yet
               fully gushed forth through any of the openings of a vastly accumulated temperance
               literature. We see them not, we heed them not. The hissings and convolutions of the
               many-headed dragon have been described; but the venom which he infuses into the
               sources of our blood, into the atmosphere of thought and sentiment, and into all the
               subtler elements of life, what painter can depict, what author or orator
               describe?
            Two hundred years of legislation against drunkenness have accomplished comparatively
               little. Everywhere, under our old license laws, its seductive madness may be indulged
               in for a few cents. Had the liquor traffic been as free as that of corn, cloth or
               cotton, drunkenness would have been scarcely easier or cheaper.
            What is to be done? Shall we leave the traffic to its course, or control it by
               stringent legislation? If left to its course, or to the present licensed causes of
               crime, humanity requires a kindlier provision for those who are thus made criminal
               than prisons, penitentiaries, poor-houses and the hangman's rope. Far better that the
               power now exerted in licensing the temptation should exercise its undoubted
               prerogative in prohibiting, under stringent and prompt penalties, the sale of
               intoxicating drinks as a beverage.
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
                I. NOCTURNAL SCENE-A GREAT DANGER, 7
               
                II. THE GROGGERY-A GREATER DANGER, 14
               
                III. IT IS A FEARFUL NIGHT, 23
               
                IV. THE NEW HOME, 37
               
                V. A TOWN WITHOUT ALCOHOL, 51
               
                VI. THE OUTPOSTS OF THE ENEMY AT LENGTH APPEAR, 61
               
                VII. THE ENEMY ENTERS AT LAST, 81
               
                VIII. ALCOHOL AND RELIGION, 91
               
                IX. THE ALCOHOLIC TRAFFIC REACHES A CRISIS IN MAPLETON, 103
               
                X. THE DESPAIR AND HOPE OF A DRUNKARD'S SON, 121
               
                XI. THE INIQUITY OF A FATHER VISITED UPON THE SON, 136
               
                XII. CONSERVATISM OF THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC, 168
               
                XIII. WINE AND WITCHCRAFT, 183
               
                XIV. THE FORCES RECONNOITRING, 195
               
                XV. BLUDGEON FIGHTING THE DEVIL, 214
               
                XVI. LOVE BETTER THAN DENUNCIATION, 231
               
                XVII. WOMAN'S MISSION, 242
               
                XVIII. HIGH LIFE BELOW STAIRS, 255
               
                XIX. THE DYING CONFESSION, 265
               
                XX. THE SKAMPTON MILL GRINDING INFLUENCE, 277
               
                XXI. THE PLOT THICKENS, 292
               
               
                XXII. DUBIOUS PRESENTIMENTS, 304
               
                XXIII. EXCURSION TO THE VALLEY OF THE WYOMING, 314
               
                XXIV. WAR TO THE KNIFE, 326
               
                XXV. TO THE WESTWARD, HO!-THE MISTAKE DISCOVERED, 343
               
                XXVI. ANOTHER TRAGEDY IN MAPLETON, 358
               
                XXVII. A LEAP FROM THE SUBLIME TO THE RIDICULOUS, 370
               
                XXVIII. A DIVINE RIGHT TO DO WRONG, 384
               
                XXIX. MISS HARCOURT'S ADVENTURES, 393
               
                XXX. TO THE RESCUE, 407
               
                XXXI. ALCOHOL THE UPAS-TREE TO SOUL AND BODY. 419
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Mapleton, or, More work for the Maine law
            MAPLETON;
            OR, MORE WORK FOR THE MAINE LAW.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               NOCTURNAL SCENE—A GREAT DANGER.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "As monumental bronze unchanged his look,—
                           A soul that pity touched, but never shook;
                           Trained, from his tree-rocked cradle to his bier,
                           The fierce extremes of good and ill to brook
                           Impassive—fearing but the shame of fear—
                           A stoic of the woods—a man without a tear."
                        
                     
                     —CAMPBELL.
                  
               
               "MY dear Charles," said Mrs. Douglass, "how have you been, since you left us?"
               "Been, mother!" replied the boy, with an effort to laugh in spite of his tears,
                  "been as well as I could."
               "Why do you weep, my son?"
               "I do not weep, do I?" said the boy, forcing his ruddy face into a reluctant
                  laugh. "What a great country, mother! noble trees!"
               "And fine roads, too," added Mr. Douglass, forcing his horses through a deep
                  slough, which Charles, essaying to do with his team, got fast in the mud.
               "Ho, there, men!" cried Mr. Douglass; "bring your levers, seize a rail,—anything to help this boy out
                  of the mire."
               "He, ho, heave!—he, ho, heave!—all together,—now again try it! he, ho, heave!"
                  cried a dozen voices, while crack, crack, went the whip, urging the tired horses
                  to their utmost endeavors, so that with difficulty at length the wagon was lifted
                  out of the slough.
               Here began the migrating sorrows of the Douglass family. All before had been mere
                  anticipation. This begins the rugged reality of an outcast life, remote from the
                  scenes of other years, driven out by the demon of intemperance, which still
                  haunted them with fears and forebodings for the future, as it had robbed them in
                  the past of all that the heart holds most dear. Charles had left his native place
                  in full glee. The journey and new-country life were full of excitement to his
                  ardent imagination. He and his fellow-teamsters had started the goods a few days
                  in advance of the family, whose lighter vehicle and fleeter horses had overtaken
                  them at this point. They had just descended a steep hill to the level of the
                  country below,—a country stretching off to a distance of ten miles, where it
                  bordered on one of the great western lakes, and, at the time of which we are
                  speaking, was covered with a forest of unusual density. It was a forest which
                  began at this point to be interspersed with an enormous growth of evergreens,
                  beneath which day was always dusky, and night gloomy and hideous.
               "Charles, my child," said Mrs. Douglass, after they had passed the slough, "I fear
                  you are not so happy in moving as you expected."
               "O, mother!" replied the boy, "I never saw such times as these. It seems to me our
                  old hencoop is pleasanter than any house I have seen since I left home."
               "Where did you sleep last night, Charles?" inquired his father.
               "We staid at Beach's, on the Ilissus, which was so thronged with emigrants that we
                  felt ourselves fortunate to find a plank apiece to sleep on."
               "The Ilissus!" exclaimed Mr. Douglass; "pray where did you get that name? Beach
                  keeps on Mud Creek."
               "Beach himself told me, with much pride," said Charles, "that his was the oldest
                  tavern-stand west of the Cayahoga, and that it gloried in a location on the
                  flowery banks of the famed Ilissus." At this, father, mother and son, broke forth
                  into uproarious laughter, in spite of their gloomy condition.
               "Beach has a classic imagination, said Mr. Douglass, "to convert the miserable
                  fever-and-ague hole on which he lives into so renowned a stream; it will make the
                  old Attic poets mutter in their graves. That will be a fine story for Harry, when
                  you see him again."
               "Well, there is one good thing," said Mrs. Douglass; "Beach keeps a temperance
                  house."
               "How did you leave Harry?" inquired Charles, beginning to weep again, at the
                  mention of this most intimate of his school companions.
               "Cheer up, my son!" said Mr. Douglass.
               "Cheer up, father!" rejoined Charles, still determined to get the better of his
                  home-sick feelings.
               "Good-by, Charley,—good-by, Charley,—good-by!" cried the younger children, as
                  their father plied the whip, and left their eldest brother behind to the
                  bitterness of his own solitary reflections.
               Though other teams were in advance of Charles, he was the sole occupant of his own
                  in bringing up the rear. It was near
                  sundown, and five or six miles of the worst road ever travelled remained, before
                  reaching the inn where they proposed to pass the night. The intervening forest was
                  almost unbroken, in which the darkness soon became so profound that he could not
                  see his hand before his face. Here the wild beasts had their lair, and held
                  nocturnal revels. Here the hideous howling of wolves, with the humdrum sound of
                  the hedge-hog from his hollow tree, and a thousand dismal voices, as of ghosts
                  stalking in the gloom profound, soon opened upon Charles a scene of fearfulness
                  and terror of which his susceptible imagination took an impression never to be
                  effaced. Dolefully crept his team along over the corduroy bridges and through the
                  splashing mud-holes, following the leading of a lamp carried by the one at the
                  head of the defile. Thoughts of the past and of the future troubled the poor boy's
                  mind. He saw the lines of sorrow in his mother's face as she passed him, and it
                  went to his heart. He knew how good and noble his father was by nature, but how
                  sadly fallen through the seductive habits of fashionable society. He had drank as
                  a gentleman, till it ended in his drinking as a sot. He had stood in the highest
                  rank of society, till what was deemed honorable to his position had brought him to
                  the lowest, and sunk him and his family in the slough of poverty and disgrace. He
                  had reformed, it is true; but too late to recover caste in the cherished home of
                  his ancestors, and was, therefore, driven to seek it in distant emigration.
                  Charles was old enough to realize the cause of his family's misfortunes; and now
                  it preyed upon his mind, and added to the pain of his dark and dismal journey.
               At length, his horses came to a dead stand. He plied his whip, goaded, coaxed, and
                  scolded them, but all to no purpose. His manly feelings repelled the idea of
                  betraying fear by calling for help. He dismounted, to lighten the burden and give
                  him greater command of his dispirited horses; but still the immobility of a stone
                  held them dead in their tracks. He now lifted up his voice to the men with all his
                  might; but it was too late,—he could not make himself heard. What to do he did not
                  know; and yet his courage was roused to the utmost, having increased with his
                  increasing cause of fear. But his danger was greater than he knew; for near him,
                  on an uprooted tree which lay on a superincumbent mass of underbrush several feet
                  above the ground, a panther, the fiercest of feline animals, was pacing to and
                  fro. His eyes shone in the darkness like balls of fire. Charles saw them, though
                  not with much alarm, because he knew not their nature, supposing it to be
                  phosphorescence; and yet the motion seemed to him strange and unaccountable. The
                  monster crept slowly along on his downy feet to the point of the tree nearest his
                  victim, where he "sat squat like a toad," with an excited motion of the tail, such
                  as is common in this species of animals as they are about to pounce upon their
                  prey. Charles was now more alarmed, and called lustily for help, though he was not
                  aware of the imminence of his danger, nor did escape seem possible, had he known
                  it ever so well. No response was given to his call, and there the poor fellow
                  stood in the very jaws of death, under the impenetrable curtain of night's deepest
                  gloom, in the bosom of a howling wilderness.
               O, horrible! Alas, to what straits are innocent children reduced by the recreant
                  habits of parents! Measuring with his burning eyes the distance, the monster
                  gathered up all his mighty strength for a fierce and unfailing leap upon the boy's
                  throat, and then darted like lightning towards him, when, lo! a flash lighted up
                  the gloom, a gun exploded, and he heard
                  at his feet a heavy fall, with hissing, bounding, snarling, gurgling blood
                  spirting in his face, and all the signs of a feline animal in the agonies of
                  death. Before he had time to collect his thoughts, all at once a torch flamed up,
                  revealing a tall, yellow man, with tattooed features, and the cut rims of his ears
                  hanging pendent, with coal-black eyes, and a horrid mien. It was an Indian, who
                  was reposing for the night on a couch of evergreens after the fatigue of the
                  chase, and who, awakened by the loud outcry of the boy, had caught sight of the
                  panther's flaming eyes just in season to level his trusty rifle and pierce him
                  through the head at the instant of his leap, so that he fell dead at the feet of
                  his victim. Charles had never seen an Indian before; and now to meet one at such a
                  time, and under such circumstances, made the blood leap through his veins with
                  accelerated force, and the agony of an imaginary danger was far greater than the
                  real one which he had just escaped. When the savage, with his blazing torch, moved
                  towards him, he was almost beside himself with fear.
               The guttural articulation of sounds which he could not understand would have
                  greatly increased his fears, had not the motions and signs of the Indian soon
                  assured him that under his hideous appearance lurked only kindly intentions. He
                  explored with his torch the nature of the boy's trouble, and set himself to the
                  task of relieving him the best way he could. By this time the men with the forward
                  teams, having missed their youthful charge, had reached the scene of action; and,
                  after a due amount of astonishment at what had happened, they proceeded to whip up
                  the partially rested horses to an endeavor towards progress.
               The Indian, whose name was Canaudeh, was the only relic of a tribe which had
                  perished in the all-consuming fires of alcohol. He himself had been in the last
                  stages of the same infatuation; but, coming to a sense of his danger, and agonized
                  by the death of his kindred, had resolved, with savage fierceness, never to taste
                  another drop of the poison, and thus had survived as the monument of an unwritten
                  temperance pledge. He now roamed, a solitary hunter, over those wilds which, as
                  the chief of his tribe, he had once ruled with regal power. Thus rum's victims
                  from the two extremes of civilized and uncivilized life had met, in the persons of
                  the boy and the savage, and under circumstances of darkness and danger suited to
                  their own sad experience from this bane of society. There grew up, after this, a
                  mutual interest between the two, which made them sharers in some of the events we
                  are now to record.
               Onward the emigrant wagons trundled; over roots, over logs, through mud and
                  through water, compounded into a bottomless chaos; heaving, pitching, rolling,
                  tossing,—man and beast, as it were, dead with fatigue, and seeking their
                  entombment in the inn and its stables to await the resurrection of brighter
                  day.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE GROGGERY—A GREATER DANGER.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Drink and be mad, then,—'t is your country bids!
                           Gloriously drunk, obey the important call!
                           Her cause demands the assistance of your throats;
                           Ye all can swallow, and she asks no more."
                        
                     
                     —COWPER.
                  
               
               THE inn was a plain building, partly log and partly framed, or an original
                  forest-cabin, brought out by a wealthier
                  proprietor, and wedded to a framed building in white paint, presenting the
                  contrast of Othello and Desdemona. The bar was in the black or devil's part, as it
                  was called, directly adjoining the parlor in the framed building; a common
                  atmosphere of rum and tobacco exhalations and fetid breaths, pervading both rooms
                  alike, as the door between the two was ever on the swing. In one side of the
                  bar-room was a genuine log-cabin fireplace, with stone wall without jamb or
                  mantel-piece, reclining against the logs, and surmounted by a chimney made of
                  sticks and mud, in the form of a tunnel, with the little end upward, serving the
                  three-fold purpose of funnel, ventilator, and skylight. The hearth was the
                  house-hold sewer, to which the disgusting overflowings of rum and tobacco found
                  their way. The bar itself was a strong enclosure of boards and lattice-work, from
                  which issued an incessant stream of poison, carrying madness to the mind, disease
                  and death to the body, and poverty and woe to families.
               One of the best apartments was occupied, on the night of the Douglass' arrival, by
                  two gentlemen; one a great land-holder, and owner of the inn, farm, and all its
                  appurtenances, while the other was his lawyer and a member of the legislature.
                  Both had just come from their distant homes in the East,—the landholder to look
                  after his own estates in these parts, and the other to assist him, and also to
                  attend to the business of another client, who was expected soon to emigrate. The
                  name of the landholder was Skampton, known among his neighbors as the patron, or
                  patroon; that of the lawyer was Marldon, and that of his other client
                  Harcourt.
               The room occupied by these gentlemen had a cheerful fire blazing on the
                  hearth,—more to expel damp than cold; two single beds,—the only articles of the
                  kind in the house; a plain table in the midst of the room, with a mug of
                  whiskey-punch punch smoking in the centre; and a due allowance of chairs, with a
                  small looking-glass. This, for a new country, as they say, was more than common
                  doings. Marldon took the punch which he had just ordered, and, filling a glass,
                  offered it to Skampton, saying, "Drink, my friend, and drive away dull care!"
               "No, Marldon; excuse me,—I never drink," said Skampton.
               "What! you never drink, and make so much out of drinking?"
               "Well, no one is encouraged to drink by my example; I've that to say for
                  myself,—I've a clear conscience here. But every one to his taste. Because people
                  are determined to 'put an enemy into their mouths to steal away their brains,'
                  must I relinquish my business and my revenues? Must I give up this house because
                  people come here to drink? If they are determined to have a place of the kind
                  among them, may not I, who am doing what good I can with my money, reap the
                  advantage as well as others, and thus convert the income into channels of
                  benevolence?"
               "Your reasoning is sound, my worthy client, though your example strikes me—please
                  excuse it—as a little overstrained. So long as Scotch whiskey and warm punch are
                  such acceptable libations to Morpheus, after a fatiguing day, such abstinence is
                  out of the question to me;" saying which, he put the full glass to his own lips,
                  quaffed its contents with a gusto, and, smacking his lips, added, "Good, good! fit
                  for the gods!"
               "By the way, Marldon, how does the Liquor Bill fare in the House?"
               "Dead and damned, I can assure you."
               "You are too harsh in your language."
               
               "I only quote the words of our enemies, these renegade lecturers, who say of one
                  of us, when he kicks the bucket, 'Gone to a drunkard's grave, dead and damned.' If
                  they say this of a man, may I not say it of this confounded
                     bill? That cursed law has deprived me of more business, so far as
                  the states have been fool enough to adopt it, than anything which has happened
                  since I entered the profession; and I have sworn, by all the gods, good, bad and
                  indifferent, that our state shall not be fooled into it. It shall not, it cannot
                  pass!"
               "What makes you speak so confidently, Marldon? Had the House rejected it before
                  you left?"
               "No, I left in the midst of the discussion,—forced away by Harcourt's business, as
                  well as yours. (Poor fellow! his commercial speculations have exploded, I suppose
                  you know.) But, then, I found that not a few of the House are habitual drinkers,
                  and a man will not vote the cup from his mouth. D' ye think I'd vote away this
                  comfort?" he added, drinking again.
               "Is that your only reason? That don't strike me as sufficient; for they can lay it
                  by in quantities, and keep their own bar. These demagogues will do anything to
                  court the people. What do the people say?"
               "O, they make an outcry to please these blackguard lecturers; but we know how to
                  bring them right. Influence and money will knock them into pi."
               "Then you think the representatives, left to themselves, will go against the
                  bill?"
               "Yes, all but the fanatics; and even they complain that it is not stringent
                  enough."
               "Not stringent enough?"
               "No, not stringent enough. They go for pouring the 'good cratur' into the gutter.
                  This is strongly mooted in one of our Eastern states. These rascally lecturers
                  have fed them with cayenne so long, that they now demand fire. They will go yet
                  for burning the houses in which rum is found. There is no end to the demand of
                  these agitators."
               "What are we coming to!" said Skampton, raising his hands in blank
                  astonishment.
               "Coming to! that's as plain as the nose on a man's face: coming to hanging up by
                  the neck every rum-dealer; coming to burning his house over the heads of his
                  family; coming to worse times than ever heretic-burning inflicted upon the world.
                  There is no telling what we shall come to, with the public run mad."
               "Was ever such persecution waged upon unoffending men! What is to be done? Is
                  there no hope of protecting ourselves and our business?" said Skampton,
                  anxiously.
               "I think there is," said the lawyer. "In the first place, we have all the drinking
                  members of the House on our side. Then, the speaking is done chiefly by my
                  profession, and we understand too well which side our bread is buttered to go
                  against the interests of some of our best clients. Besides, the liquor-dealers are
                  all-powerful. Their gains were never so great as since temperance times. The
                  conscientious fools who have given up the business turned their profits over to
                  those who are not so mealy mouthed; and the present enormous profits of these few
                  make them rabid against stringent legislation, and give them money to buy votes,
                  newspaper-squibs, and to do, in various ways, the most deadly execution in
                  opposition to it. The whole thing, depend upon it, will prove an abortion."
               "May a gracious Providence so order!" said Skampton, with an expression that showed how much the subject
                  had preyed upon his mind.
               In the midst of this conversation a gentle rap was heard at the door. Skampton
                  arose and opened it, when he was surprised to meet a lady, whose countenance was
                  one of intelligence and refinement, but overcast with anxiety and distress. It was
                  Mrs. Douglass, a lady now somewhat over thirty, matronly in appearance, and
                  dignified in deportment, who desired a word with the gentleman that owned the
                  inn.
               "I am that gentleman," said Skampton; "walk in, madam."
               She did so, and occupied a chair which he politely handed her. She hesitated a
                  moment how to introduce the subject that bore so heavily upon her heart. At length
                  she said, with an effort to restrain her tears, "I understand, sir, that an order
                  from you will be respected in this house."
               "I own it, madam, but have nothing to do with its management; that belongs to my
                  tenant, our landlord. If you have any business pertaining to the house, you must
                  look to him."
               "I have seen the landlord, sir, but in vain, I am sorry to say," she added, with a
                  sigh; and the tears now fell profusely down her fine face, in which some old grief
                  had evidently written its deep lines.
               "What troubles you, madam? what do you desire? has anything happened since you
                  came to the house?" inquired Skampton, with an expression more repulsive than
                  soothing.
               "It is a delicate subject, sir, for a wife, especially one who has the best and
                  most generous husband in the world, when he is himself. But, alas! he has not the
                  power, under all circumstances, to be himself. He was born in affluence, and spent
                  his early years where custom made the use of strong drink necessary to a manly
                  character and gentlemanly position. He had no natural propensity for it,—it was
                  rather disgusting to him than otherwise; he was pure, noble, and an honor to human
                  nature. Sir, you will excuse a wife's partiality in saying to you, a stranger,
                  what was a matter of notoriety in our former home. But habit wrought such a change
                  in his nervous system, or created such an appetite for strong drink, that he
                  cannot resist the temptation to use it to excess, whenever it is brought within
                  his reach, and he tastes it at all. He went to all lengths in dissipation; wasted
                  my patrimony and the most of his own,—all except a farm not many miles from this,
                  inherited from his grandfather,—and finally brought on delirium tremens, from
                  which he just escaped with his life. So horrible were his sufferings that he did
                  not return to his cups when he recovered, but has lived now two years without
                  tasting a drop. The happiness of our house is restored, and our affairs have
                  become so prosperous that we are going to our new farm, with the means of
                  establishing our young family in comfort, and to acquire for them, I trust, a
                  quiet home and a good reputation. My great anxiety is, to guard my husband against
                  the temptation to his former habits, to which he cannot return without involving
                  us all in irretrievable ruin."
               "Well, what of that?" said Skampton, in a dry and withering manner. "If a man will
                  make a beast of himself, an angel cannot save him."
               "But, sir," said Mrs. Douglass, with an expression of grief that would have
                  touched any other heart, "there is everything to me and my little ones in it. If
                  he were insane, think you I could trust him in a room with deadly weapons? Should
                  I not implore the occupant of such a room to be on his guard? A room where
                  intoxicating drinks are freely dealt out
                  is equally fatal to my husband, whatever you please to name him."
               "Why then did you bring him here?" said Skampton, with great nonchalance.
               "O that it had been possible to avoid coming! We must emigrate,—we must stop
                  somewhere. Such a retinue as ours could not be admitted to a private dwelling; and
                  there was no alternative but to stop here or expose our famished company
                  supperless to the dews of the night. Necessity has compelled us hither; and now,
                  to save my husband, this—this is all my concern. In the name of humanity, sir, I
                  beseech you to help me!"
               "What can I do, woman? Are you mad?"
               "All I ask is, that you give orders to your tenant that not a drop which
                  intoxicates be allowed my husband, for money or persuasion. Let all he would be
                  likely to buy be added to our bill,—I will freely pay it; but will you not, for my
                  sake, let the poison itself be withheld? Will you not take pity on my helpless
                  children, and do as much as this?"
               "Why should this be necessary, if your husband has become a temperance man?" said
                  Skampton, with a sneer at a movement which he always abhorred.
               "O, he is not proof against temptation. This is his first trial, I think; and I
                  see, by his movements, that he cannot withstand it. The instinct of a wife has
                  revealed to me this dreadful truth. He is fatigued with a long journey; is
                  depressed at parting from all the friends and associates of former years; has
                  been, for an hour or two, restive and wretched, as if he felt himself
                  spell-bound,—held by the serpent's bewitching eye,—and the very odor of alcohol
                  has disarmed him of his powers of resistance; so that I know he will drink if he
                  can get it, and we shall be ruined. He has been, for some time, just as miserable
                  as misery can make him."
               "Speak to the landlord, madam; the house is his, and not mine. I have contracted
                  the use of it to him, and have no more control over it than you have."
               "I have done it, sir; but he only laughs, and insults me."
               "Every trade must live," said Skampton. "I have gone to great expense in
                  purchasing and fitting up this house for the public accommodation. It is a great
                  thoroughfare; and thousands have suffered just as you speak of, by depending on
                  private accommodations. I could not keep the house myself, but let it to one who
                  makes that his business. His best profits come from his bar. If it were not for
                  that, he would have to charge what many could not afford to pay for food and
                  lodgings. Would you have him sacrifice all his profits? If your husband is
                  disposed to make a beast of himself, I am not to blame. Would you have me cut in
                  upon the profits of the house? If I do it once, I may again and again, and there
                  would be no end to it. I shall have nothing to do in the matter."
               Seeing that further remonstrance was useless, the griefstricken wife in silent
                  sorrow rose and left the room. Alas! how numerous are the wives in Europe and
                  America of whom she is the sad, sad representative!
               "Served her right," said Marldon, sipping his punch; adding, "It's a scene; women
                  are made to weep, and it does them good. She'll feel the better for it. She has
                  the unction of feeling herself a martyr, and you her executioner. I have had my
                  trials with women's tears in my day, I can assure you; and I know there's no way
                  but to be firm,—be firm. Human nature is what it is. You and I did not make it so; but, if we can make something out
                  of its being so, we should be confounded fools to let a woman's tears pick our
                  pockets."
               "It would gratify me to please the woman," replied Skampton, a little shocked by
                  this bold logic; "but, then, Marldon, I have no right. I might give up
                     my profits; but I have made a contract with my tenant to give over
                  to him the stand, with all its appurtenances, for him to make the most he can out
                  of its business, and it would not be right for me to subtract from his income. I
                  should violate my contract, which, you know, I am not a man to do."
               "No, not right, not legal neither," said the lawyer. "He could sue you for damages
                  on the terms of your lease. Zounds! I'd like to manage his suit against you, if
                  you had listened to this piece of female impertinence. All bargains, to stand,
                  must show a quid pro quo, of which you would
                  take away the quid if you interfered with the
                  business of the bar."
               This legal quid suggested the idea of his tobacco quid; whereupon, taking out his
                  silver case stowed full of the vegetable bane,—like putrefaction in a gilded
                  coffin,—he proceeded to surcharge one of his cheeks till it projected like a wen,
                  and then dropping his head, now soporific from alcohol and tobacco, he sunk into a
                  profound sleep.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               IT IS A FEARFUL NIGHT.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow,
                           And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow.
                           Thou canst help time to furrow me with age,
                           But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage."—
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               WHEN Mrs. Douglass reached the parlor, she found her husband pacing to and fro in
                  an excited manner, with his eyes fixed upon the open door into the bar-room, which
                  was filled with people in the various stages of intoxication, from the first fiery
                  glass to beastly, unconscious helplessness. She saw, she felt, that the fumes from
                  this hell were fatal to his better impulses, and that he was on the point of
                  making a hopeless plunge into the abyss. He heeded her not when she entered, so
                  intent was his mind upon the burning appetite, and the means of its gratification.
                  But she could not give him over. Denied all protection from the house or its
                  owner, she now resolved to exert her utmost skill to save her husband, thankful
                  that not a drop of the maddening liquid had yet mingled with his blood since they
                  entered the house. Wiping her eyes, and clothing her face in the winning smiles of
                  a wife's devoted love, the sweetest of earthly passions, she took him by the arm
                  and paced to and fro with him, saying every winning thing which her ingenuity
                  could suggest, to divert him, and enable him to preserve the command of
                  himself.
               "My dear George," said she, "this is certainly a beautiful ful country; it is much pleasanter than I feared I
                  should find it."
               "Glad of it," said he, laconically, as if hardly conscious of what passed, from
                  the fiery rage of one feeling within.
               "I wish our Charles was here," she added; "I desire our children every moment
                  under my eye."
               "So do I, but I can't expect it," he rejoined, in the same dry manner, still
                  occupied with his one consuming idea.
               "How far have we yet to go, George?"
               "Fifteen miles," he said. He had no sooner spoken than a gentleman and lady
                  entered, with three beautiful children, and, gazing at them a moment, he rushed
                  forward and seized the gentleman by the hand, exclaiming, "Bless me! Charles
                  Durham, is this you?"
               "Possible, Douglass!" said the man, staring intently; "are you here? How glad I am
                  to meet you, after this long, long time!"
               "Charles, you are a noble fellow," replied Douglass, "and look as well as ever,
                  only more manly; and this is your wife, I suppose."
               "Mr. Douglass, my dear Amelia, of whom you have heard me speak so often as my chum
                  and dearest of all my schoolmates," said the man, introducing his wife; "and Mrs.
                  Douglass, I suppose?"
               "Yes, Mrs. Douglass, who has heard as much of Durham as your wife has of
                  Douglass."
               The two groups of children were also introduced, each falling into its place as
                  naturally as if they had lived together for years. Children and kittens are never
                  strangers.
               Mrs. Douglass assumed an air of the utmost civility to her husband's friend,
                  though the name of Charles Durham was a thunderbolt to all her hopes of saving
                  him, on account of the much she had heard of their former convivial intercourse.
                  She feared that to part without drinking together would be impossible; and she
                  knew that tasting one drop would involve her husband in certain intoxication, to
                  be continued perhaps for days, till "delirium" came to end his wayward career. O,
                  the agony of a wife with such a spectre before her mind!
               Durham was a man of about thirty, several years younger than Mr. Douglass,
                  extremely elegant in person and manners, and withal so well dressed, and
                  apparently in such fine condition, that it occurred to Mrs. Douglass, as an
                  encouragement, that perhaps he might have become a teetotaller. His wife was a
                  lady of twenty-five, with a lively and sparkling expression of face, beautiful
                  form and features, with a profusion of rich auburn hair that hung in ringlets
                  around a forehead of marble polish and whiteness, and cheeks in which the lily and
                  the rose had blended their choicest hues. Though the mother of three children, she
                  still retained much of the freshness and elasticity of "sweet sixteen." The
                  children were tastefully dressed, well-behaved, and altogether it was one of the
                  most engaging family groups. She had been considered an heiress, and her husband,
                  the only son of distinguished parents, was thought "the greatest catch" in the
                  whole community.
               It was not customary then to make much account of the occasional "sprees" of a
                  young gentleman of fashion; and hence the frequent aberrations of Durham were
                  regarded rather as evidence of spirit, or as an evil of which time would effect a
                  cure. But, unlike Douglass, his appetite for strong drink was inherited both from
                  father and mother, neither of whom could be said to be drunkards, but whose
                     temperate drinking had so far wrought upon their hidden nature as
                  to taint the blood of this sole heir of their name and their fortune tune. Charles would have his high times, even from
                  childhood; though, whether drunk or sober, he was always one of the best-natured
                  fellows in the world. His wife loved him devotedly, though he had caused her much
                  trouble, and had wasted their fortune, except the means of a very moderate
                  beginning in the new country. She still clung to the hope that, being there out of
                  the way of temptation, he would reform, and they should be a prosperous and happy
                  family. Indeed, there were many points of resemblance, as well as of
                  dissimilarity, in the domestic history and present condition of these boon
                  companions of college-life. For the sake of his dear Amelia, whom Durham loved to
                  adoration, how did he curse his habits and his nature! How did he long to be where
                  the bane could never reach him more! With what tearful eyes did he sometimes
                  regard his children, two girls and a boy, in whom he felt all a father's pride and
                  joy! But still the serpent was coiled round his heart, and no tears or resolutions
                  of his own, no ties of family and home, could disengage him from the folds and
                  fangs of the destroyer. Both these wives were sharers in the same fear, the moment
                  of entering this hell. Had they fallen into a den of robbers, it would have been
                  no more tormenting,—no more fatal in its consequences.
               The two gentlemen soon became absorbed in conversation on by-gone days, their
                  wives saying or doing little except to watch them with trembling solicitude, the
                  more so from the convivial associations revived by their remarks and allusions. At
                  length, Mrs. Durham was called to superintend her children's retirement for the
                  night, and Mrs. Douglass was left to keep vigils alone. Her children were already
                  in bed, though the infant slept fitfully, after the fatigue and exposure of so
                  long a journey. A moment more, and it began to scream, as if it were in agony, and
                  the anxious mother was compelled to leave the parlor. She soothed the little one,
                  and, taking it in her arms, returned to her post, determined to throw herself and
                  screaming child across her husband's pathway to the bar, if that should be
                  necessary to save him from the charmed eye and deadly fangs of the serpent which
                  from that den lured to deceive and destroy. But, alas! it was too late. The moment
                  she left the room, Durham said to his friend, "Come, we must have a treat over
                  this unexpected meeting."
               Glancing his eye stealthily round the room, to make sure that his wife was out of
                  the way, Douglass replied, "Here's for you, then, in spite of the devil!—what'll
                  you take?"
               "Brandy and water; plain doings, but what's better?" said Durham. Whereupon to the
                  bar they made their way with nervous haste, and had swallowed each of them half a
                  glass of brandy just as Mrs. Douglass returned with her screaming child.
               "O, George! my dearest George!" she exclaimed, running into the bar-room, with her
                  child still screaming. "You know what the effect will be; how can you take that
                  poison?" But the venom had already gone to his brain, and he was stark mad,—partly
                  with excitement, and partly from the effect of the brandy, after so long an
                  abstinence. Lifting himself up to his full length, he turned upon her his burning
                  eyes, and swore, by all the powers above, if she did not leave the room instantly,
                  he would be the death of her. "I'll have no meddling here, wife!" said he, with a
                  stern countenance.
               "That's right! no petticoat government in this room!" growled the burly-headed,
                  half-drunk landlord, from his pigeon-hole.
               
               "An' faith, me lady, this is not seeming to your grace with your squalling brat,
                  and so I'll hilp ye oot," said an Irish laborer, with a tin dish in his hand,
                  suiting the action to his words, and giving her a push towards the
                  parlor-door.
               "That's right, Pat," said the fiery-faced landlord. "Put her out; we'll have no
                  Jezebels here!"
               Durham smiled upon her benignantly, singing snatches of bacchanalian songs, and
                  beginning to dance about the room in wild and frantic glee,—so that, what with the
                  screaming of the infant, the cursing of Douglass, the singing and dancing of
                  Durham, the brutal remarks of the publican, and the still more brutal conduct of
                  his man, together with the general demonstrations of a drunken brawl among the
                  intoxicated company crowding the bar-room, it was a scene not often witnessed this
                  side of the infernal regions. There was this difference in the effect of strong
                  drink on these two men,—that, while it inflamed Douglass' sense of personal
                  consequence to the state of a judge or a king, and made him combative as a lictor,
                  or executioner, it had directly the contrary effect upon Durham, rendering him
                  extremely bland, loving and jovial, so that nothing was too good for him to give
                  or do for his friends. Both were alike mad,—only the madness of the one was
                  terrific, making nothing safe in his presence, whether limb or life; while that of
                  the other was harmless and happy, full of mirthful romance and seductive song.
               "My dear Mrs. Durham, what is to be done?" said Mrs. Douglass, as she met her
                  new-made friend coming to the scene of action.
               "O, my dear, I don't know," replied Mrs. Durham, with great concern; "mad, both
                  stark mad, I suppose?"
               "Yes, perfectly so, and surrounded by madmen. I have barely escaped with my
                  life."
               "What! Charles offer you violence? I never knew that of him."
               "No, no! it was not your husband, but mine, and this miserable landlord and his
                  man. Brandy always makes my poor George furious; and it is a miracle that our
                  family are all alive, after what we have gone through."
               "I should not mistrust it, from his appearance. He don't look like a man who
                  drinks, and least of all like one to be dangerous, if he did."
               "He has not drunk a drop of intoxicating liquor for two years till this fatal
                  night. O, my heavenly Father, what shall I do?—what shall I do? There's no cure,
                  no cure, but death! It was the delirium tremens that cured him before, but he
                  cannot survive another attack. Nor can he drink without bringing it on, after the
                  shock his constitution has received. O, it is so dreadful, as if all the evil
                  spirits had come in bodily shape to torment a man!"
               "Charles never had that terrible disease. His turns of drinking are only
                  periodical, lasting sometimes a week or two; and the intervals between them, at
                  least latterly, have often been long-continued. O, I did hope, in this wilderness
                  country, to get beyond the reach of an enemy which has been the blight of our
                  lives. But it is here,—it is everywhere!" Saying this, she stepped to the bar-room
                  door, and found it fastened now that the prey was secure; but the singing of her
                  husband she could distinctly hear, mingled with the curses of Douglass, who had by
                  this time quarrelled with all who were in a mood for it; and the medley of sounds
                  from the bar-room was more like the wailing and gnashing of teeth in outer
                  darkness, than like the scenes of earth. Owing to their dissimilarity of
                  disposition in the hours of madness, Douglass and Durham never quarrelled between
                     themselves, but seemed united by a
                  singular tie of affinity, as if alcohol had kindled between them a morbid flame of
                  artificial sympathy and of fellow-feeling. Their wives, seeing how fruitless were
                  attempts to save them, now desisted, and resigned themselves to black despair.
                  Mrs. Douglass' infant continued still its incessant screaming; and, in addition,
                  her anxiety about Charles added another pang to her already lacerated heart. O!
                  could one-millionth part of the misery occasioned by alcohol come distinctly
                  before the law-makers of our land, they could not fail to see their duty to adopt
                  and prosecute a stringent course of legislation against the gigantic evil!
               Charles at length arrived, almost dead with fatigue and excitement, from the
                  labors and dangers which he had encountered. Leaving his team to the men, he
                  hastened to the barroom door from without, and, entering, looked round upon the
                  drunken group, to find some one of whom he might inquire for his family, his
                  supper, and his lodgings. But, before he was aware of what hurt him, he received
                  from his father's fist a blow which knocked him across the room and felled him
                  senseless to the floor. Mrs. Douglass heard the noise, and divined the cause, as
                  she knew her husband's madness was always most embittered against his own family.
                  Resigning her infant to Mrs. Durham, she went out of the hall door, and ran round
                  and entered the bar-room where Charles had just gone in. Her husband, seeing her,
                  made a pass at her head; but the blow was parried by those of the drunken crew who
                  had some humane feelings left, who protected her till she had carried out her
                  child, and placed him on her own bed. For half an hour she stood over him, rubbing
                  his limbs, bathing his head, making hot applications to his chest, and doing
                  everything for his restoration which a mother's love could dictate. The first
                  thing of which Charles was conscious was his mother's tears falling like rain upon
                  his cheeks, as she stooped down to imprint the kisses of tenderness and concern.
                  The agonized thought of their condition, which now flashed across his mind, drove
                  him almost to madness. His mother, brothers and sisters, with himself, the hapless
                  family of a drunkard, seemed to him the most miserable and the most hopeless of
                  living beings. He wished himself dead, and that they were all dead with him.
               "O, mother!" he said, "such another night I never saw, and I pray God I may never
                  see again! I have just escaped death by a wild beast, to find in my own father a
                  still more dangerous foe."
               "What do you say, my son? You are wild,—not quite yourself yet."
               "Yes, mother," he replied, kissing her; "I am myself. Would I were
                  not,—would it were all a dream!" He then related the adventures of his nocturnal
                  drive through the wilderness, at the recital of which she too felt the force and
                  horror of his reflections.
               "O, my son! my son! God be praised that you are spared!" she said, and again
                  renewed her fond embrace. "Perhaps it is that you may yet be a comfort to your
                  mother, and the salvation of the family. We must hope,—yes, we must; but for hope,
                  the heart would break."
               "O, mother! I see no hope. Better dead than alive. Why had not the humane panther
                  been left to put me out of my misery? Better die by a brute than by one's own
                  father. Why did you not save him from this riot?"
               "I did all I could to save him, my dear son. I besought the landlord and the owner
                  of the house not to give him the cup for any consideration. I wept, and begged,
                  and entreated, but all to no purpose. We
                  are in the hell, and, if we all sink together, I shall have this to reflect upon,
                  that I did what I could to escape it." Mother and son now wept in silence, with
                  arms closely folded round each other's neck, seeming thus to resign themselves to
                  their fate,—the most miserable fate that mother and son ever endured,—that of
                  being a drunkard's wife and child.
               "My dear Charles, you have had no supper."
               "No, mother, I cannot eat; I never wish to eat again."
               "You must eat, my child;" and, calling the only servant who was still up, she
                  ordered tea and toast. The servant, touched with sympathy, hastened to do as she
                  was bidden. After tea Charles revived a little, and soon sunk into a sweet sleep.
                  Mrs. Douglass then joined her new friend in the parlor. Neither of them could
                  sleep. The horrid oaths, angry blows, obscene songs and infernal fumes, of the den
                  into which their husbands had fallen, drove sleep far from them. They walked the
                  room, and wrung their hands in agony. Description falls short of the reality.
                  Imagination must supply the rest. "O, thou invisible spirit of wine! If thou hast
                  no name to be known by, let us call thee—devil." Thou art the incarnation of all
                  devils,—lust, revenge, pride, filthiness, suspicion, envy, jealousy, murder. Thy
                  march through the world is strewed with human bones. Thou art baptized in tears
                  and blood. Thy name is legion. There is no wrong which thou dost not instigate, no
                  lust thou dost not inflame, no pang thou dost not render more poignant, no law
                  thou dost not violate, and no virtue nor joy thou dost not despoil! Who hath
                  woe?—who hath sorrow?—who hath contentions?—who hath babbling?—who hath wounds
                  without cause?—who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry long at the wine; they
                  that go to seek mixed wine."
               It was now three o'clock in the morning. Thick mists hung over the face of the
                  world. The stars shone feebly from the ethereal expanse. Night had gathered all
                  its forces to resist the onset of coming day. The distant wolves, prowling over
                  nature's untrimmed and boundless domain, where their reign had never been
                  disputed, kept up an incessant howling to make night hideous. The bat was on the
                  wing, and the owl from his tree-top gave forth his ominous note. The genius of
                  rapine and murder, ensconced in foul exhalations, awaited its victims. The dense
                  darkness of approaching dawn had brought upon animated nature a deeper sleep, and
                  a profounder insensibility to danger. Charles felt the spell, and lay in the lap
                  of unconsciousness. The infant had ceased its moans, and forgotten its sorrows.
                  The household was all quiet, except the wary publican and his hapless victims, to
                  whom he was dealing out "liquid fire and distilled damnation." The ladies, too,
                  still kept vigil, awaiting they knew not what. They could not sleep while the
                  dearest objects of their affection were thus in the hand of the destroyer.
               Thus things were situated, when all at once they were aroused from their dreamy
                  despair by yells and screams resounding through the darkness, and echoing from the
                  contiguous forest, as if murder, with all its myrmidons, were indeed out upon its
                  work of blood. The sound did not reach the bar-room; it was neutralized by the
                  more terrible medley within. Mrs. Douglass and her friend hastened to the back
                  door, from which quarter the noise seemed to come, and, looking out, they saw
                  lights from a log-cabin in the yard a few rods back of the main building. They
                  hesitated, irresolute as to what should be done. Blow after blow, accompanied by
                  the stifled shrieks of a female voice, convinced them that deeds of fearful import were enacting in the
                  cabin. Without reflection, they obeyed the dictates of humanity, and, taking each
                  other by the arm, they groped their way till they could distinctly see, through
                  the crevices of the unplastered logs, a man dealing deadly blows upon the person
                  of a woman. Mrs. Douglass instantly recognized the man as the one with a tin dish
                  who had so violently ejected her from the bar-room. His name, they afterwards
                  learned, was Pat Tooney, the farmer of the establishment, against whom his
                  employer contrived to make an annual liquor-bill equal to his wages, leaving his
                  wife and eight children to support both him and themselves. When Mrs. Douglass saw
                  him, he had come with his cup for his evening pint of whiskey, which, added to
                  what he had drunk in the course of the day, made him quite mad. In this state he
                  began to catechize his wife about her provision for friends whom he expected the
                  next day.
               "Have you kilt the turkey, Jenny?"
               "Yes, Pathrick," was his wife's submissive reply.
               "An' how have ye dhrissed it?" added Pat, full of explosive anger.
               "I drew it, but could not get the sinews oot of the legs."
               "That's beliking your husband's frinds, is't, ye jade?" replied Tooney, striking
                  her a furious blow in the mouth with his fist. Mrs. Tooney screamed from fear and
                  pain, and this it was that called the attention of the ladies. Determined to
                  prosecute the war to the knife, Pat began now to question his wife about some
                  change he had seen in her hands, and threatened to kill her if she did not give a
                  true account. The poor woman tried to obey orders; but, before she had spoken
                  three words, the frenzy took him again, and he struck her so violently in the
                  breast as to knock her down. He then fell to kicking her stomach and side, as she
                  lay on the floor, when the ladies made bold to break in upon him, and beg him to
                  desist. This only exasperated him the more; and, seizing his wife by the hair of
                  her head, he dragged her about till she was totally insensible. Seemingly alarmed
                  at this symptom,—or perhaps the madness of intoxication beginning to subside,—he
                  seized a pail of water, and dashed it in her face, to revive her, twice repeating
                  the application afterwards from a pitcher. She gasped for breath a moment, and
                  then—as it proved in the event, though not suspected at the moment—she resigned
                  her spirit to the God that gave it. Kneeling down over the head of his deceased
                  wife, the wretch began to say, in plaintive tones, "Jenny, you love me! Do you not
                  love me? do I not love you?" But no voice answered. All was still, awful,—the wife
                  of a drunkard dead by his own hands! The ladies did what they could to restore
                  her, but all to no purpose. Tooney was soon missing, and could not be found. When
                  this fact was made certain, the whole group of children, who had remained hid,
                  like chickens from the hawk, came round the corpse of their mother, uttering
                  lamentations such as the impassioned Irish alone know how to express. The ladies
                  devoted the rest of the night to laying out the corpse, and alleviating the misery
                  of those whose fate so much resembled their own.
               Morning—rosy-fingered, celestial, beautiful, true to its promise of relief for the
                  woes of the night—came at length, to greet the expectant emigrants, and to invite
                  them from their human den into the balmy air and sweet light of a new day, to bask
                  in the fragrance and loveliness of nature's fresh and expansive luxuriance. The
                  robin and blue-bird were carolling from their pendent bough, and myriads of
                  dew-drops added lustre and brilliancy to the enchanting scene. The repose without
                  was as profound as if no tempest had
                  raged within, and the dawn appeared not in the habiliments of sorrow for the
                  events of the night, but in all the brilliancy of her jewelled and variegated
                  robes.
               On returning from the cabin to the inn, the ladies found that the landlord had
                  disappeared. His place was supplied by a bar-keeper, who seemed more susceptible
                  to the touches of humanity. They were silent as to what had happened in the Irish
                  family, lest they should be detained as witnesses, and prepared to hasten their
                  departure. Those tenants of the bar-room not too much intoxicated to get away were
                  gone; and their husbands they found on the floor, in each other's arms, dead
                  drunk, and as helpless as they were unconscious. Brandy has its sympathies, and
                  drunkenness its fellow-feeling. The bar-keeper kindly promised, if they awaked and
                  called for more, not to give them another drop. Charles was refreshed by sleep,
                  and, though much bruised, he was able to walk. The whole neighborhood was astir
                  about the murder, but Mrs. Douglass and her friend kept their own counsel.
                  Skampton and Marldon, hearing of the occurrence, deemed it prudent to be off as
                  soon as possible; and they drove away together, before they got their breakfast.
                  The ladies mutually agreed that their safest course would be to leave while their
                  husbands were yet insensible, and incapable of resistance. They were all soon
                  re-packed on board of their wagons, having their drunken husbands stowed away in a
                  place where they could ride without injury; and thus, at length, they made their
                  escape from "this breathing-hole of hell."
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE NEW HOME.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Dun.
                           
                              This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
                              Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
                              Unto our gentle senses.
                           
                        
                        
                           "Ban.
                           
                              This guest of summer,
                              The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
                              By his loved mansionry, that the heaven's breath
                              Smells wooingly here; no jutty, frieze, buttress,
                              Nor coigne of vantage, but this bird hath made
                              His pendent bed and procreant cradle. Where they
                              Most breed and haunt, I have observed, the air
                              Is delicate."
                           
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               MRS. DOUGLASS set off with a heavy heart. She clung, with the fondest feelings, to
                  her husband. The scenes which had deprived her of sleep the previous night only
                  put her womanly love to the test, and made it burn with increasing constancy and
                  tenderness. Her heart never went forth to her dear George, her adored husband,
                  with such perfect abandonment. She realized how much it must have cost him to deny
                  for two long years an appetite of such overmastering strength; and he had done it
                  out of regard to her and her children. Virtue practised against such force of
                  resistance seemed to her four-fold more praiseworthy. "O, my George, my dearest
                  George! at what a cost have you maintained so long your temperance! Your appetite
                  has become your misfortune more than your crime. Your crime was in first yielding
                  to the preposterous customs of society. Your wife will love you, George; yes, she
                  will teach her children to love you. She will love you the more that others
                     hate and despise you. Yes, George! you
                  are my own dear, generous, noble and faithful husband; and all I desire,
                  except—except—what you cannot help—an appetite for strong drink, over which you
                  mourn, more than wife or children, or any one else. I will comfort you, George;
                  yes, I will. Duty and affection alike dictate that I should soothe your anguished
                  feelings." O, who can estimate the purity and strength of a woman's love? Still,
                  she felt for her children. They could not enter into her feelings as a wife. They
                  were more than orphans, and might, in future years, curse their relationship to
                  such a father. Alas! it is far more fatal than relationship to parents who have
                  already died a virtuous death.
               As a dictate of more than usual tenderness, she felt that she must have her whole
                  family round her own person; and hence crowded them all with her into the same
                  wagon, with the addition of a driver, as Charles was too much bruised to manage
                  the horses. It was a large vehicle, whose bottom she first covered with bedding,
                  and laid her husband upon it, carefully tucking him up on all sides, with the
                  pillows and bolsters, to prevent his being bruised. Above were two seats, the
                  forward of which she, with baby in arms, occupied, beside the driver; on the
                  hinder one Charles and his two brothers next to himself—George and Samuel—were
                  seated; and the two little girls, Mary and Cornelia, insisted that they would sit
                  on the bottom, beside their papa, to keep him steady. George and Samuel were old
                  enough to have some idea of the cause of their father's trouble; both looked sad,
                  and were silent on the subject, often reaching forward and kissing their dear
                  mamma, as if it might be some mitigation of her sufferings. Their lips would curl
                  with grief, and the tears would start, whenever they did it. Beyond this they gave
                  no signs of sensibility to what had happened. But the little girls thought their
                  dear papa was only sick; and how full of sympathy and caresses were they! Mary sat
                  on one side, and Cornelia on the other, pressed close against his head, to hold it
                  firm, bestowing kisses on his lips, cheeks, forehead, chin.
               "Mamma," said little Mary, "has papa got a fever?—his breath smells so!"
               "Don't disturb your father, my love," replied her mother, stung to the quick by
                  the child's allusion to the fetid relic of the bane.
               "Papa," said Nelly, "don't you know me?"
               "How can he, when he don't see?" replied little Mary.
               "Can't you hear me, papa?" inquired Nelly again. "Why don't you
                  speak, papa? Dear papa, do speak! speak to your Nelly!"
               Thus they travelled for several hours. Their road lay through an unbroken
                  wilderness, where nature's exuberance was unrestrained by art,—a scene of solemn
                  grandeur, full of the inspirations of poetry and romance. The dense shade of
                  enormous tree-tops, interwoven and intertwined, like an over-hanging veil, had so
                  effectually excluded the sun's rays as to kill out the underbrush, and leave an
                  unencumbered surface between the large trunks of the trees which studded the soil.
                  Still, in passing over roots and knolls, the wagon often rolled and pitched at a
                  fearful rate, and all the efforts of the children were necessary to hold their
                  father in his place. Not many minutes intervened when the mild and tearful eyes of
                  Mrs. Douglass were not turned towards him, to see that all was right. At length,
                  in one of those glances of affection, she saw two streams of tears running down
                  his face, to assure her that his consciousness was restored, though chagrin and mortification kept his eyes closed and
                  his lips sealed. When his little daughters kissed his lips, he would turn away his
                  face, as if fearful of tainting their pure breath by contact with such a mass of
                  pollution as he felt himself to be.
               "I am the plague-spot of this innocent group!" he thought within himself. "O that
                  I were dead! I am a grief to my wife, and a shame to my children. I am not fit to
                  be loved by such angels." Ah! could that landlord, and that proprietor of the
                  miserable groggery in which these wounds had been inflicted,—could they have
                  looked into that drunkard's heart, at this moment of returning consciousness, how
                  poor a compensation for so much misery would their paltry gains have appeared!
                  Such a quid pro quo is enough to make avarice
                  relent, and covetousness relinquish its gains. Even Marldon might have been
                  touched with pity. The profits thus wrung out of human weakness and vice are a
                  canker upon the soul, to eat into it like fire. It is a merchandise of woman's
                  tears, a trading in worse than orphan grief, dealing out infamy and hopeless ruin
                  to a helpless group of little ones, whom the winds had not otherwise rudely
                  visited, merely for the sorry satisfaction of having a golden stream flowing into
                  one's own purse. O! if one vault of final despair is more dismal than the rest, it
                  will be occupied by the caterer to the drunkard's appetite, the promiscuous dealer
                  in intoxicating drinks, whether by wholesale or retail, by the pipe or by the
                  glass, from the distillery or from the bar, to obtain the proceeds of vice and
                  misery!
               We will now give Charles' impressions of his new home in his own words. His
                  recollections are more graphic—though a little over-wrought—than could be expected
                  from a second-hand description. "We reached it at dusk," he says, "having
                  travelled but fifteen miles the last day,—the roads being rough, and father's
                  condition so peculiar as to more or less retard our progress. He—poor, dear
                  man!—was perfectly himself when we arrived, though miserable as misery could make
                  him. He seemed disappointed and shocked at his own return to a vice which had cost
                  him so much, and against which he had fortified himself by so many resolves. It
                  was several days before he became at all reässured; and then it was more from the
                  consciousness that he was in a town without the accursed traffic in alcohol than
                  from any reliance upon his own virtue. We all gathered round him, and loved him as
                  we never did before. My mother was unremitting in her attentions. My little
                  sisters clung to him every moment he was in the house, from an undefined feeling
                  that he had been unhappy, and might be again. And as for myself and brothers, we
                  were more than ever respectful and obedient to him. Still, I could often detect
                  him weeping bitter tears, as if, however we might feel, he never could forgive
                  himself. But, gradually, our new circumstances and new home, and, more than all,
                  his yet unstained reputation in town, wrought in him the confidence of a new
                  life.
               "I was charmed with our new home. The house, the trees, the clouds, all to me had
                  the charm of novelty and romance. It was a block house, built of square beams,
                  carefully hewed and adjusted one upon another, with a layer of lime-mortar
                  between, to make a solid wooden wall. It had three apartments, each eighteen feet
                  square, standing in a row, the whole building being fifty-four feet in length and
                  eighteen wide,—not symmetrical, but convenient. It was whitewashed without and
                  within, thus contrasting beautifully with the leafy canopy which waved above and
                  around. The family-room was the centre, while the right wing was used for parlor, and the left for sleeping apartments. A
                  half-story above afforded space also for study, storage, and various purposes. It
                  was rural and romantic as a whole, and I always had a home feeling in it to make
                  me regret abandoning it for a more stately mansion. It taught me how independent
                  our happiness is of architectural proportions or costly trappings. This house, and
                  a fifty-acre wheat-field, which we found investing the earth in a rich mantle of
                  green, were the result of my father's attention to the farm before removing his
                  family. He had preserved a young growth of maples directly round the house, to
                  beautify our home. Altogether, it was a sweet place, which poetry might choose for
                  its own, had a man any in his soul.
               "On the night of our arrival we laid our beds on the floor in a promiscuous
                  jumble, and cast our fatigued bodies upon them without ceremony, and soon lost
                  ourselves in a dreamless sleep. My father was the only exception, whose heart had
                  evidently been preying upon itself through the night; though his thoughts were
                  turned to account, probably as a means of diversion, in excogitating the plan of a
                  bay-window, to give us a more commanding view of the lake which formed the
                  northern semi-circle of our sensible horizon. Our house stood directly on the
                  bank, and the said window was located over our back or lake door, in the upper
                  story; and seemed literally to overhang a glorious expanse of molten silver,
                  giving light to the room which was assigned to me for a study. I was already, by
                  the way, nearly fitted for college, and here completed my preparation, under the
                  tutelage of my mother, whose father was a clergyman, and had carefully trained her
                  both in the classics and the exact sciences. This bay-window, therefore, is
                  connected in my mind with many tender and interesting associations, which must be
                  my apology for the minuteness of my allusions.
               "The matter of the bay-window being settled, we plunged at once into the turmoil
                  of putting furniture into its place. In the course of a week, each article and
                  utensil had found its proper nook and corner. As for myself, I was too much
                  excited to take an interest in such commonplace affairs. The logging-field, the
                  woods, beach, birds and beasts, had greater charms. With my iron-wood lever I now
                  lifted with the men; now ran to fasten the chain on a log, and watch its reluctant
                  movements as it found its way into the growing heap; now seized the goad, and,
                  with genuine boyish pride, exercised my authority over the oxen, wondering that
                  such huge animals should be so obsequious to my gee, haw, whoa! If
                  ever boy lived on enchanted ground, I did, months after our arrival. My father
                  allowed me my bent, whether to work or play, from an over-indulgence arising
                  probably from the peculiar state of his own mind. I leaped; I ran among the thick
                  trees; I plunged into the limpid lake to regale myself with swimming; I gathered
                  smooth pebbles along its shore; I watched the gyrations of the eagle through the
                  ambient air, and saw him poising his wings to descry his prey, and from his lofty
                  elevation pouncing upon it like lightning, bearing it from its watery home to
                  nourish the ugly growth of his young; I climbed the tallest trees to sport myself
                  with his eaglets in their eyrie; I skimmed the lake in our family yawl, with my
                  younger brothers for oars-men; I watched the summer fallow as it gradually
                  disrobed itself from its black mantle of burnt logs, and put on the beautiful
                  green of growing wheat. I waded brooks and threaded rivers, and gathered nuts and
                  berries, or listened to the evening note of the loon from his hiding-place of
                  mist, like a voice from the unseen world.
                  I noted the water-spout stretching down from the pendent cloud, like a vast line
                  of pitchy hose, till it touched the surface of the deep, through which the genius
                  of storm pumped a supply for his aërial reservoirs. I once saw a corpse dashed
                  ashore by the curling surf, asking the favor of a forest grave. I gazed upon
                  jostling clouds floating over the watery expanse like the drift of mighty rivers.
                  I beheld stately forests bowing obsequiously to the imperious hurricane, as the
                  slave to the yoke that galls him. All these, and much more of a like character,
                  were among my new-country experiences, charming my fancy and inflaming my
                  imagination.
               "My father's land had long been in the family, and known as the Douglass tract;
                  being included in a wider extent of country, that went under the name of Mapleton,
                  from the number of its sugar-trees; an appellation too characteristic and
                  beautiful to survive the rage for a Grecian and Roman nomenclature which
                  afterwards prevailed. It was a large town in its superficial area, including an
                  extent of country twenty miles in length and ten in breadth; and was one of those
                  locations which Providence seemed to reserve, from the foundation of the world, as
                  a gift of special beauty and loveliness to the men of the nineteenth century. The
                  tide of population began now all of a sudden to flood it, as if impatient of the
                  restraint which had so long withheld it from the fair domain.
               "I was naturally arbitrary and imperious. I did not know it in my youth, till
                  bitter experience taught me the fact. I domineered over my brothers, who regarded
                  me as their oracle. They rowed the boat, while I, proud as the captain of an
                  Indiaman, sat perched on my little quarterdeck, with helm in hand, 'the monarch of
                  all I surveyed.' When I think that one of these dear associates of my youth is now
                  no more, dying in a manner that makes me shudder to remember, the victim of a
                  parental madness which had been induced by a nefarious traffic, my blood boils, my
                  indignation is kindled against law and legislation, and I sigh for one sweet hour
                  of converse with that dear brother, to express my sense of the wrongs he suffered
                  from me, and much more from society. But, alas! alas! this is a work which must be
                  postponed to the unknown of eternity. We had our exploring voyages, as we called
                  them, in one of which we visited the river that bounded Mapleton on the west. We
                  started at early dawn. The night had been rainy. I enjoyed as never before the
                  magnificence of lake-scenery: an unbroken wilderness on the one hand, a waste of
                  limpid water on the other, with here and there a sail in the distance, which,
                  through the reflection and refraction of light from a hazy atmosphere, seemed
                  floating among the clouds, a glorious illusion. Beneath us reposed the crystal
                  lake, whose deep bottom was so distinctly visible, through the denser element, as
                  to give our yawl the appearance of being also upborne in air, hanging poised like
                  a sea-gull between heaven and earth. The rising sun was veiled in a curtain of
                  rosy clouds, while the shrill note of the loon, and the piercing scream of the
                  eagle, and the songs of ten thousand meaner birds, floating over the watery
                  expanse from the contiguous shore like the music of angelic harps, added to the
                  deep bass of muttering thunder grumbling and bellowing from a black cloud in the
                  west, all conspired to realize what the Arabian poet felt and sung: 
                     
                        'Bright smiled the morn, till o'er its head
                        The clouds in thickening foldings spread
                        A robe of sable hue;
                        When, gathering round day's golden king,
                        They stretched their wide o'erspreading wing,
                        And hid him from our view.
                     
                     
                     
                        'The rain his absent beams deplored,
                        And, softened into weeping, poured
                        Its tears in many a flood;
                        The lightnings laughed in horrid glare;
                        The thunder growled in rage; the air
                        In silent sorrow stood.'
                     
                  
               
               "I urged my weary brothers to increase the force of their oars, that we might hide
                  ourselves from the gathering storm in the channel of the river, which was already
                  visible, and which we were fortunate enough to reach before the blast swept over
                  us. I had never entered this inland channel, and was not prepared for the
                  grotesque scene which opened upon my view. We floated between high banks of
                  perpendicular rocks, covered at the top with tall trees inclining inward, so that
                  their branches seemed to meet and mingle over the channel, forming a vast
                  vegetable arch, like that of an ancient Gothic cathedral. Everything above,
                  beneath, around, indicated the reign of primeval nature; as if some antediluvian
                  patriarch might have selected it for his altar and his shrine. I had then thumbed
                  my Virgil enough to feel the coincidence of the scene with his description,
                  beginning 
                     
                        'Hinc atque hinc vastæ rupes geminîque minanter,
                        In cœlum scopuli, quorum subvertice laté,' &c.
                     
                   On this side and that were vast ledges, and two rocks lifting their menacing
                  tops to heaven, under whose jutting summits the secure sea far off reposes in
                  silence; while above was an arbor in the brilliant trees, and a dark wood impended
                  with dismal shade. Under the opposite front a cave opened into the pendent rocks,
                  within which sweet waters are found the home of the nymphs. Here no chains hold
                  the weather-beaten ships, and no anchor with curved fluke binds them! Was this
                  backwoods scene reached by Æneas in his wanderings ings? thought I to myself. I
                  fancied myself an Argonaut, in pursuit of the golden fleece; and lived over those
                  charming days when navigation, cradled in its tiny craft of bark or skin,
                  embowered itself in deeply-wooded bays, and threaded serpentine rivers, under the
                  gloom of overhanging forests, rarely adventuring the storms and quicksands of the
                  open sea.
               "My brothers here left me to return with the boat, while I made my way on foot,
                  partly to enjoy the forest scenery, and partly to do an errand for my mother to
                  Mrs. Durham. I followed up the river a few miles, and was still more impressed
                  with its scenery. A deep gulf, ploughed by a giant hand, intersected a
                  comparatively level country, opening a passage for the escaping waters, which
                  leaped from crag to crag, in a succession of thundering cascades,—tumbling,
                  dashing, roaring, foaming, while the eternal forest rejoicing in the sole monopoly
                  of the river-god, gave back his voice with exultant jubilation. The proud divinity
                  was yet undegraded by the servile work of twirling wheels, turning stones, forcing
                  saws, or of ministering in any way to those lordly conquerors who have since
                  despoiled the forest of its ancient rights. Here the bears and wolves had their
                  lair; and here, too, wily troops of naked savages performed their nocturnal
                  orgies. Here blood has flowed under their teeming tomahawks. Ye ledges, trees and
                  cascades, could ye speak your tragic histories, what details of anguish and woe,
                  what notes of captive sorrow, what dire assault of embattled clans, what visages
                  of sullen despair and of cheerful hope, would ye unfold!
               "Here I diverged from the river, following up a lateral stream, which leaped and
                  bounded at my feet on its way to mingle with the river and the lake. I had
                  advanced but a few miles, before a beautiful valley, skirted with a
                     circumvallation vallation of hills,
                  opened upon my view, and, near its centre, I saw the smoke of Mr. Durham's cottage
                  rising gracefully among the overhanging trees, and settling round upon the
                  contiguous hills. As I approached the cottage, I met Mrs. Durham out among her
                  plants, with trowel and hoe in hand, loosening the earth, extracting weeds,
                  training creepers, and in various ways assisting the efforts of nature. I had seen
                  little of her at the inn; and never, till this moment, was so impressed with her
                  extreme loveliness. The abandon of her manner
                  and dress, in such a neglected place, may have added somewhat to the effect. One
                  might almost fancy her a Hebe, a Ceres, or a Juno escaped from Olympus, to find a
                  more congenial haunt towards the setting of the sun. Her cheeks glowed with
                  health, her eyes beamed contentment; and her whole manner was that of a beautiful
                  woman, who had long lived in peril of what was dearer than life, hid in a
                  castellated tower, or securely wandering abroad to inhale the free air and enjoy
                  the boundless prospect of nature. The moment she saw me, she ran, with delight,
                  and caught me by the hand, saying, 'Charles, I am delighted to see you! How is
                  your mother? how are you all?' I had not time to answer before Amelia and Lydia,
                  followed by little Charley, came running to give me a kiss,—it seemed to me of
                  joy, at this relief of their solitude.
               "'We are all well, quite well,' said I, as soon as I could disengage myself from
                  the children. 'And how do you like your new home?'
               "'It is everything we could ask, except society,' she replied, with a look that
                  revealed the keenness of her feelings at such an exception.
               "'Can't have everything we want!' I replied.
               "'O, no!' she added, with a tear; 'but how hard it is to be weaned from society!
                  Still, society is our great danger. You understand me. How is your
                  father?'
               "'Perfectly himself,' said I; 'attentive to his business; seems happy; so we all
                  are.'
               "'One could wish,' she added, 'that society had fewer temptations, that families
                  like ours could live in it with safety. But, so long as governments uphold and
                  protect what is our ruin,—yea, get a part of their revenue out of our insanity,
                  our tears and our infamy,—there is no alternative but escape and hermitage. I am
                  convinced of this; and, therefore, am content to forego home and friendship, and
                  all I love, except the dear ones with whom my being is identified.' The manner of
                  her saying this went to my heart. What! laws such that a lovely woman, who would
                  grace a palace, is compelled to seek security in exile and banishment! Accursed
                  legislation! how long ere some truly Christian and philanthropic Solon shall arise
                  to stay thy barbarous hand? How long ere every tenth family of a community shall
                  cease to live in peril of character, property, limb and life, from the legalized
                  abominations in the midst of which they have their home? Never did I feel the
                  iniquity of the alcoholic traffic as I felt it at seeing this voluntary exile from
                  the circles in which she was born to shine,—this living, but immolated victim,
                  thus sacrificed on principle, and by law!
               "'My mother desired me to say,' I added, 'that she has in her mind the plan for a
                  Sunday-school in town, and wishes you to join her in it.'
               "'I am glad to hear that your mother's thoughts take a direction so useful,' she
                  replied; 'and shall be most happy to aid her as much as I can. But are not the
                  people too much scattered?'
               "'Yours is the only family,' said I, 'which is really isolated; and my mother thought, if you could
                  attend, others would be likely to.'
               "'I know we are furthest from neighbors; but then we have good vehicles and safe
                  horses. Mr. Durham, I know, will be delighted to aid me all in his power. Where
                  does your mother propose to meet?'
               "'At the Gore School-house; that is the most central.'
               "'But when does she begin?'
               "'Next Sabbath she proposes to meet you and a few others to arrange matters.'
               "'Very well,—I will be there,' she added; when I thanked her, and turned to
                  go.
               "'No, don't leave yet; walk with me into the garden.'
               "I did so, and was delighted with the scene of beauty which it presented. Mrs.
                  Durham had brought with her the plants of an amply furnished green-house, to which
                  she had added a great variety of flowering annuals, and almost all the
                  wild-flowers of the country. She led me round among them, and called my attention
                  to their varied beauties. Here the primrose spread its open petals to the light;
                  there the variegated japonica, with a delightful blending of red and white,
                  exulted in its gaudy attire. Here the alba plus,
                  with its large flower of virgin whiteness, nature's token of purity and innocence,
                  seemed a direct offshoot of the plants which bloomed under the hand of a sinless
                  Eve; there the japonicus elegans lifted its
                  lofty branches on high, all clothed in scarlet and gold. Here the ranunculus
                  revealed its incarnations, with various hues of loveliness; there the calla Ethiopica, the verbena, and numerous varieties
                  of the cactus, the geranium and the rose; and an assemblage of beauties,
                  indigenous and exotic, too great to be particularized, added its own peculiar form
                  of enchantment to the transporting scene. Her husband had begun a plain but
                  convenient receptacle for those among them that could not endure the winter, where
                  his wife might still enjoy her plants and her flowers during these lonely months
                  of her exile and her solitude. He appeared to have been the more careful to
                  provide for her these means of alleviation, from a consciousness that he was the
                  cause of her banishment."
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               A TOWN WITHOUT ALCOHOL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "When fierce Temptation, seconded within
                           By traitor Appetite, and armed with darts
                           Tempered in hell, invades the throbbing breast,
                           To combat may be glorious, and success
                           Perhaps may crown us; but to fly is safer."—
                        
                     
                     COWPER.
                  
               
               MR. DURHAM'S farm was surrounded by lands held by distant owners who would not
                  sell, which accounts for the extreme isolation in which his family lived. They had
                  not a neighbor within two miles. Their experience, after leaving the groggery, was
                  not unlike that of the Douglasses, except that the temper of Durham himself was
                  never moody, but always cheerful and buoyant. He had so far recovered from the
                  effects of the poison by noon as to manage his own team, and entered into free
                  conversation with his wife on the events of the preceding night. He said, "Will
                  you believe me, dearest, that I entered the miserable place with a fixed
                  resolution that I would not taste a drop?"
               "Why, then, Charles, did you not keep it?"
               "Because the smell of brandy produced a total oblivion of the motives to keep it. The associations revived
                  by meeting my old friend also had their effect."
               "An oblivion of the motives to virtue, Charles,—that is it. It is the only
                  explanation of what I have seen in you over and over again. I cannot understand
                  it. How could it be so, if you really loved me and your children? How could you do
                  what you know disgraces us, and makes us miserable?"
               "Think not, my dearest Amelia, that it is a want of love to you and our little
                  ones. No; I love you as I do my own soul,—I could die for you. I do verily believe
                  that if a loaded pistol were pointed at me, and I knew that the first drop I
                  tasted would discharge its contents into my heart, it would be no restraint, in
                  that state of mind, to my drinking. I should be so exclusively absorbed by my
                  appetite, and the means of its gratification, as not to regard my own life more
                  than I regard you and the children. Nothing but a physical impossibility, my dear
                  Amelia, can keep me from drinking. I am convinced of this, and rejoice more than I
                  can express that we are at length in these woods, so many miles from the
                  temptation."
               "Well, Charles, I rejoice too. The sacrifice of friendship and society is nothing
                  compared with the pleasure of feeling that you are free from the fetters which
                  have so long held you. I can work. I will do all in my power to help you cultivate
                  the farm. We can do it, Charles,—we can do it. We can be virtuous and happy. Yes,
                  yes, we shall be,—I know we shall be; and that reconciles me to the loss of
                  father, mother, brother, sister, yea, all the dear associates of my youth;" and,
                  as she said it, her eyes paid the tribute of tears to her conjugal devotion.
               "We shall not be safe, Amelia, if the serpent enters our Eden. I blush to confess,
                  what I know is true, that I cannot be trusted with the enemy in town. My nature
                  has no security on this point. 'Lead me not into temptation' is a prayer which can
                  never be answered with the destroyer near me. I am not proof against the
                  temptation."
               "I know it, Charles, and I will raise the cry of murder against the man who
                  introduces it. Making or vending the poison by the glass or by the pipe is just as
                  fatal to us, and our children, as the assassin's dagger. Better kill us outright,
                  than doom us to this disgraceful, protracted, tormenting death."
               Thus they whiled away the hours of their ride, till at length they reached the
                  cottage, which had been built for their reception by a faithful laborer, who had
                  been sent on several months in advance of them. It was of logs, hewed only on the
                  inside, with a large room for the family, and two contiguous ones for sleeping
                  apartments. Above, also, was a provision for lodging laborers and servants, though
                  their purpose was to live within themselves as much as possible. Mrs. Durham had
                  resolved to be her own servant, and her husband his own farmer, except so far as
                  clearing the land was concerned; which could be done by the job, without
                  increasing their own family. It was a hard task for persons bred in the lap of
                  luxury and fashion; but the security of being in a town without alcohol more than
                  compensated for the trouble. It was not till several years after this that the
                  enemy stole in upon them, to deface the fair form of virgin nature. Till then, all
                  was prosperous. The population grew with unprecedented rapidity. "The period
                  decreed by fate" had arrived now first from the world's foundation for man to
                  "subdue and replenish" this uncultivated wild. Men seemed to drop down from the
                  clouds, and every farm of fifty or a hundred dred acres found a family to cultivate it. Axe
                  resounded to axe, crash to crash of falling trees, and horn to horn, calling the
                  weary woodmen to their frugal meal. O, woodman's axe! in what family escutcheon on
                  our wide continent hast thou not earned the first place? The soul of poetry is in
                  the sheen of thy labor-polished face. Thou art the harbinger of civilization, from
                  Labrador to Mexico, and from the Atlantic to California Relic of rural life! thy
                  voice falls more sweetly on my ear than lute or harp. Thou art the memento of bold
                  adventure, of hardy endurance, of rural virtue, of coarse fare, and of new-country
                  life,—the incipient stages of that process which has given birth to a great
                  nation!
               The cottage of the Durhams stood by a clear running brook, which rippled and
                  murmured among the stones as it passed, to lull to repose at night, and to form
                  the interlude and undertone of the bird-song of the morning. It afforded, also,
                  the more substantial advantage of sweet water for the use of the family. As it was
                  seed-time when they arrived, Mrs. Durham neglected the arrangement of her
                  furniture till she had sowed and planted her garden, of which we have already
                  taken some notice. An acre of land contiguous to the house had been cleared of
                  stumps and roots for the purpose, and was now prepared to receive the vegetable
                  seeding and planting; and also the bulbous roots, roses and pinks, and all the
                  greenhouse treasures, with which Mrs. Durham had come so amply furnished. The
                  season was favorable, and the virgin soil soon shot forth its forms of life,
                  beauty and usefulness, to bless the eye and gladden the heart of its charming
                  cultivator. Flowers appeared in a few weeks, nor did they fail till nipped by the
                  frosts of approaching winter; and then Mr. Durham's unpretending conservatory was
                  prepared to perpetuate their bloom, in delightful contrast to the snow-clad,
                  tempest-stirring winter. Her dahlias were rich and beautiful beyond anything she
                  had ever seen.
               A fine field of growing wheat was already on the ground, to which Mr. Durham added
                  corn, oats, potatoes, and whatever else seemed necessary to the subsistence or
                  comfort of his family. Much of the time of Mrs. Durham was devoted to the
                  instruction of her children, home education being now more a matter of necessity
                  than of choice. Her little Amelia—the eldest—had all the fine points of her
                  mother's character, added to the buoyancy and excellent temper of her father.
                  Lydia, her sister, was more sedate, and, withal, apt to learn above children of
                  her years. Little Charles, now only two years old, completed the group; and a
                  happier is rarely met with, apart from the single danger from which they could
                  never and nowhere feel themselves absolutely safe. Lifting up his hands over his
                  breakfast-table one morning, Mr. Durham exclaimed, "Thank God! I have not a drop
                  of the poison in my veins."
               "Papa," said little Amelia, in her simplicity, "what makes us so much happier here
                  than we used to be in our old home? It is not so pretty, and I thought we should
                  be homesick."
               "It is because our ways please God better, my child," replied her mother. "How
                  does the Bible say it shall be with a man, when his ways please the Lord?"
               "O! I remember," said Lydia; "I learned it in my lesson, last Sabbath: 'If a man's
                  ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.' We
                  don't have any enemies now, do we, mamma?" added the child.
               "What did you learn in your lesson, Milly?" said Mrs. Durham.
               Milly's face fairly sparkled with smiles, as she repeated, "There is no want to
                  them that fear Him."
               
               "And it says, too," added Lydia, "'O, how great is thy goodness which thou hast
                  provided for them that fear thee!'"
               "That's a nice child!" said her father, clasping her fondly in his arms. "You do
                  not forget your dear mamma's lessons!"—lessons which show what a constant resort
                  she found necessary, in her loneliness, to the consoling promises of God's word.
                  Still, they were a happy family. Joy and gladness presided at their board. Though
                  shut out from the polite world, they were still happy in each other, and happy in
                  their daily duties and labors. Mr. Durham read the Scriptures, morning and
                  evening, in his family; but was too much impressed with the guilt of his past
                  habits to admit of his going further, and acting as the priest of his own house.
                  His wife did all she could to encourage him, and to induce him fully to commit
                  himself before his family and the world to a religious life. But it was all to no
                  purpose; for he felt, if he did not say, "How will praying appear in a drunkard?"
                  This backwardness was a fault of his, indicating a secret reserve in behalf of
                  temptation, in the event of its becoming strong, which may account in part for
                  what follows. He ought not only to have passed over the river into a land of
                  temperance and religion, but burnt the bridges behind him, and cut off the
                  possibility of escape. The associations of a decidedly religious position, to say
                  nothing of the help that it brings from above, are a source of security to which
                  men of such propensities have the more need to resort. But he eschewed all such
                  helps, and never rose above those motives to virtue which are derived from
                  prudential considerations. Genuine piety to God did not enter into the list.
               Still, both he and his old friend and present neighbor, Douglass, were active in
                  establishing public worship in their town. Their wives, though five miles apart,
                  felt themselves near neighbors. Neighborhood, in a new country, comprehends a
                  wider area than in more densely populated towns. Persons at twenty or thirty miles
                  remove, often associate as neighbors. Mrs. Douglass and Mrs. Durham were much in
                  each other's society. They projected together, with the advice of a few others,
                  the plan of their contemplated Sunday-school, which became the nucleus of a
                  church, and even of a renewed attention to general education in Mapleton. It first
                  brought the children together on the Sabbath, then their parents, and finally Mr.
                  Douglass volunteered his services in reading sermons to the assembled multitude.
                  Few were more competent or expressive readers than he. Sometimes exhortations were
                  given, and prayers offered, by those who had the confidence for such services.
                  These were only occasional. The chief burden of giving interest to the gathering
                  devolved upon Mrs. Douglass and her accomplished friend, whose sweetness of
                  deportment, intelligence of conversation, and unaffected piety of heart, won for
                  her not only the affections of the children, but the respect of their parents and
                  of the whole town. They collected a well-stored juvenile library, which produced
                  in almost every family a taste for reading, and thus contributed not a little to
                  the elevation of the people. These ladies were the animating soul of the
                  movement,—the Aaron and Hur to sustain its uplifted hands, and secure for it the
                  public confidence. Mrs. Douglass, who was the senior of her friend by some years,
                  and withal, as the daughter of a clergyman, much more experienced in such matters,
                  was the priestess of the town. She was the ministering angel to the sick, and the
                  lady confessor, so to speak, of the dying. She would say to her husband, who was
                  always doubtful as to their doing any good to the people, "We shall win them yet, there's no doubt. No people are
                  proof against kindness and sincerity."
               "O, Mary!" he would say, "all are not like you. I wish in my soul they were; we
                  should then have a happier world. You are a prodigy, in your way; you'll do your
                  part, there's not a doubt."
               "My dear George, you are very complimentary," she said; "but I do not think there
                  is anything extraordinary in me. It is in my training. The same training would
                  have made nine in ten of the people as good or better than I am. We do not
                  consider how much we owe to circumstances; and what have we that we have not
                  received?"
               While things were thus in Mapleton, Providence kindly sent help to those who were
                  so assiduous in helping themselves. A man removed to town by the name of James
                  Littlefield,—not a preacher, but of a blameless life and exalted piety, and withal
                  of very respectable gifts as a public speaker. He was poor in this world's goods;
                  had a feeble wife, with three dependent children, whom he supported by day-labor,
                  not having means to purchase land of his own. So great was his usefulness in
                  conducting the public worship of the town, however, that the hearts of the people
                  seemed to centre upon him as their pastor to visit their sick and bury their dead;
                  and they not only contributed to his support from the products of their farms, but
                  even made the first payment on a homestead for him, and put him in a way to pay
                  the rest. It is natural to a community to desire some one to have a special care
                  of their spiritual interests; and, when they have no regular minister, it is
                  highly proper to select one from among themselves, in whom they may have
                  confidence, to take this office and ministration upon him. Mr. Littlefield was a
                  modest man, and used sometimes to say to Mrs. Douglass, "I never rise to speak in
                  public when my knees do not smite together like Belshazzar's."
               "Let them smite," said Mrs. Douglass; "it can do no hurt, so long as your tongue
                  does not forget its cunning, nor your heart to indite good matter. You have
                  succeeded thus far beyond our hopes. I am no flatterer; but, in my sober judgment,
                  Mr. Littlefield, you are more competent to teach this people religion than
                  nine-tenths of our preachers, take them as they rise. I have no sympathy with
                  those who measure the supply of laborers by the number of students in our
                  seminaries. Meagre supply, indeed, and many of them quite inefficient, when you
                  get them. You have more experience of the truth, though less professional
                  mannerism; and all the better for that. You understand the people, and they
                  understand you, because you are one of them. You touch their sympathies, and suit
                  yourself to their habits of thinking. I always hated measuring off devotion by
                  rule, as a merchant does his cloth. I cannot endure sermons addressed to the man
                  in the moon, or to the people before the flood, or to a collection of imaginary
                  savans, instead of talking to the living masses before you."
               Mrs. Douglass was right. Her practical good sense looked intuitively into matters
                  of fact. The people were won. They thronged the place of worship to hear the truth
                  from Mr. Littlefield's lips. Mapleton had a Sabbath, priest, sanctuary, and
                  ritual. It had a pastor, a library, an altar, and a Sunday-school. But, thank God!
                  it had yet no groggery. The poison was not sold within its limits, nor to be met
                  with in its families. The people were not all pious, it is true; but, in the
                  absence of that universal agent of impiety and crime, they were decent, orderly,
                  and respectful to the institutions of religion. Schools were established at
                     convenient places; and, though a new
                  country, the children availed themselves with much avidity of the means of
                  instruction, and became even more intelligent and better-behaved than in older and
                  more favored towns.
               There were, indeed, infidel families, and plenty of combustible material to kindle
                  at the touch of one spark from the all-consuming alcoholic furnace. One
                  groggery—one—would be enough to deface the fair aspect of things, and fill the
                  town with devils. Among the number of the above description was a family by the
                  name of Jollops. In a conversation with his venerable neighbor, Robson, old Mr.
                  Jollops remarked, "I did hope I'd got beyond the reach of this 'ere religion, when
                  I came into the woods; but it pursues me like a terrier."
               "Get beyond religion!" replied Robson. "Why not get beyond air and sunshine? Why
                  not steal the march upon your own nature?"
               "Fie on my natur!" said Jollops; "there's no religion in 't more than juice in a
                  husk. Sabbaths, meetings, preaching, and all sich, can't squeeze it into me, nor
                  out on me, any way."
               "Are you a brute? None but brutes are without religion. The trees, the birds, the
                  clouds, the waterfalls, were here before the Douglasses, Durhams and Littlefields,
                  and did far more to make us religious. The roar of the surf on the beach has more
                  worship in it than all their psalmody."
               "Yes, heathen; that 's what Littlefield calls it."
               "Well, it's good enough for me; and you 'd feel so too, if you had a soul in you
                  as big as the point of a mosquitos' probe."
               "O you 're a philosopher!" said Jollops, sneeringly. "Guess my soul's as large as
                  your untempered mosquitos' bills,—ha, ha, ha!" he added, alluding to a quaint
                  theory of Robson, that it took a young mosquito some time, after coming out of his
                  watery womb, to get his bill hard enough to bite.
               "Your skull is thick as an ass's!" said Robson.
               "Yes, too thick for your worship of trees. You never go to meeting more than I.
                  The woods and mosquitos are your organ, priest, and Bible. Well, I care not how
                  much sich religion we have; it won't stick to one's conscience, more than water to
                  a goose's back."
               Thus the roots of vice and impiety were not dead, but only kept under by the
                  absence of alcohol,—that bane of social order,—and by the predominance of another
                  class of influences. The smothered embers of vice were not confined to a Douglass
                  or a Durham, but were latent in many a constitution, by inheritance or by former
                  indulgence; and nothing was necessary to make them flame up, with universal
                  desolation, but the vent and occasions of temptation.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE OUTPOSTS OF THE ENEMY AT LENGTH APPEAR.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
                           The devil always builds a chapel there;
                           And 't will be found, upon examination,
                           The latter has the larger congregation."—
                        
                     
                     DEFOE.
                  
               
               BY an accident, from which Charles escaped barely with life, three things opened
                  upon him,—a little friend, a college course, and a Mapleton groggery. The first
                  caused pleasure, the second labor, and the third ruin. Such are the ingredients of which the cup of life is
                  compounded,—pleasure, labor, ruin. The circumstances which led to the accident we
                  will detail in his own words; as who knows better than one's self his boyhood's
                  experiences?
               "As to myself," he says, "I must confess to a foolish feeling of mortification,
                  that my mother's exertions and my father's sermon-reading gave our family a sort
                  of clerical reputation in town. Perhaps the secret of it might be, in part, the
                  incongruity of my father's previous habits with his present position. True, his
                  Mapleton reputation was untarnished, and his affairs prosperous; but my mother and
                  I knew we were building on a volcano. The smothered embers of his former vice
                  needed only the contact of a groggery to flame up for the ruin of his family, and
                  make him in the same degree odious as he now enjoyed honor as a virtuous and
                  useful citizen. The experiment of new-country farming, so far, succeeded beyond
                  our hopes. We harvested fifty acres of wheat the summer after our arrival, as the
                  fruits of a former seeding; and we got in one hundred acres the same autumn. The
                  price of wheat was high, and our income far exceeded our expenses. Our neighbor
                  Durham did as well accordingly, but had not an equal amount of land or labor.
               "My heart bleeds at the pangs of fear with which my poor mother was afflicted,
                  from her sense of the danger to which prosperity would expose my father. She knew
                  that the more easy his circumstances, the more likely he would be to drink, in
                  case any strong temptation came in his way. Our very success seemed to her a lure
                  to destruction. I was her eldest child, and the only person in town, except Mrs.
                  Durham, to whom she intrusted her thoughts. With tears in her eyes, she said,
                  'Charles, my son, we must not flatter ourselves; we have no security. Next year,
                  or even next month, may plunge us into the abyss. There is no hope that this
                  wicked traffic, protected as it is by law, and licensed by the state, will not
                  find its way into a town becoming thus populous and wealthy. We are building over
                  a magazine of powder, and men are encouraged by legislation to set it on fire and
                  blow us all to ruin. There is more safety in a battlefield. Yes, Charles; much as
                  I hate war, I should feel more secure if we were all soldiers drawn up in line of
                  battle than with this alcoholic traffic among us.'
               "'Mother,' I replied, 'is your piety no security?'
               "'Yes, my son; if it is sincere, it may support me under this trial of trials; but
                  it has no power over your father's infirmity.'
               "'What! is there nothing we can do to secure him? Can we not prevent the
                  introduction of the traffic, by timely remonstrance?'
               "'This is more than I expect,—an example without a precedent in our state. Here is
                  an open field, where money may be made by selling intoxicating drinks; and
                  somebody's cupidity must, sooner or later, discover and supply the market.'
               "'But perhaps father has seen the evil of drinking so much as to resist the
                  temptation.'
               "'Had you seen what I have, my son, you would not think so. There are tens of
                  thousands, who have as many inducements to temperance as he has, ruining their
                  families by drinking. Besides, he has never yet been exposed to a strong
                  temptation, when he did not fall. He thinks he will not, before-hand, but he
                  always does. There is no hope, with the traffic among us.'
               "'What can be done? Must we stand still and perish?'
               
               "'My advice is that you leave soon for college. You are now fitted for an advanced
                  standing. You may thus turn our present prosperity to the advantage of completing
                  your education, before adversity comes to defeat the hope of your life. Better
                  that our surplus means should go so, than to be on hand to be wasted by and
                  by.'
               "I did not, at the time, realize our danger to the same extent that my mother did.
                  I only thought father had better let preaching alone, and take more
                  to practice. I agreed with our neighbor Robson, that the religion of
                  nature was enough. I could not see why there should be so much effort to cultivate
                  a plant that grows spontaneously. At all events, I had so much apprehension in
                  reference to my father's habits, that I felt a decided repugnance to his having
                  any very conspicuous share in the religious worship of our town. I suppose it was
                  foolish of me, but I could not help it as I then felt.
               "While things were thus situated, it happened, on a quiet Sabbath morning, that I
                  was awakened at dawn by the robins and blue-birds warbling their matin song in the
                  pendent branches around our house. I listened for a time in a dreamy state between
                  sleeping and waking. My mind was the home of beauty. I lived over a paradisiacal
                  life. I thought of the Fauns, and Naiads, and Nymphs, with which a Grecian
                  imagination had peopled earth and ocean. Passing droves of deer, just escaped from
                  their mossy couches, flitted before my view. Instead of robins and blue-birds
                  alone, I fancied that all the birds of song, in the glory of their variegated
                  plumage, were serenading me; and a dreamy conceit invested them with intelligence,
                  as if happy spirits from a higher world were filling my soul with their more
                  heavenly beauty and melody. I shouted in an ecstasy of delight, and the effort
                  roused me to consciousness. I arose and looked out of the bay-window, to survey
                  the lake scenery. It had put on more than its usual charms. It reposed before me
                  sublimely calm, as if conscious of its own dignity. 'The East had decked herself
                  in orient pearl and gold.' Sublime and beautiful as the morning is in every other
                  clime, it has here unusual elements of loveliness. Whether from the nature of the
                  exhalations, the conflict of aërial currents, or other causes, it is a fact of
                  general observation, that the solar rays, as they approximate the horizontal
                  plane, both in rising and setting, produce, in this our new home, extraordinary
                  combinations of beauty. Their reflection from the lake, on this occasion, lent
                  enchantment to my mind. Painted clouds and overhanging forests, reflected from the
                  quiet water, whose smooth surface, here and there variegated with gentle ripples
                  from light flaws of air, like etchings on polished steel, altogether produced a
                  scene of loveliness to attract and entrance minds far less susceptible than my
                  own. How touching, how truthful, how eloquent, are nature's appeals to the senses
                  of man! Who, that should once inhale the pure vapors of such a morning, could
                  breathe again the infected haunts of riot and dissipation? Who can turn away from
                  the pure fountains of joy and blessedness, which God has opened in this sweet
                  land, to those stimulating potions from which vice derives its maddening
                  inspiration?
               "My heart overflowed with the delightful associations of such a morning. My dream
                  was reality. Angels did, indeed, nestle in the rosy clouds on which I was gazing.
                  The Æolian breezes whispered in my ear notes from their lyres. In the height of
                  this ecstatic feeling the bark of our dog, 'Watch,' broke upon my ear. 'Watch
                  never barks like this,' said I to myself, 'when a deer is not in pursuit. Watch will have him, for he never gives over.'
                  Watch was a Bucephalus among dogs, and equally deserving with that famed steed of
                  immortality. His spotted coat and noble form had a charm to my eye which those
                  will appreciate who know what it is to love a dog. His bark was shrill as a silver
                  trumpet, clear and distinct as a vesper-bell, and was never heard without touching
                  my soul with fire to engage with him in his favorite pursuit of the bounding deer.
                  In an instant, I passed from angelic communion to the fellowship of brutes and the
                     furor of the chase. I bounded from my room like an arrow, and ran
                  to a cove a mile east of my father's, where I stood listening to the baying of a
                  hundred dogs, who had by this time joined the pursuit. 
                     
                        'Yelled on the view the opening pack,—
                        Rock, glen and cavern, paid them back;
                        To many a mingled sound at once
                        The awakened forest gave response.'
                     
                  
               
               "The deer, as usual, sought the lake, to escape the dogs by swimming. Canaudeh, my
                  nocturnal acquaintance, met him at the pass (as a certain part of a hunting-ground
                  is called), where he snapped his rifle, missed fire, and away flew the buck like a
                  thing of air.
               "I stood for a moment, when the noble denizen of the forest, with great branching
                  horns, swept past me and plunged into the lake. I sprang to the beach, crying out,
                  at the top of my voice, 'A deer, a deer!' Canaudeh soon appeared, and, taking me
                  into his canoe, we renewed the chase on the lake. I reclined in the bow with
                     withe in hand, as the instrument to take the deer with was called.
                  It was made of a long, tough sapling, trimmed of all its branches except the two
                  principal ones, which were twisted together at the ends so as to form a loop of
                  sufficient capacity to go over the head of the animal, and hold him tight, being
                  fastened round his neck. We soon came up with the poor deer, whose powerful sinews
                  propelled him with such force that nearly half his body was driven above the
                  surface of the water, the surf rolling from him either way, his mouth open, his
                  tongue protruding, his saliva foaming, and his desperation so great that I fancied
                  he became suddenly transmuted into a warlike Turk, with his sabre in hand, who was
                  in the act of striking me dead on the spot. O! dying, dying, what is dying? Here
                  my thoughts tapered off to nothing, like the expiring vibrations of a smitten
                  bell, and I remembered no more."
               The effervescing soul had sunk to rest. The over-strained harp-strings had
                  snapped, and gave no further vibration. The instant that Charles put his withe
                  over the head of the deer, the poor animal uttered a plaintive bleat, like a
                  deathknell, and, driven to desperation, turned, and brought the sharp hoof of his
                  fore-foot down upon the boy, with such force as to lay his skull bare, and knock
                  him senseless to the bottom of the canoe. With tender solicitude, Canaudeh now
                  betook himself to the care of his unconscious charge. He folded him in his arms
                  with the tenderness of a mother, blew in his mouth, wet his temples; but all to no
                  purpose. Charles lay pale and flaccid in his bosom. The savage had by this time
                  experienced much kindness from the Douglasses; and for Charles, in particular, he
                  seemed to have a special liking. Failing in all his efforts, he paddled his canoe
                  to the shore; and there he was met by a beautiful little girl, who, from the
                  distance, had gazed upon the scene with rapt attention. As soon as she saw Charles
                  lying in the canoe, as if dead, she exclaimed, with a sweet voice, "O, father,
                  father! do come! do, do, do!" at the same time running back into the thicket, from
                  which, after a short time, she returned, leading her father by the hand. Mr. Harcourt—for such was the
                  name of this gentleman—was equally moved with his little daughter.
               Having used upon the boy all his means of restoration, he took him to his own
                  house, which was near, assisted by the Indian, and despatched a messenger for
                  medical aid. Meanwhile, he put Charles into a warm bath, and then transferred him
                  to his bed; and, after applying pungent stimulants to his person, the signs of
                  animation began to appear. At the instant the boy opened his eyes, his father and
                  mother entered the room, and, seeing them, he said,
               "Father, where am I?"
               "You are here, in the house of this good friend, my son," said his father, with an
                  emotion of surprise at finding him alive, as their worst fears had been
                  excited.
               "Where have I been?" said Charles.
               "You can answer that question better than I," replied his father. "You have not
                  been with us, or this accident would not have happened."
               "O, I remember," said Charles. "Where is Canaudeh?"
               The old savage uttered guttural sounds, which seemed to say how glad he was to see
                  him alive.
               "And the deer,—where is the deer?" inquired Charles.
               "Alas, my son!" said Mrs. Douglass, "we have nothing of the deer but this wound on
                  your head."
               "Wound on my head?" said Charles, putting up his hand, when he found, for the
                  first time, that his head was bandaged, and had been bleeding. "And this is
                  Sunday, too," he added, thoughtfully.
               "Yes, this is Sunday," said his mother; "and the chase is the last place where I
                  should have looked for my Charles."
               "I had thought as much myself," he said, evidently humbled at this abuse of a day
                  which he had been religiously trained to observe.
               "Yes, my son," said his mother; "and we had thought your death must be added to
                  the list of Sabbath-day accidents. We cannot be too thankful that our fears are
                  not realized."
               Father, mother and son, were all much affected.
               "O, how happy we all are, Charles, that you have come back from heaven! Did you
                  see my blessed mother there?" said little Sarah, with genuine childish
                  simplicity.
               This was the first view Charles had of her; and he was so moved by her angelic
                  sweetness and beauty, that, in his confusion, he fancied her, for a moment, a
                  spirit from a higher world.
               "Your mother is in heaven, my sweet girl?" he said, not comprehending her
                  meaning.
               "Yes; my blessed mother went to heaven more than a year ago; and I want some one
                  to come from there, to bring me a kiss."
               "Dear child," said Charles, "I am not fit to go to heaven. I am a sinner. How
                  could I go to heaven, to bring you a kiss?"
               "Sarah, my love," said Mr. Harcourt, "do not trouble him."
               "No trouble at all, sir," said Charles, holding her hand gently in his.
               Watch now drew near the bed, with ears drooping, as if partaking in the general
                  affliction. Charles patted him on the head, and he shook his tail with so much
                  force as to sway his body to and fro, thus expressing, as well as he could, how
                  happy he was that matters were no worse.
               
               The medical gentleman now arrived, and made such prescriptions as the nature of
                  the case seemed to demand. The name of this gentleman was Holliston, a man trained
                  to two professions, the medical and clerical, the latter of which he had exercised
                  over one of the largest New England congregations, till his voice failed, when he
                  resumed again the practice of medicine. He had lately arrived in town, in company
                  with his children, who had found it for their interest to emigrate. He hoped to
                  make himself still useful among a people more needing, though less able to
                  compensate, his services. His dignified person and fine countenance were an index
                  of the noble sentiments which had actuated him through life. He took his leave,
                  with an engagement to meet at dinner, the next day, some of his former
                  acquaintances, whom Mr. Harcourt was expecting in town. Indeed, this gentleman had
                  long known the doctor, and they had come to town in company; which accounts for
                  his being called, rather than physicians who had been longer established.
               Great preparations were going on in the family for this dinner. John, the servant,
                  was collecting from earth, air and water, whatever might minister to appetite or
                  to pleasure. Mr. Harcourt was bred a free liver, and had transferred to the new
                  country habits and means of luxury unknown to most of its inhabitants. Dinner was
                  the great event of the day, towards which the skill and resources of the house
                  flowed, without stint or measure. He never left his table without swallowing his
                  bottle of claret, with such occasional additions of brandy, Scotch whiskey, or
                  other wines, during the day and evening, as appetite seemed to demand. Still, Mr.
                  Harcourt was never intoxicated, as that term is generally understood. He abhorred
                  the thing more than most men. He thought it beastly and degrading. Mrs. Douglass,
                  mistrusting the habits of the family, took measures to keep her husband away by
                  staying away herself, intrusting Charles to the care of little Sarah's nurse till
                  he should be able to come home. Mr. Holliston came early the next day to look
                  after his patient, in whom he seemed to take a peculiar interest.
               "My lad," said he, "it is time you were looking out for something besides deer and
                  foxes. Have you studied Latin yet?"
               "A little," replied Charles.
               "And Greek?"
               "Yes, Greek too."
               "And mathematics?"
               "My mother, sir, thinks me prepared to enter college."
               "Ay, ay; your mother, eh? what does she know about it?"
               "She is a classical scholar, sir, and has assisted me in my studies."
               "Quite unusual,—quite, quite. Where was your mother brought up?"
               "In New England, sir. Her father was many years the clergyman of Paucatuck parish,
                  who had a great desire for a son, to try his peculiar notions of education upon;
                  but, disappointed in this, he experimented with my mother, giving her an education
                  equal, I judge, to an ordinary college course."
               "Old Pastor Rogers,—was that his name?"
               "Yes,—Lebbeus Rogers."
               "In Paucatuck parish. Yes, yes; I knew him well. Eccentric, original, but a
                  right-down good man, and gentleman of the old school. Was your mother Pastor
                  Rogers' daughter, eh?"
               "Yes, sir; his only child."
               "Well, my lad, you must step into the place of your grandfather's hoped-for son, and do his work to
                  another generation. What is there to prevent your going to college this
                  autumn?"
               "I cannot say, sir, whether my father will feel himself able to sustain the
                  burden."
               "Never mind that. I can put you on a foundation. I'd rather pay all the bills than
                  not have old Pastor Rogers' son educated. Diddington College has a foundation for
                  such smart lads as you, of which I am a trustee. We'll see; we'll see. Diddington
                  is just the place for you. How is your head, my boy?"
               "It is much relieved."
               "Sleep well?"
               "Pretty well. Started some, and had frightful dreams, the first of the night, but
                  got quiet before morning."
               "All that is quite natural; quite,—very."
               Physician and patient were now interrupted by the entrance of Mr. Harcourt,
                  accompanied by Skampton and Marldon.
               "Glad to meet you in the new country, at last," said Marldon to his host; "you
                  have had a long siege in getting here."
               "Yes, confounded long," said Harcourt. "You lawyers, bailiffs, creditors, the
                  devil and all, had liked to detain me forever; but, thank my stars, I escaped at
                  last with a whole skin."
               "'All's well that ends well,'" said Marldon. "The large deduction wrung out of
                  your creditors ought to satisfy you. Have you built yet?"
               "No, not done. The work is going on. We have pitched into this cabin the mean
                  while, for the want of a better."
               "A competence is left you, eh?" said Marldon, with a chuckle at his own skill in
                  fleecing creditors and enriching client.
               "Nothing to complain of," said Harcourt. "It's my treat, I confess. John, bring on
                  that old hock," he added, calling to his man. "A drop from my grandfather's cellar
                  is as good to sharpen appetite as to clear the throat after dinner."
               "From your grandfather's cellar, and not in your assets?" added the lawyer, with
                  another chuckle.
               "Yes; better be hung than lose one's wine. Here, John, extract that cork. That's
                  right, man. Now for a glass of this blessed old Rhenish, which is twenty-five
                  years older than any man in the company," said Harcourt, holding up the bottle,
                  and pouring the imprisoned enemy into a glass, all sparkling and flaming with
                  death. They drank, and offered the cup to the doctor.
               "I am a teetotaller, gentlemen," said the doctor; "don't ask me to drink. I do not
                  drink, on principle."
               "I never drink, on inclination," said Skampton; "I'm none of your
                  new-fangled principle men, who are wiser than the Son of God himself, who both
                  made wine and treated his friends with it."
               "What! you not drink, Mr. Skampton," said Harcourt, "and make your thousands out
                  of drinking?"
               "And loses his thousands, too, out of drinking," said Marldon. "Is it true, my
                  friend, that a drunken crew have sunk a ship for you among the whales of
                  Kamtschatka?"
               "They have sunk my ship, but not my funds. I was insured."
               "The whole amount?" said Marldon.
               "More than I should have got in these times of light cargoes and small pay."
               
               "Were the drunkards who went down insured?" inquired Harcourt, laughing.
               "That is another thing," replied Mr. Holliston. "The insurance offices cannot
                  restore the poor fellows their lost life. They cannot repair the damage to widows
                  and orphans."
               "The disasters of the sea are unavoidable," said Skampton.
               "Those of rum are greater," rejoined the doctor.
               "I hope you do not blame ship-owners, because sailors will get drunk," said
                  Skampton.
               "I do blame them for furnishing the means," said the doctor. "It is as sure death
                  to them as weapons in the hands of madmen. We have no right to put the cup to our
                  neighbor's lip. Ship-owners sink their own property, and the sailors, too, by
                  furnishing them strong drink."
               "Not their own property, if they are insured," said Marldon.
               "Profits must be charged on what is saved, to cover the loss, where there is no
                  insurance," said Harcourt.
               "No doubt losses raise the price of the article lost, when they are very heavy,"
                  said Skampton.
               "The loss must fall somewhere," said Mr. Holliston. "Besides, it is not a simple
                  question of loss and gain. Ship-owners are morally bound to watch over the life
                  and health of the sailors they employ; and they cannot do it where intoxicating
                  drinks are put into their hands. They will drink, if we give them the means; and
                  we are bound, in conscience and in humanity, not to do it. We are accessory to
                  their death, by doing it."
               "That's perfectly preposterous!" said Skampton. "Must ships be sailed without
                  ropes, because a crazy sailor, now and then, hangs himself?"
               "Ropes do not make sailors crazy, but alcohol does," said Mr. Holliston. "Ropes do
                  not create an appetite for hanging; but alcohol creates an appetite which is
                  ungovernable, and which, when indulged, sinks ships, drowns sailors, burns houses,
                  raises mobs, multiplies crime, and produces more plagues than escaped from
                  Pandora's box. How can you, then, with the knowledge of these facts, do anything
                  to provoke or gratify such an appetite, without involving yourself in the guilt of
                  wholesale murder?"
               "This old doctor is rowing against wind and tide," whispered Marldon to his host,
                  as they discussed a bottle of wine together. "Skampton's death upon
                  teetotalism."
               "A great benefactor, too!" said Harcourt, with a shrug of his shoulders.
               "He knows how to get, as well as give; and to give, too, where it will bring a
                  dividend in reputation, if not in money," said Marldon.
               "That's it, that's it!" said Harcourt; "I've always said charity is keen for
                  dividends. She is a great sharper, the painted old jade!"
               "Thank God, doctor, my conscience is not in your keeping!" said Mr. Skampton, at
                  the same time jumping up, and beginning to pace the floor.
               Dinner was now announced, and served with all the sumptuousness of bankrupt
                  opulence. They sat an hour over their fruits and wines, some partaking of one, and
                  others of both, till Bacchus reigned supreme with his votaries. In the midst of
                  the good cheer, Skampton was waited on by his land factor, a young man of a
                  searching, sinister aspect, who was the leader of a singular gang in town, that
                  went under the name of money-diggers. His
                  name was Samuel Gilfort, and he was an alcoholic necromancer. His father was so
                  before him, but never turned his peculiar powers to any worldly advantage, having
                  always lived in extreme poverty; whereas the son was a man ever on the alert for
                  the main chance, looking out for something to turn up which would raise him in the
                  world. His vigilance in this respect had brought him into contact with the great
                  land-holder, while his shrewdness had commended him to Skampton as a suitable
                  instrument to be used.
               "Draw up, Gilfort, draw up," said Harcourt, "and take a glass of this old Madeira.
                  It's capital; 't will whet your faculties in this business of land-hunting."
               Gilfort gladly obeyed the summons, and swallowed glass after glass, till full half
                  a bottle of the infernal nectar was leaping and dancing among his veins and
                  arteries. His eye dilated; he was collected in mind; his perceptive powers were
                  whetted to their keenest edge. Not a trace of ordinary intoxication appeared in
                  him, but he had more the aspect of a man who felt the spell of inspiration, and
                  the afflatus of a seer. He was one of those on whom alcohol acts as the pharmacia of the ancients, or those drugs used as
                  charms, love-potions, or to produce the sibylline frenzy by which events were
                  foretold, and a sublimated state of the faculties was produced.
               "Well, Gilfort," said Skampton, "how goes it? Have you located?"
               "Yes, I foresee a grand turn-up from the hit I have made. The warrants marked A,
                  B, C, D, I have located round the Falls,—a water-power to turn any quantity of
                  machinery, and which is sure to turn up a great city as time is to unroll his
                  scroll. A hundred acre lot, including the Falls, is already taken up, and has some
                  small betterments on't; but I have bargained for it at a moderate advance, on
                  condition of your approval. The rest all comes at government price, though worth
                  at this moment a thousand times its cost. We shall thus have, in a body around the
                  Falls, six hundred acres, including a water-power which cannot fail to give birth
                  to a city. But, should that fail,—which is impossible, or I am no prophet,—we have
                  as good land for farming as can be got, besides the water-fall. All agree it's a
                  magnificent purchase."
               "Good! A brave fellow! Keen, real keen, Gilfort,—we'll make a speck, I think. At
                  any rate, our chance is between well and a windfall."
               "It'll prove the stepping-stone, I trust, to a long-cherished hope of doing
                  somewhat for this crazy world," said Gilfort, with an eye dilating with hope, and
                  a mind laboring with great ideas, such as they were, produced by the blending of
                  the alcoholic current with a peculiar constitutional necromancy.
               "Crazy! crazy!" said Harcourt to Marldon, in an undertone. "He transfers his own
                  craziness to the rest of mankind. He's mad as a March hare!"
               "Yes, he believes the earth is full of ingots of gold, I learn, buried there by
                  the dead generations," said Marldon. "He's a great digger; but he'll find a
                  heavier chest in his transactions with Skampton, I guess, than any that the earth
                  contains."
               "He takes a share, then?"
               "Yes, a quarter; and if his purchase turns out what it seems, it'll bring him
                  thousands. Always in luck," added Marldon, addressing Skampton. "Have you secured
                  the Gore lot, yet?"
               "It is secured, sir, and the building is contracted for," replied Skampton. "It's
                  a first-rate stand."
               
               "Stand for what?" inquired Charles, turning on his sofa, with an anxious, excited
                  look.
               "A tavern-stand, child," replied Skampton; "what else d'ye think?"
               "O, God, have mercy on us!" exclaimed Charles, involuntarily.
               "Do you feel worse, my son?" said the doctor, not comprehending what had been
                  said.
               "Not in body," replied Charles.
               "In mind, then?" inquired the kind physician.
               "To be honest, I have a horror of a groggery in our quiet town," replied the
                  boy.
               "And so have I," said the physician. "We can't have one,—we must not have
                  one."
               "You do me wrong, my lad, to speak thus of my benevolent exertions in behalf of
                  strangers passing through your town. Is a traveller's home a groggery?" said
                  Skampton, with aggrieved feelings at the imputation.
               "What are travellers' homes, as a general thing, but groggeries?" said Mr.
                  Holliston. "The boy did right to call it by the name it deserves. Will you
                  obligate yourself not to sell intoxicating drinks on the Gore lot?"
               "I never sell them," said Skampton.
               "Well, will you prevent their sale by the terms of your lease?"
               "I shall impose no restrictions. I shall leave my tenant to consult his own
                  interest. Would you have me proscribe beef-steak?"
               "That's right!" said Marldon; "I'd be bound by none of these new measures. If
                  people make fools of themselves, must you? Keeping rum,
                  or beef-steak, compels nobody to buy. And those who wish to buy will have it,
                  whether you keep it, or not. That's my logic."
               "The more they buy, the jollier, as saith an old ballad," said Harcourt, beginning
                  to sing,— 
                     
                        "See! the rain soaks to the skin;
                        Make it rain as well within.
                        Wine, my boy! we'll sing and laugh;
                        All night revel, rant and quaff,—
                        Till the morn, stealing behind us,
                        At the table sleep finds us."
                     
                  
               
               "Drinking will civilize these Mapleton dolts. From drunken old Noah's day to this
                  time, wine has been the inspiration of generous souls."
               Remonstrance was vain, and Mr. Holliston dropped the subject. Indeed, his being
                  found in such society was owing to his acquaintance with these gentlemen when they
                  were not what they had now become, and in a new country he was naturally attracted
                  to them by the lack of society and the ties of recollection. As for Skampton, a
                  morbid conservatism, which clings to whatever is old and abhors whatever is new,
                  united to an overweening desire for money, with which to buy influence and
                  reputation, was the root from which branched off most of the evils of his
                  character. Poor Charles had no more rest. The wounds of his mind were deeper and
                  more dangerous than those of his body. His imagination revelled amid scenes of
                  domestic madness and murder. And when the facts were imparted to his mother, she
                  was still more agonized. The Gore lot was the centre of attraction to the town,
                  and they had everything to apprehend from its being made the seat of a traffic in
                  alcohol. Their place of worship joined it; and now, to have it a Satan's seat, was
                  too abhorrent,—too alarming to their domestic fears.
               
               The few days that Charles staid in the Harcourt family had one charm which never
                  faded from his mind, and that was his acquaintance with little Sarah. It was the
                  fairy dream of a desolate night. To his ear the voice of Sarah was sweeter than
                  lute or harp, and her form seemed too sylph-like and ethereal for a land of rugged
                  realities. He was surprised, also, at the order and elegance which reigned around.
                  The costly carpets, rich drapery, gorgeous furniture and well-appointed
                  domestics,—relics of faded splendor,—contrasted strangely with the wild
                  surroundings of newcountry life. Mr. Harcourt he saw not after the day of this
                  convivial dinner; but Sarah was always present, watching him like a guardian
                  angel, and amusing him with her guitar. On one occasion she sang, with great
                  pathos, a little piece taught her by her governess, which perfectly entranced him: 
                     
                        Gentle mother, what is here
                        Now my aching heart to cheer?
                        Since you left me, all is sad,—
                        What can ever make me glad?
                     
                     
                        Let the blue-bird sing his lay;
                        Let the robin greet the day
                        With his notes so pure and clear;
                        Can I sing, a lone one here?
                     
                     
                        On the cheek of me, your child,
                        Singing now my strain so wild,
                        May I feel thy gentle kiss,
                        Foretaste of serener bliss!
                     
                     
                        One sweet word from thee above,
                        From the land of perfect love,
                        Sweeter far to me would be
                        Than earth's softest melody.
                     
                     
                        Now I shed a burning tear,
                        That no voice from thee I hear;
                        Oft I call, and call again,
                        But the stillness gives me pain.
                     
                     
                        Why not speak, my mother mild?
                        Lov'st thou not thine orphan child?
                        Have my woes no power to touch
                        Thee, who loved me once so much?
                     
                  
               
               "Sarah, you sing like an angel," said Charles, in a transport.
               "Did you ever hear the angels sing?" she inquired, with great simplicity.
               "No, Sarah; but I'm sure their music cannot be sweeter than yours."
               "What! did you hear no music in heaven?" she inquired, still possessed of the idea
                  that, as he seemed like her dead mother, he must have been in heaven. Here the
                  governess interposed, and before the conversation could be resumed Charles was
                  removed to his father's house.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE ENEMY ENTERS AT LAST.
               
                  
                     
                        "Every inordinate cup is unblessed, and the ingredient is a—devil."
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And when, alas! our brains are gone,
                           What nobler substitute than wine?"—
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               AS soon as Charles was able, Mr. Holliston took him home, and had an interview
                  with his parents on the subject of his
                  entering college. He engaged his tuition out of the funds of which he was a
                  trustee, and more, if necessary; but Mr. and Mrs. Douglass were unwilling that he
                  should depend upon charity. Still, as it would be a matter of convenience to have
                  an advance of his tuition fees till they should find it convenient to refund the
                  amount, they accepted it. They found occasion for all their funds in subduing a
                  new farm, and hoped that when that crisis was passed, they would be easier in
                  their circumstances. The ensuing October was fixed upon for Charles to leave, the
                  interval being devoted to preparation. His own thoughts now took a more serious
                  turn, and he began to have earnest views of life. He felt for himself, a creature
                  of impulse as he was, and liable above most to temptation; he felt for his mother;
                  and they both felt for his father, as none but the friends of an unfortunate
                  victim of intemperance know how to feel.
               Days and weeks together, before Charles was old enough to realize their condition,
                  Mrs. Douglass had spent in constant apprehension for her own life and that of her
                  children. The effect of alcohol upon her husband was not stupor and imbecility,
                  but madness of the most terrific kind, accompanied by unwonted muscular power. It
                  was only after he was exhausted by over-exertion that he became weak and
                  unconscious. Hence, the question of his returning to his cups was one of life or
                  death to the whole household. Even his years of abstinence were years of constant
                  apprehension. If he was delayed beyond the expected time, or was out late at
                  night, Mrs. Douglass, and Charles, when he was old enough to realize the danger,
                  would sit watching and sleepless, to secure themselves and the other children
                  against a murderous assault, in case of his returning intoxicated. The torments of
                  such a family God only knows. O, could the dealer in intoxicating drinks realize
                  what they suffer, his gains would burn on his conscience like the fire of the pit!
                  Their security for the few previous years was owing to Mr. Douglass' remove from
                  the poison. He was not a man to go far out of his way to get it, especially after
                  his attack of delirium tremens; but when it fell in his way he invariably lost the
                  command of himself.
               The fact that a groggery was now building in town, and soon to be opened, filled
                  them with alarm. Charles remonstrated against leaving home at a time of such
                  peril; but his mother insisted that it was the only time to complete his
                  education, and that the family would be quite as safe without as with him. Their
                  farm-laborers would have to be called in on an emergency, as neither Charles nor
                  any of the family could control the paroxysms of violence to which Mr. Douglass
                  was subject when he was intoxicated. It would simply cost them the sacrifice of
                  Charles' society, to which they must, in any event, sooner or later submit. These
                  considerations produced on all sides a general acquiescence in the immediate
                  separation. Still, Charles' sensibility on the occasion was intense. His was a
                  nature to feel keenly what it felt at all. But it proved a mental disturbance,
                  like the evening shades distilling dew, to overspread his character with a genial
                  influence. It led him to prayer, in his own behalf and that of his family. It made
                  him watchful of himself, tender to his parents, brothers and sisters, and
                  altogether earnest to fulfil the hopes which centred in him.
               He was much in the society of Mr. Littlefield, and received from that good man
                  instruction which he deemed of the utmost value to his subsequent career. "I began
                  now to think of God in good earnest," he says, in a paper now before us; "I never
                  conceived Him so near before. My thoughts of Him increased with the intensity of
                  my emotions, ending in self-condemnation
                  condemnation at the contrast of my character to His. I could find no peace till I
                  had a sense of pardoning mercy and atoning love. I owed much to that good man, Mr.
                  Littlefield. He taught me the freeness and fulness of divine mercy, in a way to
                  make me take hold on them. He showed me how unspeakably willing God is to pardon
                  sinners on a simple act of faith in Christ; how unnecessary it is to torture one's
                  self with a sense of guilt, as if that would make amends or give to God a ransom;
                  and, by the clearness of the views which he presented of the finished redemption
                  which already exists for us in Christ, I was filled with all joy and peace in
                  believing. Argument upon argument, in confirmation of God's love to me, now flowed
                  in upon my mind, like a sweet stream of heavenly light, from every page of divine
                  revelation, from all the objects of nature, from the whole course of Providence,
                  filling me with the sweetness of a delightful surprise. I wept for joy. I now had
                  repose of mind in reference to father, mother, brothers, sisters, and all my
                  interests; assured that, in the final consummation of things, He would bestow upon
                  us all a portion with which we should see infinite reasons to be satisfied. I saw,
                  I felt, that God's policy is to rear the best characters by the severest trials,
                  and to punish the worst by the very greatness of their prosperity: 'The prosperity
                  of fools destroys them.'"
               October at length came, and Charles launched his bark upon the open sea of life.
                  Tears were shed on all sides, but they were tears radiant with hope. The mother
                  committed her son to the voyage of life with vows and prayers which were the
                  guarantee of his safety. The father poured forth his stricken heart into the bosom
                  of his son, and gave him a blessing, with the gloomy foreboding that it might
                  never return upon his own head. Alas! the feelings of such a father,
                  who can imagine? The children felt the gloom of this first breach in their circle,
                  and mingled their desires with those of father and mother, that dear Charles might
                  be prosperous and happy. Even Watch seemed to whine with a melancholy sympathy on
                  the occasion, and retired to his kennel in sullen despondency. The laborers on the
                  farm felt that the animating soul of their circle was gone. And, as Charles
                  himself whirred through the yielding air, amid the clatter and rough breathing of
                  the flying locomotive, surrounded by living masses with whom he had no sympathy,
                  he found his only consolation in looking up, and committing his ways to that
                  beneficent Power who has an eye to pity and a hand to save.
               Three months after Charles left were the Christmas holidays, when the Mapleton
                  groggery was dedicated to Bacchus; when all the town, not too young, nor too old,
                  nor too pious, nor too stringent in their temperance views, participated in the
                  maddening ceremony, and the drinking became deep and universal. Old as he was,
                  Jollops was present, with his two sons, all three of whom were early laid away
                  dead drunk; and the number disposed of in like manner went on increasing till the
                  break of day. The pride of character and respect for the presence of ladies which,
                  in more refined communities, hold gentlemen under restraint, had little influence
                  among the rude and uncouth Mapletonians. The young men became intensely heated and
                  furiously pugnacious from strong drink, insomuch that at twelve of the night a
                  rivalship for position among the ladies involved them in a regular set-to, from
                  which they barely escaped with life. A more horrible spectacle of disfigured
                  features and bruised limbs, covered with gory clots of blood, can hardly be
                  conceived.
               Thomas Bludgeon, the town bully, took the lead in this row. He was a short man, with iron sinews, a
                  compact frame, and a fearless spirit, whose strength exceeded that of all his
                  compeers,—to whom blows and bruises were mere matters of sport, and whose granite
                  fist could lay the strongest man low at a single stroke. Thomas swept the field of
                  all opponents, and returned to the ladies covered with glory. They too, excited
                  with wine and toddy, clapped him tumultuously; and the dance was renewed with
                     furor, and continued till the gray dawn dimmed their lamps and
                  closed their orgies.
               The next day the publican found two hundred dollars' worth of his wares broken and
                  strewn in fragments about his house. He brought in a bill for the same against the
                  managers, who refused payment, under plea of not being the parties to occasion the
                  damage. A law-suit followed, which was protracted through many months at an
                  enormous expense, drawing all the interests of the town in its wake, and producing
                  incurable feuds between those who had before lived in harmony. This was but the
                  beginning of sorrows. The ties of virtue were snapped where they were deemed
                  soundest, and men turned out drunkards who were least of all suspected. The
                  groggery swarmed with sots. Such a winter Mapleton had never seen. The
                  Sunday-school was abandoned of all except a few families, 
                     "Who faithful proved among the faithless."
                  
               
               Mrs. Douglass and Mrs. Durham persisted still in their work, though the tide of
                  influence was all against them. They lived in constant jeopardy of their husbands.
                  Their nights were sleepless, and their days anxious and gloomy. They had the
                  address as yet, however, to keep them out of the way of temptation. Their husbands
                  seemed themselves conscious of the danger, though not a word was breathed on the
                  subject ject. It was too delicate a subject for their conjugal communings. The
                  good Mr. Littlefield, encouraged by Mr. Holliston, continued to lift up his
                  warning voice to the few that came to hear; but it made no present impression on
                  the morals of the town. Bacchus was the sole divinity of the masses; riot,
                  obscenity and drunkenness, were his litany and his rubric.
               An event occurred early in May which made a strong impression. Old Mr. Jollops had
                  been into the neighborhood of the Gore Inn on a matter of business, where he
                  lingered through the day in a state of partial intoxication. About ten at night he
                  started for home, a distance of four miles, but did not reach his destination. His
                  sons went early next morning in search of him, and found him about a quarter of a
                  mile from his own house, lying on the ground, with his neck broken, by a fall from
                  his wagon, in a state of intoxication. This gave a momentary check to the general
                  dissipation, especially as Mr. Littlefield had the opportunity at his funeral of
                  addressing the assembled town an earnest and affectionate remonstrance against the
                  prevailing vice.
               But the impression soon wore off. The summer was even more riotous than the
                  winter, by reason of its greater facility for out-door dissipation. All the
                  interests of the town were going to decay. A large part of the harvest of that
                  summer was left to return ungathered to the ground, because the people were too
                  intemperate and indolent to attend to it. And, whereas there ought to have been an
                  advance of one or two tenths in the number of acres sowed that autumn, to keep
                  pace with the increasing population, there was, on the contrary, a falling off of
                  more than one third. Farms were actually going to decay in a young town where the
                  soil was in the freshness of its strength, and repaid a hundred-fold. The Sabbaths were spent in the groggery, in strolls
                  along the lake-shore, fishing, hunting, wrestling, fighting, pitching quoits, and
                  in other amusements still more debasing to society. The teachers of common
                  schools, finding few scholars and little pay, were compelled to leave their
                  occupation, while the children ran wild in the streets and woods. The poor-rate of
                  the town, which had hitherto been merely nominal, now ran up to the highest mark
                  for towns of its size, and families had to be provided for which had enjoyed
                  comfort and thrift.
               An event occurred, on one of these riotous Sabbaths, in which the devil outwitted
                  himself, and, by urging an emissary too far, converted him into a powerful
                  assailant of his own cause. This was Thomas Bludgeon. The riotous company had
                  amused themselves that morning by taking a deer which the hounds had driven into
                  the lake; after which they had strolled along the shore till they reached a grove
                  which crowned a high bank, its lofty tops rising more than a hundred feet above
                  the level of the water. Here fathers and sons, mothers and daughters, brothers and
                  sisters, friends and enemies, were congregated under the shade of the thick trees,
                  with a fresh supply from the groggery passing round in a jug, to whet up their
                  faculties, and prepare them for deeds of folly and madness. Under the seductive
                  excitement, Thomas crept along on the trunk of a tree which jutted over the abyss,
                  till he reached the top, where, flapping his arms as a cock his wings, he crowed
                  cheerily to the company below. This called the attention of his mother to his
                  fearful position, when, frantic with fear and rage, and not a little excited by
                  draughts from the jug, she commanded him, in furious accents, to come down; but
                  the saucy fellow only derided her authority.
               "I tell you there, Tom, come down from that tree, or you'll be killed!" again
                  repeated Mrs. Bludgeon, in a louder and more imperious tone.
               "An't I old enough to do as I please, for all you, mother?" hallooed Thomas, in an
                  insulting manner.
               "Tom, come down, or I'll beat your brains out!" said Mrs. Bludgeon, in a still
                  more violent tone, and with a movement of her athletic person, as if she felt
                  herself competent to deal with her son as she had done in his boyhood.
               "You 'll find that a hard task, mother, I guess," replied Thomas, still climbing
                  higher. The poor woman now screamed with rage and vexation, feeling the intense
                  bitterness of those who fail to govern their families in childhood, or command
                  their respect in riper years. Some of the more sober present besought Thomas to
                  consider his mother's feelings, and come down from his perilous situation. But it
                  was now too late to withstand his excited ambition, which could scarcely have been
                  greater had he been committed to a deed that should spread his fame as far as
                  morning diffuses its light. Not satisfied with adhering to the trunk of the tree,
                  he now crept along on one of its branches, hanging in midair, full a hundred feet
                  above the yawning deep. This movement rendered his mother frantic, and a scene
                  ensued of a comico-tragical kind,—to make one laugh behind his tears. Cursing and
                  condolence were alternately blended in the same breath, as the disobedience or
                  death of her son alternately preponderated in her view.
               "You devil,—you torment,—you fool-hardy villain, Tom," said she, "die, and done
                  with it!" Then a protracted whine ensued, ending in the pathetic exclamation, "O,
                  Tommy, my dear Tommy! how can I see you die so? O, Tommy! my son, my son!" In a
                  twinkling her anger would get the better
                  of her tenderness, and she would rage more furiously than ever. "Come down there,
                  Tom, or I'll beat you as long as I can see! * * * O, Tommy, my love, my darling!
                  dead—dead—dead! O—O—O—O—O!" when she sunk down, alike insensible to anger, at the
                  death of her child, and to lamentation over his lifeless form.
               In regaining the trunk of the tree, Thomas came to a sense of his awful situation,
                  and was relaxed with fear. It was soon seen that he must fall, and a few men ran
                  round with a boat in all haste, to do what they could to save him, in case he
                  emerged alive from the water. Fortunately, after hanging to the limb as long as he
                  could, he dropped feet foremost; so that when he emerged he felt no other injury
                  than a sense of suffocation. This fall left an impression on the mind of Thomas
                  Bludgeon of the evils of intemperance, and of the pernicious traffic in ardent
                  spirits, which made him ever after a perfect thunderbolt in the cause of reform.
                  He mounted the stump, first in every neighborhood of his own town,
                  and then all abroad, attracting around him countless multitudes, whom he kept in
                  peals of laughter by his wit, or drenched in tears by his pathos, or burning with
                  indignation, even to mob violence, by his terrible assaults upon classes and
                  characters.
               "How dare you speak so?" called out a friend of temperance, under one of his
                  scalding harangues.
               He paused, and glanced his burning eye over the vast auditory, exclaiming, "Speak
                  so? speak so?—how dare I speak so? What dare I not do against a monster which is
                  devouring us by scores and by thousands? If I were to uncap the pit, I could not
                  find in it a more detestable fiend than this factor in rum. No, no," he added,
                  with tears streaming down his face, "our sons and daughters, and fathers and
                  mothers, and magistrates and people, all, all alike suffer from the fell
                  destroyer!"
               Upon this he stated an array of facts, familiar to his audience, so dreadful and
                  astounding that they no longer wondered that he should dare to speak as he
                  did.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               ALCOHOL AND RELIGION.
               
                  
                     
                        "After three glasses of wine, I am no longer master of my actions.
                           Without being at the moment conscious of the change, I begin to see, and
                           feel, and hear, and reason differently. The minor transitions between
                           good and evil are forgotten; the lava boils in my bosom. Three more, and
                           I am a madman."
                     
                     —Harper's Magazine.
                  
               
               THE Mapleton groggery was, like honey to bees and flies, the point of attraction
                  to all kinds of contradictory characters. Among others, the Gilfort family, to
                  which Samuel, Skampton's factor, belonged, came to town, attracted by their son's
                  prospects, and by the flattering account which he gave of it as a field for
                  money-digging. They had spent their lives in border settlements, gradually
                  receding as population advanced; and, so far back that "the memory of man runneth
                  not to the contrary," they had been affected by this most singular mania to be
                  always digging for buried coin, or buried something, which the previous races of
                  men were supposed to have deposited in caves now overgrown by wilderness trees.
                  Though they got nothing but poverty and disappointment for their labor, yet this
                  did not at all abate their superstitious
                  zeal, inasmuch as they were never long enough free from the disguising and
                  bewitching influence of alcohol to admit of their returning to the practical good
                  sense of obtaining an honest livelihood. It has been said by a late writer that
                  "it has ever been the mania of mankind to ascribe the actions of their
                  fellow-creatures to all motives but the true; but if they saw clearly, and spoke
                  honestly, they would admit that more heroes had been made by the bottle than the
                  sword." And the wildest freaks of fanaticism often owe their inspiration to the
                  same frantic divinity.
               The effect of drinking on some constitutions is to make them superstitious. They
                  never manifest religious sensibility, except when they are intoxicated. Then they
                  are tender, sympathetic, contrite, devout, and free to introduce high discourse of
                  religion and duty. The elements of religion are in our nature, and whatever
                  excites us at all is quite as apt to show its effects here as at any other point.
                  The voluptuous habits of Mahomet made him a visionary, and gave birth to his
                  sensual heaven. Joe Smith was indebted to the bottle for his early inspirations.
                  Byron's highest flights were with an alcoholic Pegasus. No marvel, then, that an
                  offshoot of such a family as that of the Gilforts should give birth to a new form
                  of spiritual disease, adapted to propagate itself among constitutions fitted to
                  take the infection. Samuel Gilfort had drawn in alcohol with his mother's milk.
                  His first ideas were shaped by money-digging, and his earliest efforts were with
                  the mineral rod, which, in his hands, was supposed to work towards the buried
                  ingots with great activity and precision. He lived from childhood in a region of
                  mysterious fancies. His dreams seemed to him an index of destiny. If he lifted a
                  stone, a spirit started from under it. If he held a golden leaf from the autumnal
                  forest, it was written with enigmatical characters. If he heard the rumbling of
                  distant thunder, or saw the fiery edge of lightning cleave the sky,—if the murmur
                  of dashing surf, or the hum of distant insects, jostled his nerves,—they were
                  angels or devils imparting to him the secrets of a higher world. His education and
                  his habits, and, most of all, his constant potations, which had the singular
                  effect of inflaming his absurd spiritualism, had wrought in him so that he now
                  came to feel that he was not born for mere money-digging,—from which he was shrewd
                  enough to perceive his family had gained nothing,—but to act in the higher
                  character of seer, prophet, or in some other capacity not yet distinctly defined
                  to his view. He was full of the mesmerism of alcohol and of divination, and he was
                  a "medium" in fact, though not yet in form.
               Gilfort was a genius in his way, and had a wonderful power of fascinating those
                  who fell under his influence. He never lost the command of himself through strong
                  drink, but his potations seemed to supply a necessary stimulus to the shrewdest,
                  highest exertion of his faculties. He could stand more than any living man.
                  Alcohol was to him, as we before hinted, the pharmacia of the ancients; a word which hangs, in media, between a physical and a spiritual
                  meaning,—a drug for the body and an inspiration for the mind. Opium and alcohol
                  have always been celebrated for this double influence. Human nature is a
                  mysterious thing, especially in its spiritual elements. It has nothing so purely
                  divine as not to blend in with the carnal and worldly; and sometimes even with
                  craft, cunning, fraud and superstition, insomuch as to make it difficult to tell
                  where the one begins or the other ends. Samuel Gilfort was never so far merged in
                  his intense fanaticism as to lose sight of the chances of bettering his condition
                  in the world. In him the burning enthusiasm of an anchorite, or the narcotic and alcoholic
                  inspiration of a De Quincey, a Burns, and a Coleridge, was
                     Yankeeized, or conjoined to the shrewd tricks of a Connecticut
                  pedler, in securing as much worldly good as possible from the exercise of his
                  extraordinary powers.
               Gilfort had around him a gang of worthless fellows, whom he had deluded into his
                  own wild ideas about buried coin, the mineral-rod, and his own exalted functions,
                  known in town under the general appellation of money-diggers. They all lived in
                  habitual expectation that, through their leader, something would turn up to their
                  advantage. This hope was further strengthened by the shrewdness of his measures,
                  especially in his partnership with Skampton in the purchase of the Falls tract,
                  which had already brought him some thousands, and promised a still richer harvest.
                  Still, money alone did not satisfy the demands of Gilfort's ambition. He desired
                  position, influence, and a great leadership. He would make himself captain of
                  something and of somebody, to enjoy the sweets of power and the luxury of
                  dominion.
               In this state of mind he and his gang set off to renew the search for money, or
                  something—they hardly knew what—which they supposed was hid in the bowels of the
                  earth. Their potations, before starting and by the way, were deep, which the more
                  inflamed superstition, and frenzied the imagination. The place of digging was
                  Forest Point, a long, narrow arm of the continent, jutting into the lake, covered
                  with thick trees. The hour was midnight,—solemn, gloomy, profound. Gilfort and his
                  company had dug there before, but found, to their surprise, that the earth had
                  been replaced; which led him to exclaim, "Eh! the devils have been meddling; but
                  we 'll see who beats, this time!" This he said from the common notion among
                  money-diggers that to get buried coin involves a battle with its guardian
                  spirits.
               "Where shall we place the lamp?" inquired one of the company, all of whom seemed
                  awe-struck and spell-bound as soon as they reached the spot.
               "We'll see," said Gilfort, taking the mineral-rod and holding it in a
                  semi-circular form, tightly pressed by one hand near one end, and the other near
                  the other end. Soon the rod commenced twirling and crawling like a serpent,—by the
                  art of the holder more than his magic,—till at length it became quiet, with one
                  end pointing obliquely to a mound of earth, like a grave, in the centre of the
                  replaced dirt. "There, hang your lamp directly over that mound," added Gilfort.
                  Accordingly a blue taper was suspended to an overhanging branch to afford light in
                  digging, the odor from which was strongly tinctured with brimstone, as if they had
                  to do with beings accustomed to that element. Now not a word was spoken, and no
                  sound was heard except that of the shovel and the falling dirt, united to the
                  surf, the cries of the screech-owl, the howling of distant wolves, and some such
                  dismal notes of the midnight chorus in a boundless wilderness.
               At length the diggers struck upon something which rumbled like a coffin, or some
                  such deposit, in the bosom of the earth. A shudder went through the company,—the
                  more so from a superstition among them that, when a chest of money is touched, all
                  the devils set to guard it exert their powerful incantations to wrest it from
                  those who would secure it, and, if they do not succeed in breaking the spell in
                  some way, the treasure will escape their hands, and will be sunk still deeper in
                  the earth. The diggers felt, therefore, that the hole swarmed with watchful
                  fiends; cold horror curdled their blood,
                  and Gilfort seemed in an agony, as if grappling with some power which was more
                  than a match for him. Seizing a canteen of whiskey, he quaffed a luscious draught,
                  and handed it round to his men. Still, his spirit was greatly perturbed, the
                  perspiration started from every pore, his countenance was hideously distorted, and
                  he seemed on the point of going into convulsions. Whether it might not have been a
                  premonitory symptom of delirium tremens is a question. Certain it is,
                     that disease when produced by alcohol, and only then, is allied,
                  more than all other diseases, to Satanic agency. The whiskey enabled him to
                  breathe easier, and he exclaimed, "Victory, victory! you 're floored, you 're
                  floored! Off, devils, off! I conjure you, by all the powers, be off! Strike, boys,
                  strike!—dig, dig, dig, with all your might!"
               The dirt now flew up more rapidly than ever. The men, too, felt the quickening of
                  the canteen spirit. Each stroke of the shovel gave indubitable evidence of
                  something under their feet more sonorous than earth and stones. It sounded, it
                  rumbled,—now from the stroke of the spade, now from falling stones, and now from
                  the feet of the men,—till, at length, a deep, hollow groan came up from the bowels
                  of the earth, as from an imprisoned spirit in his adamantine dungeon. The men were
                  mad with fright, and Gilfort could restrain them no longer. They all fled, and he
                  after them; but a happy thought occurred to him, and he returned, and, by dint of
                  persuasion, succeeded in bringing two or three of his most courageous followers
                  with him. They stood listening in solemn stillness, with their heads bowed over
                  the pit, when they distinctly heard a voice muttering, under ground, "Be off, by
                  St. Pathrick! be off, or I'll be the death of you, I will!
                  Murther—murther—murther!" was next shrieked out from stentorian lungs, but stifled
                  and suppressed by a sense of suffocation. Then all was hushed, and they listened.
                  The stillness was horrible. The hearts of the men smote their sides with four
                  times the usual strength. We have it from one who confessed the facts. He said it
                  seemed as if his heart would leap out of his mouth. Whatever were Gilfort's
                  previous ideas, the thought now occurred, "There's flesh here, as well as spirit.
                  It's a godsend. Now's my time, and I must make the most of it. Who knows but we
                  may have a resurrection? Yea, if not one thing, then another. My men 'll be
                  witnesses, and it 'll be seen whether I'm a mere adventurer."
               This was no sooner thought, than the muttering, or rather soliloquizing, began
                  again. "Och, Pat, yer com'd up with, at lingth, for that ye kicked the blissed
                  life out on her, ye did. Jenny, daer, don't I love ye?—don't ye love me? Fait, bad
                  luck to ye, Pat, to be dead as yet ye live! Upon me sowl, there is no brathin; me
                  brith laves jist as I'd be after catching it, and my chist lapes out and in, like
                  a hoss with the haves." There was a solemn stillness again, and the men still
                  listened, more dead than alive. Then followed a furious exclamation, "The sarpent!
                  the sarpent! There, he's comin'; he'd be after choking me! O! O!" resounding upon
                  the canopy of night with suffocated violence, like a man who feels a serpent
                  entwining around his neck. They seemed the yells of a disturbed ghost, to frighten
                  the wild beasts from their native haunts.
               Gilfort got down upon his hands and knees, put his head into the hole, and uttered
                  a piercing cry, hoping to get a response; but in vain,—the muttering being again
                  resumed. "What mother's son ever lived to see hiself dead? Och, you ugly baste
                  with a divel's head, what brings ye again? Do ye think to stop me brith? By Saint
                  Pathrick, I'll bate your brains out, I
                  will! Take that, yer divil's head!" when a powerful kick followed, upheaving the
                  lid of the unnailed box, in which a man in grave-clothes was revealed in the blue
                  light.
               "By all the saints, where am I?" said the man, now speaking more freely, from the
                  admission of air.
               "In hell," said Gilfort, in a guttural, unearthly tone.
               "Measther, plase yer honor, who be you?"
               "The devil," said Gilfort, in a horrible tone.
               "Yer riverence, Measther Divil, where's the praest?"
               "It's too late for the priest to help you; you are already in hell!"
               "Fait, bad luck to ye, Pat! It's an ill bargain ye have made, to get out of
                  purgatory. What's a praest good for, upon me sowl?"
               "There's no help for you," said Gilfort, keeping up the illusion, for some cause
                  not easily explained.
               "Och, Pat, be asy," said the man, "and take a wee dhrap for yer thirst. Ulaloo,
                  yer riverence! do you kape anything to dhrink?"
               "Yes; melted brimstone and liquid fire," replied Gilfort, not comprehending his
                  meaning.
               "Och, on my sowl, what mother's son can drink the like of that? No gin, brandy,
                  rum or whiskey, in all hell, to hilp a man that's not to be hilped?"
               Gilfort now understood his customer; but to the unfortunate man the illusion was
                  complete. He really thought, from the hue and odor of the light, from his sense of
                  suffocation, from the devils that haunted him, and from the tone and manner in
                  which Gilfort addressed him, that he was in hell. But, conscious still of the
                  raging appetite of the drunkard, no fear, no horror, no sense of the soul's
                  infinite and eternal loss, could extinguish the desire which had become the
                  all-absorbing, the all-consuming impulse of his being. Gilfort saw that now was
                  his time; and, casting his gleaming eyes upon his men, he said, in a tone of
                  command, "Stand still, and see the salvation of God. The end of our money-digging
                  is gained. A man redeemed is of more value than chests of gold. It is an
                  intimation from above, that men, not money, should be the object of our pursuit."
                  He then uttered a shrill sound, like the whistle of a locomotive, which jarred
                  frightfully upon the buried man's nerves, and threw him into a tremor from head to
                  foot. "In the name of God, man, come forth!" he added. At this the buried man
                  started up, threw off his grave-clothes, and, receiving a draught from the
                  canteen, he soon recovered his consciousness, and was lifted out of his grave by
                  Gilfort's followers.
               The sequel proved that it was Tooney, who, after killing his wife, ran away, and
                  enlisted in the United States army. He remained long enough to get his
                  bounty-money and first pay of wages, when he deserted, and strolled back towards
                  his former home, as fast as perpetual drunkenness would allow. On the beach of
                  Forest Point he was taken with a fit, and when found was supposed to be dead, and
                  to have been washed up by the surf, as he was drenched with water and covered with
                  spray. A few persons had collected, at an early hour of the previous night, put
                  him into a rude coffin, and buried him in a hole which they found already dug to
                  their hand. It was no uncommon thing to bury bodies thus washed up, without jury
                  or coroner, in a partially organized community, like that of Mapleton; and to do
                  it at night, as a partial relief against offensive odors. In this case, it was
                  done more from habit than necessity. Whether Gilfort anticipated the result is an
                  unsettled question. He certainly tainly
                  could not know that the man would revive, and it was doubtless purely accidental
                  that he should have found him. Men find what they seek. If they prowl about at
                  night in pursuit of prodigies, prodigies will not be wanting. Gilfort's passion in
                  this line amounted to a disease, the fruit no doubt of artificial excitement and
                  preposterous training.
               Distorted statements of this matter got abroad, and produced intense excitement
                  among the Mapleton people. The friends of Gilfort insisted that he had raised a
                  man from the dead, which served the more to increase the magic and mystery which
                  invested his name. The neighbors testified to the fact of having buried a man
                  whose personal appearance answered to that of one whom they now saw at Gilfort's
                  alive. The vacated grave on Forest Point, also, bore testimony that he was not
                  there. The man himself affirmed that he had been in hell, and had been delivered
                  by Gilfort. The money-diggers added their testimony, carefully stating only so
                  much as to invest the scene with mystery and miracle. The ignorant Mapletonians,
                  fond of the marvellous, as a general thing leaned to that view of the subject. A
                  small minority of the more sober and discerning accepted the facts as they were,
                  simply giving credit to the money-diggers for having, by accident, released a man,
                  who had been incautiously buried alive, from the most dreadful of all situations.
                  There was a great commotion on the occasion; and Bludgeon, whose stump oratory now
                  wielded a strong influence in town, procured the appointment of a committee to
                  investigate and report the facts, of which he was made chairman. The committee met
                  at Gilfort's both the raised man and the whole money-digging fraternity.
               Bludgeon began the investigation by inquiring of the man his name.
               "Pathrick Tooney, plase yer honor."
               "When did you come to town?"
               "The dael knows,—sure not meself."
               "What brought you here?"
               "The sarpents driv me. There's them now, by Saint Pathrick! Be off, ye ill bastes,
                  or I'll be the death of ye!" he exclaimed, kicking and striking with great
                  violence, so that it was with difficulty that the sturdy money-diggers kept him
                  from injuring himself.
               "The man 's crazy," said Bludgeon, having never before seen a case of delirium
                  tremens.
               "No, he's possessed," replied one of Gilfort's followers, "but the power that
                  called him from the grave can cast out the devils."
               "Can one rum devil cast out another rum devil?" said a member of the committee,
                  who suspected the nature of the disease.
               "I shall suffer no slanderous imputations in my own house," said Gilfort, with a
                  tone that roused his followers, and made it unsafe for the committee to pursue its
                  investigations.
               "Truth demands the investigation, and I'll have it, if I die!" replied Bludgeon,
                  with a movement of his iron frame that made the company cower before such a
                  battery of bodily strength. "The story is abroad that you, Gilfort," he added,
                  "have raised this man from the dead, and I am determined to know the truth of the
                  matter."
               "Glad to have the truth known," said Gilfort, "but I must not be insulted."
               "No offence intended," said the committee-man whose remark had raised this
                  flurry.
               "You, then, have no recollection of coming here? But where did you come from?"
                  said Bludgeon to Tooney.
               
               "I com'd from the barracks," said Tooney; "and I tuk a dhrap for me hilth at
                  Clareville [Clearville, a little town on the eastern border of Mapleton], and
                  those bastes began laping, and walluping, and skolloping, roond me head like
                  divils; and I run, run, run, till I run——"
               "Well, where?" interrupted Bludgeon.
               "To hell!" said the man, with a shudder of horror.
               "He means that he run till he dropped dead on Forest Point," said one of the
                  money-diggers.
               "What kind of a place is hell?" said Bludgeon.
               "An' faith, it's beyond me spaking;—so dark, so boond as to me hands and fate,—so
                  crawlin' all over with snakes,—so tight, tight! O! there's no brathing."
               "And how did you escape?"
               "In fath, I thought to get a dhrap for me thirst, and to find a praest to get the
                  worth of me money; but not the divil of a bit did they hilp me, till that man,
                  blessed sowl he is!" pointing to Gilfort, "guv me relase, and withal a dhrap that
                  ased me much."
               "Then whiskey raised you from the dead?" said Bludgeon, with a sneer. "What agency
                  had you in the matter, Mr. Gilfort?"
               "I claim simply to have had a presentiment that I must dig that night on Forest
                  Point," said Gilfort, with great apparent fairness. "I obeyed, and the dead man
                  was brought to life, and, he says, delivered from hell; which I am prepared to
                  believe, from the spectres which have haunted him since."
               Thus Bludgeon elicited nothing to shake the confidence of the vulgar rabble in
                  Gilfort's mysterious powers. 
                     
                        "There is a tide in the affairs of men,
                        Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune."
                     
                   So it proved with Gilfort. His Falls tract speculation gave him money, which
                  he invested in an enormous tract of government land beyond the Mississippi. And
                  this resurrection hoax operated like magic to draw colonists around him, who not
                  only paid him a large advance on the cost of his lands, but raised him to a
                  peerless elevation as the ruler of their destiny. But, whatever spiritual hold
                  Gilfort may have taken on the deluded people, it is certain that the physical ones
                  of rum and illicit love were far more powerful. Venus and Bacchus were notoriously
                  the divinities of his colony, and the great charm to those of a voluptuous
                  imagination.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE ALCOHOLIC TRAFFIC REACHES A CRISIS IN MAPLETON.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "It may be so; but yet my inward soul
                           Persuades me it is otherwise. Howe'er it be,
                           I cannot but be sad: so heavy sad,
                           As—though, in thinking, on no thought I think—
                           Makes me, with a heavy nothing, faint and shrink.
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               IT had by this time come to be whispered in Mapleton that Messrs. Douglass and
                  Durham had nothing to boast of, over their neighbors, on the score of drunkenness.
                  "They are at heart as bad as we," was the consoling unction which many a tippler
                  took to his conscience. "They need n't think to set themselves above us; we know
                  all about them. Gumpton (the innkeeper, where they were intoxicated on the way)
                     has told us, and it's not worth
                  while for them to play the hypocrite. Mr. Skampton, too, says he has seen them
                  both drunk; and they'll be drunk again, without a doubt. Their families need n't
                  set themselves up in this way."
               The pains which Gumpton and Skampton had taken to propagate this scandal looked
                  two ways; first, to destroy the effect of remonstrances from those families
                  against the liquor-traffic, and, second, to reveal the danger that lurked within
                  their own doors. Every measure was taken by interested persons to involve Douglass
                  and Durham in the common dissipation. They were invited on all convivial
                  occasions, were offered a treat at every trifling pretext, and were exposed to all
                  those arts by which drinkers know so well how to decoy those whose appetites are
                  like their own. But, as yet, their efforts availed nothing. Temperance yet
                  overspread these families with a peace and prosperity which made them a green
                  oasis amid the general desolation.
               Still, the fears which reigned within their doors none knew but themselves and
                  their God. Mrs. Durham was in that condition to make a wife feel more than ever
                  dependent on her husband, and was rapidly approaching her crisis of pain and
                  agony. The winter had been unusually cold, thus far, and the snow, in Mapleton,
                  had fallen deeper than ever before. Mr. Durham attempted little business, beyond
                  the care of his stock, and the provision of fuel, to cope with the rigor of the
                  season. The most of his time he spent within doors, to cheer his wife's
                  despondency by reading and enlivening conversation. Their little Amelia said, one
                  morning, at the breakfast-table,
               "Mamma, I had a queer dream last night."
               "What was your dream, my love?" inquired her mother.
               "I thought the snow fell and fell, till it got as high as the top of the trees,
                  and that our house was covered with it so deep that we could get no wood. I
                  thought the fire all went out, and then the sun went out too, and did not shine
                  any more; and it was so cold, cold,—O, how cold! I thought I put my hand on you,
                  and you was cold as ice; and then on dear Charley, and he was cold as ice; and
                  then on Sis, and she was cold; and I felt myself getting to be ice, too, and
                  shivered all over, dreadfully. Then I thought papa came home; and he was changed
                  into ice, and we were all ice together."
               "My sweet Milly," said her mother, "you got the clothes off, no doubt, and slept
                  cold; that made you dream so."
               "No, mamma; when I waked up, I was just as warm as I am now."
               "Milly has seen so much snow this winter, no wonder she dreams so," said her
                  father. "I think it's a sign we are going to have warm weather; for dreams go by
                  contraries, you know."
               "I guess mamma don't think so," said little Lydia, looking up, with a cunning and
                  embarrassed look, out of her glistening eyes, as if she were saying something she
                  ought not.
               "Why not, you black-eyed pet?" said her father, gayly.
               "Because she weeps; I saw her weep to—to-morrow," added the child, hesitating
                  whether to use that word or "yesterday."
               "No; yesterday, you mean, dearest," said her father.
               "Yes, she weeps sometimes," replied Lydia.
               "My dear wife," said Mr. Durham, with genuine tenderness, "I have mistrusted what
                  this little witness testifies of you. I am afraid you have some grief at heart
                  which you do not tell me of."
               "No, Charles, none, except that, in my present condition, I cannot bear to have
                  you a minute out of my sight. We are so far from neighbors, and I am now so
                  helpless, that, if you are gone an
                  hour, I tremble all over, like an aspen-leaf. I am all the time thinking that
                  something may happen to you when I could neither relieve you nor help myself, nor
                  do anything for our dear little ones, so perfectly powerless do I feel myself to
                  be. These are foolish feelings, I know; but I cannot help them. They will come up,
                  in spite of me; and I suppose they may have caused me to shed the tears which dear
                  little Sis has brought into court against me."
               "That reminds me to say—what I have had in my mind some days—that I think we had
                  better get Ma'am Tobey to stay with you till after your confinement. She is said
                  to be an excellent nurse, and, withal, a very agreeable companion. This will
                  relieve your feelings, my dear Amelia, during the few hours of the day I am
                  compelled to be out of the house."
               "You are very kind, my husband," replied Mrs. Durham, with tears of gratitude
                  glistening in her eyes. "Perhaps it would be advisable. We cannot tell what may
                  happen to one in my circumstances; and I cannot overcome my fear of being left
                  alone with the children."
               "Well, I will attend to a few things about the farm this morning, and then will
                  go, with the sleigh, and bring Ma'am Tobey. I know she will take it as a favor to
                  come, in her present dependent situation. Her husband and sons, having sunk
                  together into the slough of our town drunkery, are gone all the time; and I am
                  told that she, poor thing, has neither food to eat nor fuel to keep her warm."
               Accordingly, Mr. Durham left immediately after dinner, kissing his wife and
                  children tenderly, and assuring them that he would be back before dark, and they
                  need not fear. Still, Mrs. Durham felt a timidity she could not overcome. A heavy
                  cloud hung upon her spirits, for which she could not account. She betook herself
                  to prayer, in which she found strong consolation from the hope of a better world,
                  where maternal solicitude would visit her no more, where the storms of winter,
                  then howling fearfully around her dwelling, would no more overcast her serene sky,
                  and where anxiety for her husband's safety, in person or morals, would not hold
                  her in suspense and torture,—but where all would be security, peace and joy,
                  transporting and immortal. Her hopes and aspirations acquired a mysterious
                  unearthliness, as if nothing more awaited her in this region of death, but only in
                  the bright reversion of angelic life and immortal day.
               To amuse herself, she gathered her little ones around her, and spent several hours
                  in teaching them to read, in talking to them of heaven,—of the happy circles
                  there, where father, mother and children, all meet, and mingle in sweet discourse,
                  to sin no more, to suffer no more, to part no more. Her words were words of
                  inspiration to the dear little group, and they sat listening in rapt meditation,
                  with clasped hands and uplifted and adoring eyes. Night drew on, and the storm
                  raged more and more fearfully. The snow, which began to fall soon after her
                  husband left, had added one or two feet to the underlying accumulation of previous
                  storms, so as to create the most serious apprehension as to whether he could make
                  his way through the drifts. She summoned all her firmness, and all her stock of
                  courage, for the sake of her children. It would have gratified her to see them
                  remain awake, as a relief to her loneliness; but, at their appointed hour, they
                  were sinking into the sweet, profound forgetfulness of childhood's sleep; and she
                  put them into their beds, after hearing them say their prayers.
               What next? She strained her eyes at the window, to penetrate the gathering storm
                  and darkness, if possible to catch a glimpse—one hope-inspiring glimpse—of his
                     loved and adored form; but all, all
                  in vain. No husband came. She listened to hear the familiar tones of his voice, in
                  speaking to his horses; but no sound greeted her, except those of the raging
                  tempest and creaking forests, with the occasional crash of a frost-bound tree or
                  limb, in sinking into the underlying snow. She bethought herself of Charles
                  Douglass' last letter, which she had not answered; took it from her portfolio, and
                  began reading and writing, to divert her thoughts from the horrible ideas which
                  had taken possession of her mind. Young Douglass had been her constant
                  correspondent from the time of his leaving for college; and his last letter
                  contained facts in which she had the liveliest interest, and which, for the
                  moment, had the effect of diverting her mind.
               It seems that, when he had nearly completed his senior year, the college was
                  visited by the Honorable Michael Skampton, as this gentleman was called in those
                  parts; or, rather, he passed more frequently as the patron, or patroon,—or, as his
                  enemies would have it, the patron saint,—qualifying terms, except the last, more
                  gratifying to his pride than his civil distinctions, because they touched the
                  point of his character where lay his ruling passion. He lived, and earned, and
                  ground the face of the poor, and trampled on the laws of humanity, and preyed like
                  a vulture on the vices of society, to get the means of buying, on a large scale,
                  reputation and influence as a benefactor. The whole college was called together in
                  the chapel, in anticipation of his arrival; and, when he entered, escorted by the
                  faculty, the assembled students and functionaries rose to do him honor. He was
                  shown the seat usually occupied by the president, the latter gentleman taking a
                  subordinate place to the greatest patron Diddington College had ever enjoyed.
                  Charles, having learned, by this time, the wreck to which he had reduced his own
                  beautiful Mapleton, by means of his detestable groggery, would not rise with the
                  rest, which exposed him to the reprimand of the faculty, and to the indignation of
                  this modern Haman.
               Young Douglass had signalized himself more than any of the students in the cause
                  of temperance. He had induced a large number of them to sign the pledge. He had
                  delivered many temperance lectures in Diddington, and had spent his vacations in
                  lecturing wherever there was an open door. He had had such a fearful home
                  experience of the evils of drinking, that he committed his energies to this cause,
                  and determined to prosecute it by all the means in his power. He made it a point
                  of conscience, however, never to infringe upon college laws or study hours, in
                  doing it. The faculty had no charge of neglect or insubordination to allege
                  against him. True, he had made himself obnoxious to the wine-bibbing students, and
                  particularly to his old friend and school-fellow, Harry Howard, whose habits were
                  very dissipated. Harry's parents were wealthy, and furnished him all the money he
                  desired to expend, which was not a little. Money, not study, preserved his
                  standing in his class. His nights were spent in revelling, in spite of college law
                  or discipline; his lessons were neglected, and he was the ringleader in mischief.
                  Charles felt all the tenderness for Harry of his childhood's recollections, and,
                  for a time, associated with him on terms of too much familiarity. This brought him
                  acquainted with many of Harry's tricks, which, when questioned by the faculty on
                  the subject, he found he must conceal by lies or confess with honesty. In an
                  alternative like this, he had but one course before him, and that was to speak the
                  truth. This brought upon him the malignity of young Howard, and of the rowdies
                  under his influence, who let no
                  opportunity slip of treating him with abuse and slander. Their stories to the
                  faculty had little effect, because the motive of them was too well understood.
               But Skampton, who was president of the board of trustees, and more powerful than
                  the faculty, drank in their stories with avidity. He collected the names of the
                  students who were known to be associated with Charles in the temperance cause,—all
                  of whom, as it appeared, were also on the same foundation to which he had been
                  admitted,—and gave them a formal reprimand for their course, and particularly for
                  slandering Master Howard. There were twelve of the students whose names Skampton
                  had on a bit of paper before him, that of Douglass being at the head of the list.
                  Reading over these names, he said, "Young gentlemen, I call you together to let
                  you know that you are dependent on my bounty for a place in this college; and, if
                  you do not cease from these temperance lectures and agitations, I'll drop you at
                  once, and leave you to shirk for yourselves."
               The blood flushed in Charles' face, and with ill-suppressed indignation he
                  exclaimed, "It is new to me, sir, that I have received a cent of your money. But
                  it shall not be so another day; I will refund it. I will not receive the bounty of
                  a man who has lived by demoralizing society, and whose very money is the price of
                  blood!"
               "What do you say, sir?" said Skampton, boiling over with rage.
               "I say I will not have your money. I know too well how you get it. I am familiar
                  with the tears, poverty and murder, which it has occasioned in my own town, and
                  among my own friends."
               "You are a dirty little dog!" said Skampton, trembling with excitement. "You shall
                  be expelled this college before the sun goes down, and I'll prosecute your father
                  for slander!"
               "Not my father, sir," said Charles; "I am of age, and can answer for myself."
               With this Skampton flew out of the house, and left the assembled group to their
                  own way. Charles called on a temperance friend in town, stated the facts of the
                  case, and asked a loan of money to pay up all he had drawn on the Skampton
                  foundation, interest and principal. This was freely granted him; and that night,
                  when the officer came to take him on a charge of slander, he was able to stand up
                  with the proud consciousness of owing nothing to a fund collected by means so
                  detestable, so abhorrent to humanity. The suit fell to the ground by a nolle prosequi, Marldon advising his client that the
                  facts following the opening of his Mapleton tavern, which would be magnified to
                  justify what defendant had said against him, rendered such a suit hopeless before
                  any jury to be empanelled in these temperance times. But in the matter of the
                  expulsion Skampton was more successful, because, much as the faculty and trustees
                  regretted it, they felt the leanness of their treasury, and were willing to burn
                  incense to the indignation of a man on whom they were so dependent. For this act,
                  however, Charles did not care a copper, so far as he was concerned. He felt the
                  strength of his own position as a student. He knew he was far in advance of what
                  his class would be when their senior year had expired. Besides, he could study as
                  well out of the walls of a college as in, and much more to his own satisfaction.
                  The loss of a degree he did not value a straw, as the country was filled with
                  graduated dunces; and he gloried in a non-graduating preëminence. There may have
                  been some human feeling in all this; but then it was natural, under the
                     circumstances, to a young man in the
                  warm blood of his first month's majority, and exposed to such indignities and
                  provocations. Corporations that suffer themselves to be controlled by mercenary
                  considerations and designing men must expect to have the wares in which they deal
                  depreciated in the market, and a loathing to noble minds. So capricious are their
                  doings, in many cases, that it may be said of them, as the lawyer said of the
                  decisions of a petit jury, that, though he believed that God fore-knew whatever
                  comes to pass, he thought such decisions must be excepted from the remark, for
                  they were too uncertain to be fore-known.
               The letter which poor Mrs. Durham was amusing herself with detailed, these facts.
                  She read it over and over again, listening to the storm as she read, trembling
                  with fear, and tormented with apprehensions, which none can realize who have not
                  been in her condition; not the least of which was, that her husband might have
                  fallen into this very groggery which had been a cause of so much trouble to young
                  Douglass. She at length took her pen and wrote her full approval of Charles'
                  conduct in the matter, and then proceeded to detail the more recent doings of the
                  alcoholic traffic in Mapleton. She stated the sufferings of poor Ma'am Tobey, and
                  that her husband had then gone to bring her to their house. She informed him that
                  the worthy and venerable Mr. Robson, after inveighing against the groggery with
                  all his might, had been drawn in, and added to the number of its victims. He had
                  been an early prey to intemperate habits, from which he refrained for some years,
                  but was now taken the more easily by the destroyer. His age and infirmities could
                  not withstand this late return to the vice, delirium tremens soon ensued, and he
                  had died in the most dreadful torments. "He begged his friends to kill him at a
                  blow, for the devils that tormented him were more unendurable than hell itself. O
                  Charles, Charles! what are we to say to these things? How happens it that this
                  alone, of all our diseases, produces such a sense of being tormented by devils? Is
                  it real, or is it altogether imaginary? Do tell me, in your next, what you
                  think."
               Then her pen seemed to float at random, as if to divert her own corroding
                  thoughts, more than from any intention of transmitting the uncopied document.
                  "Charles, Charles! what are we to do? Dear me! dear me, husband! why don't you
                  come,—come to your agonized Amelia! The storm howls, howls! O, God! when will he
                  come? The clock strikes eleven. Eleven! O,—O! eleven of this dismal night! and
                  I,—I and my little ones away in this howling wilderness! alone, so many miles from
                  all help and all relief! I can't be quiet! No! no! no! I scream,—I can't help
                  screaming! O, my husband! where are you, dearest, that you come not to the help of
                  your terrified wife, who loves, who adores you? My God, take care of him,—take
                  care of me,—take care of my little ones! Do! do! do!—yes, to heaven take us
                  all!—all, if one must go! O,—O! there, I'm screaming again! I can't help it!
                  O,—O,—O! mad,—mad,—mad! I must to bed." These broken sentences were almost
                  illegible from the tears with which they were bedewed, and doubtless followed by
                  convulsions.
               The explanation of this sad delay was as terrific to Mr. Douglass as to poor
                  Durham. It seems that these two gentlemen had unfortunately met nearly opposite
                  that hell of the town, the groggery. It was cold, and snowing fiercely. They sat a
                  short time talking from each other's sleighs, when that emissary of the devil, the
                  landlord, came running out, with his face covered with seductive smiles and his
                  tongue dropping sweet words like
                  honey-dew, and saying to Mr. Douglass that he had been striving many days to see
                  him, upon a pressing matter of business, and if that gentleman and Mr. Durham
                  would come in and warm themselves a single moment, he would see their horses well
                  cared for, and it would be much to their own comfort. "With his much fair speech
                  he caused them to yield; with the flattery of his lips he forced them; and they
                  went straightway as an ox to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the
                  stocks; till a dart struck through their liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare,
                  and knew not that it was for their life." The winds swept over the plain, the lake
                  roared in the distance, with waves as sluggish from anchor ice as a boiling
                  caldron of quicksilver, and the whole scene of wintry cold and desolation without
                  conspired to give point and power to the serpent's charm within, and to the deadly
                  coil in which he was enfolding their hearts.
               Their horses all sweating with fatigue in wallowing through the snow, they finally
                  reined up under the shed, and followed their tempter into his hell. Durham
                  hesitated, and hesitated; said his wife was alone, and peculiarly needed his
                  presence; but still he followed. The landlord offered them something to drink, and
                  expatiated on the necessity of it on so cold a day, and after so much exposure.
                  They at first declined, seeming to feel their danger, and to be conscious that
                  they stood on the brink of a precipice. But, after warming themselves a while, and
                  being further plied with fair words by their host, Douglass said he was all in a
                  tremor and chilled to his very vitals; he believed a mug of hot gingered cider
                  would do him good, and he ordered it. He poured a glass for his friend, and also
                  for himself, and they drank it together.
               But no sooner had the poison entered their veins than they lost sight of every
                  motive to sobriety, and alcoholic fancies swarmed around them, like devils in the
                  plumage of paradise. Glass after glass of brandy was called in; Durham began to
                  sing, and Douglass to fight; and the inn was a hell indeed, and they its devils.
                  Douglass staid till twelve of the night, when his two sons, George and Samuel,
                  with a posse of men from the farm, came to hunt for him, suspecting the fact, and,
                  by main force, drew a strait-jacket over him, and took him home, howling to the
                  wintry winds like a fiend from the realm of darkness. That incarnation of evil,
                  the publican, finding Durham peaceable, and, withal, flush of money, hustled him
                  into another room when the young Douglasses came, so that they left without the
                  knowledge of his presence. Nor did their father, in the long-continued series of
                  drunken fits which ensued, mention the fact. The consequence was, that Durham laid
                  two weeks drunk in the groggery. At the expiration of this time, he fell into a
                  profound sleep, from which he did not awake for twelve hours; and, when he did
                  finally awake, the insanity of intoxication had passed, and the first thought he
                  had was of his wife and children. He had no idea of the time of his separation,
                  more than if he had laid all these days in a fit. He sprang convulsively to his
                  feet, and hastened to the shed; but found his horses so nearly starved by the
                  avaricious landlord that he could not trust to their taking him home through the
                  snow. His next thought was to run to Mr. Holliston's, which he did, and acquainted
                  him with the state of his affairs, trusting he might prove a comfort to his wife,
                  both as physician and minister. Mr. Holliston got up his own horses, and took poor
                  Durham to his family with all despatch, being also ignorant of the length of time
                  that he had been absent from them. They passed Ma'am Tobey's, but found the house
                  sunk in a snow-drift, and not a soul in it. This excited alarm in Durham's mind.
                  They then hurried ried as fast as the
                  unbroken road would admit, struggling on till sundown, when they succeeded in
                  reaching the house; but found it also buried in the snow, and no sign of life
                  near, except a few half-starved and half-frozen cattle. Durham jumped out of the
                  sleigh, and, rushing ahead, pushed his way by force through the closed door, when
                  he found the interior a complete drift, that had come down chimney, and sifted
                  through every unguarded crevice. By this time Mr. Holliston was upon his heels,
                  anxious to find how matters stood within.
               But, O, horror! horror! God have mercy on the drunkard's family! There lay Mrs.
                  Durham on her own bed, cold and stiff, with a new-born infant, naked, at her side,
                  also dead and frozen! Behind the mother, and pressed close against her person, was
                  dear little Charles, with his icy arms enfolding her, and every drop of blood
                  congealed in his veins. They then hastened to the little girls' room, and found
                  them in their bed, emaciated to mere skeletons, but not so long dead as to be
                  completely frozen. They, too, were locked in each other's little arms. The fears
                  of poor Mrs. Durham had evidently brought on a premature birth, ending in
                  convulsions, the very night of her husband's departure, and she and the infant had
                  frozen together. Little Charles, with a child's instinct, had clung to his dead
                  mother, and his arms were soon frozen by the icy contact, from which point the
                  frosts of death gradually spread over his whole body. The little girls had kept up
                  as long as they could, without wood or food, and then had crept together into
                  their bed, to find an icy grave. Poor little Amelia's prophetic dream was more
                  than fulfilled.
               No words, no description, can reach the reality. It was a charnel-house of the
                  horrible traffic in intoxicating drinks. The frozen victims of this worse than
                  Moloch, in his thirst for innocent blood, with the lines of sorrow still visible
                  in their indurated features, uttered, in the dumb accents of death, such a
                  remonstrance against our legislation on this subject, as to appal and confound
                  those who have given their voice and vote in its favor, O, detestable legislation!
                  who can number thy dead? Who can estimate thy crimes? Who can tell the extent of
                  the pauperage, the poverty and the wretchedness, which owe their being to
                  thee?
               Mr. Holliston was silent, and so was Durham. It was a case to baffle feeling, and
                  beggar language. They dug some wood from under the snow, and lighted a fire.
                  Durham was helpful in all this. Mr. Holliston then proposed to go and bring in the
                  neighbors.
               "Mr. Durham," said he, "perhaps you will feel better to go with me."
               "No," said Durham, quietly, "you go, and I'll stay and watch the fire and keep the
                  house."
               "Very well; I'll be back soon," said Mr. Holliston, not a little surprised at the
                  self-possession of the miserable man. But, had he looked cautiously, he would have
                  seen in it the suicide's calmness. His eyes were glassy and fixed. It was the
                  repose of despair; it was the self-possession of one to whom living was death, and
                  death his only life. Not a tear did he shed, not a groan did he utter, not a
                  complaint did he make. As soon as Mr. Holliston was gone, he took the pen that had
                  dropped from the fingers of his dying wife, thawed out the inkstand, and wrote on
                  the paper, under the last tear-besmeared lines of her agitated hand, the following
                  note:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "This world is my hell. There can be no worse. I have a duty to do to
                              my departed wife and children, which I go to discharge. I must confess at their
                              feet my crime, and beseech them to forgive me. Dear, dear ones, I
                              follow you to the spirit-land!
                           
                              CHARLES DURHAM."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               When Mr. Holliston returned, with the neighbors, they found him hung with a rope
                  to one of the beams of his house, and quite dead.
               At the funeral, which was attended by the whole town,—yea, by neighboring towns,
                  also,—Mr. Holliston delivered an address on the evils of the liquor-traffic, in
                  which he detailed its sad ravages in their once peaceful and prosperous town. They
                  then buried the whole family in one grave, laying the dear little infant on the
                  breast of its sorrow-stricken mother, and the others side by side, according to
                  their ages. After the burial, Thomas Bludgeon harangued the assembled
                  multitude.
               "Gentlemen," said he, "what's to be done? Here is a den in our town which the
                  sober, respectable and industrious, enter, to come out drunkards, paupers and
                  beggars. Here is a den into which our children are decoyed, and come out a blight
                  to parental hopes. Here is a den which the happy wedded couple visit, only to
                  violate their plighted vows, and become a curse to their children. Here is a den
                  to sink forever the hard earnings of labor; yea, worse, to make them a blight and
                  curse to those by whose sweat they were acquired. This den is inhabited by a
                  sorcerer, the touch of whose wand converts ministers and churches into hypocrites,
                  Sabbaths into scenes of bacchanalian riot and revelry, school-houses into kennels,
                  and earth into hell. Here is a monster before whom law is a rope of sand, and the
                  bonds of society a gossamer web, to be blown to the winds. Here is a school which
                  graduates moderate drinkers confirmed drunkards, honest people knaves, cut-throats
                  and assassins. Will you suffer this den longer to exist among you? Will you allow
                  this sorcerer to exercise his damnable magic? Will you allow this monster to seize
                  more victims, and this school to multiply among us its detestable pupils?"
               "No, no, no!" cried many thousands, all bathed in tears at the spectacle they had
                  witnessed, and mad with indignation against its guilty cause. "Law or no law,—no,
                  no, no! Down with the groggery!"
               "Yes, law or no law!" replied Bludgeon; and, raising his hands to heaven, shaking
                  his iron frame in defiance, and casting his flaming eyes in the direction of the
                  inn, he added, "I swear, by the eternal God, that hell shall not
                  pollute this town another day. Who dares stand by right against law? Let him
                  speak."
               "I dare!" "I!" "I!" "I!" cried innumerable voices. "Down with the groggery! down
                  with the groggery! down with the groggery!"
               "Come on, then!" said Bludgeon; "come on, come on, ye men of Mapleton, who are for
                  casting out the devil in spite of priests and lawyers! follow me to the
                  assault!"
               "To the assault! to the assault! lead on, and we'll follow! Down with the
                  groggery! down with the groggery!" repeated a thousand stentorian voices, in tones
                  that made the welkin ring. Off rushed the infuriated multitude, headed by
                  Bludgeon, and began their work by emptying the detestable sink of all its
                  valuables, pouring its alcohol into the gutters, and ending by making a bonfire of
                  the building.
               "Where's the landlord?—this hell-hound,—where is he? where is he?" cried
                  innumerable voices.
               "Here he is! here he is! hid in the stable!" replied some. "Bring him out! bring
                  him out!" was the imperious demand mand
                  on all sides. The trembling publican was brought out, and, after a mock trial, was
                  condemned to a coat of tar and feathers, and to be rode out of town upon a rail.
                  The decree was no sooner passed than executed, and the miserable wretch was dipped
                  into a cask of tar, and then rolled in the feathers of one of his own beds, and,
                  in this plight, was mounted on a rail, which was carried, in solemn procession, a
                  distance of seven miles, where he was placed out of town, with a threat of being
                  worse dealt by if he ever entered it again.
               Skampton sued the town, laying his damages at ten thousand dollars. Marldon
                  pleaded his cause, urging the responsibility of government to protect the property
                  of its citizens against mob violence. "Government," he said, "pledges itself to
                  this, by levying and receiving taxes. The tax-payer would have no quid pro quo, if he could not claim indemnity against
                  the depredations of a mob. Hence, the state or town is in equity bound to make
                  good the losses thus sustained." It was in vain that the opposing counsel pleaded
                  the law of nuisances against the groggery, because the license of the state, by
                  which it had been established, was urged, on the other side, as an express
                  guarantee of protection, over and above what could be claimed for property in
                  general. "Do you mean to make the state answerable for all the pauperage, misery
                  and murder, which this groggery has introduced into our town?" said the counsel
                  for defendants. "If so, your honors," he added, addressing the court, "nothing
                  remains but to prosecute the state for locating among us a nuisance so destructive
                  to its own laws, so prejudicial to our interests." The cause went against the
                  town, it being mulcted in the sum of five thousand dollars, by means of which
                  Skampton, in due time, restored his groggery, and renewed his work of ruin among
                  the people.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE DESPAIR AND HOPE OF A DRUNKARD'S SON.
               
                  
                     
                        "Go feel what I have felt,—
                        Go bear what I have borne;
                        Sink 'neath the blow a father dealt,
                        And the cold world's proud scorn.
                        Then suffer on from year to year,
                        Thy sole relief the scorching tear."
                     
                  
               
               CHARLES' return to Mapleton was attended by a melancholy pleasure. He rejoiced to
                  meet his friends, but mourned—O, how bitterly!—at the corrupted state of society
                  and family wrecks which the traffic in intoxicating drinks had occasioned. He
                  visited the desolated home of the Durhams, and found the house occupied by cattle,
                  the conservatory a resort of swine, the garden overrun with weeds, and all its
                  beauty defaced, all its glory departed. He remembered his first visit to the
                  place, and the scene of domestic beauty and bliss over which Mrs. Durham then
                  presided as a divinity, a voluntary exile from that society whose laws and customs
                  were so fatal to her happiness. But there was no hiding from the demon. It had
                  pursued her even in exile; and here, even here, so far away from neighbors, so hid
                  from civil society, that society had pursued her with its ruinous legislation, and
                  consigned her and her beloved family to one common grave. He walked a little
                  beyond the house into a beautiful grove of young maples, and there he found the
                  new-made grave surmounted by a white marble slab, erected by the contributions of
                  the people, and inscribed as follows:
               
               
                  "CHARLES DURHAM and his Wife. AMELIA DURHAM and their Four Children.
                     AMELIA CAROLINE. LYDIA DOUGLASS. CHARLES, Junior, and
                     BENONI.
                  All victims of the traffic in alcoholic poisons."
               
               Underneath Charles wrote, "MURDERED BY UNRIGHTEOUS LEGISLATION."
               Young Douglass lingered long in this grove, weeping bitter tears over the
                  associations of the place. He thought of the buoyant, girlish days of Mrs. Durham,
                  when she was the hope of her family, the belle and pride of her town; and also of
                  the fatal steps which led to her marriage with one so noble in character, and yet
                  so hopelessly doomed by a predisposition to vice inherited from the drinking
                  habits of a former generation, and by the gins and snares provided by state
                  legislation to insure his ruin. And these dear little ones, whose only crime was
                  to be born of such a father and under such laws, thus given over to a mode of
                  death which, to think of, makes the blood curdle with horror! O, God! how
                  mysterious are thy providences, and thy ways past finding out! He thought of the
                  constant peril in which his own family lived from the same cause,—a peril which,
                  though just then somewhat diminished by mob right against legal and organic wrong,
                  yet which would return upon them, perhaps, with more fearful results than ever, as
                  soon as some licensed emissary of the state had the opportunity to renew among
                  them the cruel traffic. He was affected by the evidence furnished that the last
                  rational thoughts of poor Mrs. Durham were directed to himself. The answer of his
                  letter, begun in a sound mind, but ending in distraction, to be followed by
                  convulsions and the pains of child-birth, endured all alone, and terminating in
                  her own death and that of all her family,—this seemed to Charles too dreadful to
                  think of. He spent days in weeping over the fate of the family. Nor was he alone
                  in this. The whole town and country manifested the liveliest sensibilities on the
                  subject; and for a time it produced almost a total suspension of those drinking
                  habits which had caused all the trouble. Indeed, the temptation to drinking had,
                  to a great extent, perished with the groggery. The poison was not now obtruded
                  upon them as before, and the families which had survived the wreck returned to
                  their occupations, and were prosperous again. Mr. Littlefield's meetings were
                  fuller, and his labors better appreciated. The children returned to the neglected
                  Sunday-school. The memory of their former teacher—the good and beautiful, but now
                  so sadly unfortunate, Mrs. Durham—lived in their minds as a sweet relic of the
                  past, to awaken in them bitter regrets at their own defection, which had been to
                  her a cause of so much anxiety.
               Charles found his father wonderfully altered in appearance. His long-continued
                  course of dissipation after that first fatal night, and, most of all, his share in
                  the sad catastrophe of the Durham family, preyed upon his mind, and he rarely ever
                  smiled. His downfall had deprived him of the high position which he had enjoyed in
                  town, and made him an object of loathing to himself. Mrs. Douglass and Charles did
                  all they could to reässure him. They saw, they felt, that the evil of his case did
                  not so much consist in his present occasional aberrations, as in those habits of
                  what is called temperate drinking, wherein the appetite originated which was now
                  so uncontrollable. That in which the wrong really lay had made him respectable, a
                  boon companion, a fine gentleman, whose society was courted, and who was deemed every way worthy of respect and
                  confidence. But the consequences, wherein he was comparatively innocent, and more
                  to be pitied than blamed, caused him to be despised and abhorred. His wife and son
                  took more just views of the subject, and never remitted their kindness to him,
                  even when most deteriorated and degraded. They felt and deplored the wreck of a
                  husband and father which the drinking customs of society had entailed upon them.
                  But, inasmuch as this was their unhappy lot, in common with thousands of other
                  families, they felt it a call in Providence to watch over him, to bear with his
                  infirmities, to alleviate his sufferings, to fortify him against temptation, and
                  to do their utmost to repair the evil which society and the laws had done upon one
                  in whom they had so tender an interest. This was right. There is nothing left to
                  the unhappy victims of the drinking customs and license laws of society but to
                  bide their time, while they pray, with the souls under the altar, "How long, O
                  Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell
                  on the earth!"
               The person of Charles, during his years of absence, had grown into manly
                  proportions, with a head that bore marks of a vigorous intellect, a countenance of
                  fine expression, and an eye through which flashed the fire of his soul. The
                  reserve of manhood had succeeded to the loquacity of youth, and he was now demure
                  and taciturn, especially on all subjects relating to himself and his future
                  course. He courted retirement, and spent much of the year of his stay at home in
                  his old study, extending his reading and investigations on various subjects; and
                  what time he was not there he was out among the groves, hills and ravines, of his
                  beloved Mapleton. All the places endeared to him by recollection he visited over
                  and over again;—Forest Point, where Tooney was exhumed; the ruined house which the
                  Harcourts had occupied during their short stay in town, thinking of little Sarah,
                  of whom he had never heard since their departure, and dwelling fondly on the
                  associations of days now departed never more to return. To him it was enchanted
                  ground. Occasionally he would enter the circle of former friends, but always with
                  a brow clouded by care, and a look of anxious thoughtfulness. The part he took in
                  conversation appeared to cost him an effort, and he contrived to elude inquiry in
                  reference to his own purposes or prospects. He was deeply meditating his future
                  plans in life.
               Thus time passed till the second autumn after his return home, when he gave his
                  parents to understand that he should adhere to a secret but long-cherished purpose
                  of entering the ministry. Unpropitious as he felt his relations to be as the son
                  of a drunkard, and galling as that thought was to his towering spirit,—a thought
                  which had done more than anything else to keep him back so long,—still, the
                  obligations to the ministerial calling had so wrought themselves into his
                  convictions, that he could frame to himself no sufficient excuse for turning to a
                  secular occupation. Messrs. Holliston and Littlefield were called in to advise as
                  to what steps should be taken in the case. The former gentleman advised that, with
                  the approval of his church, Charles should betake himself at once to some retired
                  place, and there exercise his talents in teaching the people religion, in visiting
                  from house to house, in promoting schools, and otherwise advancing the cause of
                  piety and intelligence. He said "that a professional education for such a calling
                  should not be sought till the heart had been fully tested and the ability proved;
                  that the haste with which young men, of feeble capacity and no intelligent
                  obligation to the work, had of late years been placed upon a course of education for which they had no fitness, had
                  filled the pulpits with a mere apology of men, educated asses to bray nonsense by
                  rule; and that there were hundreds of uneducated farmers and mechanics, whose
                  piety and talents fitted them to go directly from their secular occupations into
                  the pulpit, and do there a far more effective work. Even ability," he added, "is
                  no guarantee of success in a work which depends so entirely upon a certain moral
                  and spiritual fitness, which no education can impart, and no process can
                  satisfactorily ascertain but that of actual trial. Besides, there is no training
                  that your son can enjoy which promises so much to himself as an actual contact
                  with human ignorance and misery, with a view to their alleviation. This, if
                  anything, will school a young man's heart and character, to act as the cure of
                  souls. Practice makes perfect."
               Mr. and Mrs. Douglass fully concurred in these views, nor were Mr. Littlefield and
                  his church backward in giving their consent. Forestdale was selected as the scene
                  of Charles' present efforts. The people were exceedingly destitute, and he opened
                  schools among them, both secular and Sabbath, and expounded to them the word of
                  God. They were poor and miserable, and therefore the more readily flocked around
                  him as their spiritual adviser. To a young man for years accustomed to literary
                  society and pursuits, the seclusion of a hidden and unlettered neighborhood is
                  sombre and oppressive. Some alleviation may be found from books; or, if he be a
                  spiritual man, from the communion of devout hearts. But young Douglass had not
                  gone there for the sake of books; nor was his mind sufficiently relieved of the
                  corroding anxieties which had so long preyed upon him and his family, to be happy
                  in communion either with himself, his fellowmen, or his God. He had no power to
                  resist the current of unhappy sensations, which, from the one ever-present,
                  ever-corroding idea of being a drunkard's son, had worn for itself a channel
                  through his heart.
               Those who describe the red, bloated face, the watery and inflamed eye, the
                  diseased and trembling frame, the ruined character and blighted fortune, of the
                  drunkard himself,—or even the withered plant of conjugal love in the bosom of his
                  wife, or the wretchedness of her infant group,—as evincing the worst evils of
                  intemperance, have but gross and imperfect views of the subject. It is after this
                  group have grown to manhood, to take their place in society as young ladies and
                  gentlemen, that the climax of the damning process is reached. Then that wife feels
                  over again all her pangs, with added strength, in the disgrace of her children;
                  while they, fluttering for a time with the vain endeavor to rise above the
                  domestic infamy, too often settle back into the habits of the father, and drown an
                  incurable sorrow in the maddening cup which had produced it.
               These feelings of disgrace and infamy, at being a drunkard's son, acting upon a
                  soul of towering ambition, and too little disciplined to restraint and control,
                  made the bosom of young Douglass more desolate than any hermit's cell, more
                  tempestuous than a chaotic world. He rather yielded himself to them, and found a
                  dismal pleasure in brooding over his pains. He spent much time in the thickest of
                  the forests, uttering ejaculations of anguish and woe, and struggling for relief,
                  but without power to surmount his mind-consuming grief. And, when kept within
                  doors by the howling of autumnal storms, he would lie prostrate, hours together,
                  upon the floor of his room, wishing for death as the end of a disgraced and
                  burdened life. His nerves were so excited and enfeebled, by the severity of past
                  studies and conflicts, and by a morbid
                  sense of the social disadvantages under which he labored, that he could not sleep;
                  longing for a fever, or some organic disease, to interrupt the course of those
                  excruciating thoughts, which he feared would otherwise drive him to madness.
                  Though he continued his services among the people as usual, so that they saw no
                  signs of the fearful tempest raging within, except in his haggard and emaciated
                  looks, of which they took little notice, thinking them the badges of his
                  profession; yet, whenever he came before them, it was with a sense that they were
                  all thinking "there comes the drunkard's son," and with a certainty that he could
                  not face them long enough to say a word. Though there was no real cause for all
                  this in anything said or thought among the people, yet his mind had become morbid
                  on a subject which had so long corroded within, and there was no such thing as
                  shaking off the incubus. And, indifferent as might be his public efforts, it
                  always seemed to him a matter of surprise, when he closed, that he had done as
                  well as he had. Speaking had the effect, for the time being, of diverting his mind
                  from its horrid ideas.
               He became, at length, convinced that he must either sink into nothing, and
                  disappoint the hopes of his friends, or else make an effort to dismiss a subject
                  which had taken such hold upon him. He resolved on the latter course; bethinking
                  himself that no blame could attach to him on account of his father's habits, and
                  that, as to the disgrace brought upon him as a consequence of them,
                     that might prove a salutary thorn in the flesh, to gain the ends
                  of moral discipline, and increase his usefulness. He found it easier to think
                  this, however, than to repair the breach upon his mental and nervous constitution
                  which had been already inflicted. As a curative process, therefore, he resolved
                  upon three things: first, visiting ing the afflicted, and doing the offices of
                  humanity; second, taking frequent rides on horseback; and third, trusting more
                  implicitly in his heavenly Father, for the management of his domestic sorrow and
                  all its consequences. The first made him familiar with those who had far greater
                  causes of sorrow, and taught him reconciliation by the contrast; the second
                  improved his health and spirits; and the third shielded him under a higher power,
                  insomuch that, under this regimen, his spirits soon began to acquire tone, his
                  feelings elasticity, and the roses of youth to bloom upon his cheek, and peace and
                  contentment to beam in his eye. The happiness he conferred on others reäcted upon
                  himself, and he found in the improving condition of the people unmingled
                  satisfaction.
               Things went on thus till late in October, when, the day being unusually fine, he
                  continued his morning ride full ten miles from his lodgings. Here the country
                  dropped down to a level full sixty feet lower, to which, as he descended, he saw
                  the smoke curling up among the tree-tops on his right, while directly before him a
                  magnificent plantation opened upon his view. The smoke, he soon saw, came from a
                  spacious mansion, with piazzas encircling it, and an observatory surmounting the
                  top, which commanded a view of the whole plain in which the plantation was
                  located. The lanes, fields, and houses of the tenantry, were arranged with
                  reference to the mansion, immediately around which were original forest-trees in
                  clusters, with cleared spaces between, occupied by lawns and gardens. As the
                  morning was mild and misty, the smoke from the houses of the distant tenantry was
                  slowly rising, circling round and round as it mingled with the pendent clouds.
                  Flocks of sheep and herds of cattle were performing their morning gambols over the
                  rich pastures which extended across the ample circumference of the plain. Douglass was enraptured at the view,
                  and, midway of the declivity, he sat, poised in his saddle, gazing upon this
                  enchanting picture of country life.
               Fatigued with his ride, he could not resist the temptation of alighting at the
                  base of the hill, and paying his respects to the family at the mansion, in order
                  to acquaint himself more fully with the possessors of such a beautiful domain.
                  Fastening his horse at the gate which opened upon the lawn that extended back to
                  the mansion, a distance of about fifteen rods, he walked leisurely along between
                  rows of mast-trees, which were dropping their ripe fruit in great abundance. As he
                  arrived opposite the garden, he heard the soft tones of a female voice saying,
                  "John, be careful, man! don't break my roots!"
               "Indade, miss, it'll pain me much to destroy these pretty flower-bearers," said a
                  gruff voice, in Hibernian accent.
               "Charming! excellent!" added the female voice. "All safe! You have done right
                  well, my good fellow; not a root is broken. It would be a pity not to use well
                  what adds so much beauty to our home."
               "An' faith," said the man, "I'm thinkin' as much."
               By this time Charles had reached a point to see the actors in this dialogue, who
                  he found to be a laboring man, with a basket of bulbous roots, and a young lady,
                  who seemed to be superintending their removal to a place of safety for the winter.
                  The lady, in a neat morning dress and straw hat, strongly impressed him with an
                  idea of extreme beauty, gentleness and serenity. Her complexion was so clear, her
                  eye so soft and yet so brilliant, her form so sylph-like and symmetrical, her
                  expression so sweet and intelligent, and her movements so natural and graceful,
                  that Douglass stood entranced,—more charmed by the tenant than he had been by her
                  home. At that instant she caught his eye, and he nodded a respectful
                  "good-morning." She replied by a slight inclination of the head, a little confused
                  at his unexpected appearance.
               "Excuse this interruption, madam," said Charles. "In taking a morning ride, I have
                  been so much attracted by the uncommon beauty of this place, that I could not
                  resist the temptation to a nearer inspection."
               "Sir, you are quite welcome at Terracegreen," said the lady.
               "Your family must have settled here at an early period."
               "No, only a few years ago."
               "But how should it be possible in a few years to raise a wilderness to such a
                  pitch of cultivation?"
               "My father, sir, had tenants on the farm several years before we occupied it
                  ourselves; and, having a great fondness for rural pursuits, he has done much since
                  he came to beautify the place."
               "Your father must be a man of taste. I see on this plantation what, I confess, has
                  before occurred to me as a picture of imagination, occasional remnants of
                  forest-trees in clusters over the cleared parts, to diversify the scenery. The
                  axe, as a general thing, you know, takes all."
               "My father took the idea from English scenery. He was travelling abroad when our
                  tenants began to clear the farm, and he wrote, ordering them to leave no space
                  large enough for a field bare of these shady clusters."
               "How opportune the idea! They are a great ornament to the place."
               "They are more; they relieve the heat of summer to our horses, cattle and
                  sheep."
               
               "To be sure," replied Charles; "and they are entitled to have their
                  comfort considered, as well as our own."
               "Yes, I see not how we can answer it to our consciences to be neglectful of them,
                  when they are so faithful in serving us. Their approach to us is far nearer than
                  ours to the supreme Benefactor on whom all alike depend."
               "Such sentiments are the brightest ornament of your sex and your person," replied
                  Charles, with an impulse to be complimentary without knowing how.
               "The right of the thing is more to me than the ornament," she said, a little
                  doubtful as to the motive of his remark.
               "No doubt, no doubt," added Douglass, blushing with apprehension, lest he had too
                  freely betrayed his admiration of her person.
               "Will you please walk in, sir?" she said, moving towards the house.
               "I thank you," said Charles, following; "I am too much charmed by the place and
                  its occupant to refuse such a request."
               "Compliments are cheap things," she added, still doubtful whether he was in
                  earnest.
               "You mistake, if you think me capable of using them insincerely. What I feel I
                  speak. Pardon the freedom in a stranger."
               "Never mind," she replied, stepping upon the balcony, where they were met by the
                  melodious notes of a canary. "Tiny, sweet Tiny! how soft and cheerful is your
                  morning song! You are happy,—happy, and love to make us so."
               "You are fond of birds?"
               "Who is not fond of birds?"
               "Did it never strike you as cruel to deprive them of liberty?"
               "Perhaps so," said she thoughtfully. "Still, habit makes confinement second nature
                  to them, and I believe my Tiny as happy as any bird in his native forest;" to
                  which the bird seemed to assent by pouring forth one of his most joyous
                  strains.
               "If he is not, it will not be for lack of an attentive mistress."
               "True, I could not neglect him. It would be an ungrateful return for the pleasure
                  he affords. Be seated, sir," said she, showing him into the parlor.
               "No, no, I must return; I have already exceeded my time."
               "Sir, we cannot consent to your leaving so abruptly. Our breakfast is this moment
                  on the table. I will call papa; he will be happy to speak with you."
               With that she ran to call her father, while Douglass glanced around the room in
                  which he was seated, and was struck with the air of neatness, simplicity and
                  elegance, which seemed to preside over all he saw. In a few moments she returned,
                  with evident discomposure at learning that her father had been called out on
                  public business, and would not breakfast at home that morning.
               "I am surprised to find myself deserted by my father," she said, upon returning;
                  "he has left me to breakfast alone."
               "I think, my kind hostess, you must now excuse me; and, with your leave, I will
                  call again, and make the acquaintance of a father whose daughter has inspired me
                  with so many sentiments of gratitude."
               "Gratitude! no, if you do not breakfast with me."
               "Well, since you insist upon it, I must yield."
               The breakfast-bell now rang, and, rising, she conducted him to the breakfast-room.
                  Douglass was surprised to find no one
                  at the table but the young lady and himself, and remarked, "Your family is
                  small."
               "There are none in it but my father, myself and the servants."
               "No mother?"
               "My blessed mother went to another and better world when I was a child, and my
                  little brother died about the same time."
               "Indeed, and not lonely?"
               "No; habit has taught me to find company in myself,—not the best, it is true, but
                  such as I contrive to reconcile myself to."
               "I should doubt whether you could find better," said Douglass.
               "You seem determined to flatter me," said the young lady; "but what do you think
                  of my father, who has been here entirely by himself during the years of my absence
                  at school?"
               "I am no flatterer," replied Charles; "but, if this were my house, and I your
                  father, it would require more philosophy than I have to endure the absence of such
                  as you are in my view."
               She blushed at this speech, and even Charles was confused; for his language never
                  before took a complimentary turn toward a young lady. But his character partook
                  too much of simplicity and impulse to admit of his disguising his feelings.
                  Besides, the freedom of conversation on both sides arose from a sort of
                  home-feeling between them,—from a secret impression of previous acquaintance. The
                  cases are not infrequent in which a familiarity at once arises between those who
                  are linked by no tie of recollection, because the heart's facility of reviving
                  former impressions is greater than the mind's power of tracing the continuity of
                  its ideas. This illusion is sometimes produced by the similarity of the new
                  acquaintance to an old and tried friend, leading strangers upon a first meeting to
                  glide into a familiarity at which they themselves are surprised. There may also
                  exist between persons in nature such a fitness of taste as to lead to this result,
                  in spite of calculation and endeavor to maintain greater reserve. Love at first
                  sight is by no means impossible.
               Breakfast concluded, Charles, about to take his leave, remarked, "When shall I
                  have the pleasure of another such entertainment?"
               "I was about to ask you to call and make my father's acquaintance, but—but—"
               "O, I see; my promptitude in forestalling your invitation embarrasses you. I ask
                  to come for your sake, and you was about to invite me for your
                     father's sake. Perhaps some third person might interfere with
                     my request, but none can object to yours."
               "It is enough that the parties directly concerned are satisfied," she replied;
                  "let others take care of themselves. When will you come to see both my father and
                     me, if you please?"
               Taking out his memorandum-book, Douglass looked a moment along the line of his
                  engagements, saying, or rather thinking abstractedly, "This is Monday; well,
                  Thursday,—Thursday is a great way off,—will Thursday morning please you?"
               "Yes, if you will arrange to pass the day with us."
               "A day! Would it were a week, in such an Eden, with such an Eve!"
               "O, you mock me by your flattery!"
               "You will never say that, when you are better acquainted with me; so I must trust to my future good behavior
                  to redeem my character. Good-morning."
               "Good-morning," she replied, with an expression of simplicity and innocence that
                  would have given him pleasure, but for the feeling which it awakened of the gulf
                  that existed between him, a drunkard's son, and one of a character and
                  associations which seemed to him so far above his own. The disadvantages of such a
                  relationship are never so keenly felt as when they come in to crush the heart's
                  fondest hopes and aspirations. We can endure its poverty, the scorn and neglect of
                  society on its account, and almost any other of the accruing disadvantages, better
                  than the barriers which it interposes to an affair of the heart.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE INIQUITY OF A FATHER VISITED UPON HIS SON.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
                           My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
                           The wreck of all my friends, or this man's threats
                           To whom I am subdued, are but light to me,
                           Might I but through my prison once a day
                           Behold this maid."—
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               THE impression of previous acquaintance, which was the real cause of the freedom
                  of the foregoing interview between Charles Douglass and the young lady therein
                  introduced to the reader, existed in both their minds as the relic of a forgotten
                  dream. But, with all their efforts, they could not revive the recollection of each
                  other. A mysterious enchantment hung round this new acquaintance in the mind of
                  Douglass, and he would sit musing for hours together, like a man upon whom some
                  half-formed conception of future good has begun to dawn, and he dwells upon it
                  continually, lest the fugitive idea should escape, and merge him in his former
                  darkness. When Thursday came, he was up earlier than usual, and mounted his horse
                  with more than his wonted elasticity. Even the noble horse seemed to partake of
                  his enthusiasm,—prancing and neighing, and looking wistfully in the direction of
                  the plantation. A servant was in waiting at the gate to conduct him to the
                  mansion; and, as Douglass advanced up the lawn, he was more than ever struck with
                  the beauty of the place. The rocky defile along the north of the house seemed to
                  render it impregnable against wintry winds, imparting to the whole an aspect of
                     snug comfort, peculiarly propitious to a Northern imagination;
                  while the expanding plain that opened to the south was beautifully diversified
                  with groves, meadows, broad acres of green and luxuriant wheat, and all the charms
                  of a highly-cultivated plantation. His horse he delivered to the man in waiting,
                  and, being promptly answered at the door, was soon seated in the parlor. As the
                  daughter had no means of introducing her guest, she thought it prudent to send her
                  father to reconnoitre, who accosted Douglass with "Sir, good-morning; be seated,
                  sir."
               "Good-morning," rejoined Douglass. "I was so much struck with the beauty of your
                  plantation, the other day, that I begged of your daughter the privilege of making
                  the acquaintance of its owner."
               "Our house is always open to those who deserve our respect."
               "In the absence of such desert, I could not hope to command respect from a
                  gentleman of your discernment."
               "I harbor no suspicions,—you are welcome," added the host, at the same time casting upon his guest a
                  searching look; and, detecting the scar left by the deer on Charles' temple, he
                  exclaimed, "Bless me! is this you, Charles Douglass?"
               "That is my name, sir; but pray how should you know me?"
               "Was you not struck senseless, some years since, by the blow of a deer on your
                  temple?"
               "I was."
               "Well, have you forgotten the agency which one Harcourt and his daughter had, on
                  that occasion?"
               "No, I can never forget it! And you are that person?"
               "The same. I should have known more of you, and your family, but that I was called
                  to attend to the building of this house. I believe you saw more of my
                  daughter."
               "Mr. Harcourt, you are greatly changed in appearance,—much more corpulent,—and I
                  should not have mistrusted the identity. I felt that I knew your daughter; but she
                  was then a child and is now a woman, and I could not quite recall her. Your man
                  John, too, I thought I had seen; but Irish laborers are so much alike I can never
                  tell them apart. I have been in a maze ever since I was here the other day, but
                  now all is plain. I owe my life, sir, to you and Canaudeh."
               "Canaudeh! yes, that's a noble Indian. I suppose you know that I have him here on
                  my farm?"
               "Canaudeh here! I thought he was at Green Bay. What providence has brought him
                  here?"
               "He did emigrate, but longed so much for the country of his fathers' sepulchres,
                  that last spring he returned, and was lingering about in the woods of this
                  neighborhood like a man among the tombs, obtaining a precarious subsistence by
                  hunting. I pitied him, and, at the suggestion of my daughter, offered him a home
                  on my plantation, and a supply from my table. And he has accepted it,—at least, so
                  much of the time as he does not give to hunting."
               "Has he learned to talk English yet?"
               "He rarely attempts it, though he understands much that is said to him. My
                  daughter, who has come to be of a pious turn of mind, and visits him every week to
                  talk her doubtful notions in his ear, thinks he understands all. But I doubt it;
                  for it is more than I can do."
               "Then he has maintained his pledge, I suppose?" said Charles.
               "What pledge?" inquired Harcourt, with a sneer which indicated that he knew
                  without asking.
               "The pledge of total abstinence. Have you not heard the story?"
               "No, no!" said Harcourt indignantly. "I did not think Canaudeh such a confounded
                  fool as to sell his freedom to these cursed fanatics."
               "Fool or no fool, it saved him from the fate of his tribe. Every man, woman and
                  child of them had died of drunkenness, directly or indirectly; and the old chief
                  was rapidly going the same way, when he saw the evil, and came under a solemn
                  pledge never to drink another drop that intoxicates, though there was at the time
                  little hope that he would keep it."
               "That explains the old ninny's conduct the other day. I said to him, 'Canaudeh,
                  this beer is excellent; will you taste it?' when he stared, and at length said, in
                  his broken way, 'You me not know; fire-water devil, drink and Indian make mad. Me
                  know Indian well. Taste beer, then taste rum, then get drunk, then fight and kill,
                  then in street lie and get sick, then die.' Then he added, with tears, 'My
                  fathers, my brothers, ugh, ugh!'—which means something beyond my depth.—'No give Indian drink no more!' I
                  thought it queer, but did not understand it before."
               "I think you will now confess him a wise man."
               "No, he is a fool, and so is any man who has not self-command enough to drink
                  without drinking to his injury."
               "Is your daughter at home?" inquired Douglass, desiring to change the subject, and
                  avoid all seeming rudeness to a man in his own house.
               "Go, call your mistress," said Harcourt to a servant in waiting. Miss Harcourt
                  soon appeared, and the young couple were formally introduced by the father. A
                  feeling of natural embarrassment came over them at meeting as gentleman and lady,
                  who had previously known each other only as children.
               "My little friend, as I used to call you," said Charles, "how little did I
                  suspect, the other morning, that I was breakfasting with you!"
               "And I was as much in the dark as yourself, though, I confess, a mysterious
                  impression of previous acquaintance lingered round my mind."
               "So I felt, and have taxed my brain not a little to identify you. And Canaudeh too
                  here,—how strange!"
               "Yes, Canaudeh, and no more the bloody warrior, but the true Christian."
               "That favorite idea of yours, my daughter, is harmless, whatever may be said of
                  its truth."
               "You do not deem it impossible, Mr. Harcourt?" said Charles.
               "I am no judge in such matters. I leave those to determine them who can. I only
                  say I cannot, and I am no hypocrite."
               "Do you not remember Samuel Gilfort?" inquired Miss Harcourt.
               "Yes, as great a cheat as ever lived. So think the Mapleton people," said
                  Charles.
               "Are you sure of that?" said Harcourt.
               "Perfectly sure; as sure as a tree is known by its fruits."
               "Well, he has made a great figure in the world," said Miss Harcourt.
               "And seems very much improved," added her father.
               "What! have you any direct intelligence of him, of late?" inquired Douglass.
               "I? Yes," said Harcourt; "I meet him daily."
               "What! in this neighborhood?" inquired Douglass, with surprise.
               "Yes, in this neighborhood, and several times in this house."
               "Is it possible,—Samuel Gilfort in this neighborhood, and in this house recently!
                  Where are his colony, his cosmopolis, his palace, and the possessions he is said
                  to have acquired in the far West?"
               "O, I learn he has left them in a prosperous way, for the purpose of relieving
                  himself from the weight of his great affairs. Princes find it necessary to
                  rusticate, to recruit their exhausted energies," added Harcourt, laughing. "Is it
                  not wonderful that he should have the control of twenty thousand hands in building
                  his seat of empire?"
               "Wonderful, if true," said Douglass. "I do not believe he has half that number.
                  Stories magnify, like flocks of pigeons, with the extent of their flight. Pray how
                  does he appear?"
               "Like a gentleman,—that he does," said Harcourt. "Two or three servants, apostles,
                  or secretaries, attend him. His person has grown into graceful proportions, and
                  his carriage is manly and dignified.
                  They even talk of him for our next President."
               "Our next President!" said Douglass, with a sneer. "Talk of Lucifer as well! Does
                  he drink as much as ever?"
               "He is no drunkard, sir; he is always himself; he can stand as much as Alexander
                  the Great, or any of his court. I think the more of him for that."
               "Dear father," said Sarah, "how can you speak so? Dress, equipage and good living,
                  have taken off the rough edges of his appearance; but he has the same snaky eyes,
                  and the same sinister look, as ever; and to me he seems more hateful than formerly
                  in his poverty, because I am thinking of the frauds by which he has raised himself
                  to his bad eminence; and because strong drink does not produce in him the same
                  degraded exterior as in some others, it does not prove that its moral or inward
                  effects are any the less abhorrent."
               "But what are the peculiar principles on which he has gathered his colonists
                  around him?" inquired Douglass.
               "They are a sort of mongrel combination of politics and religion. The first
                  article is: Samuel Gilfort, the great light of the universe. This makes all others
                  satellites, to revolve around him and do his bidding. Then, you have only to
                  picture to yourself the course such a will as Gilfort's would be likely to take,
                  in filling up the outlines of his creed, to understand the whole. That he has the
                  right to control every man's purse would naturally stand second. The rest is made
                  up of a doggerel litany, hypocritical cant, and a round of ceremonies, in the
                  formation of which Moses and Solon, Jesus and Voltaire, the Pope and Mahomet,
                  Washington and Benedict Arnold, have lent their appropriate share of influence. It
                  takes all kinds of bait to catch all kinds of fish. The more contradictory the
                  compound, the more captivating to the multitude who are born to be the dupes of
                  the designing."
               "But perhaps he hopes by his visits to you to make a convert," said Douglass,
                  laughing.
               "No, not of me, but of Sarah. Me he knows to be incorrigible; but my
                  pretty daughter, as he calls her, he supposes more susceptible in such
                  matters."
               "Father, how can you speak of me in such an odious connection?" said Sarah, with
                  an expression of injured feeling.
               "Think not, my daughter," said Harcourt, with genuine tenderness, "that I am
                  representing you, but him of whom Mr. Douglass is so
                  curious to learn. His vile schemes, I know, can never touch you otherwise than
                  with disgust." Breakfast was now announced, and Sarah, taking her father's arm,
                  led him aside, to request that he should ask their visitor to say grace, as she
                  knew, by a woman's instinct, that he must be a clergyman, in fact or in
                  prospect.
               "How do you know there is any grace in him?" said Harcourt, facetiously.
               "Papa, you know how I delight to please you, and do gratify
                     me in this!"
               "Certainly, my daughter, you shall be gratified." Accordingly the service was
                  politely requested, and as promptly performed. Though Harcourt was an avowed
                  infidel, yet it was his study and his life to please his daughter, whose position
                  was directly the opposite of his own in this respect. No father could be more
                  affectionate or assiduous.
               "I admire your selection of a place for building," said Douglass. "It is not
                  uncommon for farmers to perch their houses on the bleak point of the hills, where
                  the winds do battle upon all that comes in their way. I confess the sight of such
                  domiciles freezes me, even in the heat of summer. I choose to be hid, as you are, under this rocky
                  defile, from those aërial enemies which attack us so fiercely in this
                  climate."
               "It is true, sir, I have more respect for the gods of the air, Boreas, Notus and
                  the like, than for all the saints in the calendar. I have made it the study of my
                  life to guard against these princes of the air, by whom my fences are sometimes
                  shattered, and my fields laid waste."
               "Well, you have been fortunate in locating your castle."
               "Our ideas of comfort," said Miss Harcourt, "take their cast from the climate in
                  which we live. At the South, their houses can hardly be said to be places of
                  protection against anything but sunbeams."
               "Yes, they want air; we want protection against wind and
                  cold," said Douglass. "Perhaps our confinement may be more favorable to
                  civilization, though I confess I often sigh for the velvet atmosphere of those
                  more voluptuous climates. We have retirement and reading, however, to compensate
                  our lack of the freedom of out-door life; and, upon the whole, our condition is
                  most favorable."
               "So we think; and so thinks the Esquimaux, who wraps himself in furs,
                  and resorts to the snowy caverns of his native land, to spend his six months'
                  winter on oil and seal's flesh, thanking his gods for a country so superior to all
                  others," said Harcourt.
               "Custom has, indeed, much to do with our predilections," replied Douglass. "Still,
                  no one can doubt that temperate climates have greater advantages for individual
                  and social elevation than any other. Facts are independent of local prejudices.
                  The things which really ennoble mankind are found for the most part with us."
               "How, then, should Egypt, the warmest and most insalubrious country in the world,
                  have been the cradle of European civilization?" said Harcourt. "Its colonists
                  converted the Greeks from swine to men, and from living on acorns to quaff the
                  generous cup and drink the flowing bowl."
               "Do you think the old Egyptians wine-bibbers?" inquired Charles.
               "They must have been, or they could not have been an elevated people," said
                  Harcourt. "Where did refinement of sentiment ever grow up without wine?"
               "I remember," said Douglass, "the picture of a drunken man among the paintings or
                  hieroglyphics of ancient Egypt, but never till now heard it mentioned as an
                  evidence of refinement."
               "Nor does papa think it so, more than Mr. Douglass," said Sarah. "He knows as well
                  as the rest of us that it was not wine, but the Nile, that gave the Egyptians
                  precedence in civilization. That did the work of the plough, spade and hoe, ages
                  before they were invented, which is reason enough for their early
                  advancement."
               "Yes, Miss Harcourt, you have the right of it. The Nile was in itself a greater
                  civilizer than all other outward agents. Wine debased the people, and undid the
                  work the Nile had done."
               "Two against one," said Harcourt, "proves nothing. There never was a generous
                  people that did not dip deep in the juice of the grape, from old Noah's drunken
                  fit to this day. The old barbarian patriarchs before the flood knew nothing of
                  this drink to cheer both God and man; and hence, the old dolts, what were they fit
                  for but to be drowned? As soon as the race learned from the ark-man how to make
                  wine, they began to shoot ahead; and Ham, stealing the art of his father, went
                  into Egypt, and gave it both wine and a name, as you know it is called Cham, throughout the Old
                  Testament, after this wayward son of Noah."
               "Your reasoning, sir, strikes me as more amusing than logical," said Douglass,
                  laughing.
               "Well, you Christians are bound to speak well of Egypt, because it gave you your
                  Moses and your laws," said Harcourt.
               "God gave them to us, in spite of Egypt, you mean," said Charles.
               "By the way, do you accept Homer's description of Egyptian Thebes as fact, or
                  fiction?" inquired Harcourt.
               "What description do you refer to?"
               
                  
                     
                        "'ουδ όσα Θηβας
                     
                     
                        Αιυπτιας, οθι πλειστα δομοις εν κτηματα
                           κειται
                     
                     
                        Αιθ εκατομπυλοι εισι δινκοσιοι δ αν εκυτην
                     
                     
                        'Ανεζθς εξοιχνεσι συν ιπποισιν κκι
                           οχεσφιν'"
                     
                  
               
               "O, father!" said Sarah, mortified by this literary exhibition, "do not give us
                  these barbarous sounds!"
               "Well, here you have it in the elegant English of Pope," replied her father, still
                  anxious to maintain his credit for literature: 
                     
                        "Not all proud Thebes' unrivalled walls contain,
                        The world's great empress on the Egyptian plain,
                        That spreads her conquests o'er a thousand states,
                        And pours her heroes through a hundred gates;
                        Two hundred horsemen, and two hundred cars,
                        From each wide portal issuing to the wars."
                     
                  
               
               "Really, Mr. Harcourt, you have reserved some time for literature amid the cares
                  of business," said Douglass.
               "I remember a thing or two of my youth," said Harcourt.
               "I consider this description of Homer a literal matter-of-fact. The present ruins
                  of Thebes prove this," added Douglass.
               "Dear father, please excuse my interrupting; but I have an engagement," said
                  Sarah. Her engagement turned out to be with Canaudeh, in fulfilling which she
                  invited Charles to accompany her. She retired to get herself in readiness, and
                  soon returned, followed by a lad with a basket of nice things for their favorite
                  son of the forest, and bringing also two fish-poles, with hook and line, that they
                  might give an idle hour to angling. "You will smile at my apparatus, so unusual in
                  this land of wheat, and cattle, and labor. But I learned to amuse myself in this
                  way at my boarding-school on the Atlantic; and we have a babbling brook abounding
                  in trout on our plantation, where I sometimes spend a leisure hour."
               "A happy thought. No better could be imagined. But I am unskilled in business of
                  this kind, and must learn of you."
               "Very well; I can teach you to catch trout." Thus furnished, away they flew,
                  leaving Harcourt to his occupations, whose eye followed the airy footsteps of his
                  daughter with all a father's pride and joy. She ran meandering through the
                  shrubbery and lawns of the plantation, while Charles followed with his delicious
                  burden, feeling for once the buoyancy of young spirits, and the delight of an
                  overflowing heart. With all the excellences of puritanic piety, does it not take
                  too little account of the necessity of recreation to health and happiness?
                  Douglass had made a conscience of brooding over his sorrows, as if that might be
                  some atonement for his own faults, or some relief for the unfortunate habits of
                  his father. He journalized, struggled with irresistible emotions, and gave himself
                  to unrelaxed labor and unmitigated asperity, not considering how much he needed a
                  counter-irritant, as the physicians say, or excitement from another quarter and in another
                  channel, to diversify his emotions, and turn his mind from the horrid ideas which
                  preyed like vampires on his spiritual being. Diversion was his great want; though,
                  alas! it could not cure him, exposed as he was to the officious intermeddling of
                  those who were jealous of his happiness, and bent upon spoiling it, as we shall
                  see, by driving him into, not the imaginary, but the real, disadvantages of being
                  a drunkard's son. Arriving at the border of the unbroken wilderness, Miss Harcourt
                  paused, and, pointing in the distance to Canaudeh's wigwam, she said,
                     "My way lies through this forest, which is more convenient than
                  climbing the fences of the open field. But, Mr. Douglass, you must follow hard
                  after me, or you will be lost among the thick trees."
               "No, I shall not lose you, unless you vanish, like wood-nymphs, who are said to be
                  rather coy of being seen by men."
               "Well, nymph or no nymph, if you lose me, it shall be your own fault."
               "I take you at your word,—lead on." With that, she plunged into the gloom of the
                  forest, turning now this way and now that, to avoid the impassable thickets, while
                  he pursued like a hound on the track of a hare, and was pleased to find everywhere
                  the signs of her former footsteps on a similar errand of love.
               "Here we are at last," she said, "and Canaudeh within, I see by his dog."
               Charles was sensibly affected, as he approached the savage, by the vivid
                  recollection which it revived of that night of nights, when his sable form was
                  first revealed to him amid the nocturnal gloom of the forest, and when, but for
                  his well-aimed gun, he would have died on the spot. Often, in his subsequent days
                  of agony, had he regretted Canaudeh's interference ference, as then the panther
                  would have soon put him out of all worldly misery.
               "What an humble house," said Douglass, as they approached the wigwam, "for one too
                  good for a palace!"
               "None too humble, since it makes him happier than a palace could. Happiness, Mr.
                  Douglass, is what the heart craves; and why should the reality be
                  sacrificed to the appearance? You know how tenacious the Indians are
                  of this wild mode of life."
               "Yes, the white captive who lives long among them becomes also so attached to it
                  as to be with difficulty dissuaded from it. His rude freedom, once tasted,
                  intoxicates the feelings, and not unfrequently makes civilized life tasteless and
                  insufferable."
               The barking of the dog had by this time brought Canaudeh to the door, and, seeing
                  his benefactress, his countenance beamed delight; but, upon discovering that she
                  was accompanied by a stranger, he relapsed into his usual reserve, till his
                  practised eye recognized his quondam friend, which Douglass, perceiving, rushed to
                  his arms, when a greeting ensued as tender as between father and son. The savages
                  are remarkable for never forgetting a friend. All the sympathies of the chief's
                  noble soul for once gushed up; and the remembrances which intervened between this
                  and their last meeting, including his painful migration to the distant west and
                  his late return, caused the mingled tears of agony and of love for once to trickle
                  down his brawny cheeks. And—a rare circumstance for him—he exclaimed, in broken
                  English, "Me bliss,"—putting his hand upon his heart,—"Great Spirit me tank; him
                  great good; me see my dead boy; bravo!—him grow like tall pine." The last
                     remark referred to the manly
                  proportions into which Charles had grown since he last saw him.
               "O, Canaudeh, these sentiments of pious gratitude from your lips are like music to
                  my ears!" said Douglass, with emotion.
               The noble savage then, stretching up his tall form to its full length, while his
                  long gray locks waved in the wind, laid one hand on the head of Sarah, and with
                  the other pointed to heaven, to signify that there was his destined home, and she
                  was the one who had taught him the way. The first gush of feeling passed, the
                  Indian relapsed into his wonted silence, while Miss Harcourt went on with her
                  usual task of making him understand a portion of God's word. The lesson of this
                  morning was the scene of Gethsemane, which, as she proceeded to unfold it to his
                  view, threw an air of solemn devotion over his features; and, pointing to an
                  uprooted oak, he showed by signs that, as the winds had rudely dealt with that, so
                  he should soon fall, as the only relic of his tribe;—but it would be to find
                  salvation by Him who thus suffered in the garden, and expired upon the cross.
               "How my heart bleeds at the injuries which this noble race has suffered at our
                  hands!" said Charles, as they left the wigwam. "We have given them our inventions,
                  without teaching them how to use them. We have given them rum and gunpowder, but
                  without the gospel. Poor fellow! he seems not to be insensible to his wrongs."
               "Insensible? No, he feels them keenly. His red brethren also feel them. But our
                  wrong, I think, does not so much consist in withholding the gospel,—because, from
                  the days of their apostle Eliot to this time, we have done much to Christianize
                  them,—but in not living it, in not practising it, in our intercourse with them.
                  Besides, alcohol to a savage appetite is more certain death than arsenic; for it
                  begets a fatal thirst, which the latter does not. They can taste the one without
                  craving it to their death, but not the other."
               "Yes, yes; alcohol has swept from this continent the noblest of all the races,"
                  said Douglass with feeling, derived from his own sad experience.
               "The severest part of my task, Mr. Douglass, has been to impress Canaudeh with the
                  difference between Christianity and Christians. As soon as he took hold on this,
                  and learned to look at Christ and the gospel as distinct from the white race, his
                  heart was open to the truth and love which shine in the character of our
                  Saviour."
               "And the same is true of all men. Christianity has in it the force of universal
                  conviction. It is a religion of love; and love to the soul is what light is to the
                  eye. It subdues the untractable, softens the obdurate, and does more than the
                  fabled harp of Orpheus, which stayed the flow of rivers, made savage beasts forget
                  their wildness, mountains dance to its strains, and charmed the prince of hell
                  into clemency. O! the love of Christianity, as disconnected from the animosity of
                  Christians, is a miracle-worker in the cause of virtue and civilization."
               "I like the temperance pledge, Mr. Douglass, but I am satisfied that that alone
                  could not save Canaudeh from a drunkard's grave. Christian principle must come to
                  its support; and mental, moral and social excitements, must supply the place of
                  the bottle."
               "But, without the pledge of total abstinence, what can they do? It is healing a
                  wound without extracting its virulence, and thus leaving it to break out again.
                  One daily dram is enough to break the ties of principle, mental excitement, and of
                  social or religious influence. I know it, I know it, Miss Harcourt; I have seen it over and over
                  again, and never more than in our dear Mapleton, within a few years past."
               "What has happened in your town?"
               "Ah me!" said Douglass, with a sigh, "I'll tell you another time; it is too long a
                  story before my lesson in fishing."
               "Well, here is our babbling brook; but we must follow it down to my favorite
                  place. The fish are too coy for me elsewhere."
               "A babbling brook, indeed! How clear! how lively! how beautiful! I wonder not that
                  you love such a brook as this; I should love it now, for its own sake, if I had
                  not loved it before for yours."
               "Here, then, in this deep place, I always succeed best; but I resign it to you,
                  for your first lesson, and I will station myself near."
               "You are very kind," said he, preparing to drop his line.
               "No, stop; here's a drug that Canaudeh taught me to scent the bait with," she
                  said, dropping a little upon his bait. "Now, here, here; disengage your line; do
                  as I tell you, and be sure and move the hook gently, to take the attention of the
                  fish. A moving mouse is far more tempting to pussy than a dead one."
               He obeyed orders, while she went a short distance, and commenced angling. In a few
                  moments, out bounded her hook, with a pendent trout, all spotted with gold.
               "Charming preceptress, how shall I catch your art?" said Charles, laughing.
               "Good reason why you do not catch it; you are all the time looking round at me.
                  You must keep your eyes upon your line, and move it as I tell you."
               "This is the hardest part of my lesson. How can I help looking round?"
               "You rogue! do as I tell you, and it will be easy," said she, laughing, when out
                  leaped her hook again, with another fish.
               "Now, this is too bad! It is not Canaudeh's medicine, but your witchery, that
                  allures the fish. If I were a fish, I am sure I could not help biting such a
                  hook."
               "O, you must be complimentary!" she said, with a hearty laugh, in which he joined;
                  and the woods rang with the music of their mirth. "Your motions are not gentle
                  enough, Mr. Douglass. You scare the fish by splashing your line."
               "Gentle? How can I be gentle enough for these timid little things? My shadow
                  scares them. They have basked too long in your superior gentleness to endure
                  me."
               "You mock me, Mr. Douglass. I do not like your flattery."
               "I do not flatter; I speak sincerely; my heart will out."
               "If your heart is out, keep your hand steady," she replied, gayly. "There comes
                  another noble fellow! Poor fishy! is n't it too cruel?"
               "Yes, Miss Harcourt; my heart is touched. I couldn't perpetrate such a deed."
               "Then your heart is about you yet, it seems; and, I suppose, would be touched with
                  joy, as much as it now is with pity, if the fish would deign to bite your hook.
                  You must mend your ways before you arraign my cruelty."
               "You cruel? It's impossible. It is a mercy to the fish to die by such
                  hands. There! I have a bite!" added Douglass, snatching his hook with such
                  violence as to tear it from its fastenings, and the fish fell into the stream.
               "Well, let it go. I have a supply for both. One o'clock," added she, looking at her watch. "Dear me! it is so
                  late! Come, Mr. Douglass, we must go."
               "What! before I catch one fish?"
               "O, you will do better next time. You could not be expected to advance far in your
                  first lesson."
               "If I do not, it 'll not be the fault of my teacher."
               "Perhaps you are more successful in Peter's occupation of catching men," said Miss
                  Harcourt, who suspected Douglass' destination.
               "If that should prove true, Miss Harcourt, the cherished hope of my life will be
                  realized."
               "No hope could be better. 'He that winneth souls is wise.'"
               "This destination—too exalted for the aspirings of one so humble—has, for some
                  mysterious cause, been long before my mind."
               "And your education has been directed with reference to it?"
               "Not formally, but really. My engagement in Forestdale has no other object."
               "Precisely as I suspected. You live there as a teacher of religion."
               "Yes; as a teacher of religion, but not with the grave responsibilities of a
                  pastor. This is a calling in which practice must concur with theory, to prepare
                  one for it; and my friends advised this course, to settle my mind, and test my
                  fitness to make myself useful in it."
               "Something more than practice or theory seemed to be necessary to the apostles.
                  They had to be endued with power from on high; and are we less dependent in this
                  respect?"
               "No, none the less; but how are we to obtain it? that is the question. By what
                  means did you come to have views of this subject so just?"
               "I cannot say that they are so; but I will tell you how I came to think as I do,
                  when you have told me more about Mapleton."
               This conversation was terminated on the balcony of the mansion, where they parted,
                  Miss Harcourt to look after her household affairs, and Douglass to muse on the
                  incidents of the day. To a young man of Charles' habits and unhappy domestic
                  relations, nothing can be conceived more invigorating to head, heart and health,
                  than these hours of rural relaxation, in such society. When he was alone, his
                  dreary, soul-consuming years came peering up to his view, like the dashing wreck
                  from which the storm-smitten sailor has escaped, with the loss of all but his
                  life. But, alas! there is no repose to a drunkard's son. The more he felt himself
                  becoming interested in this new and delightful acquaintance, the more he feared
                  the effect of having his father's character known. It was a sun-dog to breed a
                  storm, and not a rainbow to harbinger a clear sky, that seemed to lure him on.
               Dinner was soon announced, and Douglass met father and daughter again, at table.
                  Health lent its charms to her person; exercise in the open air made her spirits
                  elastic; piety overcast her with grace and loveliness; and no feature was wanting
                  to complete in her the ideal of a model Christian female. No sombre airs, no
                  whining cant, no incapacity to please or be pleased, no prudish affectation of
                  gravity in dress,—nothing of the kind, to eclipse the lustre of her character; but
                  all was bland, frank, social, cheerful. Little passed between them at table. They
                  were too happy in their own reflections to talk, and too much interested in their
                  anticipated disclosures to fit them for conversation in the presence ence of a third person. Harcourt sipped
                  his wine freely, and offered the cup to his guest, but it was politely
                  declined.
               "What, Mr. Douglass!—a teetotaller?"
               "I never drink anything that intoxicates," replied Charles.
               "Excuse me, sir; but that always looks to me suspicious, as if a man did in secret
                  what he was ashamed to do openly."
               "It is a suspicion without foundation in my case, Mr. Harcourt, for I never drink
                  at all."
               "O, ah, yes, yes; not at all; and the meaning is, I suppose, that nobody else
                  shall drink. That, I believe, is the motive of your teetotal principle."
               "We leave every one to do as he pleases; but our conviction is, that the total
                  disuse of intoxicating liquids as a beverage would save the world an untold amount
                  of crime, poverty and wretchedness."
               "No doubt, no doubt; but my principle is, that those who are so weak as not to be
                  able to drink without injuring themselves would be in some other way criminal,
                  poor and wretched, if wine were given up. Your teetotalism can't save them."
               "Perhaps not all, but the greater part of them."
               "But, if I gave up one good thing because others abused it, then I
                  may another; and where shall I end? I must reduce myself to absolute
                  hermitage; because there is no possible comfort that somebody does not abuse."
               "But we do not consider alcohol, as a beverage, among our good things. We are all
                  better off without it. Besides, there is this difference between your wine and our
                  real comforts, that it generates, in a large proportion of those who use it
                  habitually, a dangerous appetite, which is with difficulty controlled, and which,
                  when indulged, leads to the greatest evils of which flesh is heir. It alienates
                  the reason; which cannot be said of our real comforts."
               "A precious little reason does it alienate; for the fools who use it in that
                  manner have no reason. They are not worth saving. I would not give up my wine to
                  save as many as you could shake a stick at."
               "Dear father," said Sarah, "you speak more than you
                     mean. You have a tender heart, and would make great sacrifices to
                  render the miserable happy, I know."
               "Certainly, certainly, my daughter; but the thing is, to be convinced that giving
                  up my wine would have this effect. Nobody but a fanatic would ever have thought
                  such a thing."
               Sarah was everything to her father, and he, apart from his infidel and worldly
                  views, was everything to her that a daughter could desire. It was his life to
                  please her, the image of that dear departed one who was ever present to his view,
                  and whose influence, but for his unfortunate drinking habits, might have elevated
                  him to the same spiritual hopes which greeted her in her death. But this habit,
                  though never indulged to the extent of what the world calls intoxication (which he
                  despised more than most men), kept his moral feelings in a disguised state, and he
                  did not reason nor feel on religious subjects as he probably would if the bane had
                  never entered his blood.
               Dinner ended, the young couple sought retirement to complete their explanations.
                  It was one of those warm days of November that pass for Indian summer. The
                  autumnal flies were sporting in the sunbeams in clusters like moving aërial
                  pyramids, the second-growth lettuce and spinage were expanding their green leaves
                  in the garden, the cricket was singing his monotonous ditty, the flocks and herds
                  were cropping the mown grass, and all was serene and lovely, like the old age of a
                  well-spent life.
               "O, Mr. Douglass, I must take you to our spring arbor, the loveliest spot on the plantation!" exclaimed
                  Miss Harcourt.
               "Do call me Charles, Miss Harcourt. I have had it at my tongue's end to say this,
                  all day; Mr. Douglass is so stiff!"
               "I should make a fine figure calling you Charles, when you this
                  moment called me Miss Harcourt. Call me Sarah, and try the effect of example
                  before you correct me."
               "Agreed, Sarah, sweet Sarah! that has always been a favorite name to me. I called
                  you so during those happy days of our childish acquaintance."
               "Here we are at Spring Arbor. How do you like it?"
               "Delightful!—a perfect Elysium! I never before imagined a spot of earth so
                  beautiful." Nor was the guise of fancy necessary to extort this confession. A
                  little west of Mr. Harcourt's house, the rocky defile curved round to the north,
                  so as to form a semi-circular space begirt by a natural wall, like the intersected
                  half of an amphitheatre, it being from the plain below to the level of the country
                  above the rocks full sixty feet. The open side of the semicircle looked to the
                  south-west, so as to command a full view of the descending sun of autumn, while in
                  its bosom gurgled up from the cavity of the mountain a copious spring of pellucid
                  water, which formed itself into a pond of a hundred yards in circumference.
                  Between this pond and the rocky defile on the north side of it Mr. Harcourt had
                  planted a vineyard, the ample tendrils of which stretched themselves over the
                  trees, shrubs and artificial supports, so as to form a spacious arbor covered by a
                  thick vegetable awning, and looking out upon the glassy surface of the fountain,
                  which he had peopled with a great variety of water-fowl.
               What may seem extraordinary, the young couple, who thought themselves alone, were
                  not so, but in the presence of a third person. That person was no other than
                  Samuel Gilfort, the skulking serpent, who, from motives which will hereafter
                  appear, gladly availed himself of the opportunity to learn the probable tendency
                  of an acquaintance so purely accidental as far as the parties were concerned,
                  which could have as yet no other motive than that of the pleasure they felt in
                  each other, as the gushing up of their childish recollections. If there was
                  anything beyond this, it must be set to the account of a certain fitness of
                  person, taste and character, which interference might be expected to develop
                  rather than repress. Whether this eavesdropping was from accident or design, on
                  the part of Gilfort, is not a well-settled question. He had been that morning
                  gaming in a contiguous forest; and, it is said by some, had returned late and sat
                  down to rest himself under the shade of a rock enclosed by vines and shrubbery
                  back of the pool, and would have escaped when he saw the young couple enter the
                  arbor, if he could have done it without exposure;—but, as he could not, he laid
                  still, where he could see and hear all that passed, without being himself
                  detected. Others affirm that he had been cognizant of Douglass' previous visit,
                  and that he took this clandestine method to ascertain whether a rival was likely
                  to spring up to his own fondly-cherished hopes. It is not material to our purpose
                  that we should vex ourselves with the real facts of this singular instance of
                  meddling with other people's business.
               Upon seating himself beside Miss Harcourt in the Arbor, Charles exclaimed again,
                  looking out upon the glassy surface of the pool, "A perfect paradise,—an
                  Eden!"
               "And I'll be the serpent," whispered Gilfort, inaudibly.
               "What is that?" said Sarah, with a start of surprise.
               "Nothing but a cricket; I heard a cricket peep," replied Douglass. "What a beautiful idea of your father to
                  people the pool with such charming tenantry! See how gracefully those swans move
                  their arched necks! How enchanting their aquatic evolutions! Not Joseph's
                  many-colored coat could equal the multiform plumage of these eider-drakes. How
                  elaborately are the minutest things in nature adorned for our use!"
               "That young ass thinks he brays beautifully," thought Gilfort, loud enough to
                  excite Sarah's fears again; and she said, "There! what is that? I certainly heard
                  something strange."
               "Yes, a cricket again; it is sweet in my ear. Don't you love the music of
                  crickets?"
               "I do not object, if it is that."
               "Tell me, Sarah, do you not spend much time here?"
               "O, yes, I do,—not to look at what you so much admire, but to think of my dear
                  mother, who is now in heaven. The mind has in it imagery so transcending all
                  outward loveliness, that we forget the one in our contemplation of the other."
               "Pray, Sarah, what are the facts in reference to your mother? She seems to live in
                  your mind as an ever-pervading presence, and I have always been curious for an
                  explanation."
               "The story is short, but full of meaning to an orphan's mind. My mother was to me,
                  while she lived, the oracle of God. Thoughts of God's goodness and Christ's love
                  were interwoven with the lullaby of the cradle and with the stories of the
                  nursery. Nor were her pious assiduities in vain. Her words dropped upon me like
                  the gentle showers on the spring grass. My earliest ideas were ideas of God, my
                  first words words of prayer, and my childish enthusiasm was to be as good as my
                  mother was,—yea, as good as she represented Jesus to my young imagination.
               "She died when I was eight years old; and such a parent's death no child ever
                  witnessed. She was so calm, so sweetly submissive, so charmingly lovely, in her
                  sickness, that my whole soul was wrapped up in hers, and it always seemed to me a
                  miracle of unbelief that my dear father was not won to her faith." Douglass
                  thought within himself that the mystery was fully revealed in the drinking habits
                  of her father. The serpent-cup held him with its charmed eye. It corrupted all his
                  moral judgments. While he despised drunkenness, no drunkard could be more wedded
                  to his cup, or more constantly disguised by it. This accounted for his singular
                  unbelief, amid evidences of Christian truth, in the life and death of his wife,
                  which were overwhelming. What is the more remarkable, was the perfect adoration
                  with which he cherished the memory of his wife, indisposing him to another
                  marriage, and rendering him so fond of Sarah from an idea that she was like her
                  mother. But still, all this mighty array of Christian domestic influence was more
                  than counterbalanced by the irresistible incantation of wine. These thoughts
                  passed through the mind of Charles, though delicacy restrained the expression of
                  them.
               "It was midnight," continued Sarah, "when my blessed mother breathed her last. At
                  her request, I was awaked an hour previous. When I came to her bedside, she said,
                  'My sweet Sarah, your mamma is dying!' I sobbed as if I would break my heart. 'My
                  tender daughter,' said she, 'come once more to your dear mamma's arms.' With that,
                  the nurse set me on the bed by her side, and she clasped me in her cold arms,
                  imprinted the kiss of her clammy lips upon my cheek, and said, 'O, Sarah, my
                  darling child, remember your mother
                  died a Christian. She loved Jesus. She prayed to him continually. She trusted his
                  atoning blood. Remember your mother said her dying hour was the happiest of her
                  life. Yes, full of happiness, and full of hope. There is no happiness, and no
                  hope, without holiness, my darling daughter. I leave you in God's hand. I know He
                  will take better care of you than your mamma could. I have his promise. I can
                  trust him. My breath is short,' she added, panting. 'I am away,—I am away! Angels
                  beckon me. Jesus smiles me into heaven. Glory, glory, glory!' and with her last
                  word her breath was exhaled upon my cheek, her arms still clasping me in the cold
                  embrace of death."
               Gilfort, moved by this recital, could not restrain his tears, ejaculating,
                  "Sweet!—beautiful!—divine! Now I feel the charm of innocence. O that I had been
                  born to a like inheritance! Cursed training!—incurable habit!" Steeped as he was
                  in infamy, born to a money-digging, whiskey-drinking, night-walking inheritance,
                  still his heart had its tender points. Whose has not? The evil spirit of alcohol,
                  indulged from youth, with habits in other respects to correspond, is enough to
                  make a fiend of any man. "My father," continued Sarah, "looked upon the scene in
                  tearless anguish. He felt too much to weep. Since that I have been his bosom
                  friend. His love to me, I sometimes fancy, arises chiefly from his idea that I
                  resemble my mother. O, Charles, I can never forget that scene! It made me—what
                  shall I say?—a child of faith. Faith gives substance to unseen things, rests upon
                  the word and providence of God, and peoples the spirit-land with living forms of
                  light and love. Were I rudely visited with the trials of life, I know not how they
                  would affect me. But ours is a faith that overcomes. Greater is He who is for us
                  than all they that can be against us, and I will not yield to fear. Still, faith
                  is a delicate plant, and must not be rudely handled. When once broken, it is hard
                  for it to send forth its shoots."
               "That is it," replied Charles; "break it, and it cannot bloom again. Mine is
                  broken, broken by sorrow, broken by wrong,—wrong in myself and others,—broken by a
                  burden of our Mapleton history which it was too weak to sustain. How shall I make
                  it green and blooming again?"
               "Pray, what has happened in Mapleton? I have a dear recollection of the place,
                  having passed one year there while our house was building."
               Douglass here detailed the facts in reference to the groggery and its effects,
                  which, especially that part which concerned his own father and the Durham family,
                  perfectly appalled her. The part of the story that concerned the money-diggers
                  exasperated Gilfort almost to madness, as he had a great interest to stand well
                  with the Harcourts; and he would have pounced upon the young couple at once,
                  dagger in hand, but for the hope of sweeter revenge on Douglass, and even of
                  success with Miss Harcourt, by some future turn of fortune's wheel.
               "Charles, your case is not so bad as you think," said Sarah. "No, no,—it admits of
                  hope. Faith can conquer difficulties even great as these. Dear, dear Mrs. Durham!
                  I remember her well. I, too, was her Sunday-school scholar for a short time. A
                  perfect gem of a woman. But it is a gem better fitted to shine in heaven than upon
                  earth. The Wisest and Best saw this, and took her home in a manner so shocking to
                  our feelings. The dark picture has a bright side to the eye of faith. It is
                  spanned by the bow of hope. Charles, you will conquer all your difficulties, and
                  rise yet to a higher and serener life.
                  It is good to wear the yoke in one's youth."
               The tones in which this was said were so soft, so gentle, so unaffected, and,
                  withal, so musical, being sustained also by a demeanor that seemed such a genuine
                  reflection of heavenly light, that it infused new life and hope into the petrified
                  heart of Douglass. He sat for a moment, buried in deep thoughtfulness, and then,
                  half unconscious of what he was saying, he broke forth into a passionate
                  exclamation to the following effect:
               "O for such a friend, to be the constant prompter of my faith, the healer of my
                  woes, the light of my erring reason, the restorer of my wrecked life!" and,
                  seizing Miss Harcourt by the hand, passionately, he added, "Will you be all that
                  to me?"
               "Hands off! hands off!" muttered Gilfort, "or I'll be the death of you! Take off
                  the checks of my conscience! convert me into gall! steep me in malice! let not
                  relenting sympathy hold me back!" meanwhile flourishing furiously a poniard which
                  he always carried about his person. But, as usual with him, wiser counsels
                  prevailed, and he was content to bide his time of revenge. His mutterings and
                  motionings, however, excited so much alarm in the young couple, that, choosing the
                  better part of valor, they escaped, without any clear idea as to the cause of the
                  commotion.
               It was arranged at parting, that evening, that Douglass should soon visit the
                  plantation. In this he was disappointed by the increasing demands upon his time
                  among his people. He visited the schools, did what he could to procure for them
                  suitable teachers, excited the emulation of the pupils by means of prizes,
                  encouraged the establishment of libraries, took pains to excite a taste for
                  reading, formed a temperance society, and was the means of reclaiming numbers to
                  sobriety, and, at the same time, ministered to the spiritual edification of the
                  people. He had frequent momentary interviews with Miss Harcourt, as she now became
                  one of his hearers, it being the first and only religious meeting at all
                  accessible to her new-country home. She even taught a Bible-class, and gathered
                  around her the principal young ladies of the town, over whom she exerted a happy
                  influence. She doubted the propriety of this step at first, lest it should afford
                  food to scandal, and consulted Douglass on the subject.
               "Scandal would soon starve on such food," was his reply.
               Her father was the only obstacle that remained, but this was removed by his
                  obliging reply to her inquiry on the subject.
               "Yes, teach the misses anything,—conic sections, an old almanac, or the
                  Bible,—rather than leave their minds a stagnant pool, to breed absurdities. John,
                  and the old grays, and the close carriage, are always at your service, my
                  daughter. Do not think I am going to leave you exposed to the elements, in going
                  to Forestdale, lest you too soon follow your departed mother."
               Sarah wept at the kindness of her father, and Douglass could not but honor his
                  parental devotion, whatever he might be in other respects. Thus the two became
                  co-laborers; and it contributed not a little to the success of the work. The
                  social and spiritual affections stand related to each other somewhat like matter
                  and mind, in the constitution of man; the one not being healthy while the other is
                  diseased.
               Things went on thus a few weeks, when Douglass paid another visit to the
                  plantation, and came to a formal understanding with Miss Harcourt, conditioned on
                  the father's consent. This was Friday, and he was to be consulted on the subject the ensuing Monday. As the
                  night was stormy, Douglass did not leave till Saturday morning, when, as he was
                  about to mount his horse, he expressed some surprise to Miss Harcourt that he had
                  not seen her father since entering the house the former evening. Sarah then first
                  awoke to the fact herself, but added,
               "I rather think papa has a cold, and deems it prudent to keep his room."
               "My dear Sarah, you look depressed this morning. Is it that our destinies have
                  become involved?"
               "No; it is the fear of having them divided."
               "That's impossible. There is one, at least, who could not endure it. His existence
                  apart from you would not be worth a song."
               "We will not indulge unnecessary fears. I see no cause for our thoughts taking
                  such a gloomy turn."
               "No, there can be none, if we are only sound at heart and fixed in
                  mind. All other sorrows would be more than summed up in the loss of you. A kind
                  Providence, who sees how unable I am to sustain such a load, will not impose it
                  upon me."
               "Charles," said she, "I have just received this package of books, which I have
                  promised to distribute among my class to-morrow, and so you may rely upon seeing
                  me early."
               "Early, my love!" he added, and so they parted.
               The Sabbath came, the class met, and sat looking wistfully at each other; but no
                  teacher came. Douglass was surprised and confounded. He said to the young ladies
                  that Miss Harcourt was no doubt sick, as she had their books, and was fondly
                  awaiting this hour to deliver them. His heart sunk within him, and he could hardly
                  wait till Monday morning for an explanation of the mystery. As soon as it was
                  light, he was on his way to the mansion. But, lo! he found the shutters closed,
                  the doors locked, and, when he rang, there was no response. He hastened round back
                  of the main building, when he saw smoke rising from the wing in which the kitchen
                  was situated, and met a servant at the door, who told him that Mr. Harcourt and
                  daughter had left, the previous Saturday, to return no more; and that his family
                  were the sole occupants of the house, with which they had been left in charge.
               "Where have they gone?" inquired Douglass.
               "How d'ye s'pose sich as me knows? They be great folk, that has more housen as
                  one."
               "Still, Charles thought some one on the plantation must be able to inform him
                  where they had gone; and he went round to inquire of the tenantry, but found them
                  all as much in the dark as himself. Canaudeh's wigwam was vacant, and he could get
                  no intelligence from that quarter. The failure of supplies from the mansion had
                  probably driven him to the woods in search of game. When Charles reached Spring
                  Arbor, he found the pool ice-bound, the vines encumbered with frozen snow and
                  rain, and it presented altogether a scene of utter desolation. But the winter of
                  his own heart was far more bleak, and howling, and dreadful. "O God! have mercy!"
                  was, for a length of time, the extent of his prayer. Words were a poor relief to
                  his burdened heart and shattered reason. His homeward ride was a journey into the
                  hopeless depth of a polar winter, no more to greet the land of bloom, beauty and
                  hope. "I am doomed,—doomed!" this was all he could utter. His dream of bliss had
                  ended in the rugged reality of pain and despair. He wrote many letters, to learn
                  the location of Harcourt and daughter, to all of which the answer was, "We know
                  positively nothing;" except the one
                  addressed to Skampton, which was never answered. He examined the published record
                  of passengers to foreign countries, thinking they might have gone abroad; but
                  could meet with no such names. An impassable gulf was between him and his dearest
                  earthly hopes, across which no carrier pigeon brought him a word of intelligence.
                  And what added intensity to his sufferings was the suspicion of its being
                  altogether owing to the reputation of his father, and that he was now beginning to
                  realize his worst fears in reference to the disadvantages of his social
                  position.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               CONSERVATISM OF THE LIQUOR-TRAFFIC.
               
                  
                     
                        "Those things which we reverence for antiquity,—what were they at their
                           first birth? Were they false?—time cannot make them true. Were they
                           true?—time cannot make them more true. The circumstance, therefore, of
                           time, in respect of truth and error, is merely impertinent."
                     
                     —JOHN HALES.
                  
               
               THE suspicions of Douglass as to the cause of the Harcourts' escape were not only
                  well founded, but it had been brought about by the man who had done most of all to
                  seduce his father into vice again, and to attaint his Mapleton reputation. The man
                  who had held the cup to his neighbor's lips, in spite of a mother's tears and
                  entreaties, was the first to visit the consequent disgrace upon her children. Not
                  content with the ruin of parental character, he proceeds, with wanton hand, to
                  deprive the children of position in society, and to make them the sufferers for
                  deeds in their father of which he had been the instigator. How can society longer
                  tolerate such perfidy, such villany? Soon after the Spring Arbor scene, Gilfort
                  imparted the result of his eavesdropping to Skampton; and the latter gentleman
                  took sweet revenge upon his refractory dependant, by sending the following letter
                  to Harcourt:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "SIR: I understand that a young man by the name of Douglass is
                              attentive to your daughter. I know him well; and deem it my duty, as a
                              friend, to inform you that he is a worthless fellow. Besides, his
                              father is a drunkard.
                           
                              "Your obedient servant,
                              "MICHAEL SKAMPTON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               How characteristic is this fact! The drunkard-maker visiting his own work upon an
                  unoffending family! Those who had wept bitter tears over the infamy of a father,
                  compelled to suffer over the same in their own persons, and that, too, by the very
                  authors of this infamy! Wisconsin has passed the just law of imposing all charges
                  for the support of criminals and paupers, made so by intoxicating drinks, upon
                  those who deal in the article. But this is not enough. The infamy, as well as the
                  pecuniary loss, belongs to them, and they ought to be made to bear it. Why should
                  this most grievous of all burdens be imposed upon the wife and children of the
                  drunkard, who have already suffered so much?
               Herein society is utterly at fault. Those whom it exposes to the danger of
                  fighting its battles it honors and pensions. Their wounds are honorable, and their
                  death glorious. Their wives and children too are pensioned, and admitted to a
                  distinguished position. Processions are instituted to their honor, and their names
                  are emblazoned to posterity on monumental marble. But how does society deal with those whom it exposes to the greater
                  danger of the licensed liquor-traffic? Alas! their wounds are plague-spots, to
                  warn all to escape them who can. The bloated, crimsoned face, the blood-shot eye,
                  the trembling, tottering step, the filthy, squalid dress, and the relics of a
                  night in the gutter,—these wounds and mementoes of the alcoholic war, which
                  society has waged by its law of license,—are they illustrious? Are they honored by
                  pension, place, position? Are they a passport, in the drunkard's family, to
                  distinguished society? No, no! the drunkard's only procession is a retinue of
                  constables, bailiffs and police-officers, conducting him to prison. His children
                  are sent to the penitentiary, his wife to the poor-house; and none so poor or so
                  mean as to do them reverence. O, unjust and cruel society! why this disparity in
                  the treatment of those whom your laws expose to danger? Is it that men are free to
                  buy or not buy in your licensed hells? But are they not equally free to fight or
                  not fight your battles? Is it that the danger of your hells is less than that of
                  your embattled legions? Directly the contrary is the fact. The United States
                  sacrifices the lives of thirty thousand drunkards annually in the alcoholic war,
                  which it has never done in any of its sanguinary conflicts. The danger to which
                  our liquor-laws expose men is ten-fold greater than that of national warfare. And
                  yet we leave the memory of the drunkard to rot, while that of a fallen hero is
                  emblazoned to all ages. The landlord turns out his drunken customer to die in the
                  streets, and refuses his children an equal position with those whose parents
                  denied him their patronage! Such is the justice of our present liquor-laws and
                  drinking-customs!
               While poor Douglass is writhing under the infliction of this lordly rum-factor,
                  how distinguished his position! His enormous gains, especially since
                  the temperance movement had diminished the number of rum-dealers and increased the
                  profits of the poisonous traffic, might be seen in the splendor with which
                  Skampton had surrounded himself. He had selected for his home the right bank of
                  one of our most picturesque and renowned rivers, in the little town of Riverton,
                  which lies so near one of our large cities as to be a suburb,—a delightful one
                  too. He had purchased a woodland domain of many hundred acres, near the centre of
                  which he had built his palace, surrounded by conservatories, gardens and
                  pleasure-grounds. A massy gate and lodge, with bell so contrived as to be rung by
                  the approach of a carriage, to warn the porter to be on hand, were an index to the
                  sumptuous scene. The gate passed, the visitor found himself on a macadamized
                  carriage-way, which wound round and round through a deeply-shaded ravine, rising
                  upward and still upward, enclosed on either hand by forest-crowned elevations and
                  a carpeting of greensward, which droves of deer were quietly cropping, while
                  birds, in great number and variety, were singing in the overhanging branches. This
                  way terminated in an undulating surface of many acres,—a sort of mountain
                  terrace,—on which the house and its appendages were tastefully arranged; and then,
                  back of this terrace, the hill reached a still loftier altitude, on which an
                  observatory had been built, commanding a wide prospect of earth and heaven. Even
                  at the point where the house stood, many miles of the river, with its infinite
                  variety of craft, appeared in perspective like a vast moving panorama. On a lower
                  elevation, in the far-off view, the buildings of Riverton Seminary might be seen,
                  on which Skampton lavished a part of his surplus income, and where he manufactured
                  young men to increase the stock of his reputation and influence.
               
               The house was rural and beautiful in its architecture, and adapted to increase the
                  general effect. First, a porch, suited in its proportions to the magnificent
                  structure; then a hall, broad, long and lofty, terminated in a piazza with fluted
                  columns, the whole breadth of the house, which commanded a view of the river,
                  seminary, and a wide extent of rural scenery, eminently beautiful, from the
                  contrast of land and water, of sails and houses, of steam-cars and steamboats, of
                  hill and dale, of field and forest, and of city and country. Arranged along the
                  hall, on either hand, were library, parlors, breakfast-room, dining-room, nursery,
                  and other receptacles of convenience, ornament and luxury. The second and third
                  stories were in keeping with the first; the house being furnished throughout with
                  Wilton carpets, lofty mirrors, costly sofas, divans and chairs, all indicating a
                  degree of wealth and splendor which princes might envy. The first door on the left
                  opened out of the hall into the library, with a rich collection of books, prints,
                  paintings, statuary, and carved work. This was Skampton's throne. Here he
                  contrived his plans of acquisition,—here he studied out the most successful modes
                  of profiting by human infirmity; and it ought to have been full of death-heads,
                  human bones, bottled tears of widowed and orphan wretchedness, paintings of
                  drunken brawls and bloody riots, with the estimated profit accruing from each to
                  the owner written underneath. Prominent among the group ought to have appeared the
                  Genius of Intemperance, with Sir Christopher Wren's monumental inscription: 
                     
                        Si monumentum quæris,
                        Circumspice.
                        'If you ask for my monument, look around!'
                     
                  
               
               In this room it was that Gilfort and Skampton met, a few weeks after the
                  concluding events of the foregoing chapter, and had a consultation as to what
                  should be done to ward off a more stringent legislation against the liquor
                  traffic. After the usual salutations, Skampton inquired, "Pray, Gilfort, where d'
                  ye hail from?"
               "From Terracegreen. I have remained there ever since I wrote you last."
               "Ay, ay! and had an eye, I hope, to the lovers. Pray, what effect had my
                  letter?"
               "Good, good! It was the right medicine. It knocked the disease on the head. It
                  saved an innocent girl from the grasp of a tiger, and laid the tiger himself
                  sprawling. I saw him before I left, and his face was as long as my arm, and black
                  as thunder."
               "How so? How did Harcourt worst the fellow?"
               "By the better part of valor; he escaped. He swore he 'd be the death of his
                  daughter, before she should marry a drunkard's son."
               "What!—left the country?"
               "The country of this fellow, where he 'll see him no more."
               "That's enough; it's all I ask. I am thankful that I did my duty, and saved an
                  innocent family. He is a piece of impertinence, and I'd sacrifice every cent I
                  have before I'd see him married to such a wife as Sarah Harcourt. How the fool
                  could think to succeed, drunkard's son as he is, temperance lecturer, college
                  scapegrace, expelled for bad conduct, is more than I can divine. His teetotal
                  pledge is enough to wind him up, with a man of Harcourt's spirit."
               "Yes, Harcourt despises him. I stated to him the facts in my possession, and his
                  mettle ran high, that the rascal should presume so far. But he is so controlled by
                     his daughter that he did nothing
                  till your letter came; and then he was off in a trice, and is to be seen there no
                  more."
               "That is a good fellow, Gilfort, and entitles you to a bottle of champagne."
                  Rings, and a servant enters. "Sambo, bring me a bottle of our best."
               "To be sure, massa, de berry best,—dat any gemman 'll say," replied Sambo,
                  hastening after the champagne, and soon reäppearing, with bottle in hand.
               "Here, Gilfort, drink,—drink freely; you need it, after so much fatigue."
               "With you, sir."
               "No, no, Gilfort, you know I never drink. I know the best, as well as
                  any man; it don't agree with me; we are differently constituted; I never
                  drink."
               "What!—yoked to this cut-throat pledge?" said Gilfort, drinking.
               "Don't insult me by such a question. I should be in chains with that fanatical
                  device. What madness has seized upon the people? Just as if we are wiser than the
                  hundreds of generations which have preceded us, who never dreamed of its being
                  criminal to take a social glass! I would drink, for there is good cheer in't, but
                  it always gives me a thumping head-ache, and unfits me for anything."
               "Well, I am thankful it has the contrary effect upon me. My head is always
                  clearest, and my heart always best, with a little wine in't. If I wished to think
                  deeply, feel profoundly, pray sincerely, act coolly, bargain skilfully, and do
                  anything effectively, it would be with bottle in hand," he added, drinking off
                  another glass.
               "By the way, we are getting a haul out of our Falls tract."
               "Yes, we are just approaching the harvest. We have had, hitherto, only the
                  premature ears, hardly a specimen of what is to follow. We have there a large
                  village growing into a city. One object I have this way is, to blow up our lots in
                  the Eastern market. To furnish myself with wind, I set the bellows in motion
                  before I left. I got up a perfect rage for buying. I sold the Lion Corner, the
                  other day, for ten thousand dollars, and took pains to have it purchased of the
                  buyer, the day following, for twenty thousand, and the day following that for
                  thirty thousand; and that is a specimen of how things go."
               "You made a loss, then, by selling so low?"
               "No, not I. I see you don't understand the game. Nothing was paid me, and nothing
                  to those who sold after me. Money is not necessary to get rich in this way. I was
                  never so confounded hard up as now. But, then, we shall reap a harvest in the end.
                  These sales, which I have had duly certified, will tell on Wall-street. The
                  property is not alienated from us by means of them, for the right of soil is
                  secured to us by mortgage. We have a clear title; and when the last purchaser
                  fails, it'll come back upon the next to him, and the next, till it falls again
                  into our hands, with all its improvements. And, by that time, capitalists abroad
                  will be induced to invest among us, and a flow of gold will set in upon our city,
                  that cannot fail to find its way into our pockets, as the great reservoir. This is
                  between us."
               "My affairs are vastly extended, Gilfort; I must have funds out of the concern, or
                  I shall kick the bucket. If this cursed liquor-law should succeed, I'm a dead man.
                  Then my capital goes to the gutter, and I to bankruptcy. My public houses will
                  become sheep-cotes; my ships in the liquor-trade will rot at the wharves; my
                  distillery-worm will cease its flow; my enormous charities will vanish into air;
                  and I, a stranded whale, shall be the
                  prey of crows and harpies. This is between you and me, as you say."
               "That's the point, the exact point, upon which I have come to talk. First, we must
                  blow up our lots in the market. Then for the battle on the liquor-bill. Your
                  legislature meets here soon, and the contest comes on in due form, and we must be
                  ready for it. That madcap Bludgeon is setting the state all on fire against us,
                  and is to begin his onset here the first of March. We must be ready to knock him
                  in head. If the liquor-bill succeeds here, it will in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and
                  then it will over-leap the Mississippi and invade my colony, where I am
                  manufacturing the article on a large scale. This done, and I might whistle for
                  emigrants; for the great attraction, to those who are annoyed by this Maine
                  legislation, is our freedom to make, sell and drink, what we please. If we do not
                  gain the battle here, we lose it everywhere else."
               "Well, what do you propose?"
               "I propose that we send out agents enough to array on our side all the wealth,
                  talent and power, which we can possibly command. Then, that we have here in your
                  city a consultation of the principles, arguments, measures and influences, to be
                  used with the legislature to defeat this Maine law. This should take place as
                  early as February, to be ready for the Bludgeon tornado. And then, during his
                  campaign, let our ablest speakers be employed, to hold counter-meetings, to divert
                  public attention, and to pour their hot shot upon his camp. With these plans duly
                  carried out, we shall array on our side an extent of prejudice, passion and
                  interest, that must insure success."
               "A capital idea, and I have with me the man to head the agency. Mr. Saphead can
                  drum up more people in a given time than any man I know. Sambo, go call Mr.
                  Saphead."
               This gentleman soon appeared, very much out of breath, for the good reason that
                  inward fat had nearly deprived him of breathing capacity. He was a man five feet
                  six, and greater in circumference than in height. His gait was like that of a duck
                  in the mud. We sometimes say of a man that he is the breath of another. But
                  breathing denotes continuity, which Saphead had not. He was rather the puff of
                  Skampton, which he blew off occasionally to serve a purpose. Saphead was the
                  generalissimo of all enterprises requiring money and action; Skampton supplying
                  the one and he the other, so that the two together were the parts of a pair of
                  shears,—and a keener instrument never fleeced the public.
               "Saphead, such and such are Mr. Gilfort's plans," said Skampton, detailing to him
                  the particulars. "What do you think?"
               "I think two wiser heads do not rest on shoulders, and what you approve I go for,"
                  said Saphead, with labored breathing.
               "You deserve a drop for that," said Gilfort, pouring out a glass of champagne,
                  which Saphead swallowed with a gusto, it put life into his sluggish
                  corporosity.
               "You will then undertake to drum up recruits for the campaign in February and
                  March, will you, Mr. Saphead?" said Skampton.
               "I will, sir. I'll go first to all the liquor-dealers, and get a large
                  subscription; for it's money makes the mare go. Then, I'd get every conservative
                  man's influence on our side; I mean yours, as you are men skilled in all matters
                  of law and legislation. They'll go for us, to a man. Then all the
                  liquor-drinkers—a numerous host—will bring up the rear, with their petitions, to
                  scare the dough-faces into a vote on the right side."
               
               "You understand the thing, Saphead," said Skampton. "We shall need a large
                  subscription to buy over the papers."
               At that moment the door-bell rang, and Peter Pegan, Esq., a conservative editor of
                  distinction, was ushered in. "Just in time, Mr. Pegan," added Skampton, detailing
                  the several features of the plan. "Can we rely upon your able and influential
                  journal?"
               "That's the very object of my coming," said Pegan, with an involuntary twist of
                  his meagre person. "The battle waxes hotter and hotter. I have just heard that
                  Bludgeon has set the north and west of the state all in a flame. They have already
                  begun to empty the liquor-casks by mob violence, and are confident of being
                  sustained in their vandalism by the coming legislature. I am prepared to lead off
                  with all my power in favor of law and order; and have come to put you on your
                  guard, and to request you to rally as many as you can to my help."
               "You see, my good Pegan," said Skampton, "we have anticipated you."
               "Yes, I go to New York this very night," added Saphead. "I'll kindle in the great
                  metropolis a counter-flame, which will consume Bludgeon and all his
                  combustion."
               "I'll keep my host here to assail the coming members of both houses," said
                  Gilfort.
               "And I'll help you," added Skampton.
               Who has not remarked the conflict of the conservative principle with the genius of
                  change? The Old cannot maintain her hold without resisting the encroachments of
                  the New; and the New cannot rise except on the ruins of the Old. The one looks
                  with jealous concern on her time-hallowed prerogatives; while the other, bearing
                  on her bold front the motto of utter demolition, finds in the antiquity of a thing
                  sufficient reason for beginning her work of destruction. The one would chain the
                  future within the limits of the past; the other would drive the triumphal car of
                  change over all that is guilty of an origin prior to her own.
               These conflicts must go on. There is no avoiding them. We can dispense with
                  neither the one nor the other of the belligerent powers. The one is as necessary
                  to guard whatever is valuable in the past, as the other to introduce improvements.
                  Neither the forms of society, nor the maxims of legislation, nor the institutions
                  of civil government, nor creeds in religion, nor the conceptions of virtue and
                  obligation, nor the arts and sciences, nor anything, in fact, which at all depends
                  upon the faculties of man, is too perfect to admit of improvement. To rectify
                  present defects is as necessary as the preservation of what is excellent.
               But, unfortunately, the conservative principle often protects the evil, as well as
                  the good. It is as tenacious of slavery as of liberty, and of a traffic which
                  corrupts mankind as of one which has proved itself the most harmless and
                  beneficent. She is a blind, imperious, and blood-thirsty divinity, whose temple is
                  prejudice, whose altar malignity, and whose victims are the greatest and best of
                  mankind. The Son of God himself, with his self-denying associates, and the
                  martyred reformers, as well as Socrates, Seneca, and a long line of kindred
                  spirits, forced to her shrine, have died to appease her inexorable vengeance. And
                  the genius of change is scarcely less arbitrary and blood-thirsty. A despotism is
                  demolished to make way for anarchy and misrule. The feudal tyrannies are
                  supplanted by the Bonapartean thrones, standing amid the blood and carnage of
                  slaughtered millions; the virtues of defect are followed by those of excess, as
                  the miser is merged in the voluptuary; and thus innovation is as reckless as
                     conservatism tism is cruel and
                  relentless. Yet change must go on. Wise and good men should understand this, and
                  take the lead in it, instead of leaving it to the intemperate and the lawless.
               In reference to Skampton, as a faithful historian we are bound to say that his
                  great error was his ultra conservatism. He was not inherently cruel, nor
                  excessively avaricious, nor capable of an out-and-out fraud; and, as to the
                  government of his own appetites, no man could be more rigorous. But he was so
                  wedded to all existing opinions and usages, as to feel that those who rose up
                  against them were enemies to society, and to be dealt with as such. When poor Mrs.
                  Douglass besought him to interfere to turn away the cup from her husband's lips,
                  he felt that she was some way linked with the temperance innovations, and was to
                  be treated as a disturber of the public tranquillity. Her son's temperance efforts
                  while in college exposed him, also, to the same feeling, and led Skampton to
                  exercise against him the arbitrary power to which his position and enormous
                  gratuities entitled him. And, as Charles could not be brought to his standard, he
                  must be hurled into the abyss of infamy which his contumacious treatment of so
                  great a benefactor deserved. Hence, the ambition of arbitrary control, natural to
                  a weak mind which had so many things to bolster up its pretensions to power,
                  stands side by side with ultra conservatism, as the key to Skampton's character.
                  We say these things in favor of the man, under the full impression that in nothing
                  is history so much at fault as in revealing motives, and in its inquiries after
                  the ruling passions of the great actors in the world's drama.
               Besides, the early life of Skampton was full of mitigating facts, to soften the
                  shading of his character. He was born in a mountain defile of the ancient town of
                  Undercliff, on a farm wedged in by inaccessible ledges, on which his ancestors,
                  from the early time of the colonies, had sustained a precarious subsistence. He
                  inherited their staidness, early became a member of their church, was scrupulous
                  in little things but careless of great ones, and was as averse to expansion as the
                  rock-bound farm on which he was raised. The deacon, his father, ruled the church,
                  minister and all, or rather his wife ruled it through him; for the Mercury, or
                  rather Mars, was all on her side. Michael was vulgarly called the
                     tell-tale of the school under Master Tody, who early conceived a
                  passion for him, and made him his right-hand man. The more Master Tody loved him,
                  the more his school-fellows hated him; and the more they hated him, the more Mrs.
                  Skampton and Master Tody thought he was a genius; and the more they thought so,
                  the more they told him so. Hence Michael began life under circumstances to insure
                  in him a false estimate of himself and of everything around him.
               Through the persuasions of Mrs. Skampton and Master Tody, the deacon was
                  compelled, against his will, to send Michael abroad, to try the fortunes of
                  literature. But the thing would not go. Michael would strike his head furiously
                  with his fist, to drive in a thought, or to make it stick after he got it in. But
                  the recreant thought would escape him, after all. He plodded on a few years in
                  this way, till it was found that dulness is a disease not easily cured, when he
                  was put to business, in which he acquitted himself more creditably. Fortune, of
                  which he was always a favorite, perpetrated one of those freaks upon him which
                  introduced him into a widely different field from what he had a right to expect. A
                  maternal uncle of wealth, dying in the West Indies, left the bulk of his property
                  to young Skampton. To this he added still more by his marriage. Hence he had at
                  once large sums to invest, which he prudently distributed among a variety of objects that brought large
                  returns. From the silks of Broadway to the whales of Kamtschatka, from lots in the
                  city to the new lands of the West, from the sumptuous hotel to the humblest
                  groggery, all shared his attention, and supplied the rills of his wealth. His
                  preference for the liquor business was always decided,—not so much on account of
                  its profits, as his desire to maintain a great principle, which had been
                  acknowledged from Noah's wine-press to this day, he said, but was now assailed and
                  invaded by these fanatical temperance innovations. His wealth had grown upon him,
                  till his annual income had risen to thirty or forty thousand dollars.
               Still, Skampton was moderate, lived with simplicity, was as unassuming as one
                  under his circumstances could well be; and his homestead investment was made more
                  with reference, he said, to the rise in its value, and the greater means he should
                  thus have in the end to do good with, than to any ideas of personal luxury or
                  splendor. What had done most of all to delude and debase him was his falling into
                  the hands of flatterers, who desired to divide with him the spoils of his wealth.
                  A man with money is like a king in the midst of his courtiers,—befooled for the
                  public good. He was never approached save with hat under arm and head doing
                  obeisance, and was daily surrounded by a class of men who sought money from him
                  for this, that, and the other charity; and who, to accomplish their purpose, would
                  make him believe that the hope of the world, in these days of innovation, was
                  wrapped up in him and in his purse. A mind weak, prejudiced and compressed, like
                  that of Skampton, was just the one to drink down the delicious bane, and suffer
                  from it the worst imaginable consequences. He was liberal, and gave very largely;
                  but manifestly not as a gratuity, at least in the feeling and motive by which it
                  was dictated, but to buy influence, and create in as many as possible the
                  obligation to do and think as he wished, and to bow down to his overwhelming
                  power. Other rich men invested to bring a return in kind; but he, in reputation
                  and influence. The social supremacy of the Honorable Michael Skampton cost him
                  thousands a year. How much more a gift is money thus bestowed than in buying lands
                  or stocks? It was the system of coërcion which he employed with young men
                  dependent on his bounty that involved him in a quarrel with Charles Douglass. That
                  young gentleman had too much spirit to submit to his dictation, and too much
                  reason to detest his alcoholic traffic to receive his benefactions.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               WINE AND WITCHCRAFT.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Be't whiskey gill, or penny-wheep,
                           Or any stronger potion,
                           It never fails, on drinking deep,
                           To kittle up our notion,
                           By night or day."
                        
                     
                     —BURNS.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "For, if the devil may form what kind of impression he pleases in the
                           air, why may he not far easier thicken and obscure so the air that is
                           about them, by contracting it straight together, that the beams of any
                           other man's eyes cannot pierce through the same to see them?"
                     
                     —KING JAMES I.
                  
               
               THE parties in consultation at once set about their work. Pegan's columns flamed
                  with articles against the Maine law. A hundred inferior sheets lighted their
                  censers at his altar. Dolorous wailings
                  resounded on every hand against oppression, invasion of the rights of trade, the
                  folly of decreeing what a man shall drink, the impossibility of carrying out such
                  a bill, priestly interference, malignant fanaticism, legislating against all
                  precedent since Noah began the wine business, the ruin of fortunes to those whom
                  the present laws had drawn into the liquor traffic, conflict with constitutional
                  law which entitles a man to trial by a jury of his peers, and much more in the
                  same line. Peal after peal of Pegan thunder resounded through the land,
                  reverberating from hill to valley, and from mountain to plain. The gathering
                  lawmakers were taken all aback, and dared not move to the right or left, at the
                  peril of their popularity. Those who had obtained their election by the pledge to
                  support the Maine law could not stand against this volleyed thunder of Pegan's
                  pen, and covered themselves from danger under silence, absence, or any subterfuge
                  they could invent. Meantime, Saphead had swelled his golden accumulation to many
                  thousands, at the expense of the liquor-dealers, to flood the country with
                  documents, to hire public-sentiment makers to exercise their function all abroad,
                  and to buy influence in any form under which it might be offered in the market.
                  Skampton plied his arts of personal suasion with the members of the legislature in
                  detail, and did most effective execution; while, on the other hand, Bludgeon and
                  his host waxed hotter and hotter, more and more numerous and powerful, and both
                  the Senate and Assembly were deluged with petitions in behalf of the Maine Law,
                  which they dared not grant, and yet feared to resist. They were literally toads
                  under a harrow, not knowing which way to hop.
               Necessity knows no law. This poor Gilfort found, to his cost. He desired to lead
                  off his division, and stand foremost in the impending battle, but lacked the
                  sinews of war—money. The funds he brought from the far West were gone. His late
                  windy speculations yielded no supplies. There were delicate considerations against
                  looking either to Skampton or Saphead, in this exigency. The former gentleman he
                  knew was hard up, and to draw on the latter's purse would be submitting to a
                  charity pension. No, no; he must appeal to his wits, which, when duly sharpened by
                  the "O, be joyful," had never failed to coin the needful out of something, or
                  nothing. He had lodgings a little out of the city with one of his creatures. He
                  never failed to have around him this kind of animals,—a class of men to whose
                  conscience he was the all-in-all, and whom he could rely upon for any dirty
                  service to which he might send them. His host was as destitute of the needful as
                  himself; but another man near by,—a Dutchman, by the name of Roderick Dobson, who
                  had once been one of his creatures, but had fallen away through an over-love of
                  managing his own purse, instead of leaving it for Gilfort to finger,—he knew
                  abounded in money.
               Gilfort, therefore, applied to Dobson for the favor of a loan, proposing to secure
                  him with his Falls property, or in any way he should ask. "I an't able, anyhow, to
                  give you the money," said Dobson, with a grin which revealed a sparse supply of
                  teeth, and a shrug of his round, Dutch shoulders, which betrayed the strength of
                  his hold upon the fruit of his labor.
               "What! ten per cent, and good security nothing to you, Dobson? Your money, at that
                  rate, will earn more than you can."
               "It arns more in my hand, where I sees it, and knows where it is."
               "Well, if you won't accommodate me, I'll render good for evil, and pay you off with a drink of capital
                  whiskey, just sent me from my distillery in the west," said Gilfort, taking out of
                  his pocket a little bottle full of the intoxicating poison. Dobson's eyes
                  glistened at the sight, for he was a man given to strong drink, though too
                  covetous to indulge in it unless at another's expense. He took the bottle, and,
                  holding it to his mouth with his head turned back, he quaffed a heavy dram. This
                  he repeated again and again, till the leaping blood "put life and mettle in his
                  heels;" and he fell to dancing right merrily, as if penury and plenty, little and
                  much, were all alike to him. Gilfort was now confident of success, and renewed his
                  suit for the loan. But Dobson's fists were more firmly clenched than ever. He was
                  one of those rare cases in which drunkenness makes a man more rabid after money,
                  and more careful in keeping it. Nothing could be got out of him at such times.
                  Gilfort failed altogether.
               But he was not a man to give up a thing so easily. He thought and thought how he
                  should help himself to money out of Dobson's stores. He conned over the subject at
                  night; he whetted his faculties with "wine and wassail;"—but it was not till after
                  the most agonized mental throes, that, starting up at midnight, he exclaimed, "I
                  have it!—I have it! Dobson is superstitious, and I'll pull that string. I'll scare
                  the old miser out of his money. I'll haunt him by day and by night. I'll fill his
                  chamber with ghosts and devils. Sleep shall not press his eyelids till he has
                  disgorged his hoarded wealth. The Lord hath need of it. I am the Lord's servant. I
                  have great interests at stake. So many thousands in the far West who worship me as
                  a divinity, and the number constantly increasing,—what a responsibility! I must
                  consult their interest. I must uphold truth, and break down this pagan priesthood.
                  I should have a right to this old apostate's money, even if I never paid him; but
                  that I can and will do, at my convenience. What good can it do him to lie rusting
                  in his coffers? It will be a mercy to him, to me and to mankind, to relieve him of
                  it."
               So soliloquized Gilfort, and, as we shall see, not in vain; for, with all Dobson's
                  avarice and drunkenness, he was a great believer in witches, spooks, incantations
                  and invisible agencies, insomuch that he never rested without the protection of
                  horse-shoes nailed to his door-sill, which many ignorant people suppose a witch
                  cannot pass. Having hit upon his plan, Gilfort penned the following blasphemous
                  missive;
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "In the name of God, Amen. To my servant, Roderick Dobson, these
                              presents come, to command thee, Roderick Dobson, to deliver over, for
                              my use and behoof, the sum of two thousand dollars, the same to be
                              deposited under the bridge near thy house, towards the sun-rising, by
                              the tenth day of the first month, before the cock goeth forth of his
                              roost, or men to their labor. And, in default hereof, blight and
                              mildew shall come upon all thou hast, rottenness shall waste the flesh
                              from thy bones, thy children shall be killed with death, and all the
                              devils in hell shall wreak their infernal malice upon thy soul. In the
                              name of the great Jehovah, by his
                           
                              SERVANT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This letter was deposited by one of Gilfort's emissaries where it reached the eye
                  of Dobson before night. As the poor old fellow read it, every hair of his head
                  stood up, his teeth chattered,—so many as came in contact,—and he passed the night
                  without a wink of sleep. The unearthly style, appearance and handwriting, of the
                  letter, as also the extraordinary manner in which it reached him, as if it might
                     have dropped down from the clouds,
                  all conspired to assure him that it was what it purported to be, an epistle direct
                  from heaven transmitted by the hand of an angel. How to elude the demand was all
                  his study. Subtracting dollars was tearing out his heart-strings. He waited,
                  conned over the matter in his mind, tortured himself almost to madness, and
                  finally determined to sell soul, body and all, to "den duyvel," to use his own
                  expression, rather than give up his money. The throes of poor Dobson's soul, in
                  coming to this terrible conclusion, may be better imagined than described. The
                  strength of his conviction that the powers above were making this draught upon his
                  purse was only equalled by the grasp of his avarice, which could not be relaxed by
                  the certainty of jeoparding the highest interest of which it is possible for
                  mortal man to conceive. Alas! what dangers will not money make a man incur! The
                  day came and passed away, but no money was deposited under the bridge, toward the
                  sun-rising. What was a little remarkable, however, four of Dobson's best cattle
                  died before night, and there were fearful signs of sickness within his doors. To
                  add to his consternation, another letter reached him, more dreadful than the
                  first:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "The great God to Roderick Dobson, showeth that, in the plenitude of
                              my mercy, I have added further space for thee to repent, and thus
                              avert impending woes. Though I might in justice cut thee off and all
                              thou hast, as thy cattle have this day died by my visitation, and thus
                              punish without hope thy contempt of my authority in withholding the
                              money of which I have need; yet, now appoint I unto thee the fifteenth
                              day of the first month, as the time wherein thou mayest redeem thy
                              body from pestilence, wasting and death, and thy soul from outer
                              darkness, by depositing thy money under the bridge as aforesaid, early
                              in the morning, before the first rays pencil the east, while the ox is
                              yet in his stall, and the laboring man in his couch. And, in default
                              hereof, thy dwelling shall be consumed by lightning, murrain shall
                              smite thy cattle, thy flocks shall perish with destruction, thy wife
                              shall be given to another, thy children be vagabond and beg, and thy
                              soul shall be the sport of demons to all eternity. In virtue of my
                              Godhead, by the hand of my
                           
                              SERVANT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               By this time Dobson had become extremely nervous, from his superstitious fears,
                  the death of his cattle, the want of sleep, and, most of all, from continued
                  drunkenness. A suspicion is also abroad that the whiskey Gilfort gave him was
                  mixed with a maddening drug, as, from that moment, he was never himself again. But
                  we see no necessity for such a conclusion. Continued drunkenness operating upon a
                  mind habitually superstitious, as the Dutch are, is sufficient to account for all.
                  Besides, the evil eye of Gilfort was never brought to bear upon a weak man like
                  Dobson, when it did not bewitch him. Hence, the effect of this second missive was
                  far more decided than the first. He immediately arranged to deposit the money.
                  But, upon counting his funds, he found they fell short of the demand. This did not
                  dispel the delusion, but rather prompted him to supply the deficiency by
                  borrowing. The neighbor on whom he called for the purpose was surprised at such a
                  request from Dobson, who was known to overflow with cash. "What possible
                  necessity, Mr. Dobson, has driven you to this?" said the man.
               Dobson, with a wild stare out of his bloodshot eyes, stammered an excuse for
                  waiving the question. "You knows,
                  neighbor, that—a—a—a body can't have,—one's family, you knows."
               "What! your family, Dobson, drive you to this? That's more than I believe. You are
                  not a man to be filched."
               "No, not a man to be filched, because I takes care of my own. But there is a God
                  above," he added, with an earnest expression of his rubicund face, "and I'm afeard
                  to filch from Him."
               "To filch from your Maker! Pray what has that to do with your want of money?"
                  replied the man, now more surprised than ever.
               "Why, here, here," holding up his two letters, with a trembling hand; "here's my
                  warrant for the money." The man read the letters. "What does you think of them?"
                  inquired Dobson, with an agonized expression.
               "Think! I think they are a blasphemous device of some swindling hypocrite,
                  attempting to profit by your superstition."
               "By Saint Nicholas, I'd like to think so too!" said Dobson, incredulously.
               "Think so! Pray, why have you come here to borrow?"
               "Because I has n't the money by me."
               "What!—are you such a fool as to suppose that the All-wise don't know how much
                  money you have? Would he command you to put under that bridge what he knows you
                  have not?"
               This did not satisfy Dobson. The poison of whiskey and of Gilfort's incantation
                  had gone too deep, and wrought too powerfully upon his nerves, to admit of his
                  feeling the force of such reasoning. His neighbor, therefore, lent him the money,
                  determined to watch the bridge, after the deposit was made, to see what would
                  become of it.
               Dobson felt that he was haunted. His house was full of spooks, which were yawling
                  like cats through its rooms and passages, during the live-long night. He knew they
                  were spooks, he said, because there were no cats in it, and he contrived to be
                  from home as much as possible. The night before depositing the money, he was away
                  on a drunken brawl, and did not return till twelve o'clock. He was so overcome
                  with liquor as to have just strength enough to put out his horse. He reached his
                  barn, removed the saddle, and placed it on the ground, while he tied the horse and
                  went up into the mow to get hay. As he clambered up, he saw, or thought he saw, a
                  spectral image, wrapped in a white sheet, standing in the corner of the hay-mow,
                  and looking down upon him with flaming eyes; which so terrified him that he
                  well-nigh fell senseless on the floor, and had barely life to escape, leaving the
                  saddle, the open barn and all, a prey to his cattle. He ran home and crept into
                  his bed, more dead than alive. After an hour of feverish restlessness, the liquor
                  in his blood induced a fitful sleep, from which he was soon awaked by a brilliant
                  light in his room. He sat up in bed and looked to see what it meant, when he saw
                  three men, two in middle age, one of whom seemed to be sick, and the other was
                  supporting him, while the third was an aged man, with gray locks hanging down upon
                  his shoulders. Dobson gazed a moment in wild affright, when the old man came to
                  the foot of the bed, and looked him direct in the face,—and lo! who should it be
                  but the ghost of his own father, who had been dead some years! Dobson tried to
                  speak to him, but his tongue refused its cunning. He then tried to cry out, but
                  his voice would not come. In a moment all vanished, and his room was dark as
                  before.
               It was now three of the fatal morning. Not a wink had poor Dobson slept, after this frightful vision.
                  Still, he could not bring himself to deposit his money under the bridge. The
                  miserly cords of his heart grew tighter and tighter, as the hour of parting with
                  his idol approached. It seemed to him worse than death. He was more than half
                  resolved to let the spooks take his soul, rather than his money. While these
                  dreadful thoughts were revolving in his mind, and every nerve of sensation was
                  strained to its utmost tension, he heard the rumbling of distant thunder. It came
                  nearer and nearer, was more and more terrific, and he looked every moment for the
                  lightnings to kindle on his house, according to the threatened vengeance of one of
                  his letters. At length it broke directly over him in a terrific volley, and he
                  believed that all his wealth would instantly be converted to ashes. He feared it
                  was already too late to avert the doom; whereupon, leaping out of bed like a
                  maniac, he ran half-naked through the snow and winds of a dreadful morning, and
                  left his bag of money under the bridge, and then made his escape, relieved of the
                  intolerable burden upon his conscience.
               Gilfort watched every movement; and, no sooner had the deposit been made, than he
                  crept from his lurking-place in disguise, to make sure of his prey. Nor did the
                  neighbor of whom Dobson effected the loan reach the spot till Gilfort had pocketed
                  the money, and was creeping from under the bridge. As he arrived at one end of the
                  bridge, lo! a spectre of horrid mien presented itself to his view, which made him
                  quake with fear, and excited images in his mind most dreadful to conceive. He saw
                  through the deep, dusky morning, the dim outlines of what seemed a being of
                  immensely tall proportions, covered with hair and surmounted above with horns,
                  while a prodigious length of tail dangled behind, as he crept from under the
                  bridge. Withal, there was a limp and amble in his gait that left the man no reason
                  to doubt that it was cloven-foot himself. Choosing to avoid such an encounter, and
                  trusting to nimble feet, he took to his heels. A second thought restored his vapid
                  courage, and he turned back to try upon Old Scratch the virtue of a club with
                  which he was armed. He met the mysterious being as he was mounting the bank of the
                  creek, and levelled at him a prodigious blow, which sent him tumbling upon the
                  ice. Here he gathered up his huge length, ran under the bridge, and made his
                  escape another way, the man being too much agitated by doubt and fear to make good
                  the advantage which he had gained.
               How much of this scene of enchantment was owing to Dobson's inbred superstition,
                  inflamed by whiskey, which has a mysterious connection with spiritual agency, as
                  we have before stated; or how much of it was brought about by Gilfort's
                  contrivance, as the ghosts and thunder, for instance; or how much was real, we
                  must leave the reader to judge. The appearance at the bridge was afterwards
                  explained by the fact that Gilfort had gone to a tannery, pilfered an oxhide, put
                  it over him from head to foot, with horns projecting above and tail dangling at
                  the other extremity, and in this disguise had appeared as the servant of the Most
                  High, to fill his pockets with poor Dobson's money. The blow which was inflicted
                  left an indelible mark on Gilfort's face just below the eye, which he afterwards
                  gloried in as one of the wounds of an honorable warfare.
               The robbery made much talk. Sundry innocent persons were taken up and examined,
                  but, in default of proof, they were discharged. At length, suspicion fastened
                  strongly upon Gilfort, from the fact of his attempt to borrow money, and a report
                  that he had a sore face and a black eye about those days. Besides, when the man who gave the blow
                  saw Gilfort, he made oath that he believed him to be the man. On this evidence he
                  was taken up, and it would have gone hard with him, had he not found persons to
                  swear to an alibi, whose testimony was thought
                  to have been received with the greater readiness, on account of the influence of
                  certain persons in conducting the prosecution, with whom Gilfort was united in a
                  secret society.
               Thus we have endeavored to sketch faithfully this extraordinary case, in which
                  there is much more of fact than of fiction, not only as showing the witchcraft of
                  wine, but also the blighting influence of a successful religious imposture. In
                  justice to Skampton, it must be said that his relations to Gilfort were solely of
                  a business kind, and he had no suspicion of his real character. Gilfort's
                  spiritual nature was thoroughly corrupted by his parentage, by his training, by
                  wine, and by all his habits of thinking, feeling and acting. There was no
                  congruity in his imposture, it is true; but there was craft, cunning, intensity,
                  and a bold spirit, rich in expedients to push on his great work in life, by any
                  instrumentality that might chance to fall in his way.
               No corrupt influences are so much to be dreaded as those which assume identity
                  with invisible power. The work of the Jesuits, in brutalizing the reason and
                  conscience, is more fatal than a depopulated and devastated country in the train
                  of conquering armies. These physical evils may be repaired and restored by the
                  innate energy of man and advancing population. Not so with the dark traces which a
                  triumphant fanaticism leaves on the subject mind. Its perversions are written on a
                  basis of adamant, and will not yield to the abrasion of time and improving reason.
                  Errors of religion intrench themselves in those deep and powerful sympathies
                  pathies which wax as the other passions wane, and grow with their decay. After
                  connubial love is quenched in man's heart; after death has unclenched the iron
                  grasp of his avarice; after ambition has ceased to pant for new laurels; yea,
                  after all the most active impulses are cold and dead, then, with a palsied hand,
                  he writes his scarcely legible name, devising his goods, and estates, and honors,
                  as a sacrifice upon the altar of his fanaticism, to insure the rest of his soul in
                  that unknown land which lies beyond. Then, amid the wrecks of his earthly being,
                  the diseased and distorted elements of his spiritual nature appear in their
                  greatest activity, and achieve their mightiest victories. The clenched hand of
                  avarice cannot withstand a power like this. Even Dobson is made to give his
                  thousands, when, through liquor, or the incantations of an artful heresiarch, he
                  comes distinctly to feel his connection with the spirit-land.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE FORCES RECONNOITRING.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "There are no tricks in plain and simple faith:
                           But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
                           Make gallant show and promise of their mettle,
                           But, when they should endure the bloody spur,
                           They fall their crests, and, like deceitful jades,
                           Sink in the trial."—
                        
                     
                     SHAKESPEARE.
                  
               
               RELIEVED of pecuniary embarrassment, Gilfort now applied to the main work in hand.
                  He had peculiar advantages as a
                     lobby member. His position in the West, his colonial fame, the
                  mysterious enchantment which invested his name, and his great powers of personal
                  address, made his anteroom dominion irresistible and overwhelming. The members
                  felt themselves flattered with the court paid to them by such a man. He shrewdly
                  took them, one by one, and made each feel that he was a special
                  favorite, and the chief reliance for the success of his suit against the Maine
                  Law. The member, supposing himself the only one thus honored, freely gave the
                  required pledge as an act of courtesy, reflecting within himself that
                     his solitary vote could not materially affect the result one way
                  or the other. In this manner Gilfort artfully tied the hands of a majority in both
                  houses from supporting the bill. He laughed in his sleeve at such a collection of
                  dough-faces in the place of power over a great people.
               Meantime, the public mind was in a state of excited expectancy in reference to the
                  battle between Bludgeon and his enemies. Some said one thing, and some another.
                  Betting ran high on both sides. If men stopped to talk at the corners of the
                  streets, this was the subject. In the theatres, operas, hotels, barber-shops,
                  counting-rooms, printing-offices, everywhere, all the words, aside from the
                  business in hand, were of the Maine Law, Saphead, Bludgeon, Skampton, Gilfort, and
                  the great contest of which their city was to be the seat. Stories of Bludgeon were
                  hawked about in the penny sheets, and newsmongers were reaping a golden harvest
                  out of the excitement. But at no place was more felt or said on the subject than
                  at Buck's Saloon. This was, externally, an unpretending-looking place near the
                  capitol, where the members went to "liquor." Many a thundering oration found here
                  its inspiration. Buck's Saloon was a powerful agent against the Maine Law. Its
                  alcoholic fountain flowed to many a legislative gullet, to give mettle and motion
                  to the anti-temperance enterprise. The front door of Buck's was a plain one, with
                  a screen standing within, to cast a shading over the splendid drinking saloon into
                  which it opened, the entire back end of which was occupied by the bar, from which
                  the tempting bait presented to longing eyes every variety of hue, from pale ale to
                  brown stout and London porter, and from Scotch whiskey to cloudy port. A row of
                  men, swallowing down the mind-killing potion, were arranged in front, like a
                  forlorn hope in the very teeth of the enemy's batteries.
               In a side room, which had its own entrance from the street, and from which the
                  drinking saloon was cautiously concealed, might be seen rows of white marble
                  circular tables, at each of which, at almost all hours of the twenty-four, might
                  be seen—as also at a succession of side-tables of like material—parties of ladies
                  and gentlemen, over ices, sherbets, oyster-soups, roast oysters, fricasseed
                  chickens, tarts, jellies, pies, nuts, raisins, cakes, according to the liking of
                  each; with here and there a modest glass of wine, like a cat in a strange garret.
                  This was a beverage allowed in this room only for special purposes, that
                  temperance customers might not take the alarm, and withdraw their patronage.
                  Directly back of these rooms, shaded passages led, to a splendid bowling-alley, on
                  the right of which was a drinking recess to accommodate the bowlers, and also to
                  stow away those who had become decidedly tight in the drinking saloon; while to
                  the left was a gambling haunt,—the sanctum
                     sanctorum of the hell,—to which only its consecrated priests were
                  admitted. Here, from morning to night, and night to morning, week in and week out,
                  year in and year out, the landsharks preyed upon their victims, to whom they dealt
                  put robbery, suicide and murder, by wholesale.
               
               These haunts were unusually full, as the time of Bludgeon's appearance drew on. In
                  the drinking saloon discussion ran high, and sometimes ended in blows. On one of
                  these evenings, Mr. Meserve, the member from New York, met Mr. Whittemore, a
                  senator from the country. "What will you take?" said Meserve.
               "I'm a temperance man, sir," replied Whittemore. "I never take anything."
               "Confound you! what are you here for, then? A spy, eh? to get ammunition for this
                  cursed Bludgeon's gun!"
               "So long as I behave like a gentleman, Meserve, I'm entitled to be treated with
                  respect. Are you a secret police, to inquire into men's motives?"
               "No; only, if you are a Bludgeon man, this is no place for you."
               "I am a friend of temperance; I owe my place in the Senate to my being so, and I
                  am never ashamed to own it, here or anywhere. But this does not preclude me from a
                  little bowling exercise, after so many hours of confinement to my seat in the
                  house."
               "Ay, ay; if that's your object, I'll join you. Cathburt, how are you?" added
                  Meserve, to a young man who at that moment entered.
               "Nicely, thank you."
               "No, Cathburt, you are not nicely; you needn't think to deceive me; your face
                  looks lightning-struck. Have you been in a thunder-storm?"
               "What will you take, Meserve?" said the young man, anxious to elude this
                  catechetical scrutiny, as his haggard face, his wandering, restless eye, his
                  parched lips, and excited demeanor, told too plainly that his mind was the seat of
                  tormenting ideas, which, in default of a tongue to make themselves selves visible,
                  were thus pushing themselves into notice through all the cracks and crevices of
                  the soul.
               "Mint-julep, I think," replied Meserve. "'T will cool the heated brain, and make
                  us ourselves again. Let's be merry while we can. Bludgeon's at hand, to blow us
                  sky-high."
               "Would he'd come a week sooner!" replied Cathburt, with an involuntary sigh.
               "What ails you, Cathburt? In love? Heard from your father of late? Anything the
                  matter?"
               "Come, here's for you," said Cathburt, taking a julep from the waiter, and handing
                  it to Meserve, and beginning to sip his own.
               "Do you know this Bludgeon, Whittemore?" inquired Meserve.
               "Yes, like a book. He's a roarer. Meserve, I want you to pledge me that you will
                  not drink a drop that intoxicates for one week, and that you'll give up that week
                  to hearing Bludgeon. Then see if you'll laugh at the pledge any more. I much doubt
                  if you did n't stick it on your hat, and wear it as a cockade."
               "Go to destruction! I'd as soon have a thief's mark."
               "Yes, a cropped ear would be honorable in the comparison," replied Dumble, another
                  man from the country, who had just joined the party.
               "Confound Bludgeon! I'll drink in spite of him and all his crew,—that I will!"
                  said Meserve, sucking the last drop of his julep. "Now, gentlemen, I'm ready for a
                  round."
               The party adjourned to the bowling-alley, and commenced rolling. Whittemore felt
                  himself in an awkward position, as well he might, and could get up no spirit for
                  the game. Cathburt was still more spiritless; the left door—which the others did not understand—occupying all
                  his attention. A siren voice seemed luring him upon the gambler's dangerous coast,
                  against which his principles and his vows remonstrated, but towards which a
                  mysterious spell was urging him by its fatal enchantments. At length he excused
                  himself, and entered the dangerous door. This broke up the party, and the others
                  stepped into the drinking recess to rest themselves. Here they found twenty or
                  thirty persons in the various stages of intoxication, from the excitement of the
                  first glass, to stolid, beastly insensibility. "Gentlemen, let's eat and drink,
                  for to-morrow—Blugdeon comes!" said Meserve, with a laugh.
               "To-morrow we die, you mean rather," added Dumble. "It's hard to tell
                  which is the worse, dying or being choked by this blood-hound. He's ruined my
                  business."
               "Then you, too, know Bludgeon, Dumble?" said Meserve.
               "Yes, to my cost. He has been to our town, and, by his endless clatter, has spoilt
                  my tavern-stand. Othello's occupation's gone, and he 's here looking for
                  business."
               "Is your name Othello?" inquired a half-drunk, stupid looking fellow. "I—I—I have
                  a friend of that 'are name."
               "No," said Dumble, laughing, "I mean, by Othello, any man who is driven out of the
                  liquor-business by this cursed temperance movement."
               "Yes, 'pon my honor," said the fellow, "this reformed drunkard, Bludgeon, is
                  drunker than any of us. That's my opinion."
               "Down with Bludgeon! Down with Bludgeon!" was now the general cry.
               "Gentlemen," said Whittemore, "though I am not in the habit of betting, I 'll
                  wager ten dollars against one, on every person in the room, that, if he will
                  follow up Bludgeon, in every discourse, for one week, and will not drink a drop
                  that intoxicates in the mean-time, he will take the pledge, and become a
                  temperance man."
               "I'll take you up at that," said Meserve; "plank your dollars, and I will
                  mine!"
               "You 'll lose your money, Meserve," said Dumble. "You have no idea of this man's
                  thunder. He's an iron battery, whose guns always hit. Besides, the victory is in
                  the condition of this bet: not to taste liquor for a week. That's enough to put
                  any man in the notion of drinking no more."
               "I cannot plank my money," said Whittemore, "till I see how many will stand to the
                  conditions."
               "I 'll stand." "And so will I." "And I," "I," "I,"—until all were pledged, except
                  those who were too far gone to understand the question.
               "I'll hear Bludgeon," said one, "and I wish to God it might make me a temperate
                  man!"
               "My sufferings, in body and mind," said another bloated, trembling victim, "no
                  tongue can express. I'd give worlds to be as I was before I ever drank!"
               "My mother prayed, with her dying breath, that I might be saved from rum, of which
                  my father was a victim," said another, beginning to weep at this recollection of
                  his mother.
               Ah, how little do we consider the miseries of the vicious! The tendencies to
                  reformation underlie the most unpromising characters. The silent workings of
                  conscience; anticipations of a coming judgment; the heart-sickness which vice
                  induces; the sweet memory of days of comparative innocence, when a mother's fond
                  eye, a sister's love, and a brother's confidence, occupied the place of present
                  scorn, neglect and infamy; all these, and many other causes exist, to predispose
                  to virtue even those now most abandoned; provided the hope of securing so
                     precious cious a boon were once to
                  get possession of the mind. The hopelessness of vice is one of the great reasons
                  of its perpetuity. Can the harlot expect to be otherwise than a harlot still? If
                  in conduct she amends, in social position she is the same. The hope of returning
                  to innocence, or justification, is the great desideratum of Christianity. So, hope
                  is what our temperance reformers must carry with them, when they visit earth's
                  hells, and deal with its lost spirits. All that is wanted, in many cases, is the
                  encouragement that friends, health, peace and prosperity, will surely follow the
                  total abandonment of the cup. To supply a hope like this is a part of
                  philanthropy's work, of which we find the highest precedent in the religion we
                  profess.
               Cathburt found the gambling company in full blast. Two noted gamblers, Gripe and
                  Bobbin, were the ruling geniuses of the place. They were cool, collected,
                  sharp-sighted, deep-seated villains, who could read cards as well on the back as
                  the face, and who could conjure them into just such a position in the pack in
                  shuffling as they desired. Their business was to decoy in those who had
                  money,—young men, for the most part, who were fond of cards, and adepts in them in
                  their own estimation, but who had never gambled, except occasionally to stake the
                  liquor they needed to give them inspiration. Gripe and Bobbin would take care that
                  the game should go against themselves so long as this liquor-betting continued;
                  but, as soon as the excitement ran high enough for dollars by the ten and the
                  hundred, then they were on hand, and the tyro gambler would be sure to come off
                  minus all he had. Cathburt had been thus taken in, which was the cause of his
                  haggard and excited appearance. Night after night he had followed up the damning
                  game, losing, but hoping to regain all by the next cast, till every cent was gone,
                  except five thousand dollars, which his father had sent him to take up a mortgage
                  with, that had long encumbered the family estate, to the unspeakable annoyance of
                  all the household. His labor-stricken parents had toiled, and saved, and
                  economized, and stinted themselves to the lowest supplies of their personal wants,
                  in order to relieve the property, out of which they hoped to live in their extreme
                  old age, of this encumbrance. As soon as Cathburt lost all his own money, he
                  resolved he would go no further. He would not plank a cent of the five thousand
                  dollars which his father had intrusted to him. But Gripe, who divined the state of
                  the case with him, as soon as he entered the room again, abandoned all other
                  customers, and bestowed upon him his sole attention. He was all smiles, spoke of
                  the loss of Cathburt's money as the merest accident, and was sure so accomplished
                  a player would win it all back again, and especially at cribbage, in which he knew
                  he was so very expert.—"Let us try our hand at crib, Mr. Cathburt, which you like
                  so much, and which we two can play together. It is a scientific game, and the
                  discipline I hope to acquire by means of it will reconcile me to the money which I
                  know you cannot fail to win from me."
               "No, Gripe, my vow is taken, and you need not persuade."
               "Well, if you have grown so puritanic all at once as not to play for money, I'll
                  stake with you a bottle of Buck's best,"—an excellent quality of old Madeira, to
                  be had only at Buck's. The temptation took with the excited Cathburt, and he
                  accepted and won the bet at cribbage. Cathburt drank more than his share of the
                  wine; and, alas! it proved to him gambling wine indeed; exciting the most
                  brilliant hopes of winning a fortune at cards, and overcoming all his repugnance
                  to planking his father's money. At it they went, betting small at first, then larger and larger, until the
                  last cent of the five thousand dollars melted away under his hand. It was now
                  three of the lurid morning. The consciousness of the full extent of the dreadful
                  calamity rolled over him like a crushing mountain. His head was giddy, and he
                  reeled towards a door opening into the back-yard, through which he
                  disappeared.
               "Suppose our doings were revealed to Bludgeon," said another young man, who had
                  fared little better in the hands of Bobbin.
               "The scoundrel that does such a deed will get that through his
                  heart!" said Gripe, drawing a gleaming stiletto blade from its concealed scabbard
                  in his bosom. "Better have all the New York police upon us than that
                  blackguard!"
               "But I'll send daylight through him, the moment he moves his viper tongue against
                  Buck's Saloon!" said Bobbin, drawing a sword-cane, and flourishing it around his
                  head.
               The young man cowered under arguments like these, of which he had no mistrust till
                  this moment.
               Morning came, but no Cathburt appeared. The search became exciting and universal.
                  Meantime, Saphead returned at the head of his marshalled legions, and they went
                  into session, with the Honorable Michael Skampton in the chair. The first meeting
                  was enormous, and, being for the most part men variously connected with the liquor
                  business, interest had whetted them to malignity against the Maine Law and its
                  friends. Skampton, in his opening speech, breathed out the rabid conservatism of
                  his spirit in general, more than against this specific law. "We are met," he said,
                  "to devise a remedy for the innovations of the age. All the old landmarks of
                  doctrine, usage, legislation and business, are in danger of going by the board. It
                  has come to that, that a man who retires at night an honest tradesman earning his
                  bread by the sweat of his face wakes up in the morning and finds himself a
                  criminal before the law and public opinion. He has no alternative but to change
                  his business, and leave his family to starve, or submit to fine and imprisonment.
                  My old uncle made a large fortune by importing servants from Africa; but, if I
                  were to do it, I should be punished as a pirate and an outlaw. And now there is a
                  restless set of vagabonds among us, who are determined to place in the same
                  category those who hold slaves and deal in liquor. Will you submit to these
                  innovations, gentlemen,—will you?"
               "No, we 'll die first!" was the murmured response from a thousand voices.
               "It is not a question of money, gentlemen, so much as of character, of
                  right,—immutable, inalienable, and eternal right. Will you submit to have your
                  names handed down to posterity, blackened and anathematized, to be the reproach of
                  your children, as those who had held property, and prosecuted trade, and amassed
                  fortunes, in contempt of justice and law? Will you submit to be accused of
                  instigating crime and producing pauperage by the wholesale? This, gentlemen, this
                  is what our enemies are attempting to bring upon us. This is the gist and animus
                  of this detestable Maine Law. The myrmidons of this law, if it pass, will enter
                  our shops and pour our capital into the gutters. They will pick our pockets with
                  fines. They will confine our persons among felons. They will beggar our wives.
                  They will blight and blast our unoffending children. Gentlemen, will you bow your
                  necks to such a yoke?"
               "No; we'll take the sword first!" resounded from a moving sea of heads, with eyes
                  of fire turned upon the speaker.
               The first meeting resulted in little more than the appointment ment of a committee to draught resolutions to be
                  embodied in a memorial to both houses of the Legislature. This committee, which
                  was large, held its sessions in Skampton's library. The arrangement was for each
                  member to write one resolution, and then, out of the whole, to make their report.
                  The sentiments found on the collected papers were to the following effect:
               "That the Maine Law is a warfare upon the manufacture, sale, use and enjoyment, of
                  all those accustomed beverages of the civilized world, from time immemorial, such
                  as wines, liquors, cordials, beer, ale, porter, cider, and the like; subjecting to
                  fines, imprisonments, and other penalties, one of our most ancient and necessary
                  sources of comfort and wealth."
               "That it is our natural, primary, and irrevocable right to use the fruits of the
                  earth, whether naturally produced or artificially prepared, both for meat and for
                  drink, at our own personal discretion and responsibility."
               In penning this resolution, the venerable committee lost sight of its injurious
                  bearing upon present laws, as well as the one proposed.
                  In denying the right to sell without a license, the state long since assumed that
                  we are not at liberty to use the fruit of the earth as we choose, but
                  that we may be placed under restraint, when such use is found prejudicial to the
                  public weal. If the state may license, it may refuse licenses to as many as it
                  pleases, or to all; or, it may place a license under such restrictions as it
                  pleases. It may refuse licenses to sell as a beverage, and give them to sell for
                  other purposes; and, if it may do thus, then it may enact stringent penalties, if
                  its legislation cannot be carried out without. All this is involved in our present
                  legislation, as much as by the Maine Law.
               "That the enactment of such a law by any legislative majority, however great,
                  would be the usurpation of despotic powers, and an invasion of constitutional
                  rights."
               Are not any laws prohibiting the liquor traffic without license
                  equally so?
               "That we regard this law as the audacious, unscrupulous, and fanatical project of
                  certain conventional associations, known as Temperance or Total Abstinence
                  Societies, acting in concerted combination, and actuated by a prurient, perverted,
                  and reckless zeal to effect, by legislative coërcion, and the ultimate physical
                  force of the law, extreme and impracticable purposes, which their moral influence
                  has confessedly failed to accomplish. These societies have incurred the just
                  indignation and political resistance and hostility of every enlightened freeman of
                  the land, as the chief instigators and abettors of a despotic usurpation, more
                  degrading to the moral volition and dignity of a free people, and more atrocious
                  in its political character, than anything which history records."
               More so than the law of nuisances? Yet, no nuisance known to legislation can
                  equal, in its aggressions upon the well-being of society, the present liquor
                  business and drinking customs. Despotic to prevent the crimes we so
                  rigorously punish? Despotic to place our greatest cause of pauperage
                  and wretchedness under restraint? Despotic to say to such a man as Skampton, "You
                  shall not corrupt Mapleton society by introducing a groggery"? Equitable and right
                  to encourage, by license of law, the ruin introduced into the Durham and Douglass
                  families, and the deeds of death at Bucks' Saloon,—and despotic to prevent them?
                  To what absurdities will not interest impel us?
               "That the accustomed beverages of civilized men, interdicted and rendered
                  unobtainable by this threatened law, are essential tial to the health and comfort, the social
                  enjoyment, and the beneficial intercourse, of a large number of persons in every
                  community, and who now use them unobjectionably and worthily, for these desirable
                  purposes." And yet, from this unobjectionable and worthy use come drunkenness,
                  insanity, crime, pauperage, and six or eight tenths of the consequent expense to
                  the tax-paying community!
               "That man, as a superior, social and moral being, exercising a rational
                  intelligence and choice as to what is most beneficial and agreeable to himself,
                  can no more be confined, by restrictive legislation, to the drink of the inferior
                  animals, than to their food or clothing; and requires neither medical nor
                  legislative prescriptions for the ordinary preservation of his health, or
                  recuperation of his strength, nor the example either of drunkards or reformed
                  drunkards to protect his morals."
               This was a first gun at Bludgeon.
               "That we are convinced, both by observation and reflection, that the infatuated
                  total abstinence from agreeable, nutritious and renovating beverages, under
                  conventional and unmitigated obligations, has caused, and is still causing, a
                  greater sacrifice of health and life than even the intemperate abuse of them; the
                  former victims, of both sexes, being far more numerous than the latter, though
                  less publicly known." Men dying for the want of alcohol, to whom God has opened
                  the boundless stores of animal and vegetable nature! Why has not poor Skampton,
                  and many like him, who never taste the bane out of which they make their wealth,
                  long since died of abstinence? There is no reasoning with this venerable
                  committee. They are mad upon their idols.
               "That it is undeniable and obvious that but comparatively few persons, in any
                  community, immoderately and immorally abuse these beverages, out of the vast
                  majority who moderately ately, virtuously and beneficially, use them; and that
                  their abuse by the few is no just reason for their being interdicted to the many."
                  This comparatively few make an aggregate of thirty thousand drunkards that die
                  annually in the United States. "It has cost our country, in ten years, for
                  alcoholic beverages," says Edward Everett, "one hundred millions of dollars; has
                  burned five millions more of property; has destroyed three hundred thousand lives;
                  has sent one hundred and fifty thousand to the prisons, and one hundred thousand
                  children to the poorhouse; caused fifteen hundred murders, two thousand suicides,
                  and has bequeathed to the country one hundred thousand orphan children."
               "That the abuse of them, however sincerely and deeply to be deplored, is grossly
                  and ridiculously, though systematically, exaggerated, as a source of pauperism and
                  crime; nearly all the evils of society being fanatically ascribed to this cause,
                  to the exclusion of all other causes inherent in human nature and its imperfect
                  social condition, and in impudent defiance of the notorious fact that these evils
                  prevail, to at least an equal extent, in those countries where such beverages have
                  been absolutely interdicted, both by civil and religious law, and total abstinence
                  established for more than a thousand years." Figures cannot lie. Of five thousand
                  three hundred and twelve arrests in Montreal, the police report says "the greater
                  number resulted from the too free use of intoxicating drink." And this accords to
                  the municipal history of every city on, the continent. Opium-eating, bad
                  government, false religion, and other causes of social misery and crime, no doubt
                  exist in Turkey, to produce a worse state of things than with us; though those
                  peculiar forms of crime which are here produced by drunkenness are there quite unknown. Our committee, in this
                  resolution, are not sustained by facts.
               "That these beverages are not necessarily intoxicating, as is falsely and
                  fanatically assumed by the conventional advocates of the proposed law, in the face
                  of common experience and observation." They only necessarily lead more or less to
                  intoxication, where they are freely used as a beverage.
               "That the vice of intoxication, now rapidly diminishing among all classes, under
                  the influence of moral suasion and example, would be aggravated by clandestine
                  indulgences, under the proposed law; while the laws now existing, properly
                  enforced, would be fully adequate to suppress its grosser manifestations and
                  consequences." They are not enforced, nor can they be, for the lack of effective
                  penalties.
               "That the enforcement of the proposed law would cause a loss of many millions
                  invested in the liquor business." Lost! No; but turned into safer and better
                  investments.
               "That the Maine Law cannot be enforced, except amid scenes of riot and bloodshed,
                  in which, though its reckless advocates would be the chief sufferers, vast
                  multitudes of the population would be involved, and which would be too frightful
                  in their results for any but callous fanatics to contemplate without horror and
                  dismay." It has been enforced in Maine without the loss of a single life, and with
                  a vast diminution of crime and pauperage,—and why may it not be elsewhere?
               Some other sentiments were proposed, but rejected, because they were deemed
                  inappropriate to the committee as a whole. One was, "That church-members have no
                  right to associate with worldly men in carrying out temperance measures; because
                  they thus neutralize their religion by mixing it with human ingredients, and seek
                  to do by a worldly organization the work which Christ has assigned to his church."
                  But, if we may belong to that civil society which upholds the liquor traffic, may
                  we not to an organization for pulling it down? If worldly men will go with us in a
                  Christian reform, are we authorized to forbid them? "Forbid them not."
               Peter Pegan, our conservative editor, being one of the committee, now gave signs
                  of having something on his mind. His meagre, misshapen person, after various
                  contortions, assumed a position as erect as the burden of its responsibilities
                  would admit, and said,
               "Gentlemen, you know how many subscribers I have lost by means of these temperance
                  fanatics. I cannot, of course, expect pecuniary compensation; but it would be an
                  unction to my burdened mind to know that I had your approbation, and that you were
                  disposed to give my paper the position to which my labors and sacrifices entitle
                  it. It is the oldest, has the largest circulation, and, withal, is more central to
                  those who act with us. For these reasons, is it too much to ask that it should be
                  made the oracle of the conservative movement?"
               "Certainly not; certainly not," responded various voices.
               "Moreover, gentlemen, it is but just that I should acquaint you with the perfect
                  system to which, after much experience, I have reduced the powerful enginery of
                  the periodical press. Take the matter of puffs, caustics and
                     blanks, for instance, and you will see how impossible it is for
                  the public to withstand my well-charged artillery. I suppose twenty thousand
                  persons are looking to me for that food for their vanity which is dealt out
                  through the columns of a newspaper. Hence, I am obliged to drive a great trade in
                  puffs; and, to do it most effectively, I have arranged the matter to be included
                  in them into a hundred divisions, and have written that number of puffs, and had
                  them stereotyped, with vacant places for such names as I please to insert. These puffs I keep
                  constantly in use, as the most popular branch of my business. In some plates I
                  stereotype name and all, and keep them as constantly before the public as quack
                  advertisements. You cannot imagine, gentlemen, the facilities for my business
                  which I derive from these plates. I can cater to the public vanity at half the
                  expense.
               "Besides, I have fifty plates, which, in the parlance of my office, are called
                     caustics, because they vex and cauterize as much as a puff soothes
                  and pleases. These caustic-plates rise in severity, so that the last is fifty
                  times as severe and abusive as the first. All above forty I consider a dead shot,
                  ruining forever those at whom they are aimed. They are equal to the racks of the
                  Inquisition, and make me as formidable. Most men will bow rather than submit to a
                  shot. But, as to the few that set them at defiance, I dispose of them with a
                     blank, which consists in simply omitting their names wholly from
                  my columns. There are those who prefer to stand fifty caustics to one blank, so
                  strong is their passion for notoriety. To be the devil, and known, is to them
                  better than being an angel, incognito."
               Whereupon, another resolution was added, to recommend Pegan's paper as the
                  universal organ of conservatism.
               Mr. Saphead thought the resolutions were not severe enough. "Gentlemen," said he,
                  "I go for David's policy of scratching out the eyes of a foe. He says, 'He maketh
                  my feet like hens' feet.'"
               There was now a great commotion of the risibles in committee, one saying
                     hinds' feet, and another, and others still, repeated HINDS' feet,
                  accenting the mistaken word with great distinctness. Saphead, perplexed at the
                  interruption, and not yet comprehending the cause, yelled out, with all his might,
                  "Did n't I say HENS' feet?" at the same time smiting his huge chest, and making it
                  shake like a pot of jelly.
               "Very well," said one and another, "let him go on. Saphead is a good creature; he
                  is one of us, and always means right."
               "Those who can scratch, dirt, eyes, anything that needs scratching, are the men
                  for me," continued Saphead. "'He maketh my feet like hens' feet.'
               "Howsomever, gents, as you do not like figures of speech, I offer, in plain
                  English, the following sentiment, that we appeal to Judge Lynch. His is the only
                  court to do justice in such cases. With the encouragement of my betters, I 'll
                  take off Bludgeon within twenty-four hours. A score of sturdy fellows from Buck's
                  Saloon, well charged with Buck's best, will do the work in a flash."
               "No, no, that'll never do," responded some. "It'll insure the passage of this
                  detestable law," added others. "Saphead, you 're too bad."
               "What! is 't worse for us to tar and feather Bludgeon, and rail him
                  out of town, than for him to do this to Mr. Skampton's tenant in Mapleton?"
                  replied Saphead, anxious to soften down his proposition as much as possible;
                  whereupon he resumed his seat, with labored breathing, like a harpooned whale. To
                  the honor of the committee be it said, this suggested assassination received no
                  countenance from them.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               BLUDGEON FIGHTING THE DEVIL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           ———"Now storming fury rose,
                           And clamor such as heard in heaven till now
                           Was never."
                        
                        
                           ———"Dire was the noise
                           Of conflict. Overhead the dismal hiss
                           Of fiery darts in flaming volleys flew,
                           And flying vaulted either host with fire."
                        
                     
                     —MILTON.
                  
               
               MEANTIME Bludgeon had commenced the onset. Expectation, curiosity and the surging
                  waves of excitement, were his harbingers. His place of meeting was the largest the
                  city could afford, and was thronged to its utmost capacity, from his first lecture
                  to the last. Bludgeon's position included much more, by this time, than that of
                  reformed drunkard, or travelling lecturer. He spake as one having authority. He
                  had dwelt upon the woes of mankind till they all found a response in his glowing
                  heart. He poured out scalding tears in secret over this sin-blighted world. He had
                  a divine commission to redress the wrongs of society. If he began as a blackguard,
                  he ended with the spirit of a saint and a martyr. He felt the insufficiency of
                  worldly or prudential considerations, in dealing with the evil passions, opinions
                  and customs of mankind, and had intrenched himself within the higher sanctions of
                  religion, God, and eternity. His satire was scathing, but was evidently pointed
                  with love. He had come to rely mainly upon appeals to the conscience, by means of
                  those truths and motives which Christianity supplies, in which, on some occasions,
                  his pathos and power equalled those of Whitefield field, or any of the clerical
                  lights of a former age. And yet, he never merged himself in the staid habits and
                  professional sanctity of a clergyman; but was free, excursive, sometimes low and
                  vulgar, and altogether more effective with the unthinking rabble than he would
                  have been with less to offend good taste, and more to gratify a fastidious
                  refinement.
               Though Bludgeon began as a temperance lecturer, he had become a battle-axe upon
                  all mal-practice in individual and community, in family and neighborhood, in
                  church and in state, in slavery and in freedom, his lectures being desultory
                  harangues against general and specific evils. His beginning was in a subdued tone,
                  cool, unimpassioned, and apparently in a chastened and benevolent state of
                  feeling. His tonsils, swollen by much speaking, rendered his voice hoarse and
                  husky, like the croaking of a crane, or like the tones of a cracked bell muffled;
                  and yet it had a marvellous effect on the nerves of an audience. No matter how
                  crowded, how discordant its elements, or how bitter the malignity raging against
                  himself, a few sentences, pronounced in his peculiar manner, would produce the
                  stillness of death. In manner he was rough, uncouth, and eccentric. His training,
                  under such a mother and in such a family, was but too visible. A delicate mind
                  heard him with more pain than pleasure. But these disadvantages, strange as it may
                  seem, rather increased the effect, just as sawing off a muscle jars more terribly
                  than dissecting it by means of a keen surgical instrument. Disgusted or otherwise,
                  the cases were rare in which persons, cultivated or uncultivated, hearing him
                  once, did not feel a mysterious desire to hear him again. The magic of his
                  influence was so irresistible that, in rain or sunshine, in snow and sleet, in mud
                  and water, his audiences were alike overwhelming. His harangues were at first
                  plain and practical, delivered in the
                  spirit of love and zeal, and of a character deeply to impress the heart. They were
                  faithful, pungent, and powerful in application. He was minute in describing the
                  various phases of a man's downward career in vice. The effect of alcohol upon the
                  vital organs, in changing them from scarlet to crimson, and from crimson to
                  purple, and from purple to blue, and from blue to the black of gangrene and
                  putrefaction, was represented to the audience in a succession of drawings, on
                  which his remarks were always graphic and powerful. He not only developed the
                  anatomy of intemperance, but its moral feelings, tracing, with terrible accuracy,
                  the ten thousand windings of the human heart, accompanied by appeals so searching,
                  excoriating and irresistible, that every dormant fear was awakened, every latent
                  memory of violated vows suggested, every smothered aspiration after temperance and
                  virtue was inflamed to the highest pitch of intensity. Thus, in a short time, he
                  had gathered around him an invincible band, whose confidence in their leader was
                  unbounded, whose zeal had the fault of being excessive, if that were possible in
                  such a cause, and who were prepared to go with him to death in doing battle upon
                  the rampant wickedness of the world.
               This spirit Bludgeon fanned by all the arts at his command, pouring out vials of
                  scalding wrath upon those who came not up to the measure of his own views as to
                  the evils of intemperance, the necessity of the Maine Law, and the obligation and
                  power of the total abstinence pledge, as a specific against this vice. His
                  body-guard he gathered up, for the most part, from the gutters, and from the hells
                  of intemperance. They were men that felt the evils of the monster, as nothing but
                  experience can make one feel. Buck's Saloon contributed a large proportion of
                  them, and Whittemore more than won his bet. Some of them gave up their whole time,
                  going from house to house, groggery to groggery, and scattering the fire of
                  feeling on the all-absorbing topic in every direction. The pathos and interest
                  which they breathed into their work exceed our powers of description. The woes of
                  the world had become their own. Their sympathy in drunkards and drunkards'
                  families derived intensity from their own bitter recollections. Contact with them
                  was sure to impart the infection of their zeal for reformation. The flame of
                  feeling followed in their train, as burning hamlets and villages a stream of
                  volcanic fire. The harangues of Bludgeon were the impulsive centre of the mighty
                  movement. His very person was a battery which his enemies feared to encounter. It
                  was an iron frame, set on fire by a mighty idea, and the pregnant lightnings
                  played around his features and flashed from his eyes in volleyed power. Bullets
                  are not the most effective missiles to be hurled at a foe. The genius of Napoleon
                  was reckoned equal to a hundred thousand charging grenadiers. The
                     intellectuale and morale have a force exceeding all
                  physical warfare. Thus with Bludgeon's shots. They were aimed with more than the
                  deadly certainty of modern artillery, taking effect upon the strong-hold in which
                  vice and sin have intrenched themselves. Public sensation rose so high, through
                  the efforts of his forlorn hope and his own excoriating appeals, that all the
                  nerves of feeling among a hundred thousand people were twinging and twanging like
                  the overstrained chords of a harp, giving forth notes of acquiescence, or
                  resistance, according to the character and social position of those from whom they
                  came. Already the number who had taken the pledge amounted to many thousands. The
                  groggeries were abandoned, and the liquor-dealers were in the greatest
                  consternation.
               
               Now, therefore, Bludgeon felt himself prepared for a bold push, and accordingly
                  gave notice that on a certain evening he should expose by name those who were in
                  various ways lending themselves to the vices of alcohol. He should attack certain
                  public houses in which the monster kennelled, and should reveal deeds of which the
                  public had no mistrust. This notice was received by the abandoned, far and near,
                  and especially by hotel-keepers, as a formal challenge; and, dreading exposure by
                  their fearless assailant, they were driven to desperation, and prepared for a
                  sanguinary defence. Society was stirred up from its deepest caverns, and its
                  troubled elements dashed, and foamed, and raged, and lashed their adamantine
                  barriers, as when an earthquake breaks up the bed of the sea, and drives its
                  waters into new channels and cavities.
               Two events now occurred to increase the power of the movement, and to render the
                  community the more disposed to tolerate this dangerous expedient of attacking
                  private character, upon which Bludgeon had been precipitated, in the intemperance
                  of his zeal. One of these events had respect to the Skampton convention, and the
                  other to Buck's Saloon. That convention had suffered a most mortifying
                  depopulation, through the general rush to Bludgeon's lectures. The leaders, galled
                  by their waning influence, employed the most attractive and distinguished speakers
                  to discuss their foundation principles, and thus restore to themselves the errant
                  populace. But it would not work. There was no thunder in their principles, and
                  none in their souls. At length, one of those untoward events happened to which all
                  deliberative assemblies are subject, to turn the laugh upon them, and to
                  annihilate their little remaining influence. In the progress of these brilliant
                  speeches on the refining and ennobling effects of alcoholic beverages, on the
                  social amenities of which they are the instrument, on their influence upon our
                  civilization, and the certainty that we shall revert to barbarism without them, on
                  the health they promote, and the diseases inevitable to their disuse, and much
                  more in the same strain, Saphead, animated by the discussion, got the floor, and
                  perpetrated one of those bulls which were common to him. Thinking to be very
                  impressive, he began abruptly, saying,
               "Friends, did you ever see a railroad start? Yes; I s'pose you have. Well, they
                  goes glib; so this ere business goes glib; wine goes glib; Buck's best goes glib;
                  it makes us feel nice; it gi's strength to the weak; it gi's health to the sick;
                  it gi's motion to the tongue; it gi's ideas to the mind; it gi's good cheer to the
                  faint. 'Give strong drink to the heavy heart,' says Paul; and he knows better than
                  fifty Bludgeons."
               As if this speech were not enough for the mortification of the rum leaders, it was
                  followed by one from Tooney, whose bacchanalian travels had brought him to the
                  city, where he did enough to get the means of keeping himself drunk. In squalid
                  wretchedness, without collar or cravat, and in the filthy attire of a drunkard
                  throughout, bloated in face, inflamed and watery in eye, and trembling in his
                  whole frame, he rose, staggering to the top of his seat, and, in spite of efforts
                  to the contrary, delivered himself thus, in confirmation of Saphead's speech:
               "Yer honors, that's my mind, 'xactly. I have had more 'xparance than any ither
                  mother's son o' ye. On me sowl, I lif by the good cratur. He makes me cha'ary; he
                  gifs me stringth; plase yer honors, he do."
               This speech was followed by a roar of laughter, and, appearing in the dailies of
                  the next morning, it set the whole city agog, at the expense of Skampton and his
                  convention.
               
               The other event was thus related to Bludgeon in a note, which reached him just as
                  he was rising to begin his lecture.
               
                  "SIR: Cathburt is found. A servant at Buck's went into the back-yard, to draw
                     water, and found his body floating in the well. He has this moment been taken
                     out. He lies in the room where the gamblers, it is supposed, made him their
                     victim. His poor father and mother are frantic with grief."
               
               Bludgeon began his lecture by reading this note, and an assault upon Buck's Saloon
                  the most scorching and terrible. From that day forth, Buck wandered as a ghost in
                  his own abandoned haunts, till he was ejected, and committed to prison for forging
                  a draft to relieve himself from debt. The greatest nuisance in the city thus
                  perished, without hope. The parents of Cathburt had come in search of their son,
                  and stood at the top of the well when his lifeless body was drawn up. Such a scene
                  is easier imagined than described. The loss of their only son, the robbery of his
                  money,—now first ascertained by searching his pockets,—a childless old age of
                  penury in prospect, and, more than all, the self-accusation of having ever allowed
                  their son cards as an amusement, which had fitted him to be taken in the snare,
                  all together concurred to inflict wounds on their parental feelings which could
                  never be healed. Bludgeon set on foot a subscription to take up their mortgage,
                  and headed it with the liberal sum of five hundred dollars,—more than all he was
                  worth, but which he was enabled to pay through the contributions of his friends.
                  The five thousand dollars were soon raised, and enough in addition to pay all
                  expenses; and the poor old people were sent on their way with all the alleviation
                  to be derived from such an act of benevolence. The faithfulness, zeal and
                  liberality of Bludgeon, in this case, tended immeasurably to increase his
                  power.
               The time at length arrived for Bludgeon's appointed onset to begin. Skampton and
                  his followers, having now no other resource left them, resolved to attend on the
                  occasion in a body, confident that his attacks on personal character would furnish
                  the means of silencing their enemy by suits at law. Consequently, the audience was
                  immense. The largest railroad dépôt had been obtained to accommodate it, and it
                  was thought that not less than eight thousand persons were crowded into it.
                  Expectation was on tiptoe, and excitement up to welding heat. Indeed, what was
                  said owed its effect not so much to anything in itself as to the previous train of
                  events, and the absolute confidence of success which animated the leader and his
                  assailing host. There is no courage like that which arises from the sense of
                  maintaining right against wrong. "The righteous are as bold as a lion."
               When the rum convention arrived, in all the pomp of procession, they were
                  surprised to find seats reserved for them in a body, and no signs of timidity
                  evinced on account of their presence. They expected to see Bludgeon cower before
                  so august a presence; whereas he seemed hardly aware of it, so intently was he
                  absorbed in higher interests. The audience was made up of all kinds of
                  characters,—drunkards, gamblers, extortioners, liars, infidels of every grade,
                  scoffers, profane swearers, libertines, and all the wrecks and pests of society,
                  as well as of the decent and the virtuous. The latter had come from curiosity, or
                  to aid the cause of reform, while the former determined to protect themselves from
                  the dreaded exposures, even if they had to do it with the blood of him who should
                  venture to make them. Interspersed among the outcast cast multitudes, here and there, were Bludgeon's
                  forlorn hope, or body-guard, with whom he had arranged to help him, in the event
                  of a tumultuous outbreak. The audience being duly seated, and ready, Bludgeon rose
                  coolly and fearlessly, while the stillness of death reigned on every hand. He
                  stood on a platform, near the centre of a sea of heads. The bleak winds of March
                  howled around the vast structure, and, amid the awe-inspiring sounds, now
                  distinctly audible from the deep silence, Bludgeon exclaimed, abruptly,
               "I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven!"
               His eyes flashed fire as he spoke, and his pale, haggard face, and croaking voice,
                  betokened a man from the tombs rather than from the activities of the living
                  world. The audience were electrified by the first onset.
               "Such, my friends, is what I behold in you this night," said Bludgeon, his action
                  giving the impress of reality to his words. "This is as clear to me as the fall of
                  Satan was to our great Master. Falling from pleasure, from wine, from lust, from
                  honor, from virtue, from hope, sweet hope, that comes to all, down, down, down, to
                  deep, dark, eternal infamy, where pleasure is pain, where wine becomes a burning
                  pestilence within, where lust ends in rottenness, honor in shame, virtue in
                  incurable vice, and hope in the blackness of despair; where the scalding drops of
                  incensed justice will fall upon you forever!"
               Starting up, with a shudder, at what he had depicted, with streaming eyes, and a
                  countenance now beaming love and solicitude, he added,
               "I come to-night, my friends, to arrest you in this dangerous fall. I come
                  to-night to assure you that total abstinence from the vice which kills will be its
                  cure. But you hate me; you lie about me. You say that Bludgeon is a knave and a
                  deceiver; that he is after your money, and not your happiness. O, my friends! if
                  your slanders were true, think you I should stand pleading with you till my lungs
                  are so sore that when I have spoken one word, I know not that I can speak another,
                  and laboring so constantly that if I get four hours' sleep in the twenty-four I
                  think myself well off?"
               "Here's two lies for you to nail, Pegan," said Skampton, in a low voice; "lungs
                  too sore to speak, yet all the time bawling; four hours' sleep; mark, Pegan!"
               "Yes, yes," said Pegan, with a start and a twitch, "I'll nail'em!"
               "And all this," continued Bludgeon, "for what? For my bread, and clothes, and
                  lodging, which, I protest, is all I have had so far."
               "Another lie, Pegan," said Skampton; "mark it! mark it!"
               "It's marked," rejoined Pegan; "I shall get ammunition for my gun to-night."
               By this time Bludgeon had conciliated every feeling in the house, except those of
                  the rum convention, so far as such characters were capable of conciliation by such
                  a speaker.
               The history and fall of Satan were now announced as his
                  theme. Satan, he said, was an impersonation of evil in man, and more especially of
                  alcohol, which was the soul of wickedness; and if that could once be exorcised,
                  the body and members of the monster would die; an ultraism natural to one so
                  exclusively occupied with a particular cause of crime and misery. Bludgeon's logic
                  and theology are far from being models. In giving a history of Satan, he touched
                  upon every recollected case and form of the abuse of wine or alcoholic drinks,
                  from Noah's drunkenness to this day; a theme, any one may imagine, as graphic and
                  powerful as could possibly sibly fall
                  to the lot of such an orator. It was a night of drunkenness that erased great
                  Babylon's walls from their firm foundation. It was as the consequence of
                  drunkenness that Canaan's posterity were accursed; and every slave that clanks his
                  chains, from Mason and Dixon's line to Cape Horn, is a memento of this damning
                  sin. These loose positions of Bludgeon, in the manner of his using them, were not
                  without their effect in his discourse as a whole. It was a graphic generalization,
                  under which all the specific evils of alcohol, in the history of nations and
                  races, were made to fay in like the inferior stones of an arch, to give strength
                  and stability to the whole. His description of its effects in individual cases was
                  more reliable, searching, and powerful. He followed the drunkard from his first
                  glass, till found wallowing in the gutter, haunted by devils in a fit of delirium
                  tremens, or dissolved into the lurid fires of hell by spontaneous combustion. He
                  pointed out its effects upon the nervous system, in creating desire and appetite
                  over which the drunkard has no control, and which is sure to precipitate him upon
                  his ruin, unless a physical impossibility is interposed to intercept the flow of
                  the bane to his lips. Nothing but the Maine Law, executed by vigorous hands, in
                  pouring the damning bane into the gutter, and in remanding the harpies to prison
                  who prey upon the vices of society, he said, can meet the exigences of a case like
                  this. These and all of his points he illustrated by pertinent anecdotes, which now
                  convulsed his audience with laughter, and now bathed it in tears, thus swelling
                  the tide of excitement, till it rose above all bounds, and defied restraint. His
                  own feelings, also, waxed more and more intense with his advancing argument, his
                  manner became more and more vehement, and his hearers seemed to have lost sight of
                  the relations of time and place, in their absorbing interest in the images
                  presented to their view.
               By this time, to compare great things with small, Bludgeon had a ten thousand
                  horse power all concentrated in himself, and which he could wield with one of his
                  fingers. What was remarkable in his case, his self-possession increased with the
                  excitement, and he had more shrewdness in wielding his terrible machinery than any
                  other man, or even himself, in the calm of his retirement. Now he was ready for
                  his assault. It was nine of the night. The winds still breathed, and whistled, and
                  raged without; and, in the excited, apprehensive state of the audience, the very
                  creaking of the building in which they were assembled seemed the shriek of some
                  falling drunkard, as he made the final plunge of his hopeless vice. The images of
                  agonized fathers, mothers, wives, husbands, children, deploring the doom of rum's
                  victims, and of devils exulting over it, seemed depicted in the air they breathed,
                  and to swarm around them like the flies of summer, to preclude all possible
                  objects besides, and to overwhelm them with a sense of this greatest of national
                  calamities,—drunkards, drunkenness, and the detestable liquor-traffic. Bludgeon
                  paused. All was still, but it was the stillness that portends the hurricane.
                  Half-suppressed groans and wailings were heard from those who now felt, as never
                  before, the danger to their drinking friends. The speaker's burning eyes glanced
                  and flashed from one end of the vast concourse to the other, as if searching for
                  the point where to begin his personal onset.
               At length, catching the features of Gilfort, who sat trembling by the side of
                  Skampton, he called out his name with a voice like the sound of doom, saying, "You
                  hypocrite, you deceiver, you human devil, rioting in the spoils of innocence and
                  the wrecks of character, where are the souls whom you have ruined by rum? The gutter already swarms with
                  your victims. The prison, where you ought to be yourself, holds those whom you
                  have tempted to crime. Your dark schemes of money-digging, your nocturnal orgies,
                  your extortions of money in the name of the Lord, your religious fraud to cheat
                  men into the purchase of your lands, and all the black arts by which you have
                  hitherto sustained an accursed existence, testify against you. Is it not better
                  for you to come to a solemn pause, and take the pledge not only not to drink more,
                  but not to cheat, not to lie, not to palm off upon the ignorant your pious tricks,
                  but to become henceforth a man of temperance and of virtue? But you fall, I see
                  you fall, from pleasure, from influence, from hope, from your schemes of
                  self-aggrandizement and all the alluring baits of this nether world, into a
                  drunkard's grave and a drunkard's hell!"
               Gilfort, pale with excitement, and lost to the consciousness of himself or his
                  position, muttered, incoherently, "God have mercy on me! I'm a devil, sure enough!
                  Cursed life, this! Alas, for my miserable training!"—meantime jumping up, to do he
                  knew not what.
               "Sit down, Gilfort," said Skampton, not comprehending the cause of his excitement;
                  "don't mind the braying of that ass!"
               The commotion was now general. Skampton's voice recovered Gilfort to a sense of
                  his position, and he started to go out. But Bludgeon, mistaking it for a desire to
                  come forward to take the pledge,—no uncommon thing with an audience under great
                  excitement,—called out, "Make way for him! Open there to the right and left! Let
                  the stricken wolf relieve his conscience! He may become a sheep, yet. But no,—he
                  goes! he goes!" added Bludgeon, as he saw him making for the door. "All is over
                  with him. He'll come to a miserable end!"
               At this, a cry of "Stop thief! Stop thief!" resounded through the vast area. All
                  eyes looked whence it came. It was Dobson, who, rapt in the magic of the speaker's
                  influence, believed him supernaturally directed to Gilfort as the swindler of his
                  money. In this he was confirmed by Gilfort escaping; and, with head bare, locks
                  dishevelled, and eyes flaming with insanity, he started in pursuit, floundering
                  through the throng, and at the same time calling out, at the top of his voice,
                  "Stop thief! Stop thief! Seize him! He's taken my money! Seize him!" The violence
                  of the outcry excited the rabble round the door to attempt the arrest of Gilfort,
                  thinking him a pickpocket who had just perpetrated some depredation within. But
                  Gilfort, by dint of strength, forced his athletic form through the midst, and thus
                  made his escape by one of the doors.
               "Where is he?—where is he?" cried a hundred tumultuous voices, as he vanished from
                  view.
               "He's here," cried one, with an oath.
               "No,—he's here," said another. "Come on!—come on!"
               "No, by all that's good and gracious!" cried a third; "he went out by this
                  door."
               "He's a pickpocket!" said one.
               "You 're a liar!" rejoined a stout fellow; "and, if you say that again, I 'll
                  gouge your eyes out."
               "He's a villain!" said twenty voices at once; and as many more affirmed him to be
                  an honest man, whom Bludgeon had slandered.
               "Can't slander such as he," replied another, and received a blow in the face for
                  answer, which he returned; and thump,
                  thump, thump, went the fists, and bruised noses and flowing blood mingled in the
                  dismal mêlée. Now Dobson entered the lists, still vociferating "Stop thief! stop
                  thief!" when he received a thrust from a bowie-knife from a secret hand, which
                  changed his cry into the doleful exclamation of "Murder! murder! murder! God have
                  mercy on my soul! I am a dead man!"
               All this was done sooner than the telling, Bludgeon meanwhile maintaining his
                  position with unwavering self-possession, and holding with magic eye the
                  sympathies of the audience, till quiet was restored. He prepared to resume. His
                  eye now rested on Pegan, who was posted in a conspicuous position, for the
                  convenience of taking notes. Pegan had admitted to his paper many scandalous
                  things against Bludgeon, which infused the more gall into this assault. Fixing his
                  searching gaze on the little great man, he said, "Thou enemy of all
                  righteousness,—thou child of the devil! What!—here to gather lies for your
                  polluted columns? Your intrigues are known. Your puffs, caustics and blanks, I
                  defy them all! When has alcohol instigated a crime of which you was not the
                  abettor? Buck's Saloon owed its power to your pen. You have written Cathburt dead,
                  his parents childless and penniless, and filled the land with the victims of your
                  dark conservatism!" Pegan dropped his pen, and hopped about the floor like a
                  decapitated hen, till he finally escaped.
               Next came Skampton's sentence, to whom Bludgeon cried "Blood! blood! blood!" with
                  a thrilling effect that no other mortal knew how to produce with that word. "Blood
                  from the grave of the Durhams cries against you for vengeance. Blood from the dust
                  of Robson, blood from the dust of Jollops, blood from the maw of the Kamtschatka
                  whales, blood from pole to pole, has sealed your doom!" This, with the excitement
                  of the occasion and the scrutiny of so many thousand eyes, was more than Skampton
                  could endure, and he too escaped, muttering, "Law, law, law'll silence that
                  ass!"
               By this time the young men who were witnesses to the Cathburt robbery had
                  acquainted Bludgeon with all the facts, to which Senator Whittemore had added
                  those which passed under his observation. All these he proceeded now to detail,
                  that the citizens might understand the real nature of the resort which legislation
                  and the laws had licensed and established in the midst of them. A darker picture
                  cannot be conceived than the one now sketched to the audience, which produced an
                  involuntary response, "Down with the license law! Down with the license law! Give
                  us the Maine Law! Break up the hells! Pour the poison into the gutter!"
               Gripe, Bobbin and their crew, were present, and whetted to the keenest edge of
                  exacerbated feeling. Murder was in their hearts. They called to one another to
                  assist in dragging the scoundrel from the stand. "Do it!—do it!" said Bludgeon. "I
                  defy you all! I will die on the spot, before I 'll yield! Ye vipers! ye sharks of
                  society, whose breath is pestilence, and whose words are daggers,—come on!—come! I
                  dare you to the attack! My blood will seal your doom!"
               His courage produced a panic among them, and they withdrew. But when they reached
                  the open air their daring revived, whetted up by their comrades, who had remained
                  without the most of the evening, and had not felt to an equal extent the magic of
                  Bludgeon's influence. Here they all entered into a solemn oath to assassinate him
                  before he left the stand. One of their number, more conscientious than the rest, seeing how things would go,
                  caused the following note to be slipped under the eye of the speaker:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "SIR:—More than three hundred stand without, ready to assassinate you
                              at a preconcerted signal. The signal is the firing of a pistol.
                           
                              ONE THAT KNOWS."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Bludgeon read the note to the audience, and called on his friends not to be
                  alarmed, to stand to their post, and deliverance would certainly come.
               "Prudence dictates your escape," said a friend, privately.
               "Shall such a man as I flee?" exclaimed Bludgeon, aloud.
               In a moment the pistol exploded. A shriek rose up from all parts of the vast
                  concourse, as a band of assassins, with their gleaming steel, rushed through the
                  passages. Bludgeon commanded and produced a profound silence, great as the danger
                  was. The mesmerism of his eye was proof against steel. Gripe, the leader of the
                  band, felt it as a bear is said to feel the power of an unflinching human eye, and
                  he cowered before the undaunted champion of temperance.
               "I know your plans," said Bludgeon. "It is to stain your polluted souls with my
                  innocent blood. I see your gleaming daggers, but I heed them not. No! I had as
                  lief die to-night as at another time. Let my blood seal my message against the rum
                  traffic. I love the people whom you rob. God is near, and his shield is my
                  protection. He will not let me die by your hands. He has more work for me. He will
                  smite you."
               By this time they had reached the open space around the platform, and were
                  screwing up their courage to mount it; when, overawed by the associations of the
                  scene, and still more by the dauntless spirit of their victim, they hesitated.
               "God Almighty smite thee!" said Bludgeon to Gripe, as their eyes met, when the
                  latter, through excitement and panic, reeled, staggered, and fell to the floor.
                  This terrified the rest of his crew, and they slunk away from view, and left
                  Bludgeon in the undisputed possession of the field. Gripe was carried to the
                  hospital, where he died before morning, it was thought by the special visitation
                  of God. But the drinking habits of the man, the guilt of Cathburt's death, the
                  breaking up of Buck's Saloon as his only remaining haunt, and his nocturnal revels
                  and habitual sleeplessness, all concurring with the tempest of his mind during
                  Bludgeon's harangue, are sufficient to account for his sudden and awful death,
                  without the intervention of miracle.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               LOVE BETTER THAN DENUNCIATION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "As we fall in various ways, and sink,
                           
                           
                           So manifold and various are the ways
                           Of reformation, fashioned to the steps
                           Of all infirmity, and tending all
                           To the same point,—attainable by all,—
                           Peace in ourselves, and union with our God."
                        
                     
                     WORDSWORTH.
                  
               
               SARAH HARCOURT was as ignorant as Charles Douglass of the real cause of their
                  separation. The facts, so far as to her appeared, were these: Not fifteen minutes
                  after their last parting, her father
                  entered her room, and inquired, "Where is Douglass?"
               "Just gone, dear father, and not to return till Monday."
               "Not till Monday!" he said, with apparent surprise; "then it's all over. We shall
                  not see him again, at present; for we must leave in an hour for New York."
               "For New York, father? In an hour? What do you mean?" said Sarah, perfectly
                  thunderstruck.
               "Mean, my love? I mean this,—that if we are not there as soon as steam can carry
                  us, you will be shuffled out of your maternal inheritance. I have this moment
                  received intelligence to that effect."
               "I cannot go, father. You can go, and do the business for me. I had rather lose it
                  all than go at this time."
               "That 's out of the question, my daughter. Your presence is necessary to prove
                  your identity by a living witness there, as the Sarah Harcourt who inherits, in
                  her mother, Louisa Selden's right. As to your throwing away this property, Sarah,
                  I shall not hear to it a moment. Go you must."
               "I have an engagement with Mr. Douglass on Monday, and cannot go till I see
                  him."
               "You can write him, Sarah, and explain all. Mr. Douglass is a reasonable man, and
                  cannot fail to be satisfied. If he had been here when I entered the room, as I
                  supposed, he would have urged your departure as earnestly as I do. Go, Sarah, we
                  must, and that, too, within an hour, or we shall not reach the cars in time. Sit
                  down this moment and write Douglass your explanation. A servant shall carry your
                  note this very afternoon."
               Sarah saw there was no alternative, and she wrote, stating the cause of her
                  leaving so suddenly, promising to write him again soon, and beseeching him to have
                  a letter in waiting for her in New York when she arrived, as she might be
                  compelled to rest by the way. This matter disposed of, they set off, with all
                  possible speed, by private conveyance, for the railroad station, a distance of
                  twenty-five miles. Mr. Harcourt took the precaution of going by a way to elude
                  detection as much as possible, nor did they stop till the carriage set them down
                  at the station. They rode all that night; and yet the first thing that Sarah did
                  at the hotel where they breakfasted was to despatch a letter to Douglass,
                  informing him of the kind manner in which her father had spoken of him, and that
                  he might rest as secure, she thought, as if they were formally betrothed with the
                  parental consent and blessing. She concluded with saying, "Though my body is weary
                  and my eyes heavy with sleep, and though this, our unexpected separation, is a
                  trial of trials, yet I have the sweet assurance that my mother's God will watch
                  over me and over you, and that we shall yet be made useful and happy in each
                  other's society."
               After a hasty breakfast, she retired to rest, and slept calmly and sweetly over
                  one train, when they entered the cars again, and did not leave them till they
                  reached the endless din of the great metropolis. Sarah found things to correspond,
                  so far as to her appeared, to the previous representations of her father. An old
                  lady examined certain marks of her person, and gave in, under oath, that she was
                  the veritable daughter of Louisa Selden, the wife of James Harcourt, and heiress
                  to the Selden estate. The forms of law gone through with, Mr. Harcourt took
                  possession of the estate in due form. Miss Harcourt's maternal family was one of
                  the most distinguished of the early Puritan emigrants. The homestead of her
                  grandparents was an old-fashioned mansion on the banks of the Hudson, some distance above the city.
                  It was invested with cultivated groves of nearly a century's growth, through which
                  the antique structure looked down with imposing effect on the beautiful river.
                  They found it, on their arrival, in a state of majestic decay, from having been
                  long occupied by aged persons, who felt little interest in the improvements of
                  present luxury and splendor. The faded glory of a former age was more congenial to
                  its occupants than modern ornament and invention. Harcourt proceeded at once to
                  make such changes as his fancy dictated. The rooms were fitted up in the most
                  costly style; the walls lined with magnificent mirrors; the floors provided with
                  the richest quality of Turkey carpeting for winter, and with the finest Indian
                  matting for summer; all after the newest and most approved models. Splendid
                  chandeliers hung from the ceiling; musical-boxes stood on the brackets and
                  side-tables; the windows were hung with costly drapery; the gilt balconies were
                  filled with the rarest exotics and flowering plants; and singing birds were
                  provided, to pour their mellifluous notes through the rooms and halls, to regale
                  and delight the luxurious inmates.
               "Alas! no letter from Charles. Why does he not write? Is he sick? Have my letters
                  failed? Impossible! some must have reached him. O, my heart of hearts! where is
                  Charles, that he deigns no token to his doting Sarah?—no word, no, not one—not
                  one!"
               Such were the plaints of Miss Harcourt, amid all these splendid preparations. Her
                  father met the case with all his address; said he would make immediate inquiries;
                  presumed that Douglass meant soon to surprise her with a visit, or that he was
                  devoting himself to his profession; or something of the kind prevented his
                  writing.
               "You are young, my daughter, and Mr. Douglass has years of preparation yet before
                  him. If you should not hear from him till he gets through, it cannot prevent your
                  union, if you are destined for each other. Be patient, my child, be patient; this
                  is just the ordeal you need, and you 'll both see whether the root of the matter
                  is in you, and you really have the foundation for permanent esteem. This misgiving
                  in you is a doubtful omen; but we shall see."
               Sarah cherished too fondly the hope of returning to the plantation to admit of her
                  feeling much pleasure in these costly preparations. That was her home. She loved
                  its seclusion. It was associated with her fondest recollections; and though her
                  father had given no intimation of a design to remain in New York, yet all these
                  repairs but too clearly revealed what was in his mind, and were consequently less
                  interesting to her. Besides, her tastes did not incline her to such a use of
                  money. Intellectual, moral, and religious pleasures were far more captivating to
                  her feelings. The claims of the poor were also ever present to her thoughts. A
                  large number of them were now near her home, and could be reached in her daily
                  walks. Some were intemperate, and needed the soft hand of love to conduct them to
                  virtue. Money would be a great solace to their needy families, some of whom were
                  sick, and all in a state of destitution such as had never before fallen under
                  Sarah's observation. She set about doing what she could in their behalf, and the
                  event proved how much more effective a personal care of the drunkard's habits and
                  wants, to convince him you love him and desire to do him good, is, than sweeping
                  denunciations, as a means of reclaiming him to temperance. Denunciation may plough
                  the ground, but it is the watch-care of love and charity that sows the seed, that
                  waters the plants, that protects tects
                  them against incursive enemies, and reëstablishes the prostrated mind and
                  character of a drunkard in virtue and peace. No vice has hitherto been deemed more
                  hopeless than this, for the good reason that we had failed to estimate the utter
                  inability which it induces to a life of temperance, so long as the cup is offered
                  at every turn, and nothing is done to restore its unhappy victims to their lost
                  position in society. As soon as the cup is made more inaccessible by stringent
                  temperance laws, and friendship supplies to the inebriate the requisite stimulants
                  to sobriety, by exercising a care over him and by giving him the place among us
                  which we assign to a loved one who has become feeble in mind or in body, then this
                  vice will no longer be considered hopeless. Miss Harcourt's efforts tended this
                  way, and, so far as they went,—for a lady, of course, could not be expected to do
                  all the case demanded,—they were far more hopeful than the bold and excoriating
                  denunciations of Bludgeon.
               She soon found herself with so much work of this kind on hand, in the thronged
                  population near her new home, that she felt jealous of the money which her father
                  was so profusely lavishing upon their ancestral mansion. Had her wishes been
                  consulted, it would have been expended in carrying out her plans of relief for the
                  suffering, and of reform to the vicious. Her own room, in which she spent most of
                  her time, was a little one-story wing, extending back from the main building in a
                  circular form, with corresponding furniture; while externally it was enclosed by a
                  conservatory, whose beautiful foliage and flowers diffused an odor around like the
                  breezes of "Araby the blest." It was neatly furnished, but not on the costly scale
                  of the other rooms, as she protested to her father that her taste must here be
                  consulted. This was her Bethel. Here her books of instruction, entertainment
                  tainment and devotion, were collected. Here she found from prayer her only means
                  of reconciliation to the late shock to her sensibilities. What right have we to
                  yield to moping melancholy when our wishes are crossed, so long as the Creator,
                  with his infinite resources, is left to us, and is willing to honor our draughts
                  of confiding faith and importunate prayer? A love-becrazed mind is one in which
                  God is dethroned and an idol substituted in his place. Such was Miss Harcourt's
                  reasoning. Never was devotion more deep and sincere than hers to Douglass,
                  resulting from a mysterious sense of fitness to each other, which began in
                  childhood; but then, with her it was subordinate to the higher claims of Him whose
                  they both were, and whom they were bound to serve.
               Many young persons, in entering a great city with every advantage of wealth,
                  personal accomplishments, and distinguished family connections, would have yielded
                  to the rush of worldly and selfish desires, would have merged themselves in the
                  joys of sense, and, after a round of years, would have come out with a wasted
                  constitution, a corrupted heart, and with every imaginable disqualification for
                  peace or usefulness. The faith of Miss Harcourt was her security, an inheritance
                  of brightest promise from her sainted mother, whose memory was the bow of hope,
                  spanning the clouds of sorrow and disappointment. Besides the poor, she had no
                  acquaintances in her own immediate neighborhood, except with the family of a
                  resident from a foreign court, to whom she was introduced rather by accident than
                  design. In this family was a daughter of princely character, whose manners had
                  taken their cast from the intercourse of distinguished European society. A young
                  man by the name of De Lisle was a frequent visitor in the same family, and the
                  means of introducing Sarah to it. De Lisle was born to a titled inheritance and to
                  great wealth, but was one of those rare
                  cases in which republican principles are made the occasion for abjuring such
                  advantages, in order to return to the level which nature has established between
                  man and man.
               "A natural aristocracy," he would say, "I do not object to. Those who
                  are really the best ought to be esteemed so. But to flourish through life in the
                  borrowed drapery of the dead, and assume supercilious airs from the mere accident
                  of birth, is too much for my pride." And, finding his native country uncongenial
                  to the growth of such sentiments, he had abandoned it to try his fortunes in the
                  New World, and to work his way to a distinction which he was too proud to borrow
                  from his ancestors. De Lisle assumed, therefore, an untitled name, and cautiously
                  concealed the accident of his birth. He was a young man of truly noble principles,
                  who had drunk deep into ancient and modern learning, and whose republicanism, like
                  Milton's, was derived from the communion of mind in all ages.
               This young man had frequently met with Mr. Harcourt and his daughter in their
                  morning walks. Sarah still retained her love of out-door life—often taking long
                  walks with her father, sometimes going along the margin of the river, and
                  sometimes among the contiguous farms and groves. On these occasions De Lisle would
                  often fall in with them, attracted at first by the engaging person of Miss
                  Harcourt, but afterwards by the extraordinary turn of her conversation. It was a
                  page he had never read, and he wished to study it. As Sarah's heart always
                  overflowed with a piety and benevolence which seemed to have become her very life,
                  so her conversation spontaneously partook of the same, and even her countenance
                  and whole being were continually throwing out, without effort or design on her
                  part, the coruscations of heavenly light. No one who has seen the utmost that
                  Christianity has done and is doing for personal elevation, will deem this an
                  overwrought picture.
               De Lisle had seen the pomp and ceremony of religion. He had felt the inspiration
                  of massy pillars, time-hallowed cathedrals, the deep gloom of their shaded
                  windows, the thundering bass of their organs, the chime of pealing bells, deluging
                  the landscape with sound, and all these magical contrivances for overawing the
                  sense and imagination. He had been familiar with the cant of dissent, and the
                  various forms in which sect and schism offer to Heaven their conflicting
                  devotions. But the purity of the evangelical spirit, apart from cant and sectarian
                  contrivance, he had never seen, till he witnessed it in the person of Sarah
                  Harcourt. The contemplation of it charmed, astonished, and confounded him. It had
                  depths which he felt himself unable to fathom, heights he could not surmount, and
                  a width and length which he could not comprehend. How a young person, with every
                  endowment of wealth, and every accomplishment of person, unscathed by disease and
                  unblighted by sorrow, should withdraw from all those circles in which she was so
                  eminently fitted to shine, not from the morbid promptings of a perverted
                  conscience, not from the dread of divine vengeance, not from the ascetic ambition
                  of a saint's renown, but because she professed herself too happy to need them, he
                  could not understand. "What is the nature of this happiness, which is so
                  independent of the ordinary sources of enjoyment? and whence comes it?" were
                  questions which he often revolved in his mind. "If there is anything of the kind
                  which is real, and not fictitious, then we have something to put in the place of
                  those pleasures which are the great lure to vice. We have a counter excitement of
                  felicitous feeling, to meet those mental cravings which seek to slake themselves in wine, in scenic
                  representations, and in a thousand ways, which to untold multitudes end only in
                  crime and misery." So reasoned De Lisle.
               He hoped to unravel the matter by means of Miss Julia, the young lady to whom we
                  have alluded, and hence said to her: "I am surprised you do not make the
                  acquaintance of Miss Harcourt."
               "What! in love?" said Julia, laughing.
               "No; not till I know what I am loving."
               "Why, you will love as pretty a girl as the world affords, if I may judge from my
                  occasional glimpses of her."
               "If that were all that was needed to elicit one's love, I need not look beyond
                  present company."
               "O you are so complimentary! But love, you know, is blind, and has his
                  freaks."
               "I will venture his freaks, Miss Julia, if you will unravel the mystery of a
                  happiness so independent of the ordinary food by which happiness subsists. Miss
                  Harcourt seems to have a happiness that makes yours and mine tasteless, and I
                  would be glad to know what it is."
               "Does she assign this as a reason for keeping aloof from the gayeties of the
                  town?"
               "She does, and that too with so much sincerity, that I am bound to believe
                  her."
               "But what can I do to unravel the mystery?"
               "O, you ladies have a tact in finding out each other which we have not."
               "Well, I will do what I can to interpret the riddle."
               Accordingly, Miss Julia soon after called and made Sarah's acquaintance. A mutual
                  interest and intimacy grew up between them, though in education, habit, and
                  especially in religion, they were totally unlike. Julia was gay, volatile, and in
                  the highest degree extravagant in her notions of ancestral origin and personal
                  dignity. She seemed to regard distinctions of rank, and station, and enlarged
                  resources of worldly pleasure, the most exalted possession to be hoped or desired.
                  Still, she was a generous, great-souled girl, to whom such low conceptions of the
                  end of living were uncongenial, and the growth merely of a preposterous education.
                  The same circumstances under which Sarah had been placed, and especially the same
                  maternal influence, might have made Miss Julia, in humility, in meekness, in piety
                  and in faith, equally remarkable, equally brilliant. Alas! how many never rise
                  above the pleasures of sense, who might have shone as stars of the first magnitude
                  in the spiritual galaxy! If they stop short of a career of open vice, still they
                  travel the road that leads thousands and millions to that dismal goal. Yea, by
                  their example they help others forward to the ruin from which their own
                  constitutional moderation secures them. And they do it because they are educated
                  to feel that there is no other way of finding pleasure. To gratify De Lisle, Julia
                  invited Sarah to tea on the ensuing Thursday evening. "And I shall expect you to
                  be present," she said to that gentleman. "You need not think to make me your
                  clerk, to read her for you."
               "That will not do," said De Lisle. "My presence would seal the document."
               "Seal the document! Mr. De Lisle? No. I see you do not understand Miss Harcourt.
                  She is all openness, all frankness. Her lips are never sealed to any one, much
                  less against you, of whom she entertains so high an opinion."
               "A high opinion of me! What do you mean? We never met except in our rural rambles,
                  when we were under the restraint of her father's presence, who, I see, has no
                     sympathy pathy with her peculiar
                  views. He is a mere man of the world, like the rest of us."
               "Well, Miss Harcourt speaks of the respect and confidence with which you have
                  inspired her."
               "How came she to say that?"
               "Why, I told her we should have only a family party at tea, except yourself, a
                  particular friend. And she expressed herself pleased with the prospect of meeting
                  one in whose conversation she had been so much interested."
               "Thanks to my stars! then I am to be my own interpreter."
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               WOMAN'S MISSION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And to the Presence in the room he said,
                           'What writest thou?' The vision raised its head,
                           And, with a look made all of sweet accord,
                           Answered, 'The names of those that love the Lord.'
                           'And is mine one?' said Abou. 'Nay, not so,'
                           Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low,
                           But cheerly still, and said, 'I pray thee, then,
                           Write me as one that loves his fellow-men.' "—
                        
                     
                     LEIGH HUNT.
                  
               
               IT was the union of qualities which De Lisle had deemed subversive of each other
                  that excited his interest in Miss Harcourt,—zeal and gentleness, austerity and
                  sweetness, a repulsive severity to sin, with tenderness to the sinner; a saintly
                  and severe hold upon the realities of eternity, with a buoyancy of spirits
                  bordering on gayety and mirthfulness. Hers was not a piety to make people
                  miserable, but a stock in bank, upon which any might draw at will. Her peace with
                  Heaven was not purchased at the expense of peace on earth and good-will towards
                  men. Her attractions of person were set off with a conversation that administers
                  grace to them that hear. She was not faultless, though she seemed so, above most
                  others, because her religion was associated with humanity, and her piety with
                  benevolence. It was this aspect of her character that excited De Lisle's
                  curiosity, and it was probably the same that provoked the inquiry of old as to the
                  reason of the Christian's hope. When religion repudiates humanity, disfigures
                  itself by cant, makes a merit of gloomy interjections and indelicate attacks upon
                  the prejudices of a man of the world, as if to be very pious is to be very
                  disagreeable, how can it win for itself the respect of mankind?
               "Glad to see you at last, Mr. De Lisle," said Julia, as that gentleman joined the
                  proposed party. "What are we ladies without you lords of creation?"
               "Much, every way," said De Lisle, laughing.
               "I hope you mean it in a good sense," said Julia.
               "I mean that you and Miss Harcourt are too fertile in conversation to need my
                  contributions."
               "Conversation has certainly prospered without you," said Sarah, "but how much more
                  with you!"
               "It can never flag where you are, Miss Harcourt," said Julia.
               "Not when you are present to call it out," said Sarah.
               "I see you mean to be pleased with each other, and am only surprised that your
                  acquaintance did not begin sooner."
               "Custom would impute the fault to the older resident, I suppose," said Julia.
               
               "It is not your fault, Miss Julia. Our social relations have taken us in opposite
                  directions."
               "True, contiguity of location seldom unites those of opposite tastes," said De
                  Lisle; "but you have tastes alike, I think, and will easily coälesce."
               "I mean it shall not be my fault if we do not," said Sarah.
               "But it seems to us mysterious, Miss Harcourt, that we do not meet you in our
                  places of amusement. It is precisely this circumstance, that I am interested in
                  them and you are not, which has kept us so long unacquainted. Confluent currents
                  are sure to mingle."
               "Perhaps Miss Harcourt is too much occupied with literature, poetry, or the fine
                  arts, to admit of her mingling in the scenes of which you speak," said De
                  Lisle.
               "I am fond of them, sir; but these do not keep me from the amusements of which you
                  speak. I have no relish for them, and besides, they are many of them prejudicial
                  to virtue and happiness. It would please my father to have me go, but as he sees
                  me so happy without, he is content."
               "No relish for amusements! That is very strange in one of your years," said De
                  Lisle.
               "I like amusement, sir, but not those of which you speak. I love to be out among
                  the trees, the foliage, the flowers; to breathe the sweet breath of morning; to
                  sport along the shore; and in many ways, at home and abroad, to recreate myself.
                  It makes my heart purer, my head clearer, and my spirits more elastic. But the
                  impure atmosphere of theatres, operas, assemblies, and all those scenes of
                  exciting and crowded concourse, I could not endure. Besides, my conscience cannot
                  approve what leads so many to dissipation and ruin."
               "I can comprehend how you should acquire a distaste by staying away on account of
                  the death of a friend," said Julia; "for I stayed at home once myself for this
                  reason, till I lost my relish."
               "I have lost no very near friend since my mother's death, some years ago. But that
                  need not deter me, even if it had occurred within a week, provided it were right
                  to go at all."
               "Not your mother's death!" said De Lisle.
               "My mother's death was more joyful than gloomy, and interposed no barrier to any
                  consistent recreation."
               "In what respect was it joyful?" said Julia.
               "Because it was the end of a troubled and the beginning of a blissful life."
               "Your mother died in the Church?" said De Lisle.
               "She died in the faith of a Christian, sir, with heaven distinctly in view, and
                  the certainty of happy society above. If your mother left you to visit the friends
                  of her youth, you might regret her absence, but, at the same time, you would be
                  glad of the pleasure she had in prospect. This pleasure I feel in the death of my
                  mother."
               "I never saw a person die," said Julia; "I could not endure the sight."
               "My dear Miss Julia, you would not say so, if you had seen my mother die."
               "What was remarkable in her dying?" inquired De Lisle.
               In answer Sarah frankly stated the facts already mentioned, adding, "My amusement
                  I find in living to die thus."
               "A beautiful death!" said Julia, wiping her falling tears.
               "A wonderful death!" said De Lisle, still more affected. "Pray, Miss Harcourt,
                  what is the secret of dying thus? I should be glad to have such a death too."
               
               "Faith in the gospel is the only secret. It is the faith of meeting friends that
                  makes us so happy under the fatigue of a journey to the home of our childhood.
                  Dying would be insupportable without the faith of heavenly society."
               They were here interrupted by the inquiry at the door for Miss Harcourt; and, in a
                  moment more, a poor but neatly-dressed girl of fourteen or fifteen entered the
                  room, and said, with tears in her eyes, that her mother, she feared, was dying,
                  and would be glad to see Miss Harcourt.
               "Where does your mother live?" inquired Sarah.
               "Sixty-five, Blank-street, in the third story. Go up two flights of stairs, and
                  when you reach the landing of the second, enter the left-hand door."
               This was said with much modesty, and with the signs of some deep and incurable
                  sorrow.
               "What ails your mother, my child?" inquired Sarah.
               "O, I don't know," said the child, the tears beginning to flow amain; "she is
                  sick; her breath is almost gone, and the fever is burning her up. Will you come,
                  miss?"
               "Certainly. Will it do in the morning?"
               "O, I 'm afraid that would be too late!" said the girl.
               "Very well; I will be there in an hour."
               "Not so soon; we shall not be through tea," said Julia.
               "Well, it will not be much over an hour, I think," added Sarah, as the child
                  left.
               "How dare you go to a strange place in the night?" said Julia. "Perhaps some
                  mischief is intended you, or there is pestilence in the house."
               "I shall take measures to assure myself on these points," said Sarah. "I am not
                  without experience in these matters."
               "You speak of the certainty of entering into better society at death, Miss
                  Harcourt," said De Lisle, anxious to resume the conversation. "I cannot see any
                  such basis of certainty as we feel on visiting friends. It is true I believe in
                  the Christian religion, and in the soul's immortality. But it affords me no such
                  grounds of realization as that of meeting absent friends. We have seen those
                  friends, have enjoyed the fruition of their society, and thus have in our minds a
                  basis for realization. Those who have tasted a delicious fruit once can anticipate
                  what it will be again. But we have no such experience of heavenly society. Dying
                  is necessarily a plunge in the dark."
               "Mr. De Lisle, one fact has escaped you," said Sarah.
               "What is that, Miss Harcourt?"
               "Heaven, to the believer, is a present inward experience. It is the
                  love of God 'shed abroad in his heart;' it is 'Christ in him the hope of glory;'
                  it is being 'filled with all the fulness of God.' What these passages of the Bible
                  involve is heaven, whether enjoyed here or in another life. It is a mind in
                  harmony with itself and all its relations. And what can heaven be but that?"
               "But how is it possible to derive so much enjoyment from a purely ideal good?"
                  inquired De Lisle.
               "It is not ideal, sir; it is positive; it is substantial. Is the happiness of a
                     mind in health any more ideal than that of a healthy
                     body? That is a morbid state of mind which is never satisfied in
                  itself, but is always craving outward sources of excitement. Happiness and hope
                  are the development of life from within, like the enlargement of a growing tree;
                  but pleasures, in the usual sense of that term, are but the leaves appended to a
                  tree of wax. You grasp them, and they crumble in your hands."
               "Then the state of your affections in reference to God and heaven gives you a
                  distaste for the gayeties of the town."
               
               "Yes; I am kept from them by the force of superior attractions. I might think many
                  of these amusements perfectly innocent. It is so with dancing. I would dance if I
                  needed such an auxiliary of my happiness; but I do not. Besides, I observe that
                  those who have a craving for such modes of enjoyment are betrayed into what is
                  acknowledged on all hands to be criminal. Extreme devotion to cards ends in
                  gambling. The excitements of the theatre lead to drinking and drunkenness. These
                  pleasures are all seeds, which grow up vices; and I do not feel myself at liberty
                  to sow such a harvest. If you could see what I have, during my short stay in your
                  city, I am certain that you would think as I do on these subjects."
               As soon as they had taken tea, Sarah excused herself, to fulfil her engagement,
                  and De Lisle insisted upon accompanying her. Julia, too, was so much interested in
                  the case, that she proposed to go with them. A carriage was ordered, and they all
                  went together. When they arrived at 65 Blankstreet, they found it a large,
                  old-fashioned house, once the home of opulence, but now converted into dens for
                  the poor and degraded. The doors were battered and broken, with locks and latches
                  gone, and no protection against rain or robbers. The party entered the hall, but
                  not a light was to be seen within. De Lisle felt his way in the darkness, till he
                  reached the foot of the stairs, and began to ascend, the ladies following. Julia's
                  heart sunk within her. On the first landing they were met by the poor girl who had
                  come for them, having in her hand a piece of broken earthenware, with a small
                  amount of oil in it, and a wick, emitting a feeble light. This served rather to
                  render the darkness and desolation more visible. At length they entered the
                  left-hand door of the upper landing, when they were met with a gust of March wind,
                  blowing through the broken panes, which extinguished their light, and enveloped
                  them in total darkness. Sarah, used to such scenes, begged her companions not to
                  be alarmed.
               "Ma! ma!" said the girl; "do you hear?"
               "Lizzy, love, is that you?" said one, with labored breathing, who seemed scarcely
                  conscious; "is that you, Lizzy?"
               "Yes, ma; the lady is come; she is here."
               "Are you sick, my good woman?" said Sarah.
               "O, yes; very sick. Who's speaking to me?"
               "Miss Harcourt, that you sent me for," said the child; "she is come to see you,
                  ma."
               "O, Miss Harcourt, I 'm so glad you are here! This is a house of suffering and
                  death. And you have been so kind to Mrs. Darby, and she has said so much to me
                  about you, that I hoped you 'd be an angel of mercy to me, also. O, I 'm so
                  suffering! my heart's bursting, and I have no one on earth to look to!"
               "My dear woman, you must look to your Father in heaven," said Sarah, with tones of
                  tenderness that went to the heart.
               "O, I have! I have!" said the woman; "and I seemed to feel that he had referred me
                  to you, as the messenger of his mercy to me."
               "Miss Harcourt, you must have a light," said De Lisle; "I will go and order
                  one."
               "I will go with you," said Julia, trembling in every limb; adding, in a whisper,
                  "Miss Harcourt, you must go, too. It is dangerous for you to remain here
                  alone."
               "Not in the least," said Sarah; "God's poor are here, and he will watch over us in
                  taking care of them. You had better order a light, Mr. De Lisle. But wait a
                     moment. What have you here, my good
                  woman?—any food? clothing to keep you warm? What do you need most?"
               "We have nothing here, you angel; no food, no fuel, no lights, and not clothing to
                  keep us warm," said the woman.
               "The shops are open yet, Mr. De Lisle. Please order lights, ready-cooked food,
                  fuel, and warm blankets. Here 's my purse," added Sarah, feeling her way, to put
                  it in his hand.
               "No, no; I have enough," replied De Lisle, in tones which indicated emotion.
               "Ma, your poor Mary's cold, cold,—O, how cold! Lie close to me, ma! I'm so cold!"
                  said a child, feebly, from the opposite side of the room, with a rattling in
                  breathing, as if its throat was full of phlegm.
               "I have you in my bosom, my tender love! there; don't my Mary feel a little
                  warmer?" replied the mother, with a motion of pressing her little one to her
                  bosom. Meantime, the sound of heavy breathing was heard in other parts of the
                  room, and the atmosphere would have been intolerable, but for the constant
                  currents of night air flowing through it. De Lisle and Julia hastened after
                  supplies for this house of want, while Sarah occupied her time in repeating
                  passages of scripture most appropriate to the case of the poor woman, and in
                  offering prayer for those higher supplies for the soul which God alone can impart.
                  The absent ones soon returned with a cheerful light, followed by a porter with
                  fuel, food, blankets, and everything to meet the present necessity. The fire was
                  soon lighted, the broken panes stopped with a blanket, and so much comfort as
                  warmth could bestow was afforded to the unhappy inmates. But such a scene as the
                  light revealed beggars description. Mrs. Andrews, the sick woman, was lying on a
                  pallet of straw in one part of the room, without a covering to keep her warm,
                  while her breathing was like the whistling tubes of an organ. On the opposite side
                  of the room lay Mrs. Prindle, in much the same condition, with four children by
                  her, one of whom was now found to be gasping its last. Poor Mrs. Prindle, seeing
                  the state of her child, sprang to her feet, the other three children following,
                  all in rags and wretchedness; and the scene which ensued may be better imagined
                  than described.
               "O, Mary! Mary! do speak to your mother once more! Dear little murdered one, will
                  you not look up? will you not kiss your ma?"
               Then, seizing the dead child, she pressed it to her bosom, as if the warmth of her
                  person would infuse life into the cold clay. The children, meantime, uttered the
                  most doleful plaints, and it was some time before quiet could be restored. Food
                  was offered the suffering family, which, in spite of their grief, they laid hold
                  of with hungry voracity, their haggard features telling too plainly how long such
                  a solace had been denied them.
               The heavy breathing was found to come from Andrews and his two sons, the husband
                  and children of the sick lady, and also from Prindle, the father of the dead
                  child. All these remained still in the sleep of drunkenness. Sarah now inquired of
                  Mrs. Andrews what had brought them to such a pitch of wretchedness.
               "An insatiable love of amusement, ending in drunkenness," she said. "My husband is
                  a carpenter, and had a prosperous business in Connecticut, our native state. His
                  leisure he then spent in public houses, drinking temperately, and finding pleasure
                  in every way he could. Our sons would accompany him, and they gradually fell into
                  the same habits. I did what I could to induce them to read, to find pleasure at home; but all to no purpose. At length,
                  Mr. Andrews thought this city would be a better place for his business, and we
                  removed here. This was our ruin. The temptations to pleasure were too much for my
                  husband and sons, and they plunged still deeper and deeper in dissipation, and did
                  less and less for our support. Dear Lizzy and I supported the family by binding
                  shoes, till I took cold and could work no longer; since which she has been our
                  only support. Driven out of house and home, we were taken in by Prindle, an
                  associate of my husband. He could not pay the rent of his room, and resorted to
                  this expedient for relieving himself. The discomfort of this place has aggravated
                  my disease, and God only knows what the end will be!"
               "You see, Mr. De Lisle," said Sarah, on their return home, "how unsafe it is for a
                  man to feel that he cannot content himself without artificial excitements."
               "But why should they go to such extremes? why not stop at a reasonable point?"
                  said De Lisle.
               "That is the question,—why not?" replied Sarah. "It is because the appetite that
                  craves indulgences of this kind is an unhealthy one, and must end in evil. It may
                  not bring all to such a garret, but it will inevitably be followed with damage in
                  some way. Theatre-going leads to drinking, and drinking to theatre-going;
                  card-playing to gambling; nocturnal assemblies to nocturnal dissipation and
                  premature death; and thus the wrecks of family, and ruined characters and
                  fortunes, are strewed around us without stint or measure."
               "Can nothing be done to induce Prindle and the Andrewses to change their habits?"
                  inquired Julia, with genuine concern.
               "A very hard case," said De Lisle, shaking his head.
               "Yes; much may be done, and much more still might be, if the state had not placed
                  its licensed temptations at every corner."
               "How will you go to work?" inquired De Lisle. "You may rely upon my support, Miss
                  Harcourt, in anything you think proper to attempt."
               "And mine, too," added Julia. "I had no idea of what is done and suffered around
                  us."
               "Well, since you are so good as to refer the plan to me, I tell you at once, we
                  must be on hand to-morrow morning by seven o'clock. We must steal the march of the
                  first dram. Prindle and the Andrewses will awake with the horrors. The death
                  within their doors will concur with the reäction of drunkenness to bring on such a
                  morning as they have never seen. Their only means of relief will be to drown
                  themselves in the bottle. Our business is to step in at that precise moment, and
                  do all we can to impart other comforts, and inspire them with other sources of
                  hope."
               Accordingly it was arranged to meet at 65 Blank-street, so early as seven of the
                  next morning. Sarah was there somewhat in advance of her friends. She met Andrews,
                  senior, in the hall, with bottle in hand, and inquired of him how his wife
                  did.
               "A little better, I hope."
               "Be so good as to show me the way to your room. I fear I cannot find it
                  again."
               "And have you been there before?" said Andrews.
               "Yes,—last night."
               "O, you are the young lady who has relieved our sufferings," said Andrews; "I'll
                  go back with you."
               "Yes, Mr. Andrews, my father is repairing our homestead, and I have come to engage
                  you to work for us."
               When Sarah entered the room, the first object that met her view was the pale face of the dead child. Its
                  father stood over it, apparently with the premonitory symptoms of delirium
                  tremens. The two young Andrewses looked stupid and besotted. Mrs. Andrews was
                  evidently better, relieved by food and a warmer room. Little Lizzy had already
                  begun her day's work, now the only source of the family's support. Mrs. Prindle
                  and her children were alleviated in body by food, but sorely afflicted in mind at
                  the death of poor dear Mary. Mr. De Lisle and Julia soon arrived, accompanied by a
                  physician. Prindle had by this time become more raving and the physician, after
                  prescribing to Mrs. Andrews, took him into his own carriage, with much persuasion
                  and some force, and conveyed him to the hospital. Here he was confined several
                  weeks; and measures were taken, when he came out, to induce him to sign the
                  temperance pledge. This he did; and, by the efforts of Miss Harcourt, who never
                  lost sight of him, he was furnished with a regular business, by which he supported
                  his own family in comfort. De Lisle took it upon himself to provide places for the
                  young Andrewses, while Sarah kept their father in her employ until he had become
                  somewhat weaned from the cup, when he also took the pledge. The two families were
                  soon in comfortable circumstances, and the only difficulty was in keeping them so,
                  by removing the temptations to strong drink. But how can this be done, with our
                  present drinking habits and liquor laws?
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               HIGH LIFE BELOW STAIRS.
               
                  
                     
                        "Her sons all drank a little; and one of them—the first boy she
                           had—frequently came home lively, as she called it."—
                     
                     THE ADVOCATE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "A pestilent tongue she had, that the poor husband dreaded above all
                           things under the sun."
                     
                     —SIR ROGER L'ESTRANGE.
                  
               
               THESE incidents and conversations opened upon De Lisle new ideas of life. It had a
                  purpose of humanity, a work of faith and labor of love, and a patience of hope,
                  and not merely the gratification of present desires. He did, indeed, fulfil an
                  engagement to attend the theatre with Harry Howard, the succeeding evening. That
                  young gentleman had been graduated to a career of high living, and was fulfilling
                  his destiny on a scale that promised a speedy fall. De Lisle had no real
                  congeniality with him; but still, they often met in their rounds of pleasure, and
                  often enjoyed together a social glass. Howard saw in him this evening something
                  unusual. He was abstracted, and seemed little interested in the brilliant scene
                  enacting before them.
               "De Lisle," said Howard, "what the deuce ails you? Are you in love?"
               "Does love make one insensible to what is passing around him?"
               "Certainly. That is its first symptom. It wraps the mind in its own delicious
                  ideas, to the exclusion of all others."
               "Then, Howard, you must set me down in love."
               "But who is the happy object of your passion?"
               "It is like no other with which I ever met on earth."
               
               "That is the universal story, and amounts to just nothing at all."
               "You know, Howard, we lately discussed Gibbon's account of the spread of
                  Christianity, when I expressed the conviction that it might be accounted for on
                  the ordinary principles of cause and effect; but I now see reasons for revoking
                  that decision."
               "Pray, what has that to do with love?"
               "Much, very much, with the kind which has affected me."
               "Then it is the love of the brethren, I suppose," said Howard, with a sneer.
               "I wish it might be that, if it is all like the specimen I have seen."
               "What specimen have you seen? Is it a male or a female specimen,—a real or an
                  ideal one?"
               "O, you joke in a case wherein I feel it to be profane."
               "You are really pious, then?" said Howard, shrinking from him, with instinctive
                  dread.
               "If I were pious, I suppose I should not be here."
               "Not here! Can anything, deserving the name of piety, keep one from such a
                  glorious play as this?"
               "If you knew you could be happier somewhere else, could do much more good, and
                  prevent much more evil, do you think you would be here?"
               "That's impossible."
               "I thought so once myself," said De Lisle, seriously; "but I now have reason to
                  think otherwise."
               "And the reason that makes you think otherwise has convinced you also that
                  miraculous agency was necessary in the establishment and propagation of
                  Christianity."
               "Precisely so. I have seen Christianity on such wise as falls not within the
                  ordinary scope of human nature. Nothing so pure, so bland, so blissful, so free
                  from cant and sectarianism, so full of good-will to all, so self-sacrificing to
                  reclaim the vicious and make the miserable happy, could arise from that
                  grovelling, selfish thing, which I have found human nature to be."
               "Is it a lady, or a gentleman?"
               "A lady."
               "Is she beautiful?"
               "Yes, as the morning star, and lovely as spring."
               "Rich?"
               "An heiress, I believe."
               "Respectably connected?"
               "Of one of the best families in this republican land."
               "Then I'll be bound, De Lisle, something besides brotherly love has
                  to do with your feelings in the case."
               "But, Howard, what if you were to add to the most beautiful, rich, accomplished,
                  respectable and every way desirable, young lady you ever saw, the embellishments
                  of a character so superior to these advantages as to cast them all into the shade;
                  with what feelings would you regard her?"
               "What are these embellishments which thus render all the ordinary food of love
                  insipid?"
               "Labors in behalf of such objects of wretchedness as you have never conceived, and
                  faith that makes death a triumph."
               "Faith! faith of any kind, except conjugal faith, kills love. I would shun it as I
                  would a pestilence. It has nothing to recommend it but cant, hypocrisy and
                  prudery."
               "But, suppose you were to see a piety cheerful, bland, tender, confiding,
                  attentive to the happiness of all, even in things with which it could not agree,
                  and so happy in the communion of the pure and the heavenly, and in exercising all
                  the virtues which adorn and ennoble human nature, as to lose the relish of those pleasures on which you and I are
                  wasting our fortune and our lives; what would you say of it?"
               "I should say the picture is too perfect to be real."
               "Well, if you had an idea that it was real, in a lady of our acquaintance, could
                  she have so many of those qualities which usually elicit love as to lead you to
                  merge your feelings towards her in that passion?"
               "The plague on such a lady! Let her seek her lovers among the angels, where the
                  ancient beauties found theirs."
               "O, you are not serious, Howard. It is my opinion that no young man could be happy
                  in such a love, who did not possess, in some good degree, the same
                  characteristics."
               This sentiment of De Lisle is no doubt true. Marriage between persons whose views
                  and feelings on the subject of religion are radically different does not promise
                  happiness.
               Though these sketches of Miss Harcourt's life in New York extend over a period of
                  a few years, yet it was a much less time than this that Douglass remained ignorant
                  of her fate. The pain of suspense which she felt till she heard from him was
                  increased by the fear of having done him a wrong, by allowing herself, for any
                  cause, to be separated from him, at a crisis of their intercourse so delicate and
                  peculiar. As to the effect upon him, she was long left to conjecture. Still, her
                  plans of doing good and her confidence in God preserved her from unavailing
                  regrets. She made few acquaintances beyond the immediate calls of duty. Her
                  introduction to De Lisle and Julia, uncongenial as they were in some respects,
                  proved a real comfort to her. The nature of some does more than the grace of
                  others to make them agreeable companions. Mrs. Dunstable, a woman of vulgar ideas
                  and a low origin, but of sufficient wealth, inherited and accumulated, to support
                  her insufferable pretensions to high life, illustrated the truth of this remark,
                  if her connection with the church could be received as a sign of grace. She was
                  volatile and pretending; a saint in the winter and a sinner in the summer; a
                  wine-drinker, but a temperance talker; a pretended refrainer from worldly
                  amusements in her own city, but mad after them in Paris, or when abroad; a
                  professed martyr to her husband's impiety, while he was really so to her tongue.
                  She monopolized to herself the good of her family, and charged the bad upon her
                  ungodly husband. This woman attended the ministry of Mr. Topliff, who was also
                  Miss Harcourt's pastor, and it was thus their acquaintance began. Mrs. Dunstable's
                  ambition to be found in distinguished families, like that to which Sarah belonged,
                  was inflamed by the consciousness of her own vulgar pedigree.
               "I fear, Miss Harcourt, you keep yourself too much excluded," said Mrs. Dunstable,
                  at her first call.
               "I am happy in seclusion," replied Sarah.
               "O, dear!" said Mrs. Dunstable, with a peculiar wriggle of her commanding person.
                  "I s'pose I should be, if I had n't a husband who is always dragging me out."
               "It is right that you should do all you can, conscientiously to please your
                  husband."
               "It's a bore, after all, to have an ungodly husband, who is always interfering
                  with one's religion. One finds it hard to be good under such circumstances; at
                  least I do," said Mrs. Dunstable, with a smirk of her large face.
               "Is he unwilling you should attend your church?"
               "Yes, my church, for he has taken me to that detestable place where
                  this fool of a Topliff preaches, merely because he knows it plagues me.
                     My minister is that dear, good man, Dr. Turnsol. Have you never
                  heard him, Miss Harcourt?"
               
               "I have not had that pleasure. I am quite satisfied with our own minister."
               "You surprise me, Miss Harcourt. How can you endure his dinging against wine? Not
                  that I drink; but, when I hear temperance touched upon, I like to have it kindy
                  softly, as my dear Dr. Turnsol does. He now and then takes a glass for his
                  stomach's sake, and his often infirmities. But this buckram Topliff! you might as
                  well turn melted brimstone down his throat. I can't bear him. My husband don't
                  like him any better than I; but he will go there, just to be ugly. O, dear! what a
                  sad thing it is for a pious woman to have an ungodly husband!"
               "A trial, no doubt; but a consistent life may win him."
               "La me! how can one lead a consistent life, when one has no help at home? I feel
                  the need of being comforted by preaching the more from my unhappy condition at
                  home. But, then, to go and be knocked over the head about wine by Topliff is too
                  bad. I do run away, to get a little comfort from dear Dr. Turnsol, and I will;
                  it's of no use; I can't live without it."
               "I observe your attendance is not regular, but did not know before the cause."
               "Wal; if I hadn't run away, to get some comfort from Dr. Turnsol, I believe Mr.
                  Topliff and my ungodly husband together would have driv all the religion out of
                  me."
               "It is well to have some relief," said Sarah, thoughtfully, wondering what sort of
                  a woman this Mrs. Dunstable could be.
               "You must come and pass an evening with me, Miss Harcourt; and you may do me some
                  good, in all my trouble."
               Sarah was in doubt about returning the call of a woman whose conversation seemed
                  so very objectionable; but, hoping better than appeared, she did at length go to
                  pass an evening at her house. When she arrived, she was, by a mistake of the
                  servant, ushered into the same room with Mr. Dunstable, whom, to her surprise, she
                  found with Bible in hand, and reading with much interest. He received her with
                  great cordiality, when Sarah apologized for the interruption.
               "Not at all; not at all, Miss Harcourt; happy to see you,—I have often seen you at
                  church."
               "Your countenance, sir, is familiar to me," said Sarah, "though I have not had the
                  pleasure of speaking to you before."
               "I was delighted with our minister's allusion, last Sabbath, to St. Paul's advice
                  to Timothy to drink wine. You know that is used by wine-drinkers in justification
                  of their practice; and Mr. Topliff, you remember, used it to prove that wine ought
                  not to be used, except as a medicine. He said that Timothy could not have used it
                  as a beverage, or Paul would not have recommended it for his infirmities. In that
                  case it would have been unnecessary; and that it was a remarkable evidence of
                  abstinence from wine among the early Christian pastors, that the authority of an
                  apostle was necessary to induce one of them to use it as a medicine."
               "I remember well that passage in his sermon, and I thought it conclusive, too,"
                  replied Sarah. "Timothy's religion obviously deterred him from the use of wine as
                  a beverage. Nor does the apostle correct him in this, but only advises it as a
                  medicine."
               "You are right, Miss Harcourt. I have been examining into the subject, and fully
                  believe that the apostles founded their churches on the principle of abstinence
                  from wine as a beverage. Timothy's abstinence must have resulted from the
                  instruction he had received, as is evinced by the fact that the apostle felt it to be necessary so far to
                  modify that instruction as to allow wine for medicinal purposes."
               By this time a colored servant came into the room and said, "Missus will please
                  walk into de libraire."
               Accordingly, Sarah, taking leave of Mr. Dunstable, followed the servant into the
                  library. This was a small room adjoining a larger one, from which she heard many
                  voices, as of persons over their cards and their wine. She waited some time, but
                  no Mrs. Dunstable appeared. Soon, Dr. and Mrs. Turnsol were ushered in, and, by
                  mistake, opened the larger room door, when Mrs. Dunstable fairly screamed out,
                  and, leaving her place at one of the card-tables, rushed to the door, saying, "La
                  me, Dr. Turnsol! is it you? Just step into the library, please. Dear Miss
                  Harcourt, how are you? Happy to see you. O, dear! what a dreadful thing it is to
                  spend one's life so! all hurly-burly,—worldly people amusing themselves at whist,
                  which my conscience cannot approve. How can a pious woman help herself, when her
                  husband is ungodly, and teaches her children so, and makes his house a hell upon
                  earth? My sons will have cards, and there is no use of my saying a word. O, dear!
                  O, dear! I'm in the furnace! in the furnace, Dr. Turnsol!" Thus ran the voluble
                  tongue of the excited Mrs. Dunstable, her large cheeks flushed with wine.
               "Yes, I know," said Dr. Turnsol, pressing Mrs. Dunstable with one hand, and laying
                  the other on his heart with a deep sigh and a most affectionate wink of the eye.
                  "I feel for you, my dear friend. Your situation is very, very
                  trying."
               Pop went a champagne bottle in another room, which made Mrs. Dunstable dodge as if
                  she had been shot at, exclaiming, "Good heavens! what's that? O, dear! Miss
                  Harcourt, what a dreadful thing it is to have a worldly husband, to fill one's
                  house with such gay company!"
               "Indeed," said Sarah, hardly knowing what to reply, "your husband does not seem to
                  join his company. I found him reading his Bible."
               "Did you see Dunstable?" said she, with another start. "Reading his Bible? la me!
                  an't that a joke? Dunstable reading his Bible! ha! ha! ha! O, fie! Miss Harcourt;
                  it's all a sham; it's to get clubs to throw at me, the most persecuted wife in
                  town. The more he reads, the deeper he sinks in the mire."
               "Yes," said Mrs. Turnsol, with a sigh; "the deeper he sinks in the mire. How
                  wicked it is of him to keep you from hearing my husband!"
               "It's a burning shame of him, when he knows that without your husband's sermons my
                  religion goes out like fire without fuel. Dr. Turnsol, don't you feel that
                  goneness in your stomach?"
               "But a trifle, dear Mrs. Dunstable," said the doctor, with a sorrowful expression
                  of the face.
               "I see, I see, doctor; Cuff, there!" added Mrs. Dunstable, calling to a servant
                  just then passing the open door; "bring a glass of Madeira. Dr. Turnsol, it'll do
                  you good; I know it will."
               "Thank you, Mrs. Dunstable; it does sometimes relieve my goneness," said the
                  doctor, quaffing a glass of old Madeira with a gusto.
               By this time the black servant announced that the children were ready for the
                  dancing-school exhibition.
               "Hush, you fool!" said Mrs. Dunstable; "what do you come to tell me that for? O,
                  dear! my friends, what a dreadful ful
                  thing it is to have an ungodly husband! One's children must be brought up just as
                  one does not choose."
               "We understand. Your husband forces you to send your children to the
                  dancing-school," said the doctor.
               "Yes, my dear doctor, that's my trouble. Those dear little immortals are sent to
                  dance themselves to ruin. O, dear! O, dear!"
               The children are no sooner off than the servant calls out again, "Missus' carge is
                  at de door, to tak Missus to de op'ration."
               "What operation are you going to see?" inquired Mrs. Turnsol.
               "The fool!" replied Mrs. Dunstable, greatly embarrassed; "he means the opera. O,
                  dear! that's the misery of having a worldly husband. One's compelled to go here
                  and go there, right in the face and eyes of one's conscience."
               Out rushed the card-party, all dressed, and ready to accompany Mrs. Dunstable to
                  the opera.
               "You see how it is here at our house, Miss Harcourt,—a perfect bedlam! I did hope
                  to enjoy with you a quiet, pleasant evening, in talking about good things; but
                  one's husband, you know, will control."
               Sarah, grieved and disgusted, could not refrain from saying, "Your husband is
                  certainly a temperance man, and you ought to be thankful for that."
               "La me! that's his old-fashioned way of talking. He's no taste for anything but to
                  be ugly, and plague me."
               This may be an extreme case; but it was an introduction to others in sufficient
                  number to convince Miss Harcourt that the drinking habit, in professedly Christian
                  families, is one of the greatest obstructions to the cause of reform. This remark
                  applies with special force to the clergy and church-members members in England,
                  whose use of intoxicating drinks, in various forms, is almost as general as that
                  of tea and coffee. There, temperance meetings are made up, for the most part, of
                  the lower orders of society. There, the clergy do not give the cause their hearty
                  support. They drink themselves, and hold the cup to their neighbor's lips.
                  Intoxicating drink is common at ecclesiastical gatherings and entertainments.
                  Consequently, there the temperance reform is far behind what it is with us. Sarah
                  found in Mrs. Dunstable, Dr. Turnsol, and even in her own father, far more
                  difficult subjects to deal with than in the Andrewses and Prindles, because the
                  vice of the latter was acknowledged, while that of the former was sustained by a
                  delusive feeling of virtue.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE DYING CONFESSION.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'T is a burden
                           Too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven."
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               SPRING began again to breathe its influence over Forestdale. The escaping frost
                  made the trees explode like the pistols of charging dragoons. The leaping brooks
                  bore off, rejoicing, the liquefied crystal drops and fleecy robes of winter. The
                  robin and blue-bird resumed their sweet song, and the hawk and eagle their
                  gyrations in the upper air. The flowing sap of the maple yielded nectar, and
                  replenished the farm-house larder with its delicious crystallizations. Little
                  girls were out among the budding trees gathering wild-flowers, and the Queen of May was wielding over her joyous
                  train her blooming sceptre. Groups of stilted boys were taking uneasy steps with
                  their elongated legs, while others were hurling and striking the bounding ball,
                  and pitching the leaping quoit. The plough, spade and hoe, resumed their work of
                  preparing for seeding, while the lambs leaped in the pasture, the calves frisked
                  beside their dams, the foal whinnied after its absent mother, and the genius of
                  herb and forest bounded forth from her wintry hiding-place, clad in her leafy
                  robes, all spotted with pearl, vermilion, and gold. The whole scene was as buoyant
                  and beautiful as if no battles had been fought, no intrigues practised, no agony
                  of abused appetite had been inflicted or endured, and no competitions for social
                  preëminence had disturbed the fair face of the world.
               Would that nature's lessons were not lost upon man! Would that the forests and
                  leaves of his beautiful country-seat had charmed Skampton into tilling the soil,
                  or into a business consistent with public virtue, or into almost anything, rather
                  than this endless competition for general influence, and this coërcion of the
                  future into the exact limit of the past! Would that Gilfort could imbibe truth
                  from the inspirations of nature; and Douglass, senior, learn temperance from the
                  rills that water his lands; and that Bludgeon would temper his zeal with love!
                  Nature is a great repository of virtue and wisdom to those who are willing to use
                  it as such.
               Society had evidently improved under the labors of young, Douglass. Private
                  quarrels were settled, instruction imparted to those who had not enjoyed it
                  before, books and reading were far more common among the people, and the
                  advantages even of an humble, informal Christian pastorship were visible on every
                  hand. Charles was active and laborious, in spite of the inward sorrow which preyed
                  upon him from day to day. The evil of having a drunken father seemed to him great
                  enough without being hurled, on its account, from the position in society to which
                  he felt himself entitled. He made frequent calls on his people, to afford aid and
                  advice to those who needed.
               How touching are the scenes which fall under the eye of a pastor! How much does he
                  meet with, in the most retired communities as well as in city parishes, to teach
                  him the need of the temperance reformation! It is owing to the constant contact of
                  ministers with the evils of alcohol, as well as to the dictates of their religion,
                  that a portion of them were the first to move in this reformation, and that they
                  have been, throughout, its most active and zealous coadjutors. While Miss Harcourt
                  was encountering this vice in New York, and Bludgeon in his field of labor,
                  Douglass, in his lowly parish, was witnessing some of its most dismal effects.
               One of his families was burnt out by means of a fire kindled by a drunken father,
                  and three dear little children perished in the flames. They were a poor family,
                  and lived in a little log cottage too remote for help, when the devouring clement
                  lighted on them. The mother, the previous evening, went up stairs, and put her
                  three little ones all in the same bed, while a fourth was still at the breast. She
                  snugly tucked them up, heard them lisp their evening prayer for dear father and
                  mother and baby, and then, with the fond maternal kiss, bade them good-night. At
                  midnight her husband returned; and, lighting a candle, started to climb the ladder
                  to the room above, where the children were,—stairs they had none,—when his clumsy,
                  noisy movements awoke his wife. "Henry, be careful of that light, or you'll touch
                     something above, and set us all in a
                  flame," she said, fearing what his condition might be.
               "Mam, mind your own business!" said he, with the thick, defective articulation of
                  a drunkard.
               "O, well, dear Henry, you must pardon my anxiety about our dear little ones; they
                  are in a room with so many combustible materials," said Mrs. Niles, for such was
                  the name of the family, while a tear, hid in the darkness, stole down her stricken
                  cheeks at the now discovered fact that her husband had come home drunk. Niles
                  retained sense enough to desire to conceal a bottle of whiskey which he had
                  brought home with him, and he went up the ladder for that purpose. He soon
                  staggered his way down, blew out his light, and threw himself on the bed, in his
                  clothes, and soon sunk into a profound sleep. Mrs. Niles also dozed,—how long she
                  could not tell,—when she was awaked by the crackling flames of the burning house
                  above. She screamed, sprang out of bed, and, by a superhuman effort, mounted the
                  ladder, and brought down the little bed in which her children slept, with them all
                  enfolded in it; nor did she stay till she reached the open air. But, alas! it was
                  too late. They had been literally suffocated and roasted alive. The fire had
                  flamed up into the roof, which, in a room of that kind, was the same as the
                  ceiling, and had produced an intense heat around the children, without yet
                  kindling on their bed. When Douglass reached the spot, the next morning, the
                  children still lay in the bed, just as their mother had brought them down, all
                  clasped in each other's arms, just as they went to sleep, while their charred
                  fingers projected out like burnt sticks, in the same form as when the fire
                  converted them into senseless clay.
               "O, my dear babes!—my sweet, precious babes!" was the only reply of the frantic
                  mother, to words of consolation from her young pastor. "O, do look once more on
                  the face of your mother, my dear darlings!" prostrating herself on the charred
                  remains of objects so tenderly loved.
               "My dear madam," said Douglass, with tears, "God knew how much better he can take
                  care of your children than you could, and, in love, he has taken them to
                  himself."
               "O, my dear, dear, precious ones, let your mother kiss you once more! O, cold,
                  cold!" and then, with wailings to break one's heart who heard, she lifted herself
                  up, as if unconscious of all that was said or done around her.
               Her husband stood like a statue, partly besotted with strong drink, and partly
                  confounded and stupefied by the greatness of the calamity in which his miserable
                  habits had involved his family. The event produced a powerful sensation in town,
                  and Douglass used it to show the people how utterly insecure property and life
                  are, with a large portion of every community, under our present license laws. "We
                  have legislated on this subject," he said, "from the first years of our colonial
                  history, as if intoxicating drinks were an enemy to society that must be guarded
                  against, and yet no effectual restraints have ever been devised. The enemy is now
                  more rampant than ever, so far as the traffic is concerned, and will continue to
                  be, till a cordon of law is thrown around to make the sale as a beverage
                  impossible. We must adopt the summary method of pouring into the gutter liquors
                  kept for such a purpose. No quarter must be shown to the enemy. He must be dragged
                  to the light from all his hiding-places, and doomed to instant annihilation.
                  Humanity demands this. Civil society owes it as a debt to those whom it seeks to
                  protect. More than half its burdens of crime and pauperage come from the present
                  sale and use of intoxicating drinks;
                  and it has a right to relieve itself of the burden by stringent laws. Is it not as
                  just and constitutional to remove temptation from the drunkard as to remove him
                  from temptation by imprisonment? In the one case you prevent the
                  crime, in the other you punish it. In the one case you leave a father
                  and husband to his daily routine of virtuous labor, to support a dependent family;
                  but in the other you first torture and degrade them by crime, and then you deprive
                  them of support, and compel them to starve or beg, or go to the poorhouse."
               This speech had a powerful effect in Forestdale, and almost every man in it signed
                  a petition to the Legislature for the passage of the Maine Law.
               On another occasion, Douglass was called to the death-bed of a young man whose
                  intemperate habits and consequent exposure had brought on a quick consumption. He
                  seemed anxious, as if he had something on his mind to disclose before dying, but
                  which he felt constrained to keep secreted. Douglass visited him daily, but still
                  could elicit nothing satisfactory. He was making a plunge in the dark. At length,
                  all seemed over with him; his eyes were closed, and pieces of money laid to keep
                  them so, and his limbs duly disposed for burial. He revived, however, to the
                  surprise of all, and, seeing Douglass by his side, he said, feebly,
               "It is of no use; I must confess, or I cannot die in peace. Sir, I have been
                  instigated to do you a great injury."
               "What injury have you done me?" said Douglass, much surprised.
               "I have taken a great number of letters from the post-office which were directed
                  to you, and have burnt them."
               "Burnt my letters? What could have induced you to do this?"
               "You must ask me no questions on that point. The one who instigated the crime must
                  do his own confessing. It is enough for me to confess the agency I have had in
                  it."
               "What motive had he for destroying my letters?"
               "I do not fully understand that myself, though one thing I know, the letters were
                  superscribed by a female hand; and I think some young lady is some way concerned
                  in the case."
               "Where were the letters post-marked?" inquired Douglass, to whom the idea now
                  occurred that it involved an explanation of Miss Harcourt's strange disappearance,
                  and still stranger silence.
               "At New York, except one, which had the post-mark of Troy."
               "Have you retained none of them?"
               "None, except this name subscribed to one of them, which I retained as a matter of
                  curiosity, thinking I might learn more about the person."
               Douglass took a small piece of paper from the hand of the dying man, on which was
                  written, in her own hand, the name of "Sarah Harcourt." After this confession, the
                  young man sunk away, and soon died. Douglass stayed to attend his funeral, and
                  also to inquire of the postmaster how his letters should have been disposed of in
                  this manner. He could get no explanation, but made up his mind that a member of
                  the family had delivered them, without the knowledge of the postmaster. He now
                  flew to New York on the wings of steam, to unravel the entangled mystery. When he
                  arrived, he was totally at a loss where to look for the fugitive family, as
                  Harcourt had cut off all the clues to his concealment, so far as possible. He took
                  lodgings at one of the principal hotels, and now devoted himself to the one object
                  of finding his lost one. Amid the
                  thronged streets he felt a keener sense of loneliness than he had done in his
                  wilderness home.
               It occurred to him, at length, whether Sarah might not have made the acquaintance
                  of some of the clergy; and he called on several, but could hear nothing. One of
                  them had an indistinct impression that he had heard the name from some one,—he
                  could not tell who, but believed it was Dr. Turnsol. Douglass, therefore, called
                  on the doctor, and inquired if he had met with Miss Harcourt in his visits.
               "Miss Harcourt—Miss Harcourt—" said the doctor, thoughtfully. "My dear," he added,
                  to his chubby, redfaced wife, who that moment peeped in upon them, "was Harcourt
                  the name of the young lady whom we met at Mrs. Dunstable's?"
               "Yes; Harcourt was the name,—Sarah Harcourt,—a genteel miss, one of our
                  aristocracy," said Mrs. Turnsol, and then moved off, with an air which seemed to
                  say, "I'll not talk with you till I know who you are."
               "Can you tell me where I shall find her?" inquired Charles.
               "I cannot, indeed. You'll learn at Mrs. Dunstable's, 128 —— street. You'll excuse
                  me, sir; am very much engaged; good-morning," said the doctor, and vanished.
               Charles now hastened to 128 —— street, where he was met at the door by a colored
                  servant, of whom he inquired for Mrs. Dunstable.
               "Will gemman please walk in, till I sees?" said the servant, when her ladyship,
                  hearing the inquiry, rushed to the door, to prevent the interruption of a call,
                  abruptly asking,
               "What do you want, sir?"
               Charles stated the object of his call.
               "I know the daughter. Follow up the Eighth Avenue a long way, till you come to the
                  Cock and Bull Tavern; there inquire, and you will learn particulars. Good-morning,
                  sir."
               Charles could not repress a smile at the hauteur with which this was said, by one
                  who bore so many marks of a vulgar origin and character. He set off at once for
                  the Cock and Bull,—a definite point to reach an indefinite one. A long way off it
                  was, indeed,—far beyond the expanded bound of the great metropolis; and, when he
                  reached it, he was directed onward still, to a certain lane lined with trees,
                  adown which he was to go till he came opposite a gate, a lawn, and grounds covered
                  by ornamental shrubbery. He finally reached the gate, and, finding it locked, and
                  no porter near, sauntered down to where the lane terminated, on the bank of the
                  North river. Here he stood, enjoying the watery view, and thinking, with
                  palpitating heart, that the object of his search was so near, when, turning to
                  look up stream, he saw Sarah on the beach, coming towards him. Both were alike
                  taken by surprise, and felt themselves hardly able to endure the rush of emotions,
                  though both succeeded in maintaining outward repose of manners.
               "My dear Sarah, it is enough! I have seen you once more! This moment of bliss
                  compensates all my sufferings."
               "O, Charles! how could you neglect me so long? Why did you not answer my
                  letters?"
               "Your letters! not one ever reached me. Till this day I have been in suspense as
                  to where you was, or whether the sight of me would be agreeable."
               "Is it possible?" said Sarah, with blank astonishment. "I wrote you at
                  Terracegreen, explaining the cause of our leaving so suddenly; I wrote you on the
                  way; and I have written you from this place; till I found writing did no
                  good."
               
               "And yet, not one of your letters reached me; nor, singular as it may appear,
                  could I learn where you had gone."
               "How could this be?"
               "The reason is plain; your letters have been intercepted," said Charles, detailing
                  the facts of the death-bed confession.
               "It is my mother's God has brought this about! He watches over us still. Blessed
                  be the Lord, our Rock and our Deliverer!"
               "It is even so, Sarah; had not the Lord been on our side, then had our enemies
                  quickly swallowed us up."
               "Gilfort has a hand in this. I mistrusted it long ago. And this letter has just
                  fallen into my hands, to confirm my suspicions," added Sarah, taking a letter from
                  her pocket, and reading as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR SIR: My acquaintance in your family I deem the happiest event
                              of my life. I desire to express the interest I feel in your happiness
                              in deed as well as in word. It is this which
                              induces me to impart to you a fact which you are entitled to know. A
                              young man who is unworthy of your confidence has made love to your
                              daughter at a second interview, and in a most offensive manner. I have
                              written to the Honorable Michael Skampton on the subject, who will
                              acquaint you with the character of this fellow, and of his family. His
                              father is a drunkard. If, in my zeal to serve you, and to do as I
                              would be done by, I seem, in any respect, to overstep the bounds of
                              propriety, please impute it to a defect of judgment, and not of
                              intention.
                           
                              "Your obedient servant,
                              "SAMUEL GILFORT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Did this letter lead to your flight?" inquired Charles, coolly.
               "No, I think not. I cannot suppose my papa capable of being so influenced by such
                  a piece of impertinence, from such a man."
               "You may be sure that, aided by something you have not seen from Skampton, whom
                  Gilfort speaks of giving my character to your father, caused it. Skampton, not
                  content with ruining my father, is bent, also, upon the destruction of his son.
                  But we are in the hands of God, Sarah, and there is all my hope."
               "Yet how should Gilfort know of what happened in Spring Arbor, at our 'second
                  interview'? That is the mystery."
               "Know it! Just as he knew how to intercept my letters; just as he knew how to rob
                  poor Dobson, last winter, of which I have lately heard; just as he knew how to
                  inveigle around him his deluded colonists in the West, under the notion of
                  building them up into a new kingdom and priesthood. He knows and does everything
                  by the witchery of his influence over those whom he takes in his toils. This dying
                  young man confessed his own guilt, but would not reveal the serpent whose charm
                  even death could not dissolve."
               "Papa always speaks of this letter with contempt."
               "Does he not object to your acquaintance with me?"
               "No, never. Yet I mistrust there is something; but what, I cannot tell."
               "Was it necessary that you should leave the plantation so
                  suddenly?"
               "Papa thought so, and so it appeared, when we reached town. Yet, I am in a maze
                  about the letter I left for you at the mansion."
               The young couple now moved towards the house, where tea was soon announced. But no
                  Mr. Harcourt appeared; and Sarah was surprised to learn from Charles that the
                     front gate was locked, and no porter
                  on hand. Soon, a letter came from Harcourt, stating that he had been unexpectedly
                  called to Baltimore, and should not return for some days. He was a peculiar man in
                  his notion of influencing women in matters of love. He did not deem it possible to
                  succeed in it by open measures. As to Sarah, especially, he knew too well her
                  firmness, and that the reasons he had to urge against Douglass would not have
                  weight with her. "A woman's heart," he said, "was like the paddy's pig, that must
                  be made to believe that you would go to Cork, if you would drive him to Dublin.
                  She always works by contraries." He never spoke to Sarah against Charles, never
                  intimated an unwillingness that he should visit her; but seemed rather to go the
                  other way, because he deemed this the only method of breaking up the match.
               He would not see Douglass in his last visit to the plantation, and avoided him on
                  this occasion, because he wished to escape the necessity of saying yes or no to a
                  request for his consent. He had learned the fact of his arrival in town by some
                  means, which accounted for the gate being locked, and his own escape to Baltimore.
                  And, when Charles afterwards wrote him on the subject, the letters always
                  miscarried; at all events, were never answered. Still, he was so bland, so
                  favorable, so complimentary to Douglass, so anxious to see him, so much interested
                  in whatever concerned him, and, altogether, so consenting in everything but deed,
                  that both Sarah and Charles felt no apprehension, so far as he was concerned. And,
                  indeed, apart from the liquor question, and the enormous machinery of the Skampton
                  influence, all things would no doubt have gone on smoothly.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE SKAMPTON MILL GRINDING INFLUENCE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Dr. Mac, Dr. Mac, you should stretch on a rack,
                           To strike evil doers with terror;
                           To join faith and sense, upon one pretence,
                           Is heretic, damnable error."
                        
                     
                     —BURNS.
                  
               
               AGES of bliss were compressed into the few short days of Charles' stay at Sarah's
                  new home. The blooming life of early summer invited them out amid the enchantments
                  of cultivated woodland scenery. All the pledges of fealty were renewed between
                  them, with such additions as the unexpected, unknown danger seemed to require.
                  They dismissed their fears, and gave themselves to recreation. Now they threaded
                  the margin of the river; now sailed on its bosom; now angled in its waters; now
                  bounded joyously over the glade and woodland; now took excursions to Hoboken,
                  Staten Island, Sandy Hook, and other places of interest; now visited the
                  curiosities of the city, and thus every amusement which leaves behind no wound to
                  health or conscience they enjoyed with a zest rendered the more intense by their
                  habitual devotion to the good and the useful. To her eager devotees Pleasure is a
                  coy divinity, but to those who live for their duty she is profuse of her
                  favors.
               From New York Charles repaired directly to Mapleton, to consult his friends as to
                  his future course. Study in some form and somewhere was now his destiny. When he
                  reached the parental roof, the family remarked in him greater cheerfulness fulness and repose of mind than ever
                  before. The world went right with him, for once. Still, his joy was clouded by the
                  appearance of his father, who seemed more than ever broken down in spirits. The
                  Skampton groggery had been revived, and the dismal effects of its presence were
                  visible on every hand. Drunkenness, indolence, riot and vice, were again the order
                  of the day. Mr. Douglass had been repeatedly drawn in and maddened by alcohol. The
                  effect was to make him feel that he was now a confirmed drunkard, and would never
                  be anything else. O, the agony of this feeling, in the sober moments of such a
                  man, no tongue can express! Shame is his watchword. It meets him at every turn. It
                  mantles and burns in his cheek. It falls upon his ear in the hootings of young
                  children. How can he face that society before which he has so often acted the
                  beast? Mr. Douglass had ceased to be himself. He was a doomed man. He had fallen,
                  not an honored, but a disgraced and abhorred victim of state legislation.
               "Father," said Charles, "what do you advise, in reference to my future
                  course?"
               "Really Charles, I have no mind about it. My opinion is good for nothing, any
                  way."
               "Sorry you feel so, father. You know how much I have always relied upon your
                  judgment."
               "Things change in this world, my son," he replied, with a quivering lip and a
                  falling tear, feeling in the depth of his soul that he was unfit for the society
                  of such a son. He could no longer control himself, and left the room. How much is
                  there to make one's heart bleed for the drunkard! He has lost the control of
                  himself. Alcohol has robbed him of manhood and made him a brute, and yet the
                  feelings of manhood will occasionally return to taunt him with his
                  degradation.
               "You see, Charles, how much your poor father suffers," said Mrs. Douglass. "I
                  never felt so tender of him as I do now."
               "I fully reciprocate your feelings, mother. The success of Skampton's suit against
                  the town, and the reöpening of his groggery, have done all this. Legislative
                  wisdom is legislative madness; legal justice, legal wrong, to fill the country
                  with just such families as ours. O, mother! the pangs I have endured, God only
                  knows. And this same Skampton is now pursuing me like a bloodhound, and I am not
                  yet secure against his assaults. What influence he may have upon Harcourt, remains
                  to be seen."
               "I see it all, Charles; I see it all. As to your future course, your father seems
                  so unwilling to advise, and I have so little confidence in my own judgment in the
                  case, that I think we had better consult our good Mr. Littlefield, and also Doctor
                  Holliston. They are men to be depended upon."
               "Very well, mother; suppose you invite them to tea."
               "I will, this very week. I am the more unwilling to advise you, because I am
                  afraid I am prejudiced on the subject. Such men as Skampton have so much to do in
                  controlling our colleges and theological seminaries, that I am quite out of
                  conceit of them. They seem to me a forest of petrifactions to which we send our
                  sons to gather fruit; and when gathered they are apples of Sodom, outside fair and
                  inside ashes. I may be wrong. You must not trust me too far."
               "Mother, you cannot expect me to teach without learning."
               "True, you must learn; but where can you learn most effectually? Here, at home, by
                  self-education, under a private tutor somewhere else, or in a theological
                  seminary? That is the question."
               
               The proposed tea-party came off, and the subject was brought up again for
                  discussion.
               "I have been denied the advantages of a public education," said Mr. Littlefield,
                  "which makes me value it the more. I have boggled through life, for the want of
                  it. If I had to begin again, and knew that I should be situated as I am in this
                  community, no consideration would deter me from going through both a college and
                  theological seminary. I would have an education, if I had to dig for it. One feels
                  so much the need of knowledge and mental discipline, when he comes to stand from
                  Sabbath to Sabbath before the same audience, to speak on the most important of all
                  themes, that I am surprised that every minister of the land, especially every
                  uneducated one, does not raise his voice on high in behalf of learning."
               "I am not certain that an educated Mr. Littlefield would be worth as much to us as
                  the uneducated one," said Mrs. Douglass. "Fervent piety and good sense are the
                  principal requisites. Your mind is now occupied with the thoughts and images of
                  your people; but how it would be, if it was full of classical lore, it is hard to
                  tell. The learned, distinguished Rev. Dr. Littlefield might perhaps gratify and
                  amuse every hundredth man among us; while the plain, uneducated Mr.
                  Littlefield hits the ninety and nine, and equally benefits the others."
               "I do not consider the worldly and irrelevant character which you ascribe to a
                  learned ministry as at all necessary. It may be equally simple, equally fervent,
                  equally acceptable to ordinary minds, and yet vastly more rich in thought,
                  discriminating in analysis, and powerful in the application of divine truth," said
                  Mr. Littlefield.
               "I confess my ideas of Mr. Skampton have had too much influence with me. We have
                  suffered so much from him, and he has been such a cruel enemy to Charles, that I
                  am afraid of those institutions over which his money gives him so much control.
                  But, if our son must go into the mill again, why, then he must."
               "Those feelings, Mrs. Douglass, you must control," said Mr. Holliston. "Skampton
                  and all of us will soon pass off the stage, but your son may be expected to remain
                  to do his work for another generation; and shall we send him to it unprepared?
                  Shall we allow the present social abuses to divert him from the highest degree of
                  intellectual and moral discipline, and leave him to do his work with an inferior
                  grade? That would not be wise."
               "But where would you send him?" said Mrs. Douglass.
               "I should send him to the Riverton Seminary," said Mr. Holliston.
               Charles shrugged his shoulders, and his mother exclaimed, almost with a shriek,
                  "What! so near Mr. Skampton?"
               "Skampton cannot hurt him," said Mr. Holliston. "That is the institution of our
                  denomination; and you would not have him go out of it, of course. His prospects of
                  success depend very much upon the educational imprimatur which he bears. If he
                  were to go into an extra-denominational institution, it would prejudice his
                  prospects of a place among his own people. We look to our own school of the
                  prophets for a supply, and not to those of other denominations. Besides, your son
                  will need to measure his talents and form connections, with those young men who
                  are to be his associates for life."
               "Very well, Mr. Holliston, I will consent to have Charles go to the Riverton
                  Seminary, provided you will go with him, and explore the ground, and report to us what we are to expect."
               "I am a trustee of the institution," said Mr. Holliston, "and would be glad to go,
                  as I have been so situated as not to be able as yet to act with them."
                  Accordingly, immediate arrangements were made for Charles' departure, under the
                  care of Mr. Holliston, to become a student in that seminary, of which we have
                  already made mention, as included in the panoramic view from the Skampton
                  mansion.
               The eddies and gyrations of party are, in this country, the wheels within a wheel
                  to control all the movements of society. The man who falls within the suction is
                  dragged down to the vortex, whether he will or not. It is the Jonah's fish, to
                  swallow up those who attempt to escape. There is really more social independence
                  in England than with us, for this good reason, that the man who expresses an
                  opinion not consonant with his party position is less likely to lose his place.
                  The plebeian principles of a lord cannot deprive him of his lordship, and a
                  post-office scullion can vote for whom he pleases without danger of losing his
                  bread. Things are more fixed, and not so easily upset by a thought or sentiment
                  that does not exactly tally with party lines. Here a man had as well be out of the
                  world as out of his party. And it is generally left to the most crabbed and
                  extreme partisan leaders, to determine the sense of the party, and what is
                  legitimate to it. They are its great constitutional lawyers, whose opinions are
                  fate, whose decrees destiny, to all within the party enclosure. Dulness is the
                  social umpire, ignorance supreme dictator, and narrow-mindedness lictor and
                  hangman. Every party has its watch-dogs to bay around its enclosure. This state of
                  things is a restraint upon freedom. Who wishes to be barked at, even if he is not
                  bit? A man is forced to mind what he says. His position depends upon it. An
                  incautious word or sentence spoken or written by him, and, 
                     
                        "Fluttering his pennons vain, plumb down he drops,
                        Ten thousand fathoms deep."
                     
                  
               
               Skampton was becoming more and more exclusively ecclesiastical in his
                  predilections. He had been driven to this by the result of his law-suits,
                  following Bludgeon's battle with the devil. When the cause was brought into court,
                  there was such an exposé made of Skampton's doings in the liquor traffic, as to
                  defeat his attempts to obtain damages for slander. The horrible ravages of his
                  groggeries in Mapleton and in other places were so graphically depicted by
                  Bludgeon's lawyer, that the jury brought in a verdict of acquittal without leaving
                  their seats. The costs were all saddled upon poor Skampton. This destroyed his
                  last hope of putting down the temperance movement by the strong arm of the law,
                  and led him for asylum to the church. Like that wily, hoary-headed courtier, Joab,
                  he caught hold of the horns of the altar, and hoped to save himself and the liquor
                  traffic by ecclesiastical proscription. Skampton had an innate as well as
                  educational predilection for ecclesiastical matters. He had thought of studying
                  for the ministry himself, and nothing but dulness deterred him. It was really this
                  tendency of his character that led him to refrain so entirely from drinking,
                  though he never acknowledged it to others, or even to himself. What may seem a
                  little remarkable, also, was that Skampton, Bludgeon and Douglass, were all in the
                  same ecclesiastical enclosure. Modern reform has made strange bedfellows; or,
                  rather, has led the lion and lamb, the cow and bear, to lie down together, without
                  losing their oppugnance of nature. Skampton, after failing in his law-suits, was
                  directing his mighty influence to the
                  one point, of producing such a state of things in his church that it should sicken
                  of characters like Bludgeon and all his crew, and vomit them forth. Such were his
                  tendencies and his measures at the time of Mr. Holliston's visit to the Riverton
                  Seminary, in company with young Douglass. His conservatism, therefore, had become
                  essentially dogmatical, though it had in view to reach, by another process, the
                  practical results of business, legislation, and all those worldly matters which he
                  so much desired to control. If an enemy is only knocked in the head, what is the
                  difference whether it is done by legal prosecution or ecclesiastical proscription,
                  by public assault or private scandal, by a church club or a state club? The state
                  club had failed, and the church club must now be put in requisition.
               Hence, Skampton gave more than usual attention to the Riverton Seminary. He hoped
                  to raise up a phalanx of young men to echo his own views from Dan to Beersheba. He
                  lavished more money than ever in purchasing influence, and yet the supply did not
                  equal the demand. He filled the seminary with his creatures, and deposed those who
                  would not become so. Dr. Treadmill, the principal, could not say his soul was his
                  own. It was not his own, for Skampton had monopolized it. A
                     majority despotism is bad enough, but not to be compared with a
                     one man power. We can bear the diffused rays of the sun, but who
                  can endure their focal heat? Even steel melts under it like wax. So, after
                  Skampton had bought up and monopolized in himself all the rays of his party
                  influence, the strongest men melted away at his touch. Dr. Treadmill could not
                  stand against his influence. The seminary, of which he was the nominal head, was
                  but a liquefied and conglomerated mass of Skamptonism. What Treadmill would have
                  been, if he had been disintegrated, there is no telling. We are inclined to think
                  favorably of his individuality, had the thing been possible. But what can be said
                  for a man who has no alternative but to lose his place, or swallow a Jonah?
                  Treadmill not only swallowed Skampton, but a text-book of six hundred pages, which
                  he committed verbatim et literatim, because
                  Skampton thought that dead men's opinions were safer to an institution than
                  attempting to think for ourselves. The students would now and then chuckle at poor
                  Treadmill's expense, calling him whale, because he had such an
                  immense swallow for dead men's ideas, and none for his own.
               "Dr. Treadmill, what is the governing principle of your institution?" inquired Mr.
                  Holliston, in an interview which he had with that gentleman in the seminary
                  buildings.
               "It is this, sir,—that second-hand materials are safer to orthodoxy than
                  attempting to originate for ourselves," said Dr. Treadmill, with his eyes resting
                  on a curtain drawn across an arched recess on one side of the room in which they
                  were conversing.
               "What! do you think it sufficient to put a bone of John Calvin into the hands of a
                  young man to fight the battles of the living age?"
               "I had rather trust him with Calvin's bone than with that of any man now on
                  earth."
               "Ay, yes; well, well, I see," said Mr. Holliston, thoughtfully; "then you think
                  here that human nature is an immense petrifaction, and those who were long since
                  converted to stone are more indurated and best for the living structure."
               "Precisely so, Mr. Holliston. They are the primeval or granitic formation, in
                  matters of opinion. What has come down to us in the black and white of the old
                  creed-makers can be relied on, because it has become venerable; but there is no
                  certainty of what we think out for ourselves."
               
               "Just so; I see, to be sure," said Mr. Holliston, abstractedly; "then your mill
                  grinds over the bran of past ages, in preference to the products of a present
                  harvest."
               "Yes; for this good reason, that it is a perfect security against smut," said
                  Treadmill, still eying the curtain.
               Mr. Holliston laughed outright at this, saying, "Really, this is a new idea. But
                  there was more smut in the reasoning of past ages than there is in our own; for
                  they had not the same aids to truth,—none except those who were divinely inspired.
                  So, you are grinding over the bran of old smut kernels, for fear of getting into
                  your grist some of the smut kernels of the new harvest."
               Treadmill said nothing, but eyed the curtain.
               "Do you confine your young men to making arguments against Rabbis and Sophists,
                  because Paul expended so much of his thunder upon them?" said Mr. Holliston.
               "O, no; we content ourselves with pointing our guns just as John Calvin did his,"
                  said Treadmill, with his eyes still fixed in the same direction.
               "Why, this is like putting on the armor Don Quixote fought the windmills with, to
                  do battle in the midst of cannon, bombs, Paixhan guns, and steam-frigates."
               "Can't help it," said Treadmill; "we go for orthodoxy."
               "So do I," said Mr. Holliston; "but my orthodoxy consists in pointing the
                  artillery of truth, with all the modern helps for illustrating it, against the
                  actual existing bulwarks of error. I deem it heterodoxy and nonsense to keep
                  battering away upon positions which the enemy long since abandoned, merely because
                  John Calvin found them occupied in his day, and turned against them the force of
                  his gigantic intellect. My orthodoxy consists in meeting the questions of the age
                  right manfully, and, if truth will not sustain you, then die in the struggle."
               "It is useless to talk here. We know what we are about," said Treadmill, still
                  intent upon the ominous recess.
               Mr. Holliston now took his leave, and joined Douglass at their hotel, heartily
                  disgusted by what he had seen. He had no sooner gone than Skampton emerged from
                  his lurking-place in the recess, and said, exultingly, "Bravo! bravo! Dr.
                  Treadmill, you have acquitted yourself valiantly before that heretical dotard! You
                  have answered the fool according to his folly. I'll fix him. He shall not hold
                  place in our board another twelve-month. We want none who will not fay in with the
                  rest of us. The old fellow has become very cold to me, all at once. We have been
                  long acquainted, and yet he has not called on me since he came to town."
               Mr. Holliston was so dissatisfied with Skampton's late rum doings that he did not
                  care to continue his acquaintance, and therefore had not called on him. This was a
                  source of great annoyance to Skampton, which he never forgave.
               "It is time that old fellow had walked the plank," he said to several members of
                  the board, the same day.
               "What, Mr. Holliston?" said one. "I thought he was an unexceptionable
                  character."
               "We want none here to make disturbance," said Skampton.
               "Is he troublesome in the way of thinking for himself?" said another.
               "It is enough to know that he will never blend in with us," said
                  Skampton.
               "How will you get rid of him?" inquired a third. "His age and reputation give him
                  a controlling influence with the public."
               "That is easy enough. Write what he is,—'heretic,'— and pin it on his back, and then see how much
                  influence he will have. Pegan's caustics will do the work. Do you think our folks
                  will have in this board a man suspected of heresy?"
               "If that won't do," said another, "we 'll send our young men all abroad, to cry
                  mad dog against him. If a man will make himself troublesome to us, he must take
                  the consequences. Let him be cashiered, that others may fear to go against our
                  measures."
               "It is the more necessary to make our power felt just now, and to remove all from
                  among us who will not go the whole hog against these temperance agitators, because
                  I am now arranging to exscind them all by a single blow of discipline. We cannot
                  and will not have among us a class of men who array themselves against all the
                  precedents of trade, as well as of truth. Our church must drive them out with a
                  scourge of small cords."
               While Skampton delivered himself of this speech, his expression of firmness and
                  dictatorial power would have done honor to Hildebrand or Henry VIII. Accordingly,
                  a train of measures was set on foot against the venerable Holliston, which made
                  his position uncomfortable; and, not caring longer to retain an official position
                  in anything, he quietly resigned.
               When Mr. Holliston met Charles at the hotel, after his interview with Treadmill,
                  he was smiling, and repeating, in a funny way, the line of Watts: 
                     "Hark from the tombs a doleful sound!"
                  
               
               "Are you from the tombs?" inquired Charles, laughing.
               "Yes, direct; this is a region of death."
               "What! nothing to feed life upon?"
               "Nothing fit to give the dogs."
               "Why so?"
               "Would you feed your dogs on bones centuries old?"
               "Can you not get a more recent supply?" inquired Charles, still laughing
                  immoderately.
               "No, the theology here dates back to Noah's drunkenness, where they get their
                  liquor traffic and drinking habits."
               "My mother, then, is not so far out of the way."
               "No, no; her instinct is better than our reason. She saw, at a glance, the
                  nakedness of the land. I must give in to her superior discernment."
               "What is to be done?"
               "That is a hard question. What you want is a thorough discipline of your spiritual
                  affections. These in tune, Charles, theology will come forth from your soul like
                  music from the strings of an Æolian harp touched by the winds of heaven. But for
                  you to be put into the rack of obsolete opinions, and screwed into the form of
                  notions that long since lost the reason which may have justified them when they
                  sprang up, is to make of you a mere automaton. They will squeeze out of you all
                  the juices of nature. I wonder they do not send our soldiers to acquire Achilles'
                  mode of warfare, and our spinsters to learn of Priam's daughters how to turn the
                  spindle. O, for one place where young men could be trained to
                  apostolic simplicity of thought, purity of diction, energy of action, and aptitude
                  to preach the truth as it is in Jesus! O, for one place where soul
                  took possession of form, and living thought of dead opinions! I would recommend
                  you to it, if it was in the sect reputed most heretical of any in the land."
               "Would you recommend me to leave?"
               "I hardly know what to recommend. If the institution here were not arrayed against
                  the reforms of the age, I should think better of it; as it is, my advice is for
                  you to stay here under a private tutor
                  in Hebrew and Biblical exegesis. Your Greek and Latin are already sufficient. Wait
                  a few months, and perhaps some light may arise on this difficult subject. Perhaps
                  you may think it best to enter the seminary in due form, if they will take you,
                  which I much doubt, from the fear entertained of having some one among them whom
                  they cannot hew to the length of their Procrustean bed."
               Accordingly, such a tutor was found in one of the professors, who consented to do
                  the extra work of teaching Charles for the extra pay, which his meagre salary made
                  the more acceptable. Skampton's policy was to reduce all around him to the lowest
                  possible allowance, that he might have the more to buy influence with. He was
                  coming to a pinch, and expected a demand for more than all his funds, to coërce
                  his denomination into the excision of Bludgeon and his party. He was now,
                  therefore, specially economical.
               Before leaving town, Mr. Holliston accepted an invitation to hear one of
                  Treadmill's recitations. The professor took pains to show off to the best possible
                  advantage, and, therefore, proposed some extra questions, among which was the
                  following:
               "Can you tell me which of the gracious affections is prior, in the order of
                  nature?"
               "No," said the young man whose turn it was to answer,—being one of those who,
                  unfortunately, now and then thought for himself.
               With evident displeasure at such an answer, Treadmill called up another, whose
                  spirit was kindred to his own, and repeated the same question to him.
               "I perceive that the point of the doctor's inquiry is this," said the young man;
                  "whether repentance, faith, love, or which exercise, is first in a converted
                  person. Now, you know our Saviour has set us the example of speaking in parables.
                  Well, then, we will suppose that all the exercises of a regenerated heart are like
                  the buckets of a water-wheel; and, the question is, when the water is let on,
                  which bucket starts first? My answer is, the one that the water strikes
                  first."
               To make this appear, he went into the science of hydraulics, showing that as the
                  motion is in the water, and inseparable from the water, it must begin in the
                  bucket which the water touches first. He added, "The tendency is to drive that
                  bucket in a right line, which it would, undoubtedly, if it were not for the strong
                  timbers connecting it with the other buckets. Hence, the impulse, being diffused
                  through those timbers over the whole wheel, sets all its parts in motion, not in a
                  right line, but curvilinearly. So, I conceive, that the motion is in the Spirit of
                  God. That strikes the bucket of love, which is prior in the order of nature to all
                  the other graces, tending to move it by itself and in a right line; but, being
                  connected with all the other graces by indissoluble ties, moves the whole not
                  directly, but circularly, producing in the soul the beauties of curvilinear
                  motion, like the spheres."
               Here, giving a flourish among the stars, the young man sat down, while Treadmill
                  looked round with a self-satisfied air, as if to say, "You see what we can do." He
                  felt the more gratified at the fortunate turn the question had taken, because it
                  illustrated a theory of his, that love is dropped into a man's heart from heaven
                  without any antecedent exercise in that heart itself, just as the moon is said to
                  drop upon the earth the pumice of its burning mountains.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE PLOT THICKENS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I have't;—it is engendered! Hell and night
                           Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light!"
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               WHEN change is undertaken from interest, and not from principle, it often yokes
                  itself with conservatism to keep back specific improvements. Thus Gilfort was
                  united with Skampton in money-making and against temperance, to further his own
                  peculiar novelties, and to gain his own personal ends. After returning and
                  remaining with his colony in the West a year or two, we meet with him again in
                  Skampton's library. His arrival was with the pomp and circumstance of a
                  distinguished man of the world, in a beautiful carriage, with elegantly
                  caparisoned horses, being now, through the sale of his lands and the contributions
                  of his followers, well to do in the world. He took the precaution of coming under
                  the cover of darkness, because his mission required it.
               "Bless me!" said Skampton, starting up from his armchair as he recognized his
                  visitor; "Mr. Gilfort, is this you?"
               "Yes, me," answered Gilfort, shaking him cordially by the hand. "My friend, you
                  look well; in fine spirits, I see. I never saw you look better in my life. I'll be
                  bound you are younger than when we met last."
               "A good conscience, Mr. Gilfort, brings quiet and health; and health and quiet
                  bring a youthful appearance."
               "Indeed, my friend; no man ever laid a better foundation of a good conscience than
                  yourself. Always plodding for the public good, I see," added Gilfort, observing in
                  his hands a roll, on which he seemed to have been laboring.
               "Lay off your coat, lay off your coat, Mr. Gilfort; I am too absent-minded to be
                  polite." Upon which Mr. Gilfort doffed his outer garment, and disclosed underneath
                  a black suit of the finest texture, elegantly wrought with silk and velvet, and
                  ornamented with gold in all the forms in which that metal could be conveniently
                  worn by a man acting the part he assumed. Everything betokened one from the mines
                  of Potosi, rather than from the dupes of his artifice in the backwoods.
               "Mr. Skampton," said Gilfort, taking out a well-filled purse and throwing it
                  carelessly on the table, "I have come, this time, prepared to show my interest in
                  your seminary by a present for its library."
               "Very opportune," said Skampton, his eyes glistening with delight; "the increase
                  of our library is a thing upon which I am just now bestowing much attention."
               "Is Charles Douglass a pupil?
               "We will have nothing to do with him, sir; he is below contempt?"
               "But he is in your town, is he not?"
               "I hear he is, and, in fact, I have met him occasionally in the street; but do not
                  know him, nor he me, I am happy to say."
               "Well, I am distressed that he is again making that lovely girl, Sarah Harcourt,
                  his victim. I have done my utmost to save her; but a man with whom I intrusted a
                  matter betrayed me,—a rare thing of one whom I trust,—and their acquaintance has
                  been renewed."
               "That is the very subject I have been this day belaboring, I have here drawn up a document to Mr. Harcourt,
                  advising him by all means to break up the connection between his daughter and
                  Douglass."
               He read the document.
               "A capital thought, a timely and benevolent warning!" said Gilfort, his snaky eyes
                  beaming malicious delight. "But you mistake the mode of accomplishing your object.
                  Excuse me, but I know the ground, I see, better than you do. Harcourt is under the
                  absolute control of his daughter, and she will be sure to counteract what you have
                  written. Better go in person; and then, let me tell you, you will not succeed till
                  you fully assure Mr. Harcourt of the certain ruin of his family, if this
                  connection is not broken up. The daughter, I know, you cannot persuade. I have
                  been to New York; I know all about it."
               "Is he such a fool as to consent, after what I wrote him?"
               "No, he does not consent. In his heart he is more opposed to it than any of us.
                  But his daughter's influence over him is such, and his desire of pleasing her in
                  all things so great, that he seems to have waived all objections, keeps quiet, and
                  leaves things to drift."
               "What is to be done?" said Skampton, anxiously. "This fellow is a ringleader
                  against us conservatives, and such a marriage will make him a formidable
                  beast."
               "I will tell you; I see it all. You must, as I say, fully establish the fact of
                  the ruin Douglass will bring upon the family, so as to leave no doubt with
                  Harcourt on this point. Then you may expose the infamy of Douglass to the
                  daughter, and it is barely possible you may make some impression upon her, which I
                  do not expect. But Harcourt will force himself into measures for her final
                  separation from this fellow, rather than suffer the ruin of his house. He will not
                  do it openly, for he has not a heart to oppose her wishes; but he will do it
                  clandestinely, if any feasible method could be proposed by a man of your
                  standing."
               "What method can I propose, Mr. Gilfort?"
               "I will tell you. There live, in the beautiful valley of the Wyoming, a wealthy
                  and accomplished gentleman and lady of the name of Marmot, whose influence will be
                  likely to cure Miss Harcourt of her infatuation; or, at all events, they will
                  break up all further connection between her and Douglass."
               "How should that be possible, so long as the pulse of the mail beats at almost
                  every point in the land?"
               "But mails, my friend, are fingered by men; and men, for a consideration, are
                  capable of appliances. I know of one here who will intercept the love ditties of
                  Miss Harcourt, so that Douglass may search in vain for her whereabouts; and I'll
                  pledge, for the Marmots, that his shall share the same fate."
               "Would such a plot be right?" said Skampton, whose conscience felt
                  the pinch of so bold a fraud.
               Gilfort saw that he had leaked out too much of his heart, and hence exclaimed,
                  with great apparent sincerity, "May God temper with discretion and virtue my zeal
                  to do a good office! After all, is it a fraud? Is it an unworthy step, in a
                  father, to intercept the flow of poison to the mind of a child? I am merely
                  suggesting a plan on which Mr. Harcourt himself may act. You and I have no
                  responsibility in the matter. We can assure him that, in the family of the
                  Marmots, Sarah will have all and more than her station in life requires; will be
                  surrounded by friends refined and affectionate, a country beautifully romantic,
                  and, above all, that her situation will utterly preclude the possibility of
                  further communication between her and Douglass."
               
               "But suppose he insists upon knowing how this is to be brought
                  about,—what then?"
               "Why, in that case, you can assure him of the consummate address of the Marmots,
                  of their experience in such matters; and that they will be sure to do it entirely
                  to his satisfaction, provided he should request it."
               "Let me see," said Skampton, thoughtfully; "is it doing as I would be done by? If
                  Sarah were my daughter,—hum—mum. But I was about to say, if Sarah were my
                  daughter, and I saw her in the jaws of certain ruin, would it not be right for me,
                  in virtue of my parental authority, to take measures, secretly and against her
                  will, to save her? Would she not thank me for it, in after years? Yes, yes, no
                  doubt. Then am I not doing as I would be done by, in advising Harcourt to the same
                  course?" By the time Skampton had gone over these thoughts in his mind, he was
                  resolved; and, leaping up of a sudden, he exclaimed, "Yes, my excellent Gilfort, I
                  see you are right. If your plan promises to succeed, there can be no objection on
                  the score of conscience. But will it succeed?"
               "My friend," said Gilfort, earnestly, feeling that his point was gained, "you can
                  assure Harcourt, as a gentleman and a Christian, that no more communications will
                  pass between his daughter and Douglass, after she is introduced into the Marmot
                  family, provided he shall give orders to that effect. You know deceit is no part
                  of my character; and I should not tell you this, did not my acquaintance with the
                  skill and address of that family give me perfect confidence of its truth."
               "But how will Mr. Harcourt induce his daughter to visit Wyoming? Perhaps she may
                  refuse."
               "That we will leave to him. Assured by you of her ruin, unless the
                  step is taken, he will find means of bringing it about. Nothing could be more
                  likely to captivate such a mind as hers than the idea of spending time in the
                  beautiful and poetical valley of the Wyoming." Gilfort spoke advisedly, for he
                  knew that this had been an old desire of Miss Harcourt.
               "Very well; we will leave details to Harcourt himself. I like your suggestion, in
                  the main, and will promptly and conscientiously perform my part."
               "I have no motive but humanity and friendship for the Harcourts," said Gilfort,
                  graciously. "I do not hesitate to say that, by this act, Mr. Skampton, you will
                  add another to your many deeds of philanthropy, and provide a sweet solace for the
                  pains of your dying day."
               "Ah, my friend, my life is spent in the self-denying labor of doing good," said
                  Skampton, with a look which would have done credit to any saint in the calendar.
                  Poor man! how little did he realize the snare in which he was taken to his own
                  ruin!
               "But your reward is on high, my excellent Mr. Skampton; and it will be a great and
                  shining one, as suited to your many virtues."
               The result of this interview was, that Mr. Skampton started, post-haste, for New
                  York, to execute the plan. He was ignorant of the darker shades of Gilfort's
                  character, and had no just appreciation of the plot to which he was lending
                  himself. He was incapable of so dark a deed. His ultra conservatism, united to a
                  desire of influence and control which by this time had grown to be a monomania,
                  was his ruin. He was determined to force the liquor traffic, slavery, and every
                  antiquated notion, down the necks of posterity; and, in order to do it, he desired
                  to finger and control everything. Domestic mestic matters, marriage contracts, everything
                  would go wrong, without his pious watch-care. Some apology must be made for him,
                  because he was so frequently consulted on these points,—a circumstance which
                  gradually wrought in him the feeling that he had a right to dictate, whether asked
                  or not. Experience taught him that the interests in reference to which he made
                  such enormous purchases of influence could not be managed without looking after
                  the private matters of individuals and families. Against Charles Douglass he had a
                  bitter dislike ever after his personal altercation with him; and this feeling had
                  been further inflamed by the efforts which had been made, both before the courts
                  of justice and the public at large, to implicate him in the drunkenness of
                  Charles' father. This seemed to him a most preposterous idea, that, because he
                  owns the house in which a man gets drunk, therefore he is guilty of making him
                  drunk. He would gnash his teeth, when the subject was mentioned; and, because
                  Charles had often charged him with instigating the crime of his father, there was
                  nothing too bad for him to do and say against that young man. Besides, Skampton
                  was at this very time preparing to prosecute Bludgeon and his party in the
                  ecclesiastical tribunals; and it was material to his success that the voice of
                  Mapleton should be silenced. Mr. Holliston he had already forced off the track;
                  and he knew Charles Douglass would be as good as dead, if cut off forever from the
                  Harcourts. Such was the man now bent upon the ruin of this already afflicted and
                  persecuted young aspirant to the clerical calling.
               Mr. Skampton was announced to Mr. Harcourt and his daughter, who hastened to
                  receive him in a manner worthy of his distinguished position. It happened that De
                  Lisle had called, and was engaged in familiar conversation with Sarah at the time
                  of his arrival; and Skampton, observing the noble person and gentlemanly manners
                  of the young man, felt a secret hope that a more engaging suitor had already
                  accomplished the work on which he came; and, retiring to an adjoining room, he
                  said to Mr. Harcourt, "I see the urchin who had the battle with the deer is likely
                  to get the slip."
               "The slip? No; I wish in my heart he might! But no one else has any influence with
                  my deluded child," said the father of Sarah, with bitter chagrin, that her heart
                  should not be open to such a man as De Lisle, of whose delicate intentions he had
                  no doubt.
               "Well, what is to be done, in that case?" said Skampton.
               "Done?—nothing! Fate, you know, governs; we must yield to fate."
               "What! without an effort to avoid the evil?"
               "Perhaps, after all, Douglass may make my daughter happy. Her
                  thinking so will do much towards it, will it not?"
               "No, Mr. Harcourt," replied Skampton, impressively. "I tell you, on the honor of a
                  gentleman and Christian, that he will be her ruin. You must suppose I have the
                  means of knowing; and that, being a young man to whom I extended charity at one
                  time, I should naturally desire his advancement."
               "Was he dependent on charity?" replied Harcourt, with a sneer.
               "Yes, on my bounty; and I found him the most impudent, impertinent, hair-brained
                  fellow I ever had to do with. Our college at Diddington was forced to pass upon
                  him an act of expulsion. Besides, his father is one of the most furious drunkards
                  in the country, and will no doubt end his days on the gallows. He is always full of murder as soon as he has liquor in
                  his head; and, like father like son,—that you may depend upon, in this case. They
                  are as much alike as two peas."
               "Is it possible? What is to be done?" exclaimed Harcourt, with blank
                  astonishment.
               "I will frankly state to her these facts, and she will break the connection at
                  once. She is too good, too noble, to unite her destiny with such a base fellow,
                  and such a worthless family."
               "O that it might be so! But I fear not. You do not know my daughter. She never
                  gives up a friend."
               "Not when he becomes an enemy?"
               "The thing is to make her believe that. You can try, and I will do my utmost to
                  help you. This ill-judged engagement has poisoned all my happiness, since I came
                  to the city. It is too aggravating to see her tied down to that little country
                  rustic, even if he were right in other respects, when wealth, talent and noble
                  blood, are at her feet."
               As soon as Sarah was disengaged, she came tripping lightly into the room, to show
                  due respect to their distinguished visitor. "How do you do, Mr. Skampton? It is a
                  long time since I had the pleasure of seeing you,—when I was a little girl, I
                  think."
               "Yes, in Mapleton," said Skampton.
               "By the way, have you seen Charles Douglass, of late? He is in your town, I think.
                  You remember he was confined at our house by an injury, when you was with us
                  last."
               "I remember well, though, in truth, Miss Harcourt, his character is such at
                  present that I should be ashamed to confess I know him."
               "What do you mean, sir?" said Sarah, with an expression of wounded feeling.
               "Mean? I mean you have betrothed yourself to a man as unworthy of you as Satan is
                  for a seat in Paradise."
               "Sir," said Sarah, calmly, but firmly, "I know Charles Douglass,—I have known him
                  from his childhood; and the testimony of a thousand prejudiced witnesses would not
                  shake my confidence in him."
               "My daughter," said Mr. Harcourt with great emotion, yet tenderly, "do not treat
                  our worthy guest with disrespect."
               "I mean it not so, dear father," said Sarah; "I know the circumstances have been
                  such as to give Mr. Skampton a prejudiced view of Mr. Douglass' character. I will
                  vindicate the rights of an injured friend. I will let the injurer know that he can
                  find no favor with me. It is useless to talk in this strain. I have all the means
                  of knowing Mr. Douglass' character which I desire."
               "My daughter, my daughter!" cried Harcourt, in great agony of mind, "consider
                  seriously whether Mr. Skampton has not had better opportunities of judging than
                  you have. Do hear his testimony! Young men change. Whatever Mr. Douglass was in
                  time past, he may since have become unworthy of your confidence. Who has better
                  means of knowing a young man than his benefactor, feeling, as he may be supposed
                  to, a father's interest in him? You are too hasty; you will not allow Mr. Skampton
                  to state facts."
               "Very well, sir; what facts have you to state?" said Sarah.
               "Facts,—do you ask me for facts?" said Skampton, with nervous excitement at the
                  promptitude with which Miss Harcourt met him.
               
               "Yes, please give us one to justify your views of Mr. Douglass," said
                  Sarah, mildly.
               "His father is a drunkard, and likely to be a murderer too."
               "Who made him so? Who held the cup to his lips, in spite of the tears and
                  entreaties of a wife?" said Sarah, firmly.
               "You are personal, Miss. Do you mean to insult me?" said Skampton, now more
                  agitated than ever.
               "Not at all," replied Sarah; "I am after the facts. I have the means of knowing
                  that Mr. Douglass, senior, was well born and educated, and withal of a noble
                  nature; but that he became a victim of the drinking customs of society, and was
                  ruined. But he reformed, and would now be virtuous and happy as any of us, but for
                  the temptations with which interested men have surrounded him."
               "Does anybody compel him to drink?" said Skampton, with ill-suppressed anger.
               "No, they only take advantage of a weakness induced by indulgence in drinking, for
                  the sake of a little paltry gain. But, then, what has Charles done? Is he to be
                  blamed for his father's misdeeds?"
               "No, he has enough of his own, in all conscience. Ask Diddington College, from
                  which he was expelled for his bad conduct."
               "I have a letter from the president which tells a very different story." Sarah now
                  produced and read from it the following: "Mr. Douglass was expelled for no fault
                  of his own. He was our best and most orderly student. He was sacrificed to a
                  question of life or death to the college."
               "The scoundrel! the scoundrel!" said Skampton, rising and pacing the floor in an
                  agitated manner. "I 'll make him smart for that! The truth is, Miss, Douglass was
                  on my charity, and yet insulted me to my face. He richly deserved expulsion, and
                  that the faculty will say, in spite of their lying president."
               "He never knowingly accepted your bounty, sir; and restored it, every cent, with
                  interest, as soon as he learned the fact. I honor him for his spirit on the
                  occasion."
               "Honor him! honor him!" said Skampton, sneeringly; "I think he 'll need it when he
                  is deprived of the priesthood. Our denomination will depose him for heresy, as
                  soon as they have time to act."
               "This is another charge;—pray, on what ground?"
               "Our seminary would not receive him, if he offered, they deem him so unworthy of
                  the calling to which he aspires."
               "He has not offered, I am thankful to say," added Miss Harcourt. "Theology cannot
                  be measured off by rules and definitions. It shineth in the sun; it beameth in the
                  stars; it bloometh in the earth; it speaketh in the Bible; it beateth in the
                  hearts of the good, the least of whom has, in himself, the basis of an independent
                  judgment. 'He needeth not that any should teach him.' If Mr. Douglass is what I
                  believe him to be, I would give more for the theology he already has than all you
                  can teach him."
               Skampton, bethinking that she was a lady, restrained his burning indignation,
                  saying to Harcourt, in an under tone, "Enough."
               "Enough, till you state something more conclusive than this," added Miss
                  Harcourt.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               DUBIOUS PRESENTIMENTS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Methinks I hear, methinks I see
                           Ghosts, goblins, fiends;—my fantasie
                           Presents a thousand ugly shapes;
                           Headless bears, black men and apes,
                           Doleful outcries and fearful sights
                           My sad and dismal soul affrights."
                        
                     
                     —BURTON.
                  
               
               NO further interviews took place between Sarah and Mr. Skampton, except of the
                  most formal and commonplace kind. But he remained housed with her father several
                  days, divulging and maturing the plan of Gilfort,—the name of that gentleman,
                  however, being never mentioned between them. This was probably owing to a desire,
                  on the part of Skampton, to monopolize the credit of it to himself. Every
                  particular in reference to the Marmots, their precise location, character,
                  circumstances, and fitness for the trust to be committed to them, were discussed,
                  all of which were made to appear in the most favorable light, and were carefully
                  treasured up by Mr. Harcourt. Sarah, meantime, had a presentiment that mischief
                  was brewing, though she had not the remotest suspicion of the real facts in the
                  case. The following letter bears date near the time of Skampton's visit.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR CHARLES: I have a mysterious feeling, which I cannot get rid
                              of, that something is arising to interrupt the freedom of our
                              intercourse. I am not superstitious, nor do I judge wholly without
                              facts. Those facts I can state only in person. I do not like to
                              interfere with your studies; and yet, if you need relaxation for a
                              week or two, I hope you will turn your footsteps this way. Happiness
                              is too dear a possession to be left unguarded, or carelessly thrown
                              away. Let us, therefore, look out for birds of passage. All you ever
                              was to me you are; and all I ever was to you I am. Is not this so? Why
                              do I ask? Am I not in the hands of my mother's God? My serenity is
                              undisturbed, though occasional clouds intercept the bright beams of my
                              hope. But clouds diversify our mental as well as our physical
                              condition, and teach us the value of sunshine. These broken lines will
                              convey to you more than to another, my heart, my soul, my best and
                              most devoted interest in your happiness.
                           
                              "SARAH."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This letter was dictated by a fear that he who was capable of slandering Douglass
                  to her would be equally capable of slandering her to him. Sarah deemed no
                  explanations safe, in a case like this, but those which should be made by word of
                  mouth. Charles replied, immediately, that an extraordinary event had just then
                  occurred to detain him a day or two. Immediately upon his arrival in Riverton,
                  curiosity to see the man whom Gilfort had so singularly defrauded led him to make
                  the acquaintance of Roderick Dobson. He hoped, also, to do somewhat towards
                  reforming the miserable man, who, he learned, was now more deeply sunk in
                  intemperance than ever. Nor were his efforts without the promise of success.
                  Dobson relinquished his cups for a time, and resumed his business. But the loss of
                  his money preyed upon him so much, when he was sober, that he plunged again into
                  dissipation, to drown his trouble. This tendency was further strengthened by the
                  effects of the wound he received on the
                  night of Bludgeon's battle. His nature seemed physically, mentally, and morally,
                  broken down, and nothing but bodily coërcion could keep him from drinking. He
                  retained property enough still to supply rum for his burning thirst; and all,
                  beyond a meagre support for himself and wife, went that way. His wife, so far from
                  checking him, had, from sympathy or sorrow, fallen into the same habits. The
                  alcoholic demon reigned absolute within their doors. It was a very pandemonium for
                  all the possible devils of conjugal hatred, abuse, contention, fighting, and
                  wretchedness.
               About a week before the receipt of Sarah's letter, Dobson had laid in a barrel of
                  whiskey, after which both of them lay drunk night and day; and on the very morning
                  of the day on which he received the letter, he called at Dobson's, and learned the
                  state of affairs. Douglass found them both dead drunk, and shockingly bruised and
                  blackened by the blows which they had inflicted upon each other. He watched over
                  them until they became sober, furnished them with a good fire and an ample supply
                  of ready-cooked food, and then procured a little girl, at one of the neighbors',
                  to look after them, and do any little errands they might find occasion for. They
                  were too much debilitated to be left alone. He then locked the door of the closet
                  in which they kept their whiskey-barrel, and took the key with him, to make sure
                  that they drank nothing till he should see them again. On his way home, in the
                  evening, he took Miss Harcourt's letter from the post-office.
               The next morning, early, he repaired again to Dobson's, anxious to see them out of
                  their critical condition before going to New York. As he approached the house, a
                  horrible odor assailed him, such as he had never before encountered. He looked
                  round the house, to detect the cause, but could see nothing but a subtle fume
                  exuding from the chimney and crevices. What can this mean? He knocks at the door,
                  but gets no answer. He knocks again and again, but with the same result. He tries
                  to open, but finds it confined by a strong lock. Why is this? Where are they? The
                  odor is horrible! He goes to the neighbors, and inquires for the little girl, and
                  learns from her that Dobson broke open the closet-door with a sledge, soon after
                  he left, and brought out a little four-quart pail full of the whiskey, and began
                  to drink. He then ordered away the little girl, and locked the door behind
                  her.
               Douglass returned and forced the door; when, lo! out rushed a volley of fetid air,
                  that well-nigh suffocated him. He stepped back a few paces, until the room was
                  somewhat ventilated through the open door, when he returned, and, horrible to
                  tell! there lay the charred and blackened remains of Dobson, manifestly dead by
                  spontaneous combustion! The room, and all its furniture, were covered with a thick
                  yellow substance, filthy and fetid, to shock every delicate sensibility. In
                  another part of the room his wife also lay dead, as it appeared partly from
                  suffocation from the exhaling fume of her burning husband, and partly from her own
                  excessive drunkenness. The contents of the pail were all gone. Dobson probably
                  drank more than his share of the liquor; and, as his constitution was already
                  rendered combustible by previous drinking, this deep potation set it on fire; and
                  it went off in blue flame and exhaling fluid, extinguishing both his own life and
                  that of his besotted companion.
               After waiting long enough to bury all of this miserable couple that remained for
                  interment, Charles started, posthaste, for New York. The few days he spent with
                  Sarah were happy above thought or expression. Ages of pure delight seemed compressed into a moment. They
                  expatiated on the events which had occurred since they last met; on the memory of
                  Mapleton, Terracegreen and Forestdale; Canaudeh, the arbor, their hopes,
                  aspirations, and the high privilege of living to do good, even in the humblest
                  sphere. On the subject of her presentiments, Sarah frankly told all,—Skampton's
                  visit, her interview with him, what he said and her replies, how her father had
                  since appeared; and yet, her remarks were so pointed with love that Douglass had a
                  better opinion of all the parties concerned than he had before.
               "Dear Sarah, my heart assures me that I have no bitterness for Mr. Skampton,
                  though I have suffered more from him than any one else. I pity the guilty more now
                  than ever," said Douglass, alluding to the horrible death in which Dobson's sin
                  had ended, of which he had given Miss Harcourt a minute account.
               "I know you have suffered much from Mr. Skampton, Charles; but I had a
                  hundred-fold rather be in your place than his. I pity the poor man's
                  delusion."
               "Well you may. I have watched him for years, and do not believe there is a more
                  indefatigable man living. He really feels that the care of all the world is upon
                  him; that, but for him, the land would be maddened by reform and ultraism; that
                  governments would run wild, the church become corrupt to its core, and everything
                  go to decay. He is the pivot, in his own estimation, on which the destinies of
                  society turn."
               "Is it possible? I am afraid of such a man. Who is secure against his
                  interference? I never understood him."
               "Well, it is so, my dear Sarah; though I think these feelings have increased upon
                  him since the failure of his lawsuits against Bludgeon. He is now struggling to
                  supply by influence his lack of the physical coërcion of the law. I am told by a
                  student who is familiar with him that he does not sleep nights. He is running to
                  and fro, advising this and advising that, dipping into this man's affairs,
                  exposing this and that one's imaginary error and wickedness, circumventing this,
                  that and the other, supposed enemy of his conservative policy; and, in the midst
                  of it all, he has no repose. This student says he lives continually on the borders
                  of a brain fever, and, on one occasion, was actually attacked, when the young man
                  was called to watch with him, and he passed the whole night in the paroxysms of
                  insanity, fisting the wall, under the notion of killing temperance men, heretics
                  and devils. His very complexion is blue with restless care, and his face is
                  elongated beyond its usual dimensions. Did you ever see a brow so heavy and deeply
                  shaded? He moves among us like night. Never did a man suffer more fictitious or
                  more real sorrows,—fictitious as to their reason, but real in their influence upon
                  himself."
               "Charles, you surprise me. Is it true that this odious intermeddling in private
                  affairs is common?"
               "Yes, common as the flakes of winter. He is a perfect terrier, pursuing his prey
                  through every subterraneous winding, and never giving it up. I expect always to
                  have him on my track, till relieved by death, or the destruction of his influence.
                  He can never forgive, not the wrongs our family have done him, but those that he
                  has done us. If it were the other way, there would be hope; but, so long as his
                  conscience needs the relief of making us the criminal party, he will continue the
                  untraced war."
               "Who is safe, with such a man to deal with?"
               "Echo says, 'Who?' How many have been ruined by his dogged pertinacity! And yet,
                  he is not so bad a man as you and I
                  would be likely to represent. He is one of those constitutional conservatists who
                  regard all change in opinion or usage as a personal injury done to themselves, and
                  all reformers enemies to their own peace and the happiness of mankind. They are
                  the watch-dogs to bark at innovation and innovators. And, besides, Skampton places
                  an overestimate on his own influence and responsibility. His pride of station is
                  prodigious. He is not aware of it himself, for it enters into his very blood and
                  being. He is conscientiously meddlesome, and religiously officious."
               "What can have deluded him into this high opinion of himself? His talents are
                  moderate."
               "Money, money, and the flattery money brings, have bewitched him. He has not the
                  generosity to give without the hope of a return, but always sends in his bill for
                  special consideration, personal control over those who receive the gift, or some
                  subtle remuneration of the kind, which he deems an ample offset for his money. By
                  the payment of my tuition bills for a few years, he had acquired the power, in his
                  own estimation, to forbid my temperance efforts. His object was, to buy me up as
                  one of his runners. He has hundreds and thousands whom he has thus bought up. He
                  has given, as he calls it, several hundred thousand dollars in making
                  these purchases. Of course, it has swelled his little personal self unto kingly
                  power. He is an enormous social fungus, fed by the acrid humors of a diseased and
                  feculent public sentiment. He is consulted on all subjects. This further swells
                  his personal consequence, and increases the evils which he endures and
                  inflicts."
               "After all, my dear Charles, there is an overruling Providence who protects the
                  innocent. We are safe in his hands. Let us not requite with evil Mr. Skampton's
                  efforts for the public good."
               "That is well said; for the public good. If the truth were known, his
                  visit here would be found the result of prayers and tears. He is devout in his
                  way. He felt himself called on to deprive me of the power to do evil. But, as you
                  say, God will be the judge between him and me. I leave my cause in his hands, and
                  trust he will bring forth my righteousness as the light."
               "There is no danger, Charles, of leaving it there."
               "My heart tells me it is true. And I know yours is. I do not doubt, I cannot fear,
                  that our union is a provision of divine wisdom, and will be brought to pass by
                  parental love."
               "Think not, Charles, I have any misgiving on that point. No, no; had our plighted
                  vows never before been exchanged, my heart's purest feelings would dictate them
                  now."
               "Sarah, dear, as you say, let us look out for birds of passage. If you receive
                  fifty letters in my hand-writing, containing things inconsistent with these vows,
                  you may know, before Heaven, that they are vile forgeries. My heart, my hand,
                  sweet girl, could never, never move in such a strain."
               "Should you, Charles, fail to hear from me, or should you learn things of me to
                  give you pain, then know that all is false, and that I have your interest at heart
                  more, if possible, than my own. Affection gushes up from the hallowed fountains of
                  my soul, to assure me we are one."
               "O, Sarah! how can I leave you, being of my being? For my sake, do not too rudely
                  expose yourself to the evening dews, in your walks. I have suffered, O, how much!
                  lest a cold should early deprive me of you, by consigning you too soon to your
                  mother's hectic death. That would be my
                  death; my life would lose its earthly moorings, and I should pray to be gone."
               "I will take care of myself. I would live for your sake. I would comfort my poor
                  father; though, I confess, to join my sainted mother sometimes appears to me far
                  better."
               "Halloo, there, sir! are you the man who has ordered my coach?" cried a voice
                  before the house to Douglass, about taking his leave of Sarah, in the hall; "come
                  on, come on! we are off; the cars will leave you."
               "One kiss, in spite of this savage coachman," said Charles, when he mounted the
                  coach, with the sweet voice of her he loved so much pronouncing in his ear,
                  "Faith, faith, faith is our victory." Tears flowed copiously on both sides, and a
                  sombre feeling settled down upon their spirits, as though they might meet no more
                  on earth. Charles returned to his studies, and Sarah to the even tenor of her
                  charities and her duties; with this understanding, however,—that, on the ensuing
                  September, they were to meet again, and unite their destinies for life.
               Mr. Harcourt seemed moody and unhappy. His daughter was his life. He saw and
                  appreciated her worth. But he now fully believed, from the representations of Mr.
                  Skampton, that she was on the borders of ruin. He had, till now, hoped against
                  hope; but black despair had succeeded to its place, and he felt compelled to adopt
                  measures wholly inconsistent with his usual frank manner of treating her. Such
                  measures, so far as he had already adopted them, seemed to create the necessity
                  for more, as one lie requires a dozen to cover it. His heart revolted at the idea;
                  it was more than he could quietly endure. The duplicity of his flight from the
                  plantation was torture to him; and how could he survive something far worse? He
                  was inclined to give up to the plot, and let things take their course; but then he
                  would say to himself, "Mr. Skampton knows; my judgment is good for nothing. I have
                  dwelt upon the subject till I am addled and confounded. If I fail of breaking up
                  this unfortunate connection, still, when her ruin comes, it will be a consolation
                  to have tried. Persuasion is lost upon her. Stratagem, stratagem is my only
                  hope."
               Parents who entertain doubts as to the delicate attachment of a daughter whom they
                  tenderly love are the only ones to appreciate the feelings of the anxious and
                  suffering Harcourt. His bosom was the home of torturing sensations. To relieve
                  himself, he drank deeper than ever, accompanying his daily bottle of wine with
                  certain trimmings and additions, such as a mint-julep before dinner, hot punch on
                  retiring to bed, or a cocktail at any hour when the fancy took him. These
                  supernumeraries were not only necessary as a solace for trouble, but to meet the
                  increasing demands of the alcoholic worm within. Still, Harcourt never went beyond
                  the bounds of genteel drinking. No man was so intolerant as he of the out-and-out
                  drunkard. He thought even a prison or a sty too good for such a wretch.
               Harcourt did not acknowledge it to himself, but it was nevertheless true, that the
                  secret hope of having De Lisle for a son-in-law had its influence with him. The
                  fact of that gentleman's great wealth and high birth excited his vanity and
                  inflamed his imagination. Scarce a day passed without a visit from De Lisle,—not,
                  as Harcourt supposed, on an errand of love, but of religion. He could not
                  appreciate such a motive, but attributed it to the overpowering attractions of his
                  daughter, to which no one was more sensible than himself. Hence, he entered at
                  once into a correspondence with the Marmots, and found things answer to his
                     expectations tions. He, therefore,
                  arranged for the contemplated visit, though he was still in doubt as to the most
                  feasible mode of breaking the subject to Sarah. Thus things went on till May, when
                  he contrived to take her in the snare in a way to elude suspicion, and, alas! to
                  involve himself in hopeless woe. He had his request, but leanness came into his
                  soul. To shun one evil, he encountered nothing but evil.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               EXCURSION TO THE VALLEY OF THE WYOMING.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "So sweet a spot of earth, you might, I ween,
                           Have guessed some congregation of the elves,
                           To sport by summer beams, had shaped it for themselves."
                        
                     
                     CAMPBELL.
                  
               
               RISING one morning after a feverish night, the father of Sarah hastened to her
                  room, and embraced her as usual, only with greater tenderness, calling her by
                  every epithet of endearment that a father's fondness could suggest,—my love, my
                  darling,—exclaiming, "My adored daughter, what could I do without you?"
               "Dear father, what could I do without you?" replied Sarah, kissing him
                  tenderly.
               "This is a sweet morning, Sarah. How soft the breezes! how balmy the air! how
                  beautiful the flowers! how joyous the opening leaves! how bland the aspect of
                  nature! how sweetly your Tiny sings! And what do you think I have been dreaming
                  of, through the night?"
               "What, dear father? I cannot imagine."
               "To escape from our prison to the freedom of life in the country. I long for God's
                  groves, and not man's; for his flower-crowned valleys and hills, in place of our
                  parterres; for herds of kine and flocks of sheep; for the vernal song of birds in
                  their native forests, and the joyousness of a rural landscape. I must away to the
                  country; and will you, Sarah, go with me?"
               "To the plantation?"
               "No, to the sweet valley of the Wyoming. You know how often you have desired to
                  visit that region of poetry and romance."
               Sarah, running over in her mind the months to September, when she and Charles were
                  to unite their destiny, began, unconsciously, to count, "One, two, three, four.
                  Yes, father, I will spend the summer with you in the country. When will you
                  go?"
               "To-morrow."
               "No, father, not to-morrow,—that is too soon,—but the next day. The next day I
                  will be ready. I must visit the shops, and make purchases first."
               "Very well,—the next day."
               The appointed day came; and Harcourt, to make the journey agreeable, performed it
                  in his own carriage, by easy stages, that they might enjoy at their leisure the
                  country scenery. Anticipating his speedy separation from Sarah, and the painful
                  ordeal through which she had to pass, his heart yearned over her with all the
                  fondness of a father's love. He would often clasp her in his arms, and fondle her
                  as if she were but six years old. Sarah had no suspicion of what was working in
                  his mind, such outbursts of tenderness being no uncommon thing with him. On the
                  day which terminated their journey, the morning was unusually fine. They took an early stage to enjoy a sunrise among
                  the mountains, to sharpen their appetite for breakfast, to inhale the pure
                  exhalations of the teeming earth, and to reach a certain humble inn, called the
                  log tavern, situated in a deep ravine by a leaping brook, which had the reputation
                  of breakfasting its guests on the most delicious trout. It was as romantic as
                  humble. Their ride was among hills and valleys, and a delightful combination of
                  scenery.
               "O, father, what a beautiful world!" exclaimed Sarah. "What a charming landscape!
                  how checkered with hills and valleys, meadows and ploughed fields, bounding flocks
                  and singing birds! One might almost mistake it for Eden. How sweet the odor! how
                  fragrant the breezes! One cannot inhale enough of such air," she added, inflating
                  her lungs with the ambrosial zephyrs that played around them.
               "It is beautiful, daughter, beautiful,—O, how beautiful! Look yonder," pointing in
                  the distance; "see that farm-yard filled with kine! How eager their frisking young
                  for the morning repast! O, how superior nature's own condiments to those of our
                  preposterous cookery!"
               "And how superior the drink of the mountain-brook, leaping and sparkling as it
                  flows, to the fermented or distilled poison which so many imbibe to their ruin!"
                  added Sarah, casting a tender and respectful look at her father.
               The tears came to his eyes, and he said, sincerely, no doubt, "Sarah, you think me
                  an incorrigible wine-drinker, and I think so, too. I would give all we are worth,
                  and be as poor as yonder milk-maid, had I never tasted a drop. I never had a heart
                  to confess this before; but I have felt it,—felt it, O how much! I cannot give it
                  up now. It is too late. I have not the firmness to resist a habit which has become
                  second nature. I am perfectly wretched without my daily wine. But, if I had a
                  thousand tongues, and each tongue were as eloquent as Demosthenes or Cicero, I
                  could not with them all express the sense I feel within"—laying his hand on his
                  heart—"of the importance to young men of never tasting a drop."
               "How, then, could you say so much, dearest father, against the temperance
                  pledge?"
               "Because I hate cant,—I abhor fanaticism, of which it seems to me the offshoot. I
                  am speaking of avoiding wine from the beginning, as an impulse of nature, and not
                  of religious excitement. Much as I abhor drinking, I had rather die a drunkard
                  than be a fanatic."
               "Dear father, you certainly err in this."
               "Can't help it,—must obey my destiny. And yet, had it been my destiny to be one of
                  those plough-boys who never taste strong drink, it would be better than as I am.
                  Would you not like to be one of those milk-maids who follow the calves to gather
                  the gleanings?"
               "Alas, father, they are insensible to the means of happiness within their reach!
                  Perhaps they have some evil habit which they have not the firmness to
                  correct."
               "It is true, Sarah; all men are of the same stuff. Evil gains residence in us
                  easier than it is ejected. The most common means of happiness are least understood
                  and least enjoyed. Familiar objects pall upon the mind, and produce indifference.
                  The shepherd, who contemplates daily the towering magnificence of Mont Blanc,
                  heeds not a sight which we go thousands of miles to behold. Our transient glance
                  at this beautiful scene affords us a pleasure which these milk-maids cannot feel.
                  Who knows how much the blindness of Homer and Milton may have enlivened their
                  descriptions of light, color, and visible scenery? These objects, no longer able
                     to satiate and fatigue the eye,
                  lived in their minds as a sweet vision of the past, in bright contrast to their
                  present darkness, to heighten and inflame the sense of their beauty. Who but a
                  blind man could write Milton's description of Satan's journey through Chaos and
                  Ancient Night, towards the nearest coast to light? Or who but a blind man could
                  have conceived of morning as rosy veiled, rising from the beds of Tithonurs, and
                  spreading over all the earth? Passages like these indicate a mind in which the
                  impressions of nature had acquired the charm of a delicious recollection."
               "Did not Milton borrow from Homer? How else should the coincidence arise of his
                  morn advancing with rosy steps in the eastern clime, and sowing the earth with
                  orient pearl?"
               "It is true, the scintillations of all genius and learning blend their effulgence
                  in Milton's muse; and yet he is as artless as nature, and as simple as a child.
                  Herein is the triumph of his genius. That, in his circumstances, he should have
                  been as poetical as Homer, proves the greater poet."
               "Yet, the Scriptures say things even more sublime with less apparent effort. 'Let
                  there be light, and there was light.'—'Morning spread upon the mountains.'—'Riding
                  on the wings of the wind.'"
               Thus beguiling the hours, they at length reached the place of their destination.
                  Mr. Harcourt had informed his daughter that they should not put up at a public
                  house, but seek the more quiet retreat of a private family, with whom he had
                  arranged by letter for their reception.
               "Here we are at last," said he, as they drove up to the door of the Marmots.
               "What an Elysian!—a perfect Paradise!" exclaimed Sarah.
               "Indeed it is," rejoined her father. "It exceeds all my expectations."
               In a moment more, the door of the coach was thrown open by a liveried servant, who
                  ushered them into the great hall of the house, where they were met by Mr. and Mrs.
                  Marmot in full dress, who appeared to be persons of fashion and extreme elegance
                  of manners.
               "You have been long delayed. We have been for two or three days awaiting your
                  arrival," said Mr. Marmot.
               "You must remember we are not on a tour of haste and business, but of health and
                  recreation," replied Mr. Harcourt. "We have been detained by the fairies among
                  your mountains."
               "Enchanting beings they are," said their host; "they exceed fair Tempe, 
                     
                        'Whose lawns, whose glades, ere human footsteps yet
                        Had traced an entrance, were the hallowed haunts
                        Of sylvan powers immortal; where they sate
                        Oft in the golden age, the Nymphs and Fauns
                        Beneath some arbor branching o'er the flood,
                        And leaning round, hung on the instructive lips
                        Of hoary Pan, or o'er some open dale
                        Danced, in light measure, to his seven-fold pipe,
                        While Zephyr's wanton hand along their path
                        Flung flowers of painted blossoms, fertile dews,
                        And one perpetual spring!'"
                     
                  
               
               "Glorious! enchanting!" exclaimed Mr. Harcourt, entranced by the quotation, and
                  still more by the taste and feeling with which it was spoken, and the signs of
                  literary talent in the man to whom he was about to commit so important a trust. He
                  began now to believe all Skampton said of the magic of this family. Sarah herself
                  felt, in all she saw and heard, the charm of beauty, love, and poetry. Indeed,
                     the house and its elaborately
                  cultivated grounds were peculiarly suited to nourish the enchanting illusion. It
                  had been erected by an English gentleman of great wealth, who, attracted to the
                  spot by Campbell's "Gertrude," had selected it for his home; but, finding the
                  realities of republican life a sorry reflection of his distant dreams, he had
                  abandoned it. The most of his servants, attached to the country as better suited
                  to their humbler condition, had remained, and were brought together in their
                  former livery, to act as the unconscious satellites and abettors of this nefarious
                  plot. The house was a perfect nondescript, a truly poetical conception, in which
                  all the orders of architecture were blended into one unique and harmonious result.
                  Beautiful, grand, imposing, picturesque, both the structure itself and all its
                  furniture and appendages were formed to call up each some grateful emotion of
                  sense and imagination,—as a whole, producing in the mind of the beholder a
                  mysterious feeling of harmony and splendor.
               The father and daughter were delighted with the family, of which, besides the
                  servants, Mr. and Mrs. Marmot seemed to be the sole members. Everything had the
                  air of ease and freedom which belongs to persons of retired fortune, who have
                  nothing in hand but to make the most of life and its enjoyments. All vied with
                  each other to increase the happiness of their guests. A choice selection of books,
                  in the room of both Sarah and her father, with elegant gilt bindings, and
                  ingeniously suited to the taste of each, had been carefully provided and arranged.
                  This further proof of the elevation of the family made Harcourt insensible, for
                  the moment, to the secret worm which had gnawed at his heart, from the first day
                  of Skampton's visit, leading him to exclaim, "Skampton is right,—he is right!
                  Here, if anywhere, my sweet Sarah will forget her unfortunate attachment."
               Poor man!—how little did he suspect the mischief which lurked under these fair
                  appearances! How little did he mistrust that the hand of Gilfort was in all this!
                  How little did he anticipate that these were his last conscious hours with one in
                  whom his existence was so bound up! How fearful the contiguity of bliss and woe in
                  the experience of mankind!
               A careful observer might have detected something furtive and strange in the
                  glances of Mr. and Mrs. Marmot. These did not wholly escape Sarah's notice;
                  though, from her father's assurances that he had been well advised of the great
                  excellence of the family, she suppressed every rising suspicion. Her father's
                  forgetfulness of his sorrows was but momentary. In spite of himself, beneath the
                  air of gayety which he assumed lay concealed the most agonized feelings, that he
                  should be compelled to this clandestine treatment of Sarah, whose soul was in her
                  words, whose heart responded to every sentiment she uttered. He took the earliest
                  opportunity to communicate freely with Mr. and Mrs. Marmot on the subject.
               "I wish you to understand that my daughter is everything to me," he said to them.
                  "In intrusting her to you, I put my reason, my wealth, my life, my all, in your
                  hands."
               "We fully appreciate your feelings," said Mr. Marmot.
               "None can enter into them as we do," added his wife, wiping a falling tear, "since
                  it is but a year since we buried our only daughter; a charming creature she was,
                  too."
               "Yes, my dear wife, and do you not think our lovely Blandina was strikingly like
                  Miss Harcourt?" said her husband.
               "Indeed, husband, the very image of her," she replied, sobbing aloud. "I have
                  hardly been able to restrain my feelings since Miss Harcourt's arrival, partly of
                  grief at our loss, and partly of
                  gratitude that another Blandina is sent in her place. O, I shall love her with
                  more than a mother's fondness!"
               "I am happy to find hearts so fitted to give my sweet Sarah place," said Harcourt,
                  mingling his tears with theirs.
               "Your letters inform us that your daughter has formed an unhappy attachment," said
                  Mr. Marmot.
               "Yes, and nothing but the hope of breaking it up could have compelled me to this
                  step. Do you still feel confident of being able to intercept further
                  communications with her deceiver?"
               "The most perfect, sir, and of making her most happy in the arrangement," they
                  both replied.
               "In the latter, I fear, you will be mistaken. My daughter will no doubt be uneasy
                  at the delay of letters. I fear she will instantly resolve on following me; and I
                  have this to say, that if every other means of pacifying her fail, you must let
                  her have her letters. Remember this charge. If she must perish, let it be by her
                  own hands, not mine."
               "There is no doubt, Mr. Harcourt, that we shall be able to keep her satisfied. If
                  we fail, we will be true to your charge," said both the husband and wife.
               Having settled everything, Harcourt felt that he must leave before a letter from
                  Douglass would be expected, lest his presence should embarrass the plot. He
                  therefore announced to Sarah that he had just received intelligence which made it
                  indispensable for him to return without delay; but that he would be absent only a
                  few weeks, before he would rejoin her.
               "What! leave me here alone, father?" said Sarah, with great surprise.
               "Yes; leave you, my love, for a few days only. You cannot fail to amuse yourself,
                  meantime, in this charming retreat. There are many renowned locations of Indian
                  warfare in this neighborhood, so graphically described by Campbell, the poet,
                  which you will naturally desire to visit, and which will fill up the time to my
                  return; and then we will go over the ground in company. These vexatious business
                  calls,—I cannot endure them just now! They are like a windmill in Paradise; but
                  destiny is upon me, and I must submit."
               "If I must do without you, my honored father, I will try to submit. He who has
                  always watched over my happiness will preserve me still. What His providence
                  directs, may that be my choice evermore!"
               Their parting was in the highest degree tender and touching. Three times, after
                  reaching the gate in front of the mansion, he returned to clasp her again in his
                  arms, and to imprint the burning kisses of a love amounting almost to madness. And
                  the third time he fairly bore her sylph-like form to the side of the coach, as if
                  it were an appendage of his own person, which could not be torn away without a
                  fatal breach upon the vital organs. At length, by a violent effort, he leaped into
                  the coach, which instantly bounded off like lightning, leaving the heart of both
                  father and daughter palpitating under the rude shock upon its tenderest
                  sympathies.
               Before a week had elapsed, Sarah received a letter from Terracegreen, in the
                  handwriting of her father, to inform her that a suit had been instituted for his
                  estate in that quarter, under pretext of a prior title, and he had been compelled
                  to leave the city instantly to defend himself. The letter went on further to state
                  that a material witness in the case had removed to Missouri, and he saw no means
                  of protecting his property without going in person to look him up. "And, my dear Sarah," the letter went on to
                  say, "is there no way of saving me the pain of so long a separation from you? This
                  question has been in my mind ever since I found myself compelled to go, and I now
                  write to suggest that you go also. I know you have long wished to explore the
                  prairies of that distant and extraordinary country; and, in complying with this
                  request, you will receive to yourself, I trust,—certainly impart to your doting
                  father,—the purest delight."
               Sarah was not much discomposed by this unexpected proposition, because all the
                  arts of the Marmots were put in requisition to prepare her for it. Soon after the
                  departure of her father, they began to talk to her of a delightful resort they had
                  at Sylvan Creek, in Missouri; of the pleasure they found in dividing their time
                  between that and Wyoming; of the gorgeousness of prairie scenery, and of its
                  pleasing contrast with their present mountain home; and a thousand enchanting
                  stories were added, most ingeniously suited to win upon the fervid imagination of
                  Miss Harcourt. Just before her father's letter came to hand, Mr. Marmot said he
                  had received intelligence which made it necessary for him immediately to visit
                  this fairy land. Much regret was expressed that his wife and Sarah should be left
                  behind, when the latter would reply by saying how much pleasure she should feel in
                  seeing the prairies, and how sorry she was she had not arranged with her father to
                  do so this summer, and then they might all go together.
               "O, my dear," Marmot would say to his wife, "must I leave you and Miss Harcourt
                  behind? Will you not both accompany me? It will be so delightful!"
               "Yes, Louis," said Mrs. Marmot, "write Mr. Harcourt on the subject; and, when he
                  learns Sarah's wishes, he will no doubt join us, and we will all go together."
               That evening they were all overwhelmed with delight by receiving Mr. Harcourt's
                  letter, proposing to take Sarah with him to Missouri. Accordingly, Sarah answered
                  at once, informing her father of Mr. Marmot's call in the same direction, of his
                  estate on Sylvan Creek, and proposing that he should go on immediately and do his
                  business, preparatory to meeting them on their arrival at that place. In due
                  course of mail another letter was received from her father, agreeing to the
                  arrangement, and saying that he had already left, and would meet her in a few
                  weeks at Sylvan Creek. This letter concluded in her father's own peculiar style of
                  affection and gallantry.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I never knew how much I loved you till this separation. I realize it
                              much more than in your school-day absences. Then I had not known you
                              as a companion,—an equal. I parted with you as a prattling girl, whose
                              absence, though painful, I could very well endure. But now I part with
                              you as a companion,—yea, a superior, for so I feel you to be, as being
                              the living embodying of one whom I always accounted better than
                              myself. My only solace is the hope of soon folding you again in my
                              fond embrace. Adieu, darling Sarah, adieu, cries the heart, the whole
                              being, of your affectionate
                           
                              FATHER."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Everything was now arranged for their immediate departure. But no letter had yet
                  been received from Douglass. Sarah protested she would not leave till one came.
                  Soon after this determination was known, a letter came, in which Charles
                  stated,—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I may not write so often as formerly, as I am under an unusual
                              pressure of study. But our vows involve this item, you know,—that no
                              writing, and no neglect of
                              writing shall raise in our minds a momentary suspicion of each other's
                              entire devotedness. I must subscribe myself yours once, yours now, and
                              yours forever,
                           
                              "CHARLES."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Sarah thought this singular, as he had always protested that writing to her gave
                  him more time and efficiency for every other duty. But this allusion to the
                  private understanding between them, as well as the whole aspect of the letter,
                  left no doubt of its genuineness. She therefore despatched an answer at once, to
                  inform Douglass of her contemplated tour, and where he should address her when the
                  journey to the far West was begun.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               WAR TO THE KNIFE.
               
                  
                     
                        "We can molest, harass, imprison and ruin a man who pretends to be wiser
                           than his betters; and the more unspotted the character is, the more
                           necessary we think it to take such crushing methods."
                     
                     "—HOADLY.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Shed no blood, if it can be avoided; but, if this heretical doctrine
                           lasts, shed it without hesitation, in order that this abominable sect may
                           disappear from under the heaven."
                     
                     —HENRY VIII.
                  
               
               "THE clock strikes twelve. O, sleep! whither art thou flown? How my nerves
                  twinge,—they dance! Pains have their gambols in this body of mine. Be still, ye
                  imps of darkness! Three nights without sleep! O, God! I am consumed by my zeal for
                  truth and justice. Heavens! what a gig my pains keep up! Now in my head, now in my
                  heart, now all over. They throb, they jump, they dart, like lightning ning! O,
                  mad—mad—mad! I shall go stark mad! The disorders of this ungoverned and
                  ungovernable age allow me no rest. The care of ancient right against modern wrong
                  devolves upon me. I must resist innovation; I must exorcise these restless
                  spirits. Would that I had crushed this Bludgeon viper in the egg, as I did
                  Douglass! But now he is grown, and it costs me all this. O, pain, pain! how I
                  ache!"
               Thus soliloquized Skampton at his hotel, within the limits of a metropolitan
                  church, before which he was, the next day, to arraign Bludgeon and Bludgeonism for
                  adjudication. He rang for Sambo, but got no answer. He again rang; and Sambo
                  entered, in dishabille.
               "Sambo, why do you not answer my call at once? Will you leave me to die
                  alone?"
               "Sambo powerful sleepy,—sleep like 'possum," said the negro, submissively.
               "Would to God I had your faculty, you numskull!"
               "What 'll massa have?"
               "Here, sleepy-head! take this vial and go to the apothecary and get an ounce of
                  laudanum."
               "What for does massa want lodlum?" said the servant, scratching his head with
                  perplexity, lest his master might have a design upon his own life.
               "What is that to you, saucy fellow? Go, and do as I tell you." Sambo scratched his
                  head in confusion.
               At that instant the door-bell rang violently, and the servant hastened to the
                  door, where he met Saphead, who was breathing heavily, like one out of breath from
                  running.
               "Slave, does his honor, Mr. Skampton, lodge here?" said Saphead.
               "Him have tooth-ache, massa; him tek lodlum."
               
               "I did n't ask how he was, fool! but whether he is here."
               "He com'd here last night, and now he send Sambo to 'potecary."
               "I say, you stupid fellow, is he here now,—is he within?"
               "Come in, come in, Mr. Saphead," cried Skampton, who heard the noise and came to
                  meet his visitor; "that nigger is dumb with sleep."
               "I thought as much, your honor; how are you?" said Saphead.
               "The better for your coming. Your long delay has almost driven me mad. Sambo,
                  bring me the vial, and go call up the servants, and order a cup of tea for Mr.
                  Saphead."
               Sambo changed his course from the apothecary to the kitchen.
               "Which of all the powers has delayed you so long, my friend?"
               "The prince of the power of the air, sir," said Saphead; "he has stirred up such a
                  commotion in the elements, there was no resisting him. Have you not seen the
                  flashing lightning, and heard the rattling thunder? O, it is a fearful night! But
                  I 've driv' through thick and thin to meet my engagement."
               "Well, how beats the pulse of public sentiment?"
               "Right, your honor; never healthier. I have procured the passage of pointed
                  resolutions against Bludgeon and Bludgeonism in all the public bodies, from Maine
                  to Texas. Yes, even Maine is retching fearfully, and will soon vomit up this
                  detestable law. Temperance men themselves gi's in that there is more drinking
                  there now than ever."
               "Good! good! glorious!" said Skampton, brightening up. "I shall sleep now. Your
                  coming, my good friend, is better than a hundred anodynes."
               I have said that Saphead was a puff of Skampton, and this was one of the occasions
                  in which he had blown the windy nothing over the breadth of the land. He had sent
                  him to manufacture public sentiment against Bludgeon, temperance innovations, and
                  the Maine Law. In his mission Saphead thought himself triumphantly successful,
                  because all the anti-temperance feeling naturally centered in him, like feculent
                  humors in an ulcer; and he made the common mistake of supposing that it included
                  the great body of society. With all Saphead's ungrammatical and ridiculous
                  blunders, still his head contained enough to throw around him a blaze of glory in
                  a fifteen minutes' speech, especially if he occupied them in figures, and
                  parables, and quaint sayings, to make people laugh. But, like many others, he did
                  not know that his strength lay in saying little; and, hence, if time was allowed
                  him, he was sure to destroy the effect of his eloquence by saying too much. In the
                  tour which he had just made, he had addressed public bodies who could allow him
                  only about fifteen minutes; and, so much time on one topic,—Bludgeon-ism in its
                  various connections,—and, of course, repeating the same, over and over again, from
                  day to day, had produced a powerful sensation. The object was to prepare the
                  denomination for ecclesiastical proscription against the great movement-maker and
                  all his innovations. Skampton and his party had tried the law and failed, and now
                  their only asylum was the church. They managed their cause ingeniously. They did
                  not appear before the public under the bald aspect of opposing the temperance
                  reform, but of staying the plague of doctrinal and practical innovation upon their
                  venerable church with which this reform had allied itself. No one can appreciate the strength of
                  denominational prejudice. It is an unshorn Samson with the gates of Gaza on his
                  shoulders; and thousands of temperance men were borne away by it, to take a stand
                  against a cause they loved, by being made to believe that it was innovating upon
                  their cherished religious opinions and ecclesiastical usages. South of Mason and
                  Dixon's line, also, Saphead managed to array on his side the whole strength of the
                  present exacerbated pro-slavery feeling. He made the people there believe that, as
                  soon as this giant innovation had emptied the contents of the groggeries into the
                  gutter, it would continue its desolating march over all the sunny South, breaking
                  every chain, putting knives into the hands of the slaves for the throats of their
                  masters, and deluging the land in blood. The fears of minds little accustomed to
                  reason are easily excited against everything new in legislation, in ecclesiastical
                  usage, and in religious opinion; and hence Saphead's popgun was quite as effective
                  as veritable powder and lead. He could make a noise, and that was all that was
                  needed. That was really more conclusive with the mass of mind than well-conducted
                  trains of reasoning.
               "Hark!" cried Skampton, after a moment's pause; "do I not hear voices?"
               "Yes," said Saphead; "there are persons in the hall."
               "It must be Treadmill, then; for he, too, was to have met me here last
                  evening."
               Sambo now ushered in Dr. Treadmill.
               "My dear Treadmill, I am happy to see you, though late."
               "Late! who could be early, such a night as this? What! you here too, my good
                  friend Saphead?"
               "Yes, I here, doctor, and from the midst of this terrible storm, too. Not all
                  Jove's thunder could defeat my engagement with his honor. There's too much at
                  stake."
               "Too much at stake," repeated Skampton, anxiously. "Well, Treadmill, what's the
                  news? Have you followed up the track of Bludgeon?"
               "Yes, and good news, too!"
               "Did you see Mr. Dumble?"
               "Yes, your honor, and he says he has been thrown out of business, and kept out,
                  too, by this braying ass; and he 'll tell a story a mile long to our church
                  against him."
               "Good! glorious! how many witnesses besides shall we have?"
               "About five hundred, I think."
               "Only five hundred! I hoped it would be a thousand."
               "But they 'll make up in mettle what they lack in numbers. I have one hundred
                  rum-selling deacons, in whom rum, religion and the deaconship, unite in a
                  three-fold cord, that cannot be easily broken."
               "Well, have you seen Judge Gwimble, Governor Ground-sell, Hon. Mr. and Mrs.
                  Guboine, Esquire Tornant, President Fooltop, and all the divines and civilians of
                  whom I spoke to you?"
               "Yes, all; and, to a man, they say the law is unconstitutional; that it is
                  abridging a man's natural freedom not to allow him to get drunk, and a violation
                  of the first sentences in that great charter of our national rights, the
                  Declaration of Independence, which says that 'all men were born free and equal.'
                  And they ask, confidently, 'What freedom there is to a man who cannot drink, when,
                  where, and as much as he pleases?' You can rely upon their voice, their vote, and
                  their vouchers, in your venerable judicature."
               "Excellent! my heart overflows with gratitude. I shall sleep now. Sambo, get my
                  bed in readiness, my good fellow; my pains are quiet without laudanum. I have had
                  a suffering ing time, gentlemen, as you
                  may imagine. The zeal of the Lord consumes me. I have not hands, money and
                  influence, enough to keep down these wild beasts of innovation. They still prowl
                  around fearfully, and ever and anon break in upon the precious enclosure which I
                  am set to guard. Sleep has been out of the question so long that I am getting used
                  to living without it."
               "Men that serve the public ought not to sleep," said Dr. Treadmill, who, after
                  much vacillating, to save his bacon in other quarters, had finally chosen the
                  least of two evils, and gone decidedly against Bludgeonism. Skampton had employed
                  him in private, as he had Saphead in public. All three had arranged to meet at
                  this place, the previous evening, that they might bring their labors to a focal
                  point, in their assaults upon the great movement-maker before an ecclesiastical
                  tribunal. Everything having turned out so much better than Skampton feared, he had
                  little difficulty in sleeping soundly the rest of the night.
               Excess of government is one of the great evils of life. Society is fingered and
                  manipulated till it has come to be like a tree pruned to its death, or a child
                  subjected to a training so purely artificial as to repress the forces of nature,
                  and bring on decay. A healthful freedom of development is too little known. This
                  is true of trade, religion, learning, everything. Concatenated opinions in the
                  form of a creed, guarded by the watch-dogs of ignorance, prejudice, place,
                  position, veneration for antiquity, narrow-mindedness, incapacity to appreciate
                  the march of reason and the progress of the human intellect, and a thousand
                  yelping curs from their dark and obscene kennels, unite their force to keep back
                  the improvements for which the race have so long sighed, but sighed in vain. How
                  long have we struggled to reach our present vantage-ground of legislation against
                  the liquor traffic,—a traffic which has entailed more woes upon mankind than all
                  the wars which have desolated the earth! The throes of ages have at length given
                  birth to what we call freedom in our own country,—a freedom which, alas! still
                  holds three millions of men as chattels, to be bought and sold in the shambles!
                  Opinion struggled through two hundred generations, in the midst of imprisonment,
                  confiscation, fire and fagot, to reach its present partial emancipation, and to
                  enjoy the sorry satisfaction of being punished with nothing worse than the loss of
                  place, the blight of character, and the bark of those who cannot bite! Nothing but
                  chains and slavery, to keep back the march of mind, is gained by this over-action
                  in government. An honest, high-minded and vigorous judiciary, to restrain the
                  suicidal passions, is the great desideratum. This, backed up by a legislation that
                  does not legalize wrong,—a preventive legislation against the causes of crime, and
                  against sacrificing right to interest,—will gain all the great purposes of
                  society. The rest must be left to the innate energy of man. He will work out for
                  himself a better destiny than these perpetual fingerers and manipulators of
                  society will work out for him. All arbitrary measures fetter the expansion of
                  enterprise, and coërce things into unnatural channels. Except as directed against
                  the savage passions and the crime-producing occupations and agencies, they
                  subtract from the world's prosperity.
               But, if excess of government is an evil, what shall we say of over-action in
                  private influence and responsibility? The physical coërcion of law the individual
                  has to supply by raising his personal influence to a commanding position. The one
                  acts through a posse comitatus, and the other by
                  chicanery and contrivance. "Egotism," says Coleridge, "consists sists not in speaking of our concerns with hearty
                  good-will, but rather in requiring that the feelings, desires and opinions of
                  others, should be brought into strict conformity to our own. Thus the man of
                  seventy who scoffs at the innocent ambition of the boy, or the elderly lady who
                  speaks with contempt of love tales, are egotists." This was the vice of Skampton.
                  He had one of those consciences which feels the pinch of everybody's sins more
                  than his own, and especially those sins which he deemed most prejudicial to his
                  own interests and predilections. Whatever influences sprang up and prevailed
                  without his sanction, he never failed to regard with distrust; and how much more
                  so, when his own investments and incomes were implicated! He knew, he felt, that
                  he and his conservative clique were by common consent the umpire in settling
                  denominational questions; and he took advantage of his position in this respect to
                  coërce the body, much against the will of a numerical majority, into proscriptive
                  measures in reference to Bludgeon and the temperance movement. The public mind in
                  his church was drilled to the feeling that whatever Skampton and his party, as
                  reflected from Riverton Seminary, decreed, must of course be executed.
               But Bludgeon had a way of his own. He cared not for the favor of Skampton, or any
                  of his emissaries. A certain impulse from within was the guide and measure of his
                  conduct. The difference of temperament and training in the two men was too strong
                  a tendency to schism for any denominational platform to restrain. Bludgeon was not
                  only an extreme temperance agitator, but he went for reform in everything,—in
                  opinion, in church polity, in all the interests of human life. He believed that
                  nothing had yet been done or spoken so well but it might be bettered. Bludgeon
                  drew after him the masses; but Skampton the learning, the press, the aristocracy
                  of wealth, and all the best influences in the sect,—that is, best in the sense of
                  the world, but not in fact,—for the masses are always nearer right than the
                  aristocracy. Reforms begin with them, and reach the dignitaries only when they can
                  keep their places no longer without adopting them. For some years this natural
                  enemy of Skampton gave him no concern. He could not suppose that the Mapleton
                  rowdy would come to much, any way. "His brief day will soon be over, when people
                  will become sick of him," he was accustomed to say, when Bludgeon's doings were
                  spoken of in his presence. But, so far otherwise was the fact, that Bludgeon went
                  on increasing, till all the world "wondered after him," and the influence of
                  Skampton and his conservatists was becoming to him like the green withes to
                  Samson. The conservative party, with its leader, felt itself constrained,
                  therefore, to lay heavy hands on the great movement-maker.
               "But how shall I proceed?" was a question which long agitated Skampton's mind. He
                  finally satisfied himself that his first step was to destroy Bludgeon's character,
                  and to have him proscribed as a liar and slanderer. Nor did he lack materials for
                  such a work. No; few men exposed weaker points than Bludgeon did to his enemies.
                  He was by no means careful in his sayings and doings. Skampton, therefore,
                  prepared his charges and specifications to bring before the judicial tribunal of
                  his denomination. To this end he sent Saphead to manufacture public sentiment
                  against the common enemy, and Treadmill to drill to service the persons who were
                  to constitute his court and his witnesses. Skampton was not a hasty man in his
                  movements. He always took time to do well whatever he did at all. And in this case
                  he had been for years occupied in bringing together the material and the force for a fatal assault upon the great
                  movementmaker. The arbiters of Bludgeon's fate were finally assembled. The morning
                  dawned beautifully after a night of storm, and four hours' sleep had restored
                  Skampton's feelings to a tone of elasticity. It was to him "the sun of
                  Austerlitz." When he appeared in assembly, however, his countenance was sallow,
                  his eyes sunken, his brow cloudy, and he had the aspect of one who was consuming
                  by inward fire.
               In taking the names of the tribunal, it was suggested by one of the scribes
                  whether their honorable titles should be appended; whereupon it was settled, by
                  vote, that each one should have the benefit of all his titles, that their decision
                  might have the greater weight. This circumstance led to an amusing incident,
                  which, though trifling in itself, must not pass unnoticed. In taking the names, a
                  farmer-looking man gave his name as Harry Straight, V.D.M.*
               
               
                  *Once assumed by old ministers, meaning with
                     them Minister of the Word of God.
               
               "What did you say, sir?" said the chairman, with some surprise.
               "My name is Harry Straight, V.D.M.," replied the man.
               "The chair would ask the member what he means by V.D.M., where he got the title,
                  and what object he has in giving it on this floor?"
               "The meaning of V.D.M.?" said Mr. Straight; "I thought all the world understood
                  that. It means Vermont Democratic Minister."
               "Vermont Democratic Minister!" exclaimed the chair, when the whole audience burst
                  into a roar of laughter.
               "You see, Mr. Chairman," said Mr. Skampton, "that the object of the member is to
                  cast contempt upon this venerable body. I think his conduct merits expulsion, and
                  I therefore move that he be expelled.
               "And may it please the moderator," said Mr. Straight, "I meant no offence. I ask
                  pardon, if I've offended. I observed you all had handles to your names, for the
                  public to take hold of, and I would not be out of fashion. You ask where I got the
                  title. I get it from the fact, sir; I am from Vermont, am a democrat, and a
                  minister, which makes me a Vermont Democratic Minister. Have I not as good a right
                  to take to myself a title which expresses the truth, as others have those which
                  are false? You have on this floor A.M.'s, who are masters of no arts except those
                  of folly and weakness; D.D.'s, who are not competent to teach the first lessons in
                  divinity; and LL.D.'s, who are ignorant of the most familiar laws of right and
                  wrong. And now, because I take a title which expresses the truth, you have me up
                  for expulsion!"
               "Order! order!" cried the chair. "Gentlemen, the motion is on the expulsion of Mr.
                  Straight, of Vermont, for contempt of this honorable body. Are you ready for the
                  question?"
               "Ready,—give us the question!" cried many voices.
               "Yes, turn him overboard with despatch," said Skampton, who felt himself
                  personally insulted by what the accused had said about LL.D.'s, a title which had
                  lately been conferred upon him by Diddington College.
               "Those who are for expelling Mr. Straight say Ay," said the chair. "AY," cried the
                  multitude, with stentorian lungs. "Those opposed say No." "No" was faintly
                  whispered by a few timid ones, whose manner seemed to ask pardon for presuming so
                  far.
               So the chair pronounced Mr. Straight expelled for contempt tempt. Many felt it to be a cruel act, for they saw
                  that Straight had assumed the title in the simplicity of his heart, so as to be in
                  fashion, and not to cast contempt on any one. Another was expelled for
                  sympathizing with Bludgeon in his opposition to slavery,—a subject on which the
                  latter had practised a severity bordering on cruelty. This was necessary incense
                  to the Southern members of the ecclesiastical court. Having thus expelled
                  democracy and abolitionism, they were prepared for business.
               The way finally cleared, Skampton produced his charges and specifications. He
                  began with those points which would render the accused most ridiculous and most
                  obnoxious to the religious prejudices of the court, on the principle of all
                  similar persecutions, which is, first to clothe the victim in the skins of wild
                  beasts and then set on the dogs. When an errorist is painted as criminal, why
                  should he not be punished as such?
               The first charge was, that Bludgeon had professed himself able to teach men how to
                  live till they were as old as Methuselah. And it is true he had gone from
                  temperance to dietetics, and prescribed what people laughingly call saw-dust, or
                  certain principles of eating and sleeping, which, duly followed up, he said, would
                  insure a man's living till he was a hundred and fifty or two hundred years old.
                  And it is possible that, in the heat of speaking, he might have measured the life
                  of his disciples by that of the oldest of the patriarchs; for Bludgeon was not a
                  precise man.
               The next charge was, that of denying wine in the Lord's Supper, which rendered
                  Bludgeon especially obnoxious to the prejudices of his sect; and that too with
                  good reason, for no man of common sense can doubt that the juice of the grape is
                  essential to the scriptural administration of that ordinance.
               The third charge was to the effect that the wine into which our Saviour converted
                  water was the unfermented juice of the grape, in which the accused
                  may have made himself ridiculous, but certainly not criminal. Still, it was an
                  item to prepare the way for worse things to follow, and to predispose the court to
                  the conviction that so illogical and unscriptural a reasoner was not fit to be
                  tolerated in the sect. Until we can find a vial of that veritable wine among the
                  relics of the Catholic church, to enable us to test its quality, this must remain
                  an apocryphal question, and not a sufficient ground for condemning the temperance
                  cause, or its over-zealous agitators.
               After thus arming the prejudices of the court against the accused, Skampton
                  proceeded to the graver charges of lying and slander.
                  Under the first there were at least a hundred specifications, of which the three
                  lies nailed by Pegan in Bludgeon's great battle were the head and front. For the
                  convenience of reference, they were called lie one, two, three; or the
                     hoarseness lie, the four hours' sleep lie, and the
                     money lie. This was parliamentary, and saved words, of which there
                  was a deluge, after all. The slander specifications were equally
                  numerous, and much better sustained; for Bludgeon was a most unconscionable man in
                  dealing with private character. The prosecuting document displayed great tact and
                  talent. It was the work of time, and set off the weak points of a weak man in
                  their worst light.
               After reading this document, witnesses were called to the number of hundreds, and
                  days were consumed on the several charges and specifications. When the court was
                  thoroughly wearied out and bewildered, the happy thought at length occurred, to
                  ask Bludgeon whether the sayings and doings alleged against him were true.
               "They are," said Bludgeon, promptly. "I said what they affirm about my hoarseness, about my sleep,
                  about my income, about Gilfort, Skampton, Pegan, and all the rest of them; and I
                  reäffirm the same before this court. It was all true, and I defy the world to
                  prove it false!"
               "Very well," said the prosecutor, "I am prepared to show that all these things are
                  false and slanderous."
               The presiding officer, alarmed at the prospect of being detained days and weeks
                  more in this jungle of evidence, proposed that Skampton's statements be admitted
                  as settling the morality or immorality of the sayings and doings in question. "We
                  have entire confidence in the honorable gentleman's decisions on the subject. He
                  has gone fully into the details, and knows more about them and their character
                  than we shall, after a month's investigation." Whereupon the question was put and
                  carried, that Skampton should be umpire in the case. Singular as this decision may
                  appear, it will not surprise those at all acquainted with ecclesiastical
                  adjudication. Our courts of law are clumsy modes of doing justice, at the best,
                  with all the light of statute and precedent; but what shall we say of a court
                  without statute or precedent, in which everything goes by influence and personal
                  predilection?
               "God knows," said Skampton, rising and looking the image of injured justice, "how
                  much I have labored to have justice done in this case, and to save his bleeding
                  cause." He then touched upon the slander of that renowned man, Samuel Gilfort; of
                  that accomplished editor, Peter Pegan, and others; and then upon the injustice
                  done upon himself, who had ever acted conscientiously, and had poured out his
                  money like water upon the interests of humanity. "And now, gentlemen, to be
                  charged with blood, the blood of Mapleton citizens, the blood of men consumed by
                  the Kamtschatka whales, and blood from pole to pole; O! gentlemen, gentlemen!"
                  exclaimed Skampton, beginning to weep, being exceedingly nervous, "these charges
                  are more than human nature can bear!" The court was greatly moved, and began to
                  weep too, looking daggers at poor Bludgeon.
               As soon as the prosecuting party resumed his seat, Dr. Treadmill arose and said,
                  he had "hoped that this movement would die a natural death long ago, and thus that
                  his church would be saved the trouble of adjudicating upon it. There had been a
                  prospect," he added, "that the hoarseness of this man Bludgeon would end in
                  bronchitis, and bronchitis in silence, and so that he would have been laid aside
                  without our help. But, since neither of these events has occurred, I take it we
                  ought to do what Providence has neglected."
               Timothy Bragg followed, saying that he "had probably been the greatest
                  movement-maker in the country, under the old temperance pledge, when only ardent
                  spirits were proscribed. But, since this Bludgeon had come, on with his crew, to
                  berate everything that intoxicates, even to the juice of the grape and the
                  sparkling product of malt and hops, they had taken the wind out of his sail, and
                  he felt himself cruelly neglected. If the people have a mind to be fooled out of
                  these innocent, healthful and necessary beverages, I am not the man to go with
                  them. Hence, I give my voice against the accused."
               Gulliver Saphead now rose, with great pomp, and delivered himself as follows:—"Mr.
                  Chairman and Gentlemen,—in giving my voice in this case, I can only say that
                  Bludgeon and Bludgeonism are 'a cake not turned.' This is Bible, and I like to
                  keep to that. Whether it is a johnny-cake, a hoe-cake, or a no-cake,—all of which
                  I have met with in my travels,—is not material to my purpose. It is an
                     unturned cake, and, of
                  course, burnt on one side and raw on the other. Now, this is the precise character
                  of this man and his movement. He inflames the zeal of the people against rum,
                  which I take to be a good creature, as well as wine and beer; and thus he has got
                  them into the way of pouring it into the gutter. This is extravagant. It is coal
                  or dough, dough or coal. There is nothing right about it. If he were content to
                  bake himself so and there stop, I should say nothing; but he is baking everybody
                  else so, too. All his followers are coal or dough, dough or coal. This is wrong.
                  Think you I would pronounce for a cake which is all dough or all
                  coal? No; my verdict is Guilty."
               Thus, prudential considerations, influence and prejudice, not truth and evidence,
                  carried the day, and Bludgeon and his movement were compelled to walk the plank.
                  The following notice soon after appeared in Pegan's paper, headed "UNPARALLELED
                  CRIMES.—This fellow Bludgeon has been found guilty, in a tribunal of his church,
                  of high misdemeanors, and has been expelled. Under the garb of reform, he has
                  slandered private character, has waged war upon our lawful and necessary
                  occupations, and, to gain his ends, has practised chicanery and lying to an
                  incredible extent. But he is, at length, exposed and put down, by the untiring
                  exertions of that true friend of the public, the Honorable Michael Skampton,
                  LL.D., who has won for himself immortal renown."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               TO THE WESTWARD, HO!—THE MISTAKE DISCOVERED.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Westward the star of empire takes its way,
                           
                           
                           Time's noblest offspring is the last."
                        
                     
                     BERKELY.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I've wandered east, I've wandered west,
                           I've borne a weary lot:
                           But in my wanderings, far or near,
                           Ye never were forgot."
                        
                     
                     WILLIAM MOTHERWELL.
                  
               
               THE growth of party may be traced to three causes: individual peculiarities, the
                  nature of the times, and persecution. The first is the seed, the second the soil,
                  and the third the husbandman.
               Bludgeon's intense individuality and iron will were, of themselves, a sufficient
                  partisan nucleus. A portion of society were as sure to follow such a mind as
                  flocks of wild geese their noisy leader. Temperance times further inflamed the
                  schismatic tendency. The excited public mind was feeling its way towards new light
                  on the subject of using and legislating in reference to intoxicating drinks, and
                  was easily led into was devious and strange. A richer soil could not have received
                  the falling seed of Bludgeonism; it yielded a thousand-fold.
               Still, the Skampton persecution did most of all to ripen and perfect the
                  schismatic fruit; and when it was ripe ecclesiastical excision shook the tree, and
                  scattered the seed all abroad, to bring forth its kind without stint or
                     measure. This act relieved the
                  movement of its last restraint, and let it loose upon society, to work out its own
                  destiny in its own way. Till then, Bludgeon and his followers had respected their
                  denominational platform, and could not adventure upon measures which they esteemed
                  decidedly derogatory to it. But now he stood by himself, the "world all before
                  him, and Providence his guide." His party was, henceforth, his church, and his own
                  wild impulses his creed and his ritual. The temperance movement was his religion,
                  his ethics, his politics, his jurisprudence, his business, and the sum of his
                  being.
               Thus, as usual, this act of ecclesiastical excision immeasurably increased the
                  evil which it was designed to cure. It gave Bludgeon a hold upon the public
                  sympathies far greater than ever, and made him a much more formidable antagonist.
                  The Skampton conservative party could have done nothing so much to
                     his advantage, and so destructive to their own cause.
                  It turned over to him a numerical majority even of their own church. Skampton's
                  purse still retained with him Diddington College and Riverton Seminary, though, in
                  point of fact, the heart and sympathies of both these institutions were with
                  Bludgeon. Indeed, there was no soul on the Skampton side, for it had all
                  evaporated, or gone over to the other party. The one had set up a golden idol for
                  its divinity, while the other was full of the warm blood and gushing sympathies of
                  actual life.
               While the cause of temperance gained by persecution, Bludgeon was unhappily
                  precipitated to still greater extremes. From the injuries inflicted upon health
                  and morals by alcohol, he proceeded to those of gluttony and excess of every kind,
                  which he began now to represent as equally degrading and demoralizing with
                  intemperate drinking. Not content with the simple question of the
                     quantity which it is safe for us to eat, he proceeded to that of
                  the quality, affirming that man is a herbivorous animal,—that animal
                  food is, in all cases and in any quantity, injurious to his health, corrupting to
                  his moral feelings, and the great means of reducing his age from that of the
                  antediluvian patriarchs to the present narrow span of three-score years and ten.
                  It involves cruelty to animals, which are annually knocked in the head, or
                  barbarously butchered, by millions, in order to pamper in us an unnatural and
                  preposterous appetite, and degrades us to the rank of cats, dogs, wolves, and
                  tigers. His descriptions of a piece of a hog or an ox, all reeking with blood and
                  oil, would make an audience loathe it as food, and not a few would go away
                  resolved never to taste it again. The previous process of butchering and flaying,
                  in all its disgusting details, of animals innocent, beautiful, playful, and
                  verging towards human intelligence, was a fruitful theme for Bludgeon's genius,
                  and a means of touching the sympathies of an audience almost equal to the murder
                  of the innocents of Bethlehem, or the massacre of St. Bartholomew's Eve.
               Bludgeon carried his views to such an extreme as to lose the sympathy of the wise
                  and discreet among his temperance friends. They could not believe that his system
                  of dietetics would realize the length of days of which he was so sanguine. True,
                  he fenced his statements round with various modifications. He did not say that
                  such a length of days would be realized in the first generation; but only that, if
                  the race would rigidly follow up his system for a century or two, the causes of
                  disease and death would gradually disappear, and the time might come when its life
                  would be as enduring as in its earlier generations. These extravagances of the man
                  and his party came to be regarded by the public as identical with the temperance cause, to the no small damage of its
                  interests. It was thought by many to be unscriptural and dangerous, also, because
                  these ultraists deemed it necessary to their success to deny the use of wine in
                  the Lord's Supper. Many of their churches actually adopted water sweetened with
                  molasses in the administration of that ordinance. This was a just cause of offence
                  to every right-minded man in the country.
               The consequence was, that Bludgeon found himself in danger of being swept away by
                  the reäction of his extreme views, to prevent which he determined upon emigrating,
                  with so many as would go with him, to a land where he might carry out, unmolested
                  and unopposed, his peculiar system of dietetics. Oregon was fixed upon as the
                  theatre of the great experiment, which he proposed to reach by the overland route.
                  Upon this enterprise he now turned all his force. He travelled from place to place
                  like a flaming meteor, to obtain enlistments for his colonial plan of dietetics
                  and long life. In a short time his army swelled to a numerous host, who disposed
                  of their estates, and prepared to take up their line of march. Still, he continued
                  his lecturing, to increase the number. His paintings of man, in the present forms
                  of society, with habits of eating, drinking, dressing and sleeping, to reduce his
                  life to little more than that of a goose, were graphic and powerful. He made the
                  people feel that death was in their habits, and life only in an escape with him to
                  Oregon.
               As a place of rendezvous for his gathering forces he appointed one of the prairies
                  beyond the Mississippi, to which point they were tending from all quarters. The
                  dietetic faith of all was absolute,—their hopes glowing. Old men and maidens,
                  young men and children, rich and poor, black and white, all grades and varieties
                  of human society, having disposed of their effects to defray the expenses of their
                  journey, were now on their way, in groups of tens, fifties, and hundreds. Here a
                  company of maiden ladies,—toothless, tottering, shrivelled and blighted, by the
                  vain endeavor after that boon dearest to all hearts, the privilege of loving and
                  of being loved,—dragged their weary limbs along, with a fanatical certainty of
                  renewing their youth in the Eden of their destination. Here virgin beauty was
                  linked with wrinkled deformity; vigorous manhood with tottering age; idiotic
                  imbecility with gifted intellect; the cultivated with the uncultivated; all fused
                  like metals into one mass by the dominant fanaticism.
               Facts like these are eminently significant. They show how eagerly the heart of man
                  looks and longs for a portion better than earth has to afford. It is not
                  surprising that Utopian ideas of another location, or of the reörganization of
                  society, should beget in multitudes the desire of change. They forget that the
                  evil is within, and must defeat the purpose of change until it is eradicated. None
                  but the great Nazarene ever understood where to begin the work of human
                  improvement. "Ye must be born again" is a truth which lays the axe at the root of
                  the tree, and provides to eradicate from the heart those passions which generate
                  our woes, and defeat all the ends of outward reformation.
               Leaving Bludgeon and his party to pursue their fanatical journey, we will now turn
                  our attention to Mr. Harcourt. When that gentleman left Wyoming, he purposed to be
                  absent but a few weeks, that he might watch the effect of his plot upon the mind
                  of his daughter. He hoped, against hope, that her feelings would undergo a change,
                  and the magic influence of the Marmots would set her heart free from its
                  entanglements to a drunkard's son. He felt in his sober moments that there was no
                  reason to expect it; but still the illusion was too sweet to be exchanged for
                  reality. There
                  were people who could do in this way what he could not; and, from the
                  character given the Marmots, on such excellent authority, he believed they were of
                  the number, and this was his only light on the subject. He had enjoined Sarah to
                  write him daily, resolved, if her letters indicated no change, to abandon his
                  scheme, be the consequences what they might.
               But no letter came. He watched the post-office with nervous anxiety, day by day,
                  during which time suspense produced in his excited imagination its usual brood of
                  dark forebodings and tormenting fears. If anything should happen to his darling
                  child, he felt that he never could forgive himself the step he had taken. Indeed,
                  he was uneasy at the deceit which he had already practised upon one so frank, so
                  confiding, so loving and so loved. "Sarah, Sarah, sweet Sarah! my darling, my
                  life! I am undone without you!" he would often say to himself. "O! should I be
                  deceived in the persons to whom I have intrusted her,—no, no! it is
                  impossible!—but, should I be deceived, what a monster of a father will she have
                  reason to think me! Well, though I deceive, I love her; yes,—too tenderly to be
                  happy in her absence. My head reels, my reason totters! I shall go mad, mad, if
                  the least of my fears were realized!"
               After thus being literally on embers for two weeks, a letter came, apologizing for
                  her delay, by ascribing it to the extreme happiness of her new situation. And the
                  letter significantly adds, "I find myself undergoing a great change on other
                  subjects, which have caused you, dear father, much anxiety. I have not heard from
                  C. D. since I came to this place; and am becoming more and more careless whether I
                  ever hear again."
               This letter, especially the last sentence, more than compensated for his long
                  suspense. And he waited another and another week, with more calmness than before,
                  but still not without dark surmises, which lingered like spectres before the
                  vision of his mind, yet fearing to visit his daughter, lest it should prejudice
                  the object of his taking her to Wyoming. At length, another letter came, full of
                  affection for him, and deprecating the uneasiness she had occasioned him by her
                  rash purpose of connecting herself with a family whose vices rendered them so
                  unfit for the society of the pure and the good. "But, thank Heaven! I have learned
                  my mistake in season to escape the ruin awaiting me. Dear father," it is warily
                  added, "I fear the effect of former associations, and, much as I wish to see you,
                  it is perhaps advisable that you should delay your visit a few weeks." This
                  letter, confirmed by the private correspondence of Mr. Marmot, gave him
                  inexpressible pleasure; and he acted upon the suggestion of delaying his visit.
                  Thus the deluded man was baited by an occasional letter till the first of August.
                  His mind, meantime, was ill at ease, and his use of the bottle was more deep and
                  dangerous. Indeed, his blood was constantly charged with the poison, to the verge
                  of intoxication, which, no doubt, had the double effect of making him the easier
                  dupe and of precipitating the crisis which ensued. How it is possible for men,
                  with an earnest love of life, to be deluded into keeping their blood constantly
                  charged with an inflammatory ingredient that could not fail immeasurably to
                  increase the chances of death, in the event of accident or disease, is passing
                  strange. One would suppose that an instinct of self-preservation would deter them
                  from drinking, if nothing else; and that intemperance would be confined to those
                  who have no motive or desire of life.
               Douglass was also as much perplexed by the interruption of letters as the father
                  of Sarah. But he could not doubt, and
                  would not resign himself to the gloomy suspicions which would ever and anon glance
                  unbidden across the horizon of his mind. He had solemnly promised not to let the
                  interruption of letters, or anything else, shake his confidence in her devoted
                  attachment. But vows are easier made than kept. When week after week passed,
                  without bringing him a line from her pen, his nights became sleepless, his days
                  gloomy and listless, and he lost all command of himself.
               Finally, a letter came from Sarah, bearing date, as usual, at New York. But still,
                  it did not allay his fears, though, in point of fact, it approximated her usual
                  strain of correspondence. There seemed something different in it,
                  however,—something strange; not so much in style and mechanical execution, as in
                  the spirit breathing through it. It seemed not to gush up, as usual, from the
                  heart's purest affections, but was formal, artificial, constrained, and, even in
                  its affectionate touches, it failed to blend in with his sympathies. He felt more
                  uneasy after receiving it than before, and abruptly left for New York, to inquire
                  into the cause.
               When he arrived at Mr. Harcourt's, he met from that gentleman a cool reception;
                  and when he inquired how Sarah was, and whether she was well, the laconic reply
                  was,
               "Well, but not to be seen."
               "Not to be seen, Mr. Harcourt! You are not in earnest?" replied Douglass,
                  perfectly confounded, and hardly knowing what he said.
               "Do you think me capable of deceiving, sir?" said Harcourt, still more coolly.
               "By no means; I only meant to say that your daughter might justly accuse me of
                  great rudeness and treachery, for me to come here and return without seeing
                  her."
               "I have the means of knowing that it would be her greatest est pleasure never to
                  see you again," said the deluded Harcourt, confident of the truth of what he said,
                  and anxious to get rid of his unwelcome visitor as soon as possible.
               "It is false!" said Douglass, earnestly; "I know it is false!"
               "Do you mean to give me the lie?" said Harcourt, in the highest degree
                  incensed.
               "Certainly not; I only meant to say that you must be mistaken; and, as evidence
                  that I have reason for what I say, please read this," handing him his last letter
                  from Sarah. Mr. Harcourt read it.
               "Somebody has served you a trick," he replied, handing back the letter. "My
                  daughter has not been in this place for nearly three months, and that letter
                  cannot be from her."
               "Where is she, then?" inquired Douglass, in blank astonishment.
               "That is a secret she does not wish me to reveal."
               "Sir, you are cruel to me, and still more so to your daughter."
               "I do my daughter a kindness. She has learned the character of your family, and
                  abhors it as much as I do."
               "Yes; she learned it from me on the very day you introduced me to her. I have
                  nothing to conceal from her or any one on that subject. My poor father's infirmity
                  presses on my heart too grievously to be kept a secret."
               "It ought to have deterred you from presuming so far with a well-bred lady. But
                  she is cured, and that is enough," said Harcourt, turning on his heel, and saying
                  to a servant in waiting, "Jim, attend this man to the door."
               "For the love your daughter bears you, I would not stay to give you pain," said
                  Douglass, as he left the house.
               That was a dreadful moment to Charles Douglass. As he walked leisurely from the house, so lately the
                  witness of a bliss unspeakable, in the society of one so much beloved and adored,
                  but now lost, forever lost, he feared, the universe seemed to him a blank. An
                  intense summer sun flamed above; and, instead of leaving a spot so endeared, so
                  lovely in its memories, even in the gloom now resting upon it, he buried himself
                  in shrubbery overhanging the majestic river, and prayed and longed there to end an
                  agonized life.
               "To me, me miserable, there remains no solace but the dumb silence of this
                  desolate spot! Here I would die, here be buried, here resign my soul to that
                  higher world, where rest can alone be found! Proscribed without, and killed
                  within, what solace is left me, this side the grave? No, no! let me go! let me
                  go!"
               With the vain hope of quenching these burning sensations, or provoking a fever, to
                  absorb them, he remained all night in that thicket, stretched upon the damp earth,
                  with feelings of desolateness and horror too poignant to be described, too vast to
                  be conceived. All he had felt during his first days in Forestdale, at the idea of
                  being a drunkard's son, now returned upon him with ten-fold power. Then it was
                  imaginary; now it was real: then it was a mere fear of ejectment from his proper
                  social position; now his doom was sealed. The words of Harcourt, that, knowing his
                  father's character, he "ought not to have presumed so far with a well-bred lady,"
                  were the more tantalizing for being a reflection of the precise feelings with
                  which his first delicate sentiments towards Sarah were associated. He thought,
                  himself, it was presuming too far in one so unfortunately connected. And now, to
                  have the truth brought home to him by the party most injured by that
                  presumption,—perhaps, too,—a dreadful perhaps!—with the sanction of that dear one
                  who had been so kind as to make his drunken father no barrier to her heart and her
                  hand,—O, those were ideas too tormenting to be endured.
               "Why had she not crushed my tender sentiments in the bud? Why leave them to grow,
                  till they had absorbed in themselves my whole being? Indulgent Father, take the
                  drunkard's son to thyself! Earth has no place for him. Society casts him out as a
                  polluted thing. Wilt not thou, O Lord, take me up?"
               But words fall short of the reality. The record of aspiring minds, repressed and
                  crushed by a brutalized and degraded paternity, is known only to the Searcher of
                  all hearts. 
                     
                        "Go, weep as I have wept,
                        O'er a loved father's fall;
                        See every promised blessing swept,
                        Youth's sweetness turned to gall;
                        Life's fading flowers strewed all the way
                        That brought me up to manhood's day!"
                     
                  
               
               O, ye who tarry long at the wine, think, think of your children's agony over your
                  fall! Think of the shame in which you send them abroad into society!
               After Mr. Harcourt's feelings had subsided, he began to reflect on the letter
                  which Douglass had shown him. That it was his daughter's hand-writing he could not
                  doubt. The sentiments also seemed much the same as if her affections were
                  unchanged. What could he think?—that Sarah had deceived him, or Douglass? He
                  thought her incapable of either. Or was it the trick of some mischievous person?
                  If so, might not the same be true of his own letters from Wyoming? This idea was
                  too horrible to be thought of; Still, he was full of strange suspicions, and
                  therefore started, with all haste, for Wyoming. Judge of the wretched man's feelings, when, upon driving up to the
                  house of the Marmots, in a state of maddening excitement, eager to have his fears
                  disappointed, and his hopes realized, to find it an empty shell, with grass
                  covering the walks, swallows brooding in the chimneys, and all the signs of utter,
                  hopeless desolation! He ran to the neighbors, in a delirium of suspense, to learn
                  the fate of the family; and all the explanation he could obtain was that, a few
                  months previous, that house had been rented by an unknown family, who had
                  furnished it with great elegance, and then, without making the acquaintance of any
                  one in the neighborhood, had broken up, and gone to parts unknown. The fellow who
                  boxed the furniture said that it was labelled to a southern city,—Charleston or
                  New Orleans,—he could not remember which, though he believed the latter. Even the
                  name by which the strange family had been known was not the same which had been
                  given to Mr. Harcourt,—a circumstance which greatly increased his fears, and
                  confirmed his darkest forebodings.
               The poor man ran about for a few hours like a maniac, going again and again into
                  the vacant room which Sarah had occupied, calling her name in tones of plaintive
                  endearment, adding, "Gone, gone! O, O, forever gone! Fate, fate, cruel fate! why
                  did I bring her here? Why intrust her out of my sight? Whither, O whither, has she
                  fled? Fraud, violence, has done this! My darling Sarah could never, of her own
                  free will, have escaped her doting father! No, no! much as he deserved her hatred,
                  she would love him still! Sarah, Sarah, your father loves you, too,—yes, to
                  madness he loves you, though he has treated you thus! Forgive, O, forgive the
                  wrong!" Thus soliloquized the distracted father, in tones that resounded through
                  the vacant halls and rooms like those of a disturbed ghost, lost in a maze of
                  conflicting sensations, when a hornet, which had suspended its nest to the
                  ceiling, disturbed by his presence, stung him severely just below the eye. The
                  pain brought him to his recollection. He rushed out; and, while occupied in
                  mitigating the venom, reflection returned, and it occurred to him that the
                  Honorable Mr. Skampton was the only one who was really responsible to him for this
                  mysterious disappearance of his daughter. "Mr. Skampton first suggested the plan,
                  and recommended the Marmots as in the highest degree trustworthy. He is too great
                  and good a man to deceive me, and an explanation may be given which will satisfy
                  me that all has been done in good faith, to insure an object dearest to my
                  heart,—Sarah's release from her infatuation."
               Without a moment's rest, therefore, he set off for the residence of Mr. Skampton.
                  His anxiety of mind robbed him by the way of appetite for food, but not for drink.
                  His potations were deeper than ever, utterly disqualifying him for rational
                  action, under the trying circumstances in which he was placed. He was even too
                  abstracted, and too much beside himself with strong drink, to shave, change his
                  linen, or wash himself. Upon meeting Mr. Skampton in his library, therefore, he
                  was a sight to look upon. His locks had been suddenly bleached, through the
                  intensity of his emotions, and his eyes were protruding and wildly staring.
                  Skampton stood aghast when his visitor unceremoniously rushed into the room, and
                  could scarcely believe his own eyes, that this should be the gentlemanly Mr.
                  Harcourt whom he had known in his better days.
               "My daughter, sir! I come to demand my daughter!" said Harcourt, struggling to
                  repress his emotions, and appear calm.
               
               "Your daughter?" replied Skampton, coolly; "what of your daughter? Why do you ask
                  me? Am I her keeper?"
               "Yes, you are her keeper! You made yourself responsible for the good conduct of
                  those to whom I committed her."
               "I said, Mr. Harcourt, what I honestly thought,—what I had reason to think," said
                  Skampton, drawing down his face to more than its usual length; "and I have no
                  responsibility in the case, and I hope——"
               "You are a liar!" interrupted the nervous Harcourt, with an oath. "Did you not
                  instigate her separation from me? Did you not pledge me your honor that she should
                  be well treated? Did you not laud the Marmots to the skies? Did you not say she
                  would be as safe with them as in her own father's house? You knave!—you
                  hypocrite!" seizing him by the collar, with insane violence, and hurling him to
                  and fro. Skampton, pale with fear, said, soothingly, "My dear Mr. Harcourt, do
                  pacify yourself! Be not too hasty in condemning an innocent man. Pray, what has
                  happened? Was not your daughter well treated at the Marmots'?"
               "No; they have abducted her, and you know it, you scoundrel! They have taken her
                  to parts unknown, and you shall answer for it!" replied Harcourt, still clenching
                  him, and shaking him violently.
               "Stay, stay, my good friend," cried Skampton, beginning to fear that his end had
                  come, indeed.
               "I will not stay, you perjured villain! I'll let off the last drop of your life 's
                  blood, that I will!" said Harcourt, still more furious.
               "But, if you kill me, how can I find your daughter?" said Skampton, trembling in
                  every limb, and anxious to release himself from the perilous grasp of an insane
                  man.
               "I release you, then, for the sake of sweeter revenge," said Harcourt, letting
                  goof him. "I'll prosecute you at the law for conspiring against the liberty and
                  life of an innocent person; and, failing in my suit, I swear, by all the powers
                  above, I will shed the last drop of your blood!" he added, now first bethinking
                  that Skampton had exposed himself to this mode of redress. He started to execute
                  his threat.
               "Stay, Mr. Harcourt, for God's sake, stay!" entreated the terrified Skampton. "I
                  had reason to think the Marmots trustworthy."
               "What reason had you to think it? Have you known them? Have you personally assured
                  yourself that they are worthy to be trusted?" inquired Harcourt, anxious still to
                  find a clue to Sarah's hiding-place.
               "No, not personally. I never saw them but I had the best possible character of
                  them from that distinguished man, Samuel Gilfort, who assured me that they would
                  cure your daughter of her love affair."
               "Great God! is Gilfort your author? Gilfort the instigator of this plot!"
                  exclaimed Harcourt, in despair, understanding full well the knavery of that
                  fellow, and his evil designs upon his daughter.
               "He advised it," replied Skampton, meekly.
               The whole now glanced before the mind of Mr. Harcourt in a twinkling, that Sarah
                  had been decoyed from him by stratagem, and had been now three months in the power
                  of that arch deceiver. It was too much for his shattered reason. He reeled,
                  staggered, and fell senseless to the floor.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               ANOTHER TRAGEDY IN MAPLETON.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I looked upon the righteous man,
                           And all our earthly trust;
                           Its pleasure, vanity and pride,
                           Seemed lighter than the dust,
                           Compared with his eternal gain,
                           A home above the sky!"
                        
                     
                     —MRS. SIGOURNEY.
                  
               
               THERE was an inkling of truth in the surreptitious letter of Mr. Harcourt to
                  Sarah, in reference to a law-suit for the recovery of the Terracegreen estate, on
                  the pretext of a prior title. Such a suit had really been commenced, and Marldon
                  had gone to defend the rights of his client. In doing so, he visited Mapleton,
                  where he became familiarly acquainted with the senior Douglass. He had no
                  mistrust, however, that the wife of his new friend was the same who had been so
                  cavalierly treated in his presence, a few years previous. But Mrs. Douglass knew
                  him well, and did all in her power to keep her husband out of his society, though
                  to no purpose. He was now so totally broken down as to have as little power over
                  himself as his wife had over him. The reöpening of the Skampton groggery had
                  revived his former habits, and drunkenness had been a common thing with him. His
                  home was a scene of terror and desolation. Still, he spent his sober hours, as
                  usual, in looking after his farm.
               On a bright summer morning, he went into a distant field to watch over his
                  hay-making, where he was soon joined by Marldon, with the tempting bait of a
                  bottle of superior brandy. They sat down on the green grass in a shady place, and
                  began gan their maddening potations. Adjoining the field where they were, fifty
                  acres of heavy timbered land had been cut long enough before to become dry as
                  tinder. The heat was intense; and, in his sober moments, Mr. Douglass would have
                  deemed it an act of madness to fire the aggregated masses of brush, leaves, twigs
                  and logs, which were piled up on all hands over the burdened soil. But now the
                  idea popped into his excited, brain; and, with flaming torch in hand, he ran from
                  one end to the other of the windy side, touching with flame the combustible mass.
                  In a short time the whole was a sea of fire. The scene beggars description. A
                  burning city is nothing in comparison, because nature is more exuberant than art,
                  and all it growth is combustible; while that of art is, to a great
                  extent, impervious to the fire. Even the scarfskin covering of the earth, produced
                  by ages of vegetable decay, is food for flame. The exploding gases of the wood
                  made the welkin ring, as with the small arms of embattled legions. The mossy rind
                  of burning logs, twigs, leaves, chips, decayed trees, piles of brush studding the
                  ground like closely-compacted stacks of hay, and an infinite collection of
                  materials dry as tow, all vied with each other to increase the general
                  burning.
               Even the clouds suspended over the scene boiled like a caldron, and added their
                  reflected radiance like the arch of an oven, to give the heat accumulated force
                  and destructiveness. At first, the air was close, and the wind was too tardy to
                  ruffle the fiery deluge; but the heat was compact and condensed as in a furnace
                  over the burning fallow, cloud, vapor, smoke, flame, alike pent, struggling,
                  agonized, convolved, like fiends in the lurid fires of hell. The birds flew
                  through the burning air, chattering with fright, or, with sealed plumage, falling
                  into the fiercer heat below. The
                  quadrupeds, sheltered by the brush and logs, or burrowed in the ground, ran in
                  every direction, to cover themselves in the contiguous woods. But it was a vain
                  flight; for the wind had now set up a stiff breeze from the lake, to waft the
                  burning atmosphere into the leeward forest, which was soon seared, and prepared,
                  many acres around, to mingle in the general conflagration. The leafy surface of
                  the ground flamed up into the thicket of overhanging leaves and branches, now
                  prepared to feel the dissolving touch; insomuch that the whole vegetable growth,
                  to the distance of more than a hundred feet above, became an ocean of flame. The
                  scene was terribly grand, awfully sublime!
               The whole neighborhood was now in commotion, lest the fire should reach the
                  premises of Farmer Bloodgood. Voices were heard in all directions, crying, "To the
                  woods! to the woods! Bloodgood's premises! Bloodgood's premises!" All hands flew
                  to the woods, and, scraping a circumvallation bare of its leaves, they awaited the
                  raging enemy. He soon appeared, rejoicing as a strong man to run a race, spurning
                  their puny barrier, and making his way, with fearful strides, towards the point of
                  dreaded attack. Bloodgood was exasperated at the imprudence of his neighbor in
                  kindling such a fire in so dry a time, and swore vengeance on him, and the
                  alcoholic demon, which, he believed, had instigated the deed. But Marldon enjoyed
                  the fun with stoical indifference.
               A detachment of neighbors—men, women and children—hastened to the scene; some with
                  buckets of water, others with shovels, to smother the flame by means of earth,
                  while others still, with naked hands, fell to the work of removing fences, and
                  depositing the rails beyond the reach of danger. All was vain. Everything seemed
                  converted into powder, to catch flame from falling sparks j and the concave
                  heavens were like a heated furnace, to relax every muscle, to force sweat from the
                  steaming blood, to extract the sap of wood and the greenness of leaves, and even
                  to involve the standing grass, as well as the new-made hay, in the mighty burning!
                  Nothing could have saved Bloodgood but the timely fall of a shower, to quench the
                  fiery element.
               It was now three o'clock of the afternoon. The neighbors had left for home, all
                  except a few to stand sentinel against the enemy. Marldon, with his bottle and his
                  victim, had retired to a shady retreat, to complete the work of intoxication. A
                  partial quiet was restored, with an occasional outburst of fire, to keep the men
                  busy, when they heard the crash of a falling tree, accompanied by cries of agony.
                  They ran in the direction, and soon heard, from a thicket, a voice, saying, "O! O!
                  my God! how this body writhes in pain!" It was Mr. Littlefield, who, ever prompt
                  to guard his people against danger to the extent of his power, had joined his
                  efforts with others, to arrest the fire. Fatigued by exertion, he had crept into a
                  shady place, and fallen asleep; when a tree burnt at the root, where it was
                  partially decayed, fell, and would have instantly killed him, had not the
                  underbrush broken its force. The extent of his injury could only be conjectured by
                  the extremity of his agony.
               "O, my dear young friends!" he said to George and Samuel Douglass, who were the
                  first to reach him, "the day of my release is come! Life cannot long hold out
                  under what I endure."
               "Death finds you prepared, my dear pastor," said George.
               "I am ready, perfectly ready. I long for my rest. O! agony! agony!
                  agony!" said the suffering man.
               "Sammy, my brother," said George, "will you not go and call Mr. Holliston, while
                  we watch with Mr. Littlefield?"
               
               "Yes; but can we do nothing to relieve you before I go, Mr. Littlefield?" replied
                  Samuel, much affected by the spectacle.
               "No; you can do nothing, nor can Mr. Holliston; still, it would give me pleasure
                  to see him, and also my wife and children, before I die. Be so good as to call
                  them also."
               Samuel went, with all speed.
               "Let me hold your head, and press gently against your side," said one of the
                  neighbors, suiting his action to his words. "There; now don't you feel a little
                  easier?"
               "O, no, no! you are very kind, but it is all in vain. My summons has come, and I
                  must go."
               It was not long before Samuel returned, accompanied by Mr. Holliston, Mrs.
                  Littlefield, and her three children. Mr. Holliston bled him, but it gave him no
                  relief. His chest was broken in on one side, and there was evidently internal
                  bleeding. He grew deadly pale, and felt a faintness which seemed the precursor of
                  speedy dissolution.
               "Just in time, just in time, my poor Mary, to see your poor husband die!" he said,
                  as his wife approached him.
               "No, no,—it cannot be!" exclaimed Mrs. Littlefield, sobbing convulsively.
               "Yes, it must. God so orders. Have I not told you, Mary, that I should go soon?
                  and why should you weep? Are you not willing that I should go home? Have we not
                  often communed of that sweet home? Have we not talked of the bliss we should there
                  enjoy, when our troubles are all over, and our tears are all dried?"
               Mrs. Littlefield, having given vent to the first impulse of woe, now reclined in
                  silence over him, while the warm tears that fell upon his bosom touchingly bespoke
                  the depth of her grief. Overcome by her emotions, she fell into a swoon, from
                  which she was long in being recovered. Meantime, the children set up a doleful
                  cry, saying,
               "O, papa, do not leave us! do not leave us! It will kill mamma! Dear, dear papa I
                  will you leave us?" while they sobbed as if they would break their hearts.
               "My dearest children, I will not leave you unless God bids me. You know how good
                  God is. He would not bid me come to him unless he meant in some other way to take
                  care of you. Are you not willing I should go, when God calls me?"
               "O, no! no! no! dear, dear papa! what will become of us when you are dead?"
                  exclaimed the little ones, with a fresh outburst of agony.
               "God will take care of you, my precious children," said the dying father, with
                  emotions too big for utterance, his lips quivering, his tears gushing up from
                  their deepest fountains; and, for a moment, he seemed unmanned. Indeed, the whole
                  company felt the scene to be too affecting for them to endure. They would have
                  carried him home; but they saw that he was too far gone to admit of it. Samuel
                  Douglass did make an effort to raise him gently in his arms, to try the effect;
                  but it gave him so much pain that he was compelled to desist. None showed such a
                  tender, active interest for the dying pastor, and his sufferings, as this young
                  man. Well he might; for he had become hopefully pious through his instrumentality,
                  and an ornament of the church over which he presided.
               Recovered, at length, from her swoon, Mrs. Littlefield opened her eyes, and turned
                  them upon her husband, with a look of sweet submission, by which he saw that her
                  agony had passed, and her faith had subdued her misgivings.
               "Now, my Mary," he said, wiping his own eyes dry, "you are yourself again. How much we have prayed
                  that we may honor God in our death! Can we doubt that he will hear us? Come to my
                  side, my adored wife! Let me leave with you my dying advice."
               She took her seat by him, saying, "Speak, my precious husband! All you wish shall
                  be done."
               "In reference to yourself, Mary, my highest wish is, that you maintain your
                  freedom in Christ. Be not again entangled in the yoke of bondage! Remember your
                  husband's experience in this respect; which—blessed be God!—is my preparation for
                  this season of trial. I know that my Redeemer liveth! I
                     know that if this earthly house of my tabernacle were dissolved, I
                  have a building of God, eternal in the heavens! The fear of death cannot bring me
                  into bondage!"
               "My dear husband," she said, gently kissing his forehead, "have you all the
                  confidence, at this dreadful moment, that you anticipated? Are you unmoved by
                  these trying circumstances of your death?"
               "Yes, unmoved. The moment consciousness returned, after receiving my death-wound,
                  I found my heart exulting in God. From that time, O, how near Jesus seems! I
                  repose in his arms! Never before had I such a sense of his presence! Though I walk
                  through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil! I have neither
                  doubt nor misgiving! Heaven is before me! Its portals are open! The beams of
                  glory, shining through, fall direct on my soul! There is society, there is love,
                  there is friendship; there 'the saints of all ages in harmony meet.' I feel
                  already its peace and its joy! Be this your consolation: you have shared my
                  bosom's history. You know what glory God poured upon me twelve years ago,—glory
                  not to be expressed or comprehended! You know our poverty; what disappointments
                  came over our worldly prospects, and what trials we have endured! But, amid all, a
                  sweet stream of heavenly consolation has flowed into my heart. Sorrow was a
                  necessary ballast to a bark so wafted by heavenly gales. I have no words of
                  complaint, but all of gratitude, all of praise! The fulness of love is more than
                  an offset for all possible suffering. You, my dear wife, have shared my sufferings
                  and my joys. My dying prayer and request is, that you maintain the beginning of
                  your confidence steadfast unto the end. Do your utmost, also, to transmit the same
                  inheritance to our children,—yea, to all mankind. Then I know we shall soon meet
                  again."
               After this long speech, he became convulsed, his mind wandered, and, for a few
                  moments, the struggle seemed to be over with him forever. But he revived, and
                  began to exclaim, in feeble accents,
               "Love!—infinite love!—O, what a theme to occupy our eternity! Heaven opens! I
                  stand within its confines! Its bliss floods my soul! Its beams irradiate the dark
                  valley! Blessed Jesus! come! come! O, come quickly, and take me to thyself!"
               None present were so placid as himself and the living image of his piety,—his
                  wife. They both seemed literally to stand in the open gate of glory. Her piety was
                  but the engrafting of his own. She had caught the serene life of his faith, and
                  quiet communion with God.
               "If you have a word more, speak," said Mr. Holliston, with his finger on his
                  pulse; "for you have but a moment."
               Mrs. Littlefield now calmly seated herself under his head and shoulders, putting
                  her arms under his, and clasping his chest, as if anxious that he should die in
                  her arms. The children kneeled on
                  either side of their dying father. He seemed to want them near his person.
               "Yes; a word more to you, my tender babes," he said, alluding to Mr. Holliston's
                  remark. "James, my darling boy, you are the oldest, and I expect you to be a great
                  comfort to your mother. Be obedient to her in all things. Exert yourself to keep
                  our little family together on the homestead. Assist your mother in the family
                  devotions. Watch over your brother and sweet little sister;" the tears again
                  trembling in his eye, at the mention of his little daughter, the youngest.
               "I will, dear papa!" sobbed James.
               Then, turning to William, the youngest son,—a fine, ruddy boy,—he said, taking him
                  affectionately in his arms,
               "William, you must be kind to your mother."
               "O, dear, dear papa!" cried the child, "I want to die with you! I
                     must die with you! I MUST go to heaven when you do, my dear, dear
                  papa!"
               "My precious son," said the dying man, greatly moved by this outburst of childish
                  feeling, "you have God for your father, and you must be willing to live for his
                  sake. You must read your Bible, and love your blessed Saviour; and then you will
                  soon be with papa in heaven."
               "I want to die now, I must die now! I can't live any
                  longer, when papa is gone!" sobbed the child, almost frantic with grief.
               "Dear, dear William! you must do as God wills, not as you will. He wills to have
                  you live, to do good, I hope. Never forget what your dying papa said to you, that
                  you must be good and love God." He then kissed him affectionately, and bade him
                  adieu.
               Then followed the embrace of little Mary, the most touching ing scene of all. He
                  folded her in his arms, pressed her to his heart, and said, lifting his sightless
                  eyes towards heaven, "God of love, this child I leave in thy keeping. O, preserve
                  her from the destroyer!"
               From kissing his daughter, he turned to leave this pledge of love on the lips of
                  his wife, when, with that kiss, he breathed out his life, and his spirit was with
                  God.
               Mrs. Douglass, who had by this time reached the scene of conflict and of triumph,
                  insisted that the body should be taken to her house for the night, as the sun was
                  already near setting, and Mrs. Littlefield's residence was more distant. This
                  invitation was accepted, and the dead man, with his living family, reached the
                  house just before dark. O, what a scene! What a day of alcoholic doings! The
                  monster had already done enough, one would suppose, in the death of the pastor and
                  in the destructive conflagration, to satisfy his rapacious demands of blood and
                  ruin. What Moloch ever asked more? Alas! no; the work had just begun. Calamities
                  do not come alone, especially those which arise from so prolific a cause. There is
                  no end, no limit, to the woes which this demon of darkness pours out upon society.
                  Were they less, we might relax our demands for an instant discharge of his
                  maddening poisons into the teeming gutters.
               The dead body of the pastor had scarcely been decently composed to rest in the
                  parlor, before Mrs. Douglass, having occasion to step to the door, was met by her
                  husband, with an ironwood lever in his hands. He came stalking towards her, drawn
                  up seemingly a foot above his ordinary height, scarcely touching the ground in his
                  wild consciousness of power, with the fire and fury of alcoholic madness flaming
                  in his eye; and, before she could get out of his way, he struck at her head a
                  furious blow, which just grazed her, tearing out a large tuft of hair and cleaving off a portion of
                  the scalp with it, so that the blood trickled down on her shoulder.
               Samuel, hearing her scream, ran to the door, and, unfortunately, was so occupied
                  with his mother's bleeding head, that he seemed not for the moment conscious of
                  the dangerous weapon in his father's hands, and hence received from it a furious
                  blow on the head, which felled him to the earth, dead on the spot. The laboring
                  men and neighbors who were in the house now rushed out, when they, too, were met
                  by the blows of the insane Douglass, which, however, they warded off, and, after a
                  powerful struggle, succeeded in overcoming and confining him in a strait-jacket,
                  which was always kept in readiness for the purpose. Such a scene as ensued no pen
                  can describe. The yells of the alcoholic maniac reëchoed from the contiguous
                  forest, and resounded afar over the now placid surface of the lake. The screams of
                  a sorrowing family over a dead son and brother, the yet unstifled sobs of the
                  Littlefields around another victim, now heightened by this new calamity, the
                  running and tumult of neighbors, and the bleeding but still noble form of Mrs.
                  Douglass, who stood sublimely firm and placid under a sorrow already a hundred
                  times endured in anticipation,—these, these were the dark lines of a picture of
                  which rum's doings in all our large cities are but a counterpart. This good woman
                  felt that she had done all to protect her family that could be done, under the
                  present laws of her state. She had watched over her husband; she had done what she
                  could to keep him from the licensed hells; her life had been an incessant vigil
                  against the gins and traps which legislation had strewn in her path; she had
                  entreated and besought the representatives of law not to deal out the poison to
                  her husband; she had guarded him against those who make a business of holding the
                  cup to their neighbors' lips; she had watched over her family, by night and day;
                  she had commended them to God in her prayers; and now that one had fallen, and but
                  one, after so many years of deadly peril, seemed to her an event to provoke
                  gratitude with her grief, under the circumstances. There was a moral sublimity in
                  the virtues which she now evinced. She soothed her mourning family, spoke of the
                  easy passage their dear Sammy had had to his home above, how much less he had
                  suffered than their beloved pastor, and how much occasion they had for gratitude
                  that things were no worse.
               But the grief of poor Douglass, upon learning the facts, was undefined, unknown,
                  boundless,—utterly beggaring descriptive pen or pencil. It had no alleviations.
                  His nature gave way under it, especially as law now came in, with its penalties,
                  to punish what it had taken no pains to prevent. He was remanded to prison, to be
                  tried as a felon, where grief, mortification and confinement, threw him into a
                  consumption, to release him from a state of society in which he was manifestly
                  unfitted to live. O law! law! how long ere thou wilt cease from thy bloody work,
                  of first instigating crime, and then hanging the criminal?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               A LEAP FROM THE SUBLIME TO THE RIDICULOUS.
               
                  
                     
                        "These are the works of our God, whereby he would admonish the tyrants of
                           this earth that in the end he will be revenged of their cruelty, what
                           strength soever they make in the contrary."
                     
                     —JOHN KNOX.
                  
               
               THE events of this chapter are nearly simultaneous with those of the former, so
                  that Charles Douglass had left the country before he learned the calamity which
                  had befallen his Mapleton friends.
               We ought, ere this, to have apprized the reader that De Lisle was, besides
                  Skampton, the only confidant of the secret step which had been taken with Sarah.
                  Of Mr. Harcourt's motive, in intrusting the matter to him, there can be no doubt.
                  Suffice it to say, he wholly mistook the character and views of that gentleman;
                  for, though decorum forbade his interfering in the matter, he looked upon it with
                  regret and alarm. He had too high an opinion of Miss Harcourt's discretion to
                  believe any such a measure necessary, and too much confidence in her firmness to
                  suppose it would have the least effect to change her heart's affections. That such
                  a person as he deemed her—so discriminating, so pure, so superior to time-serving
                  and sinister interests—should honor a young gentleman with her heart, was of
                  itself sufficient to give him an exalted estimate of his character. Hence, he was
                  not a little curious to make the acquaintance of Douglass, notwithstanding the
                  dubious and dishonorable representations of him which he had received from the
                  father of Sarah.
               "Happy, thrice happy man, to have the keeping of a heart so beautiful, so noble in
                  its sentiments!" he would say to himself; and, when he learned from Mr. Harcourt
                  Sarah's change of feeling, he could hardly credit it. He believed her incapable of
                  so sudden a transition, in a matter so delicate, so sacred. "Miss Harcourt," said
                  he, "is not the lady to love so hastily, so injudiciously, as to recall to-morrow
                  the commitment which she had made of herself yesterday." So great was his interest
                  in her character, and so much did he feel the want of her guidance in his
                  conscious spiritual blindness, that a dubious and painful uncertainty oppressed
                  him as to his own condition and the issue of events.
               After Charles Douglass' night of anguish under the shady copse of Mr. Harcourt's
                  grounds, he arose and wandered he knew not whither. Though in the midst of living
                  multitudes, they were no more to him than wilderness trees. He was absorbed in his
                  own intense feelings. Gloom and desolateness more total he could not have felt in
                  the heart of a desert. Walking to and fro, he made bold to inquire of such persons
                  as seemed most accessible whether they knew the Harcourt family, in hopes still of
                  eliciting information as to the place of Sarah's concealment. It was some
                  alleviation to be amid scenes familiar to her, and even to pronounce her name to
                  those with whom he met. At length, he fell in with a family whose poverty had
                  commended them to her care, whom she had visited in sickness and distress, and who
                  recollected her as their angelic benefactress.
               "O, we were happy when that sweet lady was here," said the good woman. "But, since
                  she is gone, no one feels for us. My man has had a fever. Mary is in decline, poor
                  girl! And we lack the bread for our table. O, that God would send us that sweet
                  angel again, to sympathize in our sorrows! This, sir, is a cold, cold world!" added the poor
                  woman, beginning to weep.
               "Where has Miss Harcourt gone, that you see her no more?" inquired Douglass.
               "We cannot tell," said the woman, still weeping; "but they say as how she has a
                  lover here that can."
               "A lover!" exclaimed Douglass, with bitter feeling. "Pray what is his name?"
               "It is the great, rich Mr. De Lisle, what comes to the minister's house."
               "What minister?"
               "The king's minister, please your honor."
               "Where does the king's minister live?"
               "Yonder, in that great house among the trees," said the woman, pointing to the
                  home of Julia.
               "And does Mr. Harcourt desire his daughter to marry the man of whom you speak?"
                  said Charles, with a foolish but very natural curiosity to elicit the gossip of
                  the neighborhood.
               "Yes, they say as how he wants it very, very much, but our sweet lady will not
                  have him. And that's what for she is gone off. O! O! when will the dear one come
                  back again?"
               This story of Sarah's declining the attentions of De Lisle, though a pure fiction,
                  touched a congenial cord in Douglass' heart; and, giving the woman money, he took
                  his departure.
               He now called on De Lisle, hoping still to obtain the information he so much
                  desired, and to assure himself of the extent of Sarah's own agency in her
                  mysterious concealment. The consequence was a free and familiar conversation
                  between the two gentlemen. Douglass expatiated on the character of Mr. Skampton,
                  and expressed the conviction that he was at the bottom of what had happened.
               "Very likely," said De Lisle. "I remember to have met the gentleman of whom you
                  speak at Mr. Harcourt's, and I confess things have since appeared there different
                  from what they were before."
               "No doubt; he came for no other object but to traduce me in the family. Miss
                  Harcourt was much perplexed on the subject, and particularly at the subsequent
                  effect upon her father."
               "I have observed that he has appeared very moody of late."
               "And yet, if he has deceived his daughter," said Douglass, "he must be the dupe of
                  some one else; for I have lately received a letter from Miss Harcourt, dated and
                  post-marked in this place, about which he is as much perplexed as I am. And now,
                  sir, for her sake, as well as my own, if you have any light on this subject, I
                  trust you will not withhold it."
               "For her sake I would willingly give it, if I were not under pledges
                  of honor which make it impossible."
               "I cannot ask you to violate your pledges, sir," said Douglass.
               "Providence will direct in this matter," said De Lisle. "If you occupy the place
                  in Miss Harcourt's affections which I have reason to suppose, Mr. Douglass, you
                  ought to be a man of faith in Providence. You would hardly be entitled to your
                  good fortune without it, and I much doubt whether you could appreciate your
                  treasure, if you had her."
               "It is true," replied Douglass, inwardly rebuking his own criminal distrust of
                  Providence.
               "I deem you a man to be envied, even in your present dismay. To have such a heart
                  is in itself the greatest of treasures, and the surest pledge of Heaven's gracious
                     guardianship ianship over you. Think
                  you Miss Harcourt's prayers will avail nothing?"
               "Alas! sir, the agony of my loss equals the value of the treasure," replied
                  Douglass, with feelings little prepared to respond to this just reasoning. How
                  hard it is to make the heart coincide with the clearest convictions of the
                  understanding!
               "Hope, Mr. Douglass, hope; faith, faith. Is it possible Miss Harcourt's particular
                  friend has not acquired these virtues?"
               "If you knew the man, sir, who has taken it upon himself to ruin me, you would
                  better understand the difficulty of faith's work in my case."
               "This Skampton must be a masterpiece in his line," replied De Lisle. "Is he a
                  cold-blooded villain?"
               "O no; the most conscientious man in the world. But a man conscientiously wicked
                  is more to be dreaded than one who is so against his conscience."
               "That is very true," replied De Lisle. "I would help you, Mr. Douglass, if I
                  could. I cannot forfeit my word, to defeat even a conscientious mischief-maker. I
                  sincerely hope the issue may be favorable to the happiness of all concerned, and I
                  will do all I can in honor to make it so. Further than this I cannot speak."
               Douglass' depression of spirits increased more and more, daily, till he was
                  disqualified for availing himself of the means for gaining his object which were
                  within his reach. The condition of his own family, and the apprehensions which
                  haunted him in reference to his father's alcoholic madness, made it impossible for
                  him to bear up against this new assault upon his peace. He had not yet heard of
                  the dreadful catastrophe; but there was enough besides to overwhelm him, and, in a
                  fit of desperation, he abruptly embarked for England. To this he was impelled by
                  the vain hope of diverting his feelings from their fixed channel, and of casting
                  an oblivion upon the past. But, "what exile from himself can flee?" Who can escape
                  "the demon thought"? Can a change of place make an existence endurable which we
                  cannot enjoy? The confusion of a mind, which had lost the power to rally and
                  concentrate its own energies, had more to do with his conduct, at that period,
                  than those impulses which are capable of being analyzed and reduced to the
                  consistency of an intelligent motive. The image of Sarah had so long filled his
                  mind, that its removal disturbed the whole internal machinery, insomuch that the
                  sense to see the objects imprinted upon the eye, to hear sounds that assailed the
                  ear, or to heed the sensible scene around him, however imposing or magnificent,
                  was gone. His foreign travels were little better than a blank, for lack of a place
                  to assign them in his mind.
               From the information imparted by Douglass, De Lisle became more and more satisfied
                  of foul play somewhere. He strongly suspected that Mr. Harcourt was the dupe of
                  Skampton, whose character he utterly detested. He saw that Douglass, though a
                  crushed spirit, was replete with generous and noble impulses, that his views of
                  men and things were liberal and enlarged, and he believed him to be the victim of
                  impertinence and cruelty. Hence, he went directly to Mr. Harcourt's, where he
                  learned that that gentleman had left, a day or two previous, without letting a
                  member of the family know where he was going, or when he would return. He found
                  John, the old and tried servant, in doubt and consternation about the fate of his
                  young mistress, whom he loved as he did his own soul. John expressed himself
                  confident that Jim, who had more recently come into the family, was in possession
                  of facts that would unravel the whole mystery. He said Jim was often giving hints that their young
                  mistress would not return the smiling girl she was when she left home; that, if
                  she got back at all, she might think herself well off; that, if she would only
                  submit to the great one who had her in charge, she might become a mighty queen
                  yet, and much more to the same effect.
               Upon being questioned on the subject, however, Jim protested that he was merely
                  joking, and that he knew nothing. But this did not satisfy De Lisle, who saw, from
                  his sinister appearance, what kind of arguments would be likely to have most
                  weight with him, and therefore exposed to view a purse of gold, saying: "The
                  honest truth on this subject, Jim, will be worth to me all that, and more. If you
                  can give it, now is the time to benefit yourself."
               Jim felt the attraction more strongly than anything Gilfort had ever offered,
                  inasmuch as the sum was greater. Without hesitation, therefore, he answered, "I
                  cannot longer conceal the truth. My conscience won't let me. My feeling for this
                  family, which is very kind, won't let me."
               "Well, Jim, who is the principal actor in Miss Harcourt's removal."
               "It is the great land-owner, what's called the prophet."
               "What is his name?"
               "It is Gilfort. He has a mighty colony in the West, where they do all he says. O,
                  he has heaps of money!"
               "But what does Gilfort want of Miss Harcourt?" said De Lisle, who now recollected
                  to have heard of his impostures and great doings in the far West.
               "He wants her among his wives," replied Jim.
               "Among his wives!" exclaimed De Lisle, with a shudder; "pray, how many wives has
                  he?"
               "That's telling," said Jim. "I never counted them. He believes it's revealed to
                  him from heaven to take all that pleases him. But he has no queen, and I guess
                  Miss Harcourt will be his queen."
               "Is it possible?" said De Lisle, with blank astonishment. "Has Miss Harcourt—the
                  pure, the pious, and the good—been three months in such hands? Pray, Jim, do you
                  know the Marmots, of Wyoming?"
               "Yes, sir,—well. Mrs. Marmot is one of the great man's wives. I have attended them
                  in many of their—what'll you call it?—interviews."
               "Jim, you shock me! Where was her husband?"
               "O, he's as deep in't as any of them. He, too, believes it's revealed to do so. He
                  'd lay down his head, and have it cut off, for the great man."
               "Gracious Heaven! is such the family to which this innocent girl has been
                  betrayed? Jim, you must go with me, this day, to Wyoming, to certify these facts,
                  and assist in recovering your mistress."
               "No cause of alarm, sir," said Jim. "She 'll be a great lady, anyway. And,
                  besides, they are not in Wyoming."
               "Where are they?" inquired De Lisle, still more alarmed.
               "To the far West, I s'pose."
               "What! do you affirm, Jim, that Gilfort has taken Miss Harcourt to parts unknown,
                  to make her his wife, or concubine, whichever you please?"
               "I do; and, for a consideration, I'll make oath of the same."
               "I offer you nothing for your oaths," answered De Lisle, fearing to invalidate his
                  testimony. "I simply inquire for my own gratification, and will do as I promised.
                  How do you know what you affirm?"
               "How should I not know it, when I have been for years at service round the person of the great man, and
                  have caught it all from his lips, on various occasions? It is but six months since
                  I offered myself to this family, by his command."
               "Then you have been his spy? Was it you that lately mailed a letter from this
                  place to Mr. Douglass?"
               "The very same. A body must have a living, you know. I am a poor one, and has to
                  do the best I can. But I repent the part I have acted," added Jim, who, in truth,
                  had experienced a gradual decline of the mesmerism of Gilfort's influence, or he
                  would never have given the hints that led to these disclosures.
               "Where did you get that letter, Jim?"
               "It came from the great man, sir, enclosed in one to me."
               "Who are joined with Gilfort in this conspiracy? Do you know of any?"
               "Yes,—all his servants."
               "None in these parts?"
               "None that I know of, except a rich man in Riverton. I drove the great man's
                  carriage to his house, last winter, and, it being cold, I occupied the hall, out
                  of which there was an open door to a room where the two consulted the matter, and
                  arranged the whole plan." Here he detailed as much of the conversation as he could
                  recollect, with this difference,—that he left De Lisle to suppose that Skampton
                  was in the secret of Gilfort's designs; and it is probable that Jim thought so
                  himself. The story so coincided with what he knew of Skampton's visit to the
                  Harcourts, that he did not doubt its truth.
               "Jim, do you know any other witnesses of these facts?"
               "Yes; of the fact that it was the design of Gilfort to make Miss Harcourt his wife
                  I have many witnesses."
               De Lisle saw at once that his only course for the recovery of Miss Harcourt was to
                  take out a writ for conspiracy against both Skampton and Gilfort. He therefore
                  gave several hours to further investigations, and, having thoroughly prepared
                  himself, he set off, in company with an officer, to take Skampton into custody,
                  the only one named in the indictment whose location was certainly known. A
                  gracious Providence seemed to have directed his steps, for they reached Skampton's
                  mansion on the very day of Mr. Harcourt's arrival, and a short time after he had
                  fallen into a state of insensibility. They learned at a neighboring inn that a
                  stranger had just fallen into a fit at Mr. Skampton's; that physicians had been in
                  attendance, and had partially recovered him, though his reason seemed hopelessly
                  gone. Mr. De Lisle, meeting with the principal physician at the inn, inquired of
                  him who this stranger was.
               "A Mr. Harcourt, from New York, I think, sir," said the physician.
               "What is the cause of this attack?" inquired De Lisle, without intimating any
                  knowledge of the stranger.
               "Mental anxiety, I think, aggravated by a too free use of the bottle. I should
                  judge that he has a daughter, to whom some misfortune has happened; for, in his
                  ravings, he is continually alluding to her, with the most terrific and agonized
                  expressions."
               "Could not Mr. Skampton inform you whether the man had a daughter in trouble or
                  not?"
               "No; the honorable gentleman says he has a daughter, but he knows of no misfortune
                  ever happening to her. He thinks it a mere freak of the man's brain."
               "What is the character of this Mr. Skampton?" inquired De Lisle, anxious to learn
                  his standing in his own town.
               "He is a great patron, and as good as he is great. Our town owes more to him than to all the other men in
                  it. He makes it a central point of learning and influence. He is the conservator
                  of the renowned past, and a mighty opponent of our mad innovations, Without him, I
                  am sure I should lose half my business."
               "Humph! to be sure; I see," said De Lisle, lost in his own thoughts. "Then this
                  honorable gentleman knows of no misfortune to the daughter of the insane man?"
               "None; this he affirmed over and over again."
               "Where does he live?"
               The physician here gave the direction to the gate, with the porter, and admonitory
                  bell, the ravine and its carriage-way, the terrace and its magnificent array of
                  buildings, overlooked by the observatory, which we have before described as
                  combining in the distinguished man's seat of opulence and of power. De Lisle set
                  off immediately, leaving the sheriff behind, that he might explore the ground
                  before revealing the nature of his business. When he reached the mansion, he found
                  poor Harcourt raving mad, crying, "Sarah! Sarah! Sarah!" as loud as he could
                  scream. "Come to me, dear, precious daughter! Hands off!—thieves, villains,
                  seducers cut-throats!—touch her, and I'll be the death of you!" De Lisle tried to
                  command his attention, but to no purpose. He continued to rave, in the most
                  piteous manner, over his darling daughter. Turning to Skampton, who did not
                  recognize his visitor, having seen him but a moment the previous winter, De Lisle
                  said,
               "Can you give no information concerning this man's daughter?"
               "I—I—I give information? how should I be able to give information? I know nothing
                  of her," said Skampton, in a flurried and agitated manner, from a vague idea that
                  it might be somebody that had a right to demand. A guilty conscience needs no
                  accusers.
               "Sir, in the name of humanity I demand the place of Miss Harcourt's concealment!"
                  said De Lisle, with an imperious air, which he knew full well how to assume.
               "Miss Harcourt's concealment! is Miss Harcourt concealed?" replied Skampton,
                  perfectly thunder-struck. "How should I know the place of her concealment?"
               "Think not to put me off in this way," said De Lisle, in a decisive tone. "Restore
                  her to her father, or answer it at the tribunal of your country. It can be proved,
                  by competent witnesses, that you contrived and instigated this
                  nefarious plot for the ruin of an innocent and accomplished young lady.
                     You made this miserable father believe that the ruin of his
                  daughter was certain, if he did not remove her. You suggested Wyoming
                  as the place of her concealment. You contrived the plan to decoy her
                  thither. You made yourself responsible for the good conduct of the
                  Marmots, whom you knew to be as black in character as infamy could make them.
                     You, to accomplish your dark purposes of conspiracy and seduction,
                  have coolly, deliberately, and under the cloak of religion and duty, conspired
                  against the peace and virtue of an unsuspecting family. Sir, we can have no
                  quibbles here! Nothing but the restoration—untouched, unharmed—of this abused and
                  insulted young lady can divert from your hoary head the gathering storm. Sir, I
                  demand the place of her concealment!"
               "O, God! witness to my innocence!" said Skampton, trembling in every fibre.
               "Talk not of innocence, you perjured hypocrite! Look upon this wreck which your
                  infamous stratagem has made of a doting father and a distinguished citizen! Call
                  not that innocence which has robbed him
                  of the choicest jewel of a father's heart, which has bleached his locks more than
                  the frosts of fifty winters, and has broken up the happiest of family unions!"
               "I do protest I have acted in good faith. I know no more of Miss Harcourt's
                  concealment than you do. It was at the suggestion of another that I advised her
                  removal to Wyoming, and I did it because I thought it a service to the
                  family."
               "Yes; you did it because you wished to aid your accomplice in his work of
                  seduction. To convince you that I have the facts in the case, I now assure you
                  that both this infamous Gilfort and yourself are under indictment for conspiring
                  against the liberty and virtue of an unsuspecting victim; and I swear, by the God
                  whose our breath is, that, while a drop of blood beats in my veins, neither of you
                  shall go unwhipped of justice!"
               "What! my worthy friend, Samuel Gilfort?" gasped Skampton, almost suffocated with
                  terror and amazement.
               "A devil incarnate! There is nothing too bad for your friend to do. Where is the
                  wretch?" said De Lisle, with vehemence.
               "Sir, you abuse a worthy man. He is in the West, aiding the cause of the poor
                  colonists."
               "He is teaching somebody to serve the devil, as he taught you."
               "Do you mean to insult me?" said Skampton, who was taken with a sudden fit of
                  personal dignity.
               "It is useless to parley," replied De Lisle; "the law makes you responsible, and I
                  will hold you to it. I shall find means of bringing you to your senses."
               De Lisle went out, and soon returned, with the sheriff, who placed the great
                  conservator under arrest; and from that moment all his courage, magnanimity and
                  distinguished qualities, forsook him, and he sunk into his native littleness. The
                  report flew like wildfire, that the renowned Mr. Skampton was under arrest for
                  conspiring to rob a young lady of her freedom and her virtue,—beautiful, too, she
                  was said to be, and that her father had gone mad with grief and mortification.
                  Dark surmises lingered in men's minds, and the thousand-and-one hangers on, whom,
                  in his better days, he would not put among the dogs of his flock, were now forward
                  to charge upon him the most flagrant misdemeanors. All protested that they had for
                  years been expecting his fall. The flatterers, whose poisoned words had inflamed
                  his vanity and converted him from a little to a great man, and had thus
                  contributed to his downfall, were the first to declare that they never had any
                  opinion of his abilities or his virtues. Saphead said he never had any opinion of
                  him, and now went through the country to pull down Skampton and prop up the
                  anti-temperance movement. He feared both might perish together. The proof against
                  Skampton was so conclusive that the court laid him under heavy bonds for his
                  appearance at his trial. But by this time Skampton's creditors got wind of how
                  things were going with him, and pounced upon what he had, to secure their debts.
                  He was found to be immensely extended; and, at a forced sale, it was feared that
                  his estate would not pay fifty cents on a dollar. All he had was put under
                  attachment.
               Unable to secure himself, he now applied to his friends; but, sad to relate, with
                  all his enormous purchases of influence and friendship, he found himself as
                  completely bankrupt here as in money. Not a man came to his relief,—no, not one.
                  Diddington College passed a resolve rescinding his doctorate torate of laws, because its friends thought it
                  would injure their institution to have the name of such a man on its lists. Dr.
                  Treadmill, who had by this time married rich, and was one of the most opulent men
                  in the country, was waited on by Mrs. Skampton, and entreated, with tears in her
                  eyes, that he would go security to save her husband from prison. Treadmill
                  trembled, fluttered, rubbed his hands, snapped his eyes, had a sudden fit of
                  palpitation, and, to his great grief, was compelled to decline the honor. Nothing
                  but imprisonment was left to the afflicted, fallen Skampton, and to prison he
                  went.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               A DIVINE RIGHT TO DO WRONG.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "But then I sigh, and, with a piece of scripture,
                           Tell them that God bids us do good for evil;
                           And thus I clothe my naked villany
                           With old odd ends, stolen forth of Holy Writ."
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               TENDER thoughts cluster round that home where the daughter is merged in the wife.
                  The light-hearted girl goes out to return only as visitor and mistress of another
                  domestic polity. Unbidden tears testify to the pangs of separation, even though
                  all are agreeable and consenting. The departing one turns away her face to weep
                  over her buried girlhood, and the sundered ties of her youthful home. "I am to
                  repose no more in the paternal arms. I am a girl no longer. A new and untried path
                  is before me. Indulgent Providence, guide my inexperience, instruct my ignorance,
                  bless the dear ones whom I leave behind," she says, and smiles through her tears
                  on the happy possessor of her heart and her hand.
               "Dear daughter, you will write, will you not? Write soon, darling, very soon."
               "Dear sister, come back,—do, do! We shall be so lonesome! Remember how much we all
                  love you."
               "O, yes; I will always be a daughter, a sister. You will all be to me what you
                  have been, and more. Yes, you too must write. You must come and see me. O, how
                  glad it will make me! The very dog from my girlhood's home will be welcome."
               This is nature. The fruit, with a shock, leaves its parent stem,—the young, by
                  constraint, its dam. But, if such be the feeling where all is favorable, how much
                  more painful where all is adverse! The father saying, with bitter feelings, "My
                  child is ruined! I did what I could to save her, but all in vain!" The mother,
                  weeping in secret over the lost image of herself, beseeches her God to protect and
                  restore the wanderer. Brothers and sisters, in sad discourse about the dreadful
                  calamity which has befallen them, find no hope, no consolation.
               These are touching scenes, but less aggravating than in the case of Miss Harcourt.
                  She was led by parental hands into the jaws of the destroyer, like children into
                  the burning furnace of Moloch. Better give her to the flames than to a
                     religious debauchee. Strange combination of words, yet true in all
                  time,—our own as well, if we are allowed to apply the term religion to such
                  shocking perversions. Society has its wild beasts, harpies, argus-eyed monsters,
                  many-headed dragons,—men lurking in secret to ensnare and destroy, who are far
                  more to be dreaded than those fabulous animals on which ancient prowess expended
                  its force. Such men subsist upon the
                  ruin of families, crushed spirits, blighted hopes, parental despair, and household
                  degradation. O, God! where sleeps thy thunder, that it falls not on these
                  despoilers of thy fair creation? It was the alcoholic sorceress that had done the
                  deed. She had bewitched Gilfort by hereditary influence and actual possession. She
                  had turned Skampton's conservative brain towards the protection of her own
                  nefarious traffic. She had placed Charles Douglass under the ban of a drunkard's
                  son. She had corrupted the heart and perverted the reason of Harcourt. No effect
                  was ever more plainly traceable to its cause, than all these evils are to that
                  bane of virtue, health, character, property, domestic peace, and national
                  prosperity—alcohol.
               Sarah Harcourt was now the victim of this embodied sorceress. Gilfort was
                  infinitely worse than an ordinary seducer. He had deluded himself, and his victims
                  too, into the horrible feeling that religion lent them its sanction. Had Sarah
                  known her condition, how easy would have been her escape! But she was in
                  ignorance, her father deceived, and even Skampton himself was unconsciously acting
                  as the pimp and pander of the basest of men.
               "My dear Blandy!" said Mrs. Marmot, "do excuse my substituting that name for
                  Sarah. It is so sweet to associate you with my dear departed one! My
                  Blandy, husband finds it necessary to take —— city in his way westward, and I hope
                  you will feel a pleasure in visiting so renowned a place. Our first colonists
                  landed in those parts."
               "It will be a pleasure for me to do so," said Sarah. "I have leisure. I have no
                  desire to hasten our journey."
               "Yes, love, we will travel so far by private conveyance, to enjoy the country
                  scenery, and thence we will make our way by railroad and steamboat."
               Great preparations were made for this journey. Two grooms were selected from the
                  establishment to accompany them in a coach and four, richly caparisoned, not at
                  all in keeping with republican simplicity. The wire-pullers behind the scene
                  evidently meant to make a great impression, as if such a mind as that of Miss
                  Harcourt could be vanquished by glitter and gewgaw. None are so puerile and
                  contemptible, in dealing with a woman of real merit, as those who have spent their
                  lives among the mere apologies of womanhood. They passed leisurely through the
                  country, seeking in their way whatever was sublime, beautiful or picturesque in
                  scenery, or pleasant in rustic life. Miss Harcourt enjoyed it much. While they
                  were in the heart of what is called the Beech Woods, Sarah remarked that it
                  reminded her of the forests in Mapleton, which were equally dense and
                  profound.
               "Mapleton!" said Mrs. Marmot; "did you ever know Mapleton?"
               "I lived there a short time, when I was a child."
               "Then you must have heard of our great colonial leader in the West?"
               "What, Samuel Gilfort?"
               "The same,—the most distinguished man in the valley of the Mississippi."
               "He is a dreadful creature!" replied Sarah, with a shudder.
               "Indeed, Miss Harcourt," said Mr. Marmot, "do you think so?"
               "My dear Blandy," said Mrs. Marmot, "the best men are often most maligned."
               "And the worst men pass for the greatest saints," replied Sarah.
               "No doubt, no doubt," said Marmot, waiving the subject. "The lake view, I believe, is one of the charms of
                  Mapleton."
               "Yes, it is very pretty," replied Sarah; and then they passed to subjects in
                  general.
               The object of this conversation was to sound Miss Harcourt as to the possibility
                  of having Gilfort join them in the journey, who was all this time so near as to
                  have daily communication with the Marmots. They had become the perfect dupes of
                  his pleasure. It is impossible to conceive of one mind so completely occupying the
                  place of another. What is it? Mesmerism?—witchcraft? Col. Stone's book on Mathias,
                  the impostor, details facts on this subject too astounding to be believed, except
                  on evidence not to be doubted. That very evening the Marmots saw Gilfort, when the
                  latter inquired, "How lies the land? Can I join you?"
               "By no means, venerated father," said Marmot, giving him the title common to
                  Gilfort's dupes. "Conversion is a slow process, even with the most convincing
                  evidence. Your presence will drive the bird from its cage."
               "My blood boiled to hear her abuse your sacred person," said Mrs. Marmot.
               "Never mind. Treat her kindly. I'll meet you in the heart of the great prairie,
                  where there is no danger of an escape."
               Accordingly, Gilfort left the next morning, and went with all speed to his seat in
                  Missouri.
               Leaving Miss Harcourt to her journey, we will follow Gilfort to his home. We will
                  sketch the principles of his colonial power, or the nature of the tree into which
                  his initiated were engrafted. Unfortunately, it was a tree that reversed the
                  ordinary law, the stock, and not the scion, determining the character of the
                  fruit. The cardinal principle was that of England's king: 
                     
                        "And thus I clothe my naked villany
                        With old odd ends, stolen forth of Holy Writ."
                     
                  
               
               Gilfort, unlike Richard the Third, really thought himself invested with scriptural
                  authority to do as he did. He had derived this perversion from the fountain that
                  supplied his his blood. He had nourished it with wine. It was part and parcel of
                  his being. His speech before his chosen leaders, on this his return among them,
                  lets out the heart of the man.
               "I cannot too highly commend," he said, "the zeal and faithfulness with which you
                  have managed our colonial interests during my absence. This colony is yet in its
                  infancy; but I foresee that it will grow till it absorbs all others, and rules the
                  nations. Our principles entitle us to this destiny, and are a pledge that we shall
                  enjoy it. The other nations are to us what the Canaanites were to Israel,—a prey,
                  a booty, which we are at liberty to appropriate by any means in our power. Joshua,
                  David, Elijah, and all the heads of Israel, used stratagem with their enemies, and
                  we must do the same with ours. Their riches are our riches; their houses our
                  houses; their pleasures our pleasures; their wives our wives. We are the sons of
                  God, to whom are given the daughters of men, that we may choose wives among them
                  according to the desire of our eyes. They are doomed, and we are not required to
                  observe faith in our dealings with them. Was Jacob precise as to his mode of
                  appropriating the flocks of the Syrian? Did not Simeon and Levi first weaken their
                  enemies by a pious fraud, and then put them to the sword? Did not Samuel hew down
                  Agag before the Lord? These things are
                  our examples in dealing with the Gentiles of our own age.
               "We must treat them as God treats them. He has made them a curse, and we must make
                  them a prey. Stratagem is our policy. If temporizing will give us the greater
                  advantage over them, we will temporize; if cutting them down, root and branch,
                  serves our purpose better; we will cut them down. This is the course to which we
                  are beckoned by the lights of example."
               Think not, reader, that this is an improbable story. The Jesuits, from the
                  beginning, have acted on the same principles. Of all parties and organizations,
                  those which assume to be the special favorites of heaven, to whom all other
                  parties and organizations are given as a prey, to be dealt with as Israel were
                  required by a special dispensation to deal with a doomed race of old, are the most
                  dangerous, demoralizing, and destructive. They claim a divine right to repress the
                  sentiments of humanity, to disregard truth and justice, and to act against the
                  freedom of the world. Of precisely the same character are attempts to justify any
                  specific wrong by the Bible,—such as slavery, despotism, and the liquor traffic,
                  and drinking customs of society. Do the Scriptures convert wrong into right,
                  falsehood into truth, vice into virtue, and make over natural injustice into
                  justice, by a special dispensation? Is the Bible given to stultify reason and
                  conscience? Is it to preserve forever unstanched the blood of war? Is it to render
                  the chains of the slave eternal? Did Christ set Heaven's imprint to the alcoholic
                  trade and usages, by converting water into wine? Will Christian men write books
                  and preach sermons prostituting revealed religion to purposes so base, so
                  abhorrent to humanity?
               O, ye scribes of the people! I warn you to beware of sporting ing with heaven's
                  thunder! Touch not the ark of God with polluted hands! Involve not eternal truth
                  with your temporary questions and perishable interests! Seek not asylum for the
                  world's corruptions in the sanctuary of the Most High! If what you assume were
                  true,—which, thank God, it is not!—that the Bible tolerates wrong and oppression,
                  then humanity will sweep it away, with the Koran, Shasters, Zendavesta, and all
                  those ancient charters under which error and wickedness have so long intrenched
                  themselves. If it were indeed a charter to protect and perpetuate hoary abuses,
                  then, perish its pages, perish its priests, perish its prophets, perish its
                  principles, perish its precepts, perish its church, its litany, and its ritual!
                  Your reasoning cannot save it. It ought not to save it. It is not worth saving.
                  Nothing is worth saving which arrays itself against humanity, against freedom,
                  against virtue, against God. I beseech you to take warning by the Gilfortites and
                  the Jesuits, not to prop up the liquor traffic, slavery, the drinking usages, or
                  any existing abuse, by an appeal to the Word of God. The same Intelligence speaks
                  in revelation as in nature, nor does he affirm in the one what he denies in the
                  other.
               Gifort found, on his return, that Bludgeon's emigrant host had pitched not many
                  miles distant. Full of mischief against one by whom he had been so severely
                  rebuked, he sent a man with a cask of whiskey into his camp, to try the strength
                  of its temperance principles. Accordingly, the man posted himself under an awning,
                  in a convenient position for his trade, and began to expose the seductive
                  commodity in the market. Under ordinary circumstances, the bait would not have
                  taken; but now, afflicted with disease, as the emigrants were, by a change of
                  water, fatigued by a long journey and its many privations, and prostrated by the
                  relaxing heat of a bilious atmosphere,
                  they deemed it prudent to buy a little as medicine, which even their temperance
                  pledge allowed.
               But not a few of them were reformed drunkards, and could not use the article at
                  all without abusing it. Consequently, when Bludgeon arrived, who had not yet
                  joined them, he found, to his mortification, that his forlorn hope of total
                  abstinence were convulsed with riot and drunkenness. Moses descending from the
                  mount to witness the idolatry of the golden calf could scarcely have felt intenser
                  indignation. His blood boiled, his chest heaved, and he felt, for once, a despair
                  of the efficacy of his own principles. But he restrained the expression of his
                  feelings. He soon learned where the serpent lay concealed, as he had divined
                  before-hand the den from which he had emerged, knowing their contiguity to
                  Gilfort's colony. He went quietly to the whiskey-factor's awning, and said, "What
                  do you ask for a pint of that medicine?"
               "A phip," said the man.
               "A phip!" replied Bludgeon; "that's dirt cheap. I'd thought it would be a bit, in
                  this distant country."
               "No, we have n't far to bring it; we can afford it cheap," said the man.
               "Eh, I see," said Bludgeon; and, seizing an axe, he dealt a furious blow ot the
                  barrel-head, when out rushed the imprisoned enemy, and sunk into the prairie
                  mould, without the hope of a resurrection.
               "There you have a market for all at once," he added. "Now, go and tell your master
                  to send all he has, and we 'll buy it up in the same way!"
               The fellow, looking round, prepared to pitch in upon the assailant of his
                  merchandise; but, seeing Bludgeon's bony battery standing in an attitude of
                  defiance, his caution predominated, and he made his escape.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               MISS HARCOURT'S ADVENTURES.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
                           O, fairest beauty, do not fear, nor fly!
                           For I will touch thee but with reverent hands,
                           And lay them gently on thy tender side."
                        
                     
                     —SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               MISS HARCOURT had by this time become a subject of general interest and notoriety.
                  The world was full of curiosity concerning a young lady whose fate involved the
                  fall of a man of Mr. Skampton's position, the possession of whose person had been
                  an object of so much scheming with the great colonial dignitary of the West, whose
                  loss had driven an opulent father to madness, a noble lover into foreign
                  countries, and for whom so many men of eminence were ready to jeopard property and
                  life.
               After the conversation upon Gilfort, noticed in the foregoing chapter, Miss
                  Harcourt heard not a disagreeable sentiment in all the early part of her journey,
                  but everything to entertain and delight her. Their city sight-seeing was as
                  pleasant as it was improving. Acting by the supposed order of her father, whom she
                  expected to meet in a few days, no suspicion of the snare into which she had
                  fallen crossed her mind. She was peaceful, buoyant, happy,—happy both in herself
                  and in the confidence of her personal associates. Indeed, they were everything to
                  her that friendship could demand; bland, gracious, prompt to anticipate her every
                  want, and seemingly congenial sharers in her sentiments of piety and devotion. Their route, after leaving the
                  city, was not direct, but circuitous; the avowed object of which was to afford her
                  a view of all that was rare and extraordinary in the country through which they
                  were passing. Whatever was enchanting in scenery, sublime and awful in precipice
                  and cascade, beautiful in the green expanse of ocean prairies dotted with forest
                  islands to diversify and relieve the view,—yea, whatever was delightful in
                  cultivated or uncultivated nature,—was spread out before her, to entertain, amuse,
                  and occupy her thoughts. Their plan seemed to be to bury the past in the present,
                  and with new scenes to open upon their ward new hopes and aspirations, to make her
                  a more pliant and obsequious acquisition to him who hoped to rule her destiny.
                  Vain, delusive expectation! Those who live to eat, drink and enjoy, may be thus
                  disposed of; but not the devotees of right, not the heirs of high-born faith and
                  duty.
               "You see," said Mrs. Marmot to Sarah, as they approached the end of their journey,
                  "how magnificent are nature's works. How unlike the meagre productions of art! How
                  little you who confine yourselves to cities know of the riches, splendor and
                  magnificence, of the world we inhabit!"
               "You are aware that I am not of this kind. I am a plant of the country. I always
                  loved the country," said Sarah.
               "Ah, yes; but not as I do," said Mrs. Marmot, with something unusual in her
                  manner, that surprised Sarah. "Would that I could transfer my vision to you, and
                  then you would enjoy the country as I do."
               "Wherein is your vision different from mine? Are not the hues of light the same to
                  both? Are flowers more blooming to the one than the other? Do not the sights,
                  sounds, odors, clouds, vapors, trees, birds, grass and all visible things, alike
                  invite the admiration of every beholder?"
               "No, Sarah. Even you must confess that cultivated minds see in them charms which
                  are not revealed to the uncultivated."
               "True, cultivation is necessary to enjoy nature; and no doubt some are
                  constitutionally more susceptible to its impressions than others. Do you mean more
                  than this?" inquired Sarah, still impressed that some unexplained mystery lurked
                  in the words of her friend.
               "I suppose you confess to seeing a divinity in these things," said Mrs. Marmot,
                  warily opening her own fanatical ideas upon one whom she was anxious to
                  indoctrinate into the same.
               "Certainly. The Lord made the heavens and the earth; and he leaves not himself
                  without witness, in that he does good and gives rain from heaven, and fruitful
                  seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. The Bible teaches us this, and
                  nature teaches the same. But still, a spiritual mind is alone competent to feel
                  and enjoy it."
               "Precisely so; a spiritual mind is alone capable of seeing a spiritual God. But
                  you know the young prophet saw more than this, when Elisha prayed that his eyes
                  might be opened. He saw the mountains full of chariots and horses of fire. Now,
                  this is what I see, Sarah. All things around me teem with living, angelic beings.
                  O, how beautiful!—how beautiful! I see them now moving to and fro like the dancing
                  sunbeams, like the leaping lightning. I hear them, I hear them! O, how
                  transporting! It is heavenly music!" And, during the saying of this, the action,
                  expression and intonation of Mrs. Marmot were an exact reflection of what she
                  uttered, as if it was all as real as the prairie scenery.
               Sarah was confounded, and thought it a mere pantomime to amuse her; or, doubting
                  what to think, she said, "O, Mrs.
                  Marmot, you are joking! You want to put my credulity to the test. You need not
                  think me so easily duped."
               "Joking? Do you think I could joke on a subject like this? I am all the time
                  seeing these angelic beings. I talk with them, and they talk with me. I can get
                  answers from them at any time. I am a medium. I see them at morning and evening,
                  reposing on their rosy pillows of cloud and vapor. O, how beautiful!—how
                  beautiful! They dance in the ambient air. They leap from cloud to cloud. They
                  sport in ether. O, Sarah, that you could see what I see, hear what I hear, feel
                  what I feel!"
               "Pray, Mrs. Marmot, who taught you all this? Let me know, and I will take lessons
                  of him."
               "Will you?" said Mrs. Marmot, who felt that she had reached the point, and got the
                  pledge she desired. "I will tell you. If you will lay aside your prejudices, and
                  take lessons, I can assure you it will not be a week before you will enjoy these
                  glorious sights and sounds."
               "Call in your teacher, then. I am ready for the first lesson," said Sarah,
                  smiling.
               "No, not till we get to Sylvan Creek."
               "Does my teacher live at Sylvan Creek?"
               "That is one of his homes."
               "What is his name?"
               "O, the wicked call him Samuel Gilfort, but I call——"
               "Horrible! Do you speak of that vile man?" exclaimed Sarah, perfectly
                  thunderstruck.
               "Sarah, Sarah, stop! You know not what you are saying. I would not call him so for
                  all the world. He has taught me more about spiritual beings than all other
                  men."
               "You do not know that man," said Sarah, in great consternation sternation at the
                  mania of confidence with which Mrs. Marmot spoke of Gilfort. "I know well where he
                  spent his youth; and his character was as bad as fraud, and vice, and strong
                  drink, could make it."
               "Those are slanders,—pure, malicious slanders, Sarah. You do not know him, but
                  will now have an opportunity to correct your mistake."
               "What! by Gilfort's acquaintance? No, never! never!" said Sarah, positively.
               She had scarcely done speaking, when Gilfort rode up, with a troop of attendants,
                  and horses gorgeously caparisoned. Mrs. Marmot exclaimed, in ecstasy, "Here he
                  comes!—here he comes!"
               Sarah turned deadly pale, as her real condition, in the power of Gilfort, now took
                  possession of her mind. "O!" said she to herself, "my presentiments!—my
                  presentiments! How sadly, too sadly, are they realized! My father! my father! can
                  it be you are in the secret of all this? My head is giddy. My heart is faint. God
                  of love, hold up thy sinking child! On thy promised protection I lean."
               By the time these ejaculations had passed through her mind, she had so far rallied
                  her sinking spirits as to escape fainting, which she dreadfully feared. That her
                  person should thus fall, without the power of resistance, into such hands, seemed
                  to her worse than a hundred deaths. Gilfort approached, and reached out his hand
                  to her with an air of extreme gallantry, which brought the timid blood again to
                  her cheeks, and she stood in all the strength of her womanly scorn and resistance.
                  Holding her hands firm by her side, she said,
               "Sir, what have I to do with you?"
               "To do with me, Miss Harcourt?" rejoined Gilfort, with a patronizing and gracious air. "Cannot old friends
                  exchange greeting, after so long an absence?"
               "I never acknowledged you as a friend, sir, and I never will."
               "You will change your mind, Miss Harcourt, when you know me. I have been
                  slandered. You have heard all these evil stories. I cannot blame you. But, Miss
                  Harcourt, you may yet learn how deeply I have been injured. I am entirely another
                  being from what you think me to be."
               "Then rejoice in the consciousness. I have no interest to know it. I know enough
                  of you already. If you think, by decoying me into this distant country, to
                  cultivate my acquaintance, you will find yourself mistaken. I will die first!"
               "Shall I smite the Philistine?" said one of Gilfort's overzealous followers,
                  drawing his sword.
               "Yes, let him smite," said Sarah. "He will see that I have the courage to die,
                  before admitting such a man to my acquaintance. The God who gave me my being will
                  take it to himself, ere he will suffer it to feel the contamination of such
                  influence."
               A frown from Gilfort was sufficient to hasten the fellow's sword into its scabbard
                  again, and to send him in confusion behind the scene.
               "My dear Sarah, how can you repel such condescension?" said Mrs. Marmot.
               Nervous or mental illusions are far more common than the sober, orderly portion of
                  the community are willing to believe. Though our story comes far short of the
                  facts daily told of spiritual rappings and intercourse with the dead, or of
                  kindred manifestations in every age, yet it must to many appear improbable.
                  Fiction on this subject, to challenge lenge belief, must stop short of fact. To
                  account for these phenomena may be difficult. That there is a real power in
                  mesmerism over the nervous system, and also to produce mental illusions, it is now
                  generally conceded. Some, of course, are more susceptible than others, and the
                  manifestations are in no two cases perhaps exactly alike. But still there are
                  lines of resemblance throughout. Alcohol is another and still more powerful agent
                  in generating mental illusions. In the earlier stages, it raises pleasing fancies
                  in the mind,—of riches, splendor, luxury, power, angelic loveliness, and
                  superhuman grandeur. But, as the disease progresses, these are turned into
                  deformities, devils, wasps, spiders, and the most horrible monsters, investing the
                  patient, as in a case of delirium tremens. All these nervous disturbances
                  affecting the mind, whether leading to profanity or to prayer, to the intercourse
                  of angels or devils, fall under the same category. In the case of Gilfort,
                  mesmerism, alcohol, education, habit, constitution and favoring circumstances, all
                  united to cast his own mental illusions into a fixed and most unique form; and,
                  being united with great shrewdness and concentration, he had the power of casting
                  other minds, of a given constitution, into the same form, and thus of generating a
                  new spiritual disease, and a new school of patients to propagate the infection
                  among men. Mrs. Marmot, and her husband with her, were dupes, and doubtless
                  perfectly sincere. In the deception practised with Miss Harcourt, they simply
                  carried out the will of another, which to them had become the supreme law of right
                  and wrong.
               The scene just described took place in the open prairie, on the day of their
                  arrival at Sylvan Creek. They had stopped to refresh; and, after they had done so,
                  they took up their line of march, bearing due west, being conducted by Gilfort and his company for some distance. Miss
                  Harcourt, in a state of mind better imagined than described, mechanically moved
                  forward with them, because no alternative was left her. She was happy, at length,
                  to be relieved of Gilfort's presence, by his bearing off diagonally to the
                  south-west, and soon disappearing. He left Sarah and the Marmots an ample supply
                  of servants for their new establishment. It proved to be a neat and elegantly
                  furnished Swiss cottage, situated in the shade of a small wood, which stood like
                  an island in the midst of a green meadow-sea.
               Miss Harcourt was too much fatigued to take much notice of the place, and too much
                  agitated in mind to be interested in anything about her. She saw she was among
                  fanatics and madmen, who were deaf to the voice of reason and the pleadings of
                  humanity. The mask was now thrown off, because they found no further occasion for
                  wearing it. Their wine potations were deep and frequent, and they were all the
                  time under its disguising influence. It was a home of mesmeric, alcoholic
                  insanity. Sarah repaired at once to the room assigned her, to seek the repose she
                  felt she needed, but which her anomalous position did not permit her at once to
                  enjoy.
               She queried with herself, "Can it be possible that my father knew the kind of
                  people to whom he committed me? Did he mistrust their obsequiousness to Gilfort?
                  No, no! he knew the vileness of that man as well as I. He is incapable of so base
                  an act. Did he know my present situation, he would be driven to madness. O, my
                  Father in heaven, the trial of trials has come!—come in the form least expected,
                  least prepared for, least endurable,—in this wilderness country, more than a
                  thousand miles from my natural protectors, among those whose teeth are spears and
                  arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword; whose fanaticism is an unfathomable
                  fathomable gulf, that swallows up faith, sincerity, honor, every kindly sympathy
                  and every virtuous sentiment, and whose intemperance makes them demons! My head is
                  giddy; my heart aches; I sink,—I die!" And, throwing herself on a sofa, she
                  remained for some time in a condition of dreamy horror, of which she could give no
                  exact account.
               Her nature, having exhausted its sensations of woe, gradually recovered its tone,
                  and she began to take more just views of her condition. She reflected that,
                  whatever wrong had been done, she was guiltless, and it became her, as a Christian
                  woman, to commit herself to a covenant-keeping God, the same as to a sickness, or
                  any other misfortune. The Providence that had brought the trial had his own modes
                  of deliverance. To rail and embitter her feelings against the wicked instruments
                  of her suffering, instead of mitigating, increased its poignancy. Considerations
                  like these occurred, but not with entire relief, because she was haunted with
                  tormenting fears for the future. It was not the fear of poverty, disease or death,
                  but the more terrible evil of personal insult. She was in the power of one who, to
                  her view, was the incarnation of evil, fraud, fanaticism, rapine, violence and
                  murder; and the difficulties investing her seemed a turbulent sea, without a
                  bottom or a shore. Wild and dreadful conjectures as to what might befall her
                  tortured her imagination with ideas more tormenting than the reality of death
                  itself.
               To whom could she appeal, but to Infinite, to Parental Love? To a late hour of the
                  night she continued this appeal. "Faith, faith!" she said, "shall I preach faith
                  and not practise it? Ah, the hour of trial proves the strength of a principle!
                  Shall I fail in the ordeal? Are not my Father's promises sure? Are they not equal
                  to any crisis? Lord, I believe,—help thou my unbelief!"
               
               Nor were thoughts and devotions like these without their effect. Her heart again
                  dilated with hope. "Victory, victory! my victory is in my faith. Lord, the
                  assurance that thou wilt be with me is all I ask. Thy presence is hope in despair,
                  joy in grief, happiness in death." She came to feel it a mere point of difference
                  whether she were in one place or another, among friends or foes, in comfort or
                  discomfort, so that God filled and overwhelmed her with a sense of his presence.
                  In this state of mind she laid down, and slept sweetly till morning. And, upon
                  awaking, her first aspiration was, "How precious are thy thoughts unto me, O, God!
                  how great is the sum of them! If I should count them, they are more in number than
                  the sand! When I awake, I am still with thee."
               It was yet early. She walked out to contemplate the scenery of her prison. She
                  extended her walk quite round the wood in which the cottage was built, and could
                  see nothing in any direction but a boundless sea of waving grass. The wood was
                  full of birds, as if all the feathered songsters, to which the surrounding prairie
                  furnished subsistence, had congregated there for the convenience of nests and
                  roosts, so that their infinitely variegated notes floated in the breezes, and sent
                  up to heaven the sweet warblings of their bird-song. It was such a scene as she
                  had never contemplated. Its sublimity, beauty, joyousness, were unspeakable,
                  unknown.
               To add to the enchantment of the place, a lovely little brook, unlike any she had
                  seen in the prairie country, because it was limpid, pellucid and babbling flowed,
                  at her feet. Its movement was brisk, affording an ample supply of delicious water,
                  which here reposed in little ponds fit for bathing; there rippling and wandering
                  among the smooth stones, it exposed its beauties to view; while there again, it
                  modestly concealed itself in the tall prairie grass. Sarah yielded to the adoring
                  outburst of her feelings, exclaiming, "This is truth, this is nature; it cannot
                  deceive; it is God's handiworkmanship; it is a relic of Eden; it is pencilled by
                  infinite love! The sight of it is worth all my troubles, all my fears!"
               Sarah returned to her room and locked it, resolved to have no intercourse with a
                  family who had shown themselves so utterly base and unworthy of her confidence. At
                  the hour of breakfast, Mrs. Marmot knocked at the door, but Sarah refused to open
                  it.
               "My dear child," said Mrs. Marmot, tenderly, "you must have your breakfast. You
                  will make yourself sick. You must have refreshment, after so long a journey."
               "The loss of my breakfast, Madam, is a trifling cause of sickness, compared with
                  the loss of my liberty."
               "My dear Sarah, can you say you have lost your liberty? Have we not left you free
                  as air at every step you have taken?"
               "It was the liberty of deceit, Madam; the liberty of a bird decoyed into a snare.
                  You are guilty of abduction, and now hold me as your prisoner. It is useless for
                  you to plead innocence. If you think a breakfast so necessary to my health, bring
                  it here. I shall not breakfast out of my room."
               Mrs. Marmot left, therefore, and soon returned with her husband, bringing her
                  breakfast.
               "I understand, Miss Harcourt, that you charge us with your abduction," said Mr.
                  Marmot.
               "I do! You have brought me here stealthily, knowing I would not come, if I
                  understood the circumstances."
               "We have done nothing without your father's order."
               "That cannot be! My father would never intentionally deal with me thus."
               
               "My dear," said Marmot to his wife, "bring Mr. Harcourt's letters."
               The letters were brought, and now, for the first time, Sarah learned the object
                  her father had in view in taking her to Wyoming. The agency of Skampton in the
                  business was also revealed. As to that of Gilfort she was left to conjecture,
                  though she did not doubt it. She was perfectly thunder-struck, especially at the
                  part her father had acted.
               "You see," said Mr. Marmot, "that I stipulated with your father for the entire
                  control of your person. And here he concedes it," reading the following from one
                  of the letters: "From the high character I have received of you, I have no
                  hesitation in conceding to you, for the time being, the entire control of my
                  daughter's person, as that seems a necessary condition to the cure of her
                  malady."
               "That must be a forgery, like my letters from Terrace-green!" said Sarah, who had
                  examined and satisfied herself that the letters purporting to come from her father
                  at that place were spurious.
               "How can you affirm that?" said Mrs. Marmot. "Examine the letter, and you will
                  find every mark about it in your father's own peculiar style." Sarah did so, and
                  was forced to believe that it was genuine.
               "But those from Terracegreen are certainly forgeries."
               "That suspicion of yours, Miss. Harcourt, must be erroneous," said Marmot,
                  examining the letters. "They were written by the same hand that wrote the
                  others."
               "Then my father will be here soon, according to his promise?"
               "Yes, unless he wishes longer to detain you here. He has a high opinion of the
                  colony and its leader."
               "You are certainly deceived as to my father's feelings on that subject. I have
                  heard him express a contrary opinion, over and over again."
               "Well, he ought to have," said Mrs. Marmot, earnestly.
               "I do not wish to dispute with you on any of these points," said Sarah. "Admitting
                  all you say to be true, I am of age, and my father has no right to dispose of my
                  person in this way. I implore you, Mr. Marmot, by the honor of a gentleman, to
                  conduct me home."
               "But he has a right to influence your choice of a husband."
               "No, not by such means. Besides, it is impossible for him to succeed in this way.
                  I am now more fixed than ever. And, whatever be your views concerning me, I feel
                  it my duty to say, at once, you will be disappointed. I will die before I violate
                  my own heart's dictates. If you keep me here an age, you will find yourself no
                  nearer your object. Deceive not yourself." This she said to Marmot alone, hoping
                  that he might be somewhat less insane than his wife.
               "I have no control in this matter. I only obey the powers that be, which you know
                  we are commanded to do."
               "And a righteous power it is," said Mrs. Marmot, devoutly.
               "What! you apply this language to that wicked Gilfort!" said Sarah, with a
                  shudder. "How can persons of your sense fail to see the absurdity of calling this
                  treatment of me a righteous act? Is a fraud righteous? Is lying righteous? You
                  deceived me in the motives for taking this journey. It has been throughout a
                  system of falsehood. And now you hold me here against my will, and call it
                  righteous. Woe to them that call evil good!"
               "What standard have we of right and wrong, but the will of God?" said Marmot.
                  "Does that deserve the name of fraud
                  and lying which He commands? Was it fraud in Israel to borrow the ornaments of the
                  Egyptians?"
               "Do you undertake to say you have a special dispensation from heaven to treat me
                  thus? If so, my opinion of you is lower than ever, and your influence over me is
                  gone. I wish to hear no more."
               Still their attention to her was unremitted. They never contradicted her in
                  anything. This was Gilfort's order. He was aware by this time of her father's
                  hopeless insanity, and of Douglass' escape to foreign parts, and he felt that
                  nothing now remained but to subdue her by kindness. Of his success in this he had
                  not a doubt. He judged of her by those who had fallen under his influence, and
                  herein was his mistake. Sarah saw that a boundless prairie and the danger of
                  making her way through a new and unknown country were the least of the
                  difficulties that environed her. She was fenced around by fraud, sanctified by
                  fanaticism, and inflamed by alcohol. She was held by a power which knew no law but
                  its own impulses, no conscience but its own will, and no discrimination as to the
                  means for accomplishing its purposes but what regarded the simple question of
                  success.
               Yea, what was most of all surprising was the fact testified to by Jim, of
                  Gilfort's influence over the husband, as well as the wife, who now held Miss
                  Harcourt in durance vile. It was a conjugal confidence unbroken by infidelity;
                  because it was an infidelity into which both were alike seduced, through a
                  mysterious perversion of their spiritual nature. Conscience—shall we say
                  it?—dictated the wrong. Alas! what cannot this faculty be coërced into? These
                  facts, however, were cautiously concealed from Miss Harcourt, who remained pure
                  and serene as the diamond amid the filth of its resting place.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               TO THE RESCUE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "She says
                           A fire dances before her, and a sound
                           Rings ever in her ear of arméd men."—
                        
                     
                     TENNYSON.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Where you faithful watch-fires glow,
                           Bold, defying, stands the foe;
                           Still the cry rings through the night,
                           Guard to guard calls out with might,
                           'Liberty or death!'"
                        
                     
                     The German of COLLINS.
                  
               
               SOON after the decent interment of Mr. Littlefield and Samuel Douglass, a rumor
                  reached Mapleton of the abduction of Miss Harcourt, and the fall of Skampton. Of
                  the fate of Charles nothing could be learned with any certainty. Letters were
                  despatched, informing him of the sad events which had happened, and that his
                  father was in prison, and desiring him to come home immediately, to alleviate the
                  sufferings of his family. But no answer came. Mrs. Douglass was very uneasy
                  concerning him, in addition to all her other troubles, and therefore besought Mr.
                  Holliston to go at once to Riverton, and learn the facts in the case, and look
                  after the interests of her son. The woes of alcohol seemed to be concentrated
                  within her doors; and yet, her own spirit was unbroken. Though the foreshadowing
                  of these calamities had made her timid through life, yet the reality of them found
                  her cool, collected, and prepared to do all that woman could do to mitigate their
                  intensity, and alleviate her suffering household. She often visited and comforted
                  her husband in prison, ministered
                  istered to his bodily wants, now that he more than ever needed it, having a severe
                  cough, and showing unmistakable signs of a speedy release from a state of society
                  in which he was so unfitted to live. She found him more himself than he had been
                  for many years; so affectionate, so bland, so resigned, and so reasonable in his
                  views of all subjects, and especially of his own wayward career. He had no
                  recollection of the fatal blows which he dealt at his wife and son, but remembered
                  well seeing and striking at a nest of serpents, which were hissing, just ready to
                  bite him; and that he had no sooner disposed of these than a huge monster came at
                  him, with open mouth, and he levelled him to the ground. Poor man! how sad, sad,
                  the hallucinations of brandy!
               Mr. Holliston found Mr. Skampton also in prison, and was surprised by the change
                  which had come over him. "I see," said he to Mr. Holliston, "that I have always
                  occupied a false position. I have been pursuing the phantom of reputation and
                  influence. This has betrayed me into many indiscretions. Under the notion of being
                  a conservator of the public good, I have been promoting the ends of private
                  advancement. I fear I have acted wrong in reference to the liquor traffic. I have
                  not been blessed in it. All I had is gone,—both my own fortune and that of my
                  wife, with all my immense accumulations. I am left bare of money, and bankrupt in
                  friends. None come to my relief, and here I languish in prison. I have injured
                  you, Mr. Holliston, and your friends. I have injured the Douglass family."
               "Yes,—more than you know," said Mr. Holliston, detailing to him the late facts.
                  Skampton wept at the recital.
               "And Charles, I learn, has escaped to England," he added. "Abused young man! I
                  wonder not that he should have charged me as he did! I have been under a delusion,
                  these many years, Mr. Holliston, during which I have inflicted all these injuries.
                  Now the just retribution returns on my own head. O, that it may relieve me of my
                  guilt!"
               Mr. Holliston felt keenly for the poor man, went his bail, and thus delivered him
                  from prison, and proffered him every service in his power.
               "Mr. Skampton, my heart is drawn towards you as never before," said Mr. Holliston;
                  "I have never seen you so near right. You have been the dupe of flattery. Perhaps
                  I, with your money, and in your circumstances, might have fallen in the same way.
                  God's government is one of mercy. He loves to forgive the penitent. I am not your
                  accuser, Mr. Skampton. No, no; I would imitate Heaven's mercy. I pray for a mind,
                  to do by you as I should wish you to do by me had I been in your temptations, and
                  fallen into your circumstances."
               These words of love fell like heaven's dews upon a parched soil, and raised in the
                  crushed heart of the fallen man his first tendency towards the bloom of hope, and
                  the fruit of a repentance not to be repented of.
               Mr. Holliston sent the following letter to Charles Douglass by the next steamer,
                  to urge his return as soon as possible. After detailing the Mapleton tragedy, the
                  letter adds:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Miss Harcourt has been heard from. She is in Missouri, whither a
                              party of us are about to go, to effect her release. Mr. Skampton has
                              come to a sense of the greatness of his sin. I forgive him, and I know
                              you will when you learn all. Convicted or not, I do not think he
                              intended as bad as would appear. He is a dupe of Gilfort. It is
                              torturing to reflect that that jewel of a girl, Miss Harcourt, should
                              be decoyed into such hands. Still, we must not despair. We hear from
                              Thomas Bludgeon—who is now encamping in the neighborhood hood where she
                              is—everything to encourage the hope of her speedy and safe release.
                              You must keep up heart, and hope. Everything demands your immediate
                              return.
                           
                              "Your affectionate and devoted friend,
                              "D. H."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The party who went to the rescue of Miss Harcourt was De Lisle, with the sheriff,
                  Mr. Holliston and Mr. Skampton. De Lisle felt too much interest for Harcourt, who
                  was now hopelessly insane, and also for the rescue of his dear young friend, to
                  intrust the enterprise to other hands. He took it upon himself to head the party,
                  and was legally intrusted with the guardianship of the Harcourt interests during
                  the insanity of the father and the absence of the daughter.
               Meantime, Gilfort watched every avenue to his caged bird. His colonial home was
                  some miles south of the house and grove occupied by the Marmots. But he visited
                  them daily, sometimes in the uniform of a major-general, and sometimes in the
                  cassock of a priest; thus grotesquely blending, in his dress and equipage, the
                  most opposite and ludicrous extremes. He generally rode in a carriage brilliant in
                  its platings of the precious metals, drawn by fine horses, and attended by a
                  platoon of servants in uniform, to protect his person, execute his behests, and
                  give an air of royal state to his movements.
               The public are little aware of the heterogeneous elements which our vast interior
                  prairies bring together. All possible ideas of social organization and of
                  religious opinion there seek to embody themselves under the forms of colonial
                  life. Highborn and low-born aspirants to dominion there plant the tree of their
                  power. Our continent is a great seething-pot, into which the world's prophets cast
                  herbs of all kinds, healthful and poisonous. But the dangerous compound, we trust,
                  will hereafter be relieved of its noxious properties by the fermentations of time,
                  or the hand of our future Elishas, doing their work truly and effectually, in the
                  name of the Lord.
               Now, more than ever, Gilfort was attentive to appearances, because he was not
                  without the hope of winning upon the ambitious feelings of Miss Harcourt, of whose
                  real character he knew as little as of that of an angel. In these visits he took
                  every measure to enter into free conversation with her. But no arts of his own,
                  and no persuasions of the Marmots, could induce her either to leave her room
                  during his presence, or to admit of ingress to it. She never deigned to afford him
                  the sorry gratification of so much as looking out to see the splendor of his
                  equipage, or the pomp and circumstance of his train.
               At length, Gilfort came to the door of her room, and requested to be admitted. But
                  she positively refused.
               "What I ask, Mr. Gilfort, is my liberty," she said. "No lady could be expected to
                  receive as a friend one who detained her as his prisoner."
               "I give you your liberty, but with this condition,—that you treat me as a friend,
                  and remain under our charge till your father comes for you," said Gilfort.
               "How do I know my father will come, can come, or even knows where I am? Besides, I
                  must have my liberty, to go where I please, and come when I please, long enough to
                  put you to the proof whether you are worthy of my friendship. I wish you no ill,
                  Mr. Gilfort; but it is not, in the nature of things, possible to respect you,
                  after what I have experienced, till you have given me time to know that you are
                  worthy to be respected. Nor would you ask me, if your feelings were
                  honorable."
               "It is useless," said Gilfort. "I could not comply with such conditions, if I would; because Mr. and Mrs.
                  Marmot will do as they please; and they have come under pledges to your father to
                  retain the care of your person. This is their house. Have you a right, as a
                  conscientious lady, to exclude their guest?"
               "They have assigned me this room, and that gives me a right to say who I will
                  admit into it. I have referred my cause to the orphan's Protector. And now, Mr.
                  Gilfort, that you may be under no deception, I deem it my duty to inform you that,
                  impelled by immutable instincts, I shall defend the majesty of my personal rights
                  with blood. You will not enter my room except it be over my dead body."
               The positive, collected, determined manner in which this was said was not without
                  its effect. With all his daring adventures, Gilfort was a coward, and no man was
                  more shy of a danger threatening life. He feared to encounter one who felt such a
                  poignant sense of personal insult,—one who had resolved to defend the
                  inviolability of her person with the last drop of her life's blood. From week to
                  week, therefore, he delayed extreme measures, hoping his victim might be worn out
                  by confinement, and come to easier terms. Every allurement of wealth, honor and
                  splendor, was held out to her, even for the privilege of a free conversation. But
                  it only increased her abhorrence of the man and his principles. Gilfort made the
                  mistake of supposing her selfish as himself, and this was Miss Harcourt's
                  salvation. Had he known her, he would have employed force at the outset; for then
                  he would have understood the futility of all other means.
               Failing in these measures, Gilfort brought himself to believe that force was
                  indispensable; and, not choosing to encounter the danger of breaking his way alone
                  into Miss Harcourt's room, he brought with him a troop of sufficient size to
                  encircle the house, hoping to terrify her into submission. He proposed that Sarah
                  should peaceably resign herself to him, with this pledge, that she should be
                  treated in all respects becoming her womanly sanctity.
               "If you do not yield to this reasonable demand," he said, "I will order my men to
                  break down your door, and put you in my power in a way to prevent your doing
                  violence to yourself or me; and, if you fall into my hands thus, I shall be
                  relieved of all pledges."
               "It is vain for you to address me thus," said Sarah. "I should be as safe in your
                  hands without your pledges as with them. I shall not resign myself. I will die
                  first. This is the boon that heaven grants me in the choice of evils so extreme.
                  Death, or immunity against your perfidy."
               "What! you a Christian, and die by your own hand!" said Gilfort.
               "No, not by my hand, but by the ruffians who attempt to force me into yours. I am
                  now free,—personally free, though confined within these walls; and I appeal to God
                  who made me, and the Saviour who died for me, to second my efforts to keep myself
                  so at the price of blood. Whoever enters this room without my consent must pay the
                  penalty."
               This announcement struck dismay into the hearts of Gilfort's followers. They felt
                  the majesty of virtue incensed, virtue driven to the last extreme for its own
                  protection, and had no more desire than he to fall by the hands of a woman. All
                  this time the eyes of Sarah were imploringly directed to heaven, awaiting
                  deliverance from Him in whom was all her trust. Though compelled to keep her
                  enemies at bay by this decisive manner, she felt how remote her feelings were from
                  bitterness towards them or any human creature, and how freely she would sacrifice
                  anything in their behalf, except that
                  purity which was given her as a shield, that virtue without which life would lose
                  all its charms, and existence all that makes it desirable.
               It was with difficulty that Gilfort rallied his panic-struck followers to the
                  assault. Overmastered at last by his authority, they began to deal their blows on
                  the outside of the building opposite to Miss Harcourt's room, deeming that less
                  hazardous than forcing the door. Clapboard after clapboard was torn off, and a way
                  was soon opened into her apartment of sufficient size to admit a man, when Gilfort
                  ordered one of his men to enter; but he hesitated. He gave the same order to
                  another, who also declined. All were equally unwilling to encounter a danger so
                  imminent as that of entering the scanctuary of virtue incensed and armed for
                  resistance to the death. It was now dark. Clouds overcast the scene, and veiled
                  the starry expanse. O, night, night! how horrible the crime and misery which thy
                  mantle enfolds! Thy magic influence soothes some to rest, and arouses others to
                  deeds of blood! To the last Sarah maintained her confidence. She believed that God
                  would send deliverance.
               Nor was her hope in vain. Deliverance came. The noise of nimble feet proclaimed
                  its approach. De Lisle and his party had arrived that very day, and had called to
                  their aid Bludgeon, with a band of his sturdy yeomanry. Canaudeh, to the surprise
                  of all, was also there to join the company. He had abandoned Terracegreen after
                  the Harcourts left, and gone to the hunting-grounds beyond the Mississippi. Here
                  he heard of Sarah's captivity, and watched his opportunity to join in her rescue.
                  His young blood seemed to return, and, painted and bedecked with the Indian
                  habiliments of war, he proudly marched among the first, brandishing his weapons of
                  death, his gray locks and towering crest waving in the winds. The assailing party
                  rushed to the onset, headed by the sheriff, who stated, or tried to state, the
                  commission under which he acted, but was repelled and silenced by the onset of
                  Gilfort and his men. The mêlée now became universal. Bludgeon spirited his men,
                  doing fearful execution on the foe. He was in his element, though, on principle,
                  he had chosen another field for his prowess, from which nothing but an emergency
                  like this could have drawn him. But still he retained a marvellously home feeling
                  in the midst of carnal weapons, and the tumult of deadly onset. He broke like a
                  tempest upon Gilfort's party. Club responded to club, and dagger to dagger.
                  Exploding guns resounded upon the canopy of night. Wounds multiplied, blood
                  flowed, groans were heard in the darkness, and grim-visaged death shook his fiery
                  dart.
               De Lisle, with the sheriff by his side, pushed his way through the contending
                  multitude to the post occupied by Gilfort himself. The latter, seeing his danger
                  of falling into the hands of the law, rushed on the officer, dagger in hand, and
                  would have killed him upon the spot, had not De Lisle interposed and plunged his
                  gleaming steel into his side, when he fell palpitating to the ground. Exasperated
                  to the last extreme by this event, his followers, thirsting for vengeance, were
                  like a bear robbed of her whelps, and employed their weapons with deadly effect.
                  What with the war-whoop of Canaudeh, the wailings of the wounded and dying, the
                  explosion of fire-arms, and the fierce encounter of men fighting hand to hand in
                  the darkness, it was altogether a scene of horror not easily described or
                  conceived. The Gilfort party at length gave way, overpowered by numbers, and took
                  to flight,—the Marmots, servants and all, leaving Miss Harcourt the sole occupant
                  of the house.
               
               She immediately rushed out, lamp in hand, to do what she could to alleviate the
                  suffering company. Who should she meet but De Lisle, covered with blood.
                  Stretching out his arms, he exclaimed, "My dear Miss Harcourt, you are safe, and I
                  am happy!"
               "O, Mr. De Lisle!" she exclaimed; "my friend, my benefactor!—all bloody? you are
                  wounded!"
               "Only slightly, Miss Harcourt," said De Lisle; "do not be alarmed."
               They had not ceased speaking before Canaudeh came forward, and seized Sarah by
                  both her hands, and, with sounds which had no meaning to any but himself, spoke
                  love, spoke gratitude, spoke eloquence that went to the soul.
               "Canaudeh! Canaudeh!" exclaimed Sarah, in perfect astonishment; "is it you? is it
                  you?"
               "My dear Miss Harcourt," said Mr. Skampton, who lay near, weltering in his blood,
                  "can you forgive me,—me, so deeply implicated in this foul transaction?"
               This first sight of Charles' enemy in such a plight, she had reason to believe for
                  her sake, was all the apology or explanation she demanded. Taking his feeble hand
                  in her own, she kissed it tenderly, and poured upon it her warm tears, to express
                  feelings of which words are a poor index.
               "Can you forgive me?" repeated Skampton, faintly.
               "Forgive, Mr. Skampton? O, that is too cold! I love, I cherish, I honor the man
                  who was willing to suffer all this for my sake."
               "Then I die happy," said Skampton, with a smile of sweet serenity, and who was
                  really happier at that moment, in his efforts to atone for the errors of the past,
                  than he had been for many years. No one is so much to be pitied as he who is
                  deluded into assuming such responsibilities as Skampton ton had so long stood
                  under; no one so much to be envied as a genuinely broken heart and contrite
                  spirit.
               "Mr. De Lisle," said Sarah, "where is my father? Is he here?"
               "He is ill, and could not come; but I have brought one in his place," replied De
                  Lisle, beckoning to Mr. Holliston, who had just that moment reached the scene of
                  action.
               "My dear Sarah," said the venerable man, taking her by the hand and kissing her
                  with parental tenderness, "how thankful I am to meet you once more alive!"
               "Most happy, most happy to meet you, Mr. Holliston. Is papa very ill?" inquired
                  Sarah, with much concern.
               "In no danger of life," said Mr. Holliston, the party having agreed not to make an
                  immediate disclosure of the real facts in the case, hoping still that Mr. Harcourt
                  might recover his reason, and anxious to save the feelings of his daughter in so
                  trying a moment.
               "Where is Charles, Mr. Holliston?"
               "Gone to England to recreate himself; but I have written him, and I think he will
                  soon return."
               "How are Mapleton friends?"
               On this point, also, Mr. Holliston deemed it advisable to answer evasively till
                  her mind should be better prepared for the dreadful intelligence. All were much
                  affected at the condition of Skampton, whom they had dissuaded from exposing
                  himself to danger, but whose zeal to repair the wrongs which he had done had
                  withstood all their arguments. Those who had escaped unhurt now devoted their
                  attention to the wounded. Thus, this home of fanaticism and malignity was
                  converted into a hospital, where humanity wept over a brother's woes, and mercy
                  exerted her healing power. Bludgeon was specially attentive to Skampton, and both
                     wondered dered that they had
                  remained so long ignorant of each other's excellences, and now became united in
                  the closest bonds.
               The whole company agreed in one thing, that alcohol was, directly or indirectly,
                  the procuring cause of these tragic scenes. Alcohol had driven Harcourt mad.
                  Alcohol had precipitated the good Mr. Littlefield upon an untimely death. Alcohol
                  had sacrificed Samuel Douglass. Alcohol had nearly proved the ruin of Charles.
                  Alcohol then held his father in durance vile as the murderer of his own son, and
                  had planted the seeds of a certain and premature death in his excellent
                  constitution. Alcohol was at the foundation of Gilfort's character, and of most of
                  the evils which he had done. And these were but the beginning of the woes with
                  which it had deluged society.
               One happy effect of this meeting of extremes was to temper the ultraisms of each;
                  and even Bludgeon gave up his wild scheme of founding a colony to live on herbs,
                  and thankfully received every creature of God as good; and nothing to be refused,
                  if it be received with thanksgiving. Skampton became henceforth an earnest
                  temperance man, and a yoke-fellow of Bludgeon in securing the passage of the Maine
                  Law. Even the Marmots returned in a few days to the cottage, confessed their
                  guilty delusion, and did all they could to repair the evil done. Thus, more
                  familiar acquaintance, on terms of amity and reciprocal alleviation, revealed,
                  what they had never before suspected, that the constitutional peculiarities of
                  each were necessary to the perfection of the whole.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               ALCOHOL THE UPAS-TREE TO SOUL AND BODY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "For he to drink had yielded up
                           His intellect and noble strength;
                           And now the demon of the cup,
                           Exulting, claimed his prey at length."
                        
                     
                     —TAPPAN.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "O, friend, that fainted in the noontide! first
                           In heaven thy fevered heart forgets to thirst."
                        
                     
                     MARY IRVING.
                  
               
               SO long was the delay of Miss Harcourt at Sylvan Creek, that she did not reach her
                  home in New York till a few days previous to the return of Douglass from England.
                  Their meeting was a sweet star shining upon a night of sorrow. Both were
                  overwhelmed with gloom, in all but their relations to each other,—Charles from
                  family affliction, and Sarah from the insanity of her father. He had not yet
                  recognized her as his daughter. He was constantly uneasy,—wanting something, he
                  knew not what,—and no expedient could be devised to compose his mind and body. He
                  would say to her, in thick and broken accents, "Madam, do you hear of my daughter?
                  Come, John, get my hat, cloak and staff; let us go and find Sarah."
               "Father, I am Sarah. Do you not know me, father?" replied his daughter, with tears
                  in her eyes.
               "Yes, ay, well; I must go and look for her. John, I tell you,"—waxing often very
                  furious,—"get me my cloak; harness the grays; come, we must be off!"
               To humor his freaks, the servant would do as he commanded, by which time he would
                  be on another tack, and there was no
                  conjecturing one moment what freak would take him the next. To Sarah he was a
                  living death,—a moving, breathing, and yet unconscious memento of perished joys.
                  O, sad, sad to feel death's shock in the mind before it touches the body,—the
                  quenched manhood, but the living animal! One power in Harcourt retained all its
                  original vigor, and but one,—that was his appetite for strong drink. That had
                  acquired force from his insanity. Nothing but physical restraint held him back
                  from instant death by the bottle. He seemed to crave it with an eager, insatiable
                  thirst; and they had to deal it out to him in stinted measure, as food to a
                  convalescent patient, his medical advisers deeming it unsafe to deny it to him
                  altogether.
               He had made free use of the cup from his early years; but, so long as his mind
                  retained its vigor, he never went beyond the bounds of genteel drinking. The man
                  controlled the animal so far as to keep him out of the gutter. He abhorred
                  drunkards more than most men. He had no charity for those who could not enjoy the
                  fruit of the vine without making beasts of themselves. He felt the more contempt
                  for them, perhaps, from the disrepute into which their excesses brought his own
                  habits. Drunkenness, as an argument against drinking, always nettled him. It was
                  assuming an affinity between the two; whereas, he insisted that they were as wide
                  apart as midnight and noon. Hence, he was unmerciful to drunkards, and would have
                  nothing to do with them.
               How little did he consider that the incessant contact of the alcoholic cautery
                  with his nerves, those organs through which the mind acts, was burning out its
                  foundation, and preparing the intellectual superstructure to fall with a crash.
                  The habitual use of alcohol through a course of years rarely fails to bring on
                  such a crisis, either to the soul or the body. No matter how genteel the use, no
                  matter how remote from what is called drunkenness, still the fire burns within,
                  and in the end will work its way out, to bring on a wreck and a crash in some
                  form, and to some extent.
               While Mr. Harcourt's mind controlled, he was a genteel drinker; but when that gave
                  way, the animal in him became supreme. There was nothing but the animal left. All
                  the forces of his being went to that; and, so terrible were his demonstrations of
                  physical force unguided by reason, that they were at length compelled to confine
                  him in a mad-house. Sarah did and endured with all a daughter's devotion, till her
                  own life was in peril; and it was not without many tears and misgivings that she
                  finally resigned him to those who could render his violence innoxious. Whereas,
                  the alcoholic madness of Charles' father was periodical, and not permanent, that
                  of Harcourt, though slow in coming, became the final condition of his earthly
                  being.
               To add to the affliction of this drinker's daughter, Marldon—their attorney—had
                  taken advantage of the insanity of his client, to cheat them out of their most
                  valuable possessions. The Terracegreen plantation was lost, through his neglect
                  and intemperance. After kindling the conflagration in Mapleton,—yea, after
                  instigating with his brandy-bottle the death of the good Mr. Littlefield, and of
                  Samuel Douglass by the hand of his father; yea, after precipitating the senior
                  Douglass upon his own death-bed in the midst of his days,—this miscreant, this
                  fugitive from justice, who had many times cheated the gallows of its rights,
                  returned home to learn De Lisle's trusteeship of an estate of which he desired so
                  much to have the fingering himself; and, from a mixture of avarice and revenge,
                  set himself to the task of embezzling so much of it as he could by any possibility
                  lay his hands upon. By forged documents
                  and false papers, which De Lisle had no means of disproving, in Mr. Harcourt's
                  present state of insanity, Marldon actually took away the maternal inheritance of
                  Sarah, one of the most valuable country-seats on the North River. She had left her
                  only her personal property, and stocks to a limited extent. This was an evil over
                  which she never shed a tear. Both she and Charles were afterwards convinced that
                  it was, upon the whole, the best thing for them. Though not what they would have
                  chosen, yet it relieved his ministry of a worldly burden that might have proved
                  fatal to its success. A rich minister and a poor people are social
                  incongruities.
               Douglass staid in New York but a few days; long enough, however, more than ever to
                  reciprocate with Sarah the feeling that they belonged to a kingdom not of this
                  world; and that, to drunkard's children at least, there is here nothing but
                  tribulation, whatever of peace there may be for them in heaven. But, the more they
                  were cut off from other resources, the more they were endeared to each other, and
                  the greater seemed the privilege before them of living to do good. They entered
                  into a solemn compact to spend their days in opposing the drinking usages and
                  liquor traffic, and in doing all they could to alleviate others who should suffer
                  as they had and their families. The sad experience of multitudes is what has given
                  intensity to the temperance movement hitherto, and made it so effectual in the
                  lower strata of society.
               When Charles reached home he found his father out of prison, but in the last
                  stages of consumption. The emaciated father reached out his shrivelled arms and
                  clasped his son, his first-born, and pressed him to his bosom with the warm glow
                  of affections mellowed and purified by approaching death. "O, my son!" he said, "I
                  die in peace, now that I have received you once more to my arms!"
               "My dearest father," said Charles, bursting into tears; "have you suffered all
                  this?"
               "O, yes; but none too much, because my heavenly Father saw that nothing less would
                  conquer my enemy, and reclaim to himself a wayward child. Sweet affliction, sweet
                  affliction, that brings my Saviour near!"
               Charles was not prepared for the ravages which disease had made in his father's
                  strong constitution. It overwhelmed him, and he felt that he must die, too. That
                  noble father, with a mind originally of the highest order, with affections warm
                  and generous, refined and polished by education and cultivated society, whose life
                  had opened with the promise of adorning the high places of influence, thus cut
                  down and withered in the prime of his manhood, by the alcoholic worm at the root,
                  seemed to him—seemed to every one who contemplated the scene, in connection with
                  the license law and the criminal causes which had precipitated the evil—too much
                  to be endured. Alas! alas! how long ere this Moloch shall fail of his victims?
               "Weep not, my son," said the dying man. "Rather rejoice that your father has
                  emerged from the wilderness in which he has so long wandered, to enter into a
                  society without these temptations. My mind is healed, Charles. The body is dead,
                  but the phoenix rises from its ashes;—yes, Charles, the phoenix rises from its
                  ashes. The animal dies, but the man lives. The appetite is gone,—that canker of my
                  life, that blight of our home,—gone forever, thanks to my adorable Saviour! I have
                  the victory. My mind was never so clear, my heart never so light. My conscience
                  was never so pure, cleansed in atoning blood; and now heaven beams full upon my view. Dear Sammy is there
                  waiting to receive that father by whose hand he died."
               "O, I cannot part with you, father! It is too much, it is too much!" said Charles,
                  whose childish feelings seemed to gush up, and he felt that he could not part with
                  one so tenderly beloved.
               "My son, do not break your heart!" said his mother. "Do not think your father
                  beside himself in speaking thus. All he says, and much more, is true. His soul's
                  life he finds in his body's death. His heart's warmest affections, purified by
                  divine grace, now gush forth, to leave with us all the richest inheritance that
                  could be bequeathed to a family. That bitter root of appetite, which has hitherto
                  yielded such a fruitage of woes, is dead; and now the good, the noble in him
                  blooms alone."
               It is a remarkable fact, that from the day of his son's death Mr. Douglass had not
                  felt one desire of the cup,—no, not though alcohol was daily used about his person
                  to lubricate the skin and relieve the obstructed pores. He was thrown into prison
                  for the crime of murder. Here he suffered so much in mind that his health gave
                  way, and a hectic was induced. He gave himself much to prayer, and to the reading
                  of the Holy Scriptures. His wife also supplied him with such books as she deemed
                  best suited to his case. Through these instrumentalities, his mind was restored to
                  a perfectly healthy state. He felt himself forgiven, through a gracious Mediator.
                  He did not doubt his acceptance with God, nor did others who saw him. His mind
                  assumed its normal state, and a healthy, quiet, peaceful, unexcited and resigned
                  feeling of submission to divine Providence ensued.
               He was not a little comforted and edified in prison by the visits of Patrick
                  Tooney, who, the reader will be surprised to learn, had returned to the town, and
                  had become as one alive from the dead. Two of his daughters had remained there,
                  supporting themselves by the needle; and through the influence of that good man,
                  Mr. Littlefield, had been instructed in the truth, and admitted to the church.
                  Their father, after utterly exhausting the forces of soul and body in dissipation,
                  returned to live out of their earnings. This was his salvation; for these good
                  daughters set about the work of his reformation in good earnest, not only inducing
                  him to take the temperance pledge, but insured his keeping it by perpetual
                  watchfulness, till his constitution of body and mind underwent a radical change,
                  and he too had become a Christian and a church-member. He had been originally bred
                  to the tailoring business, and had now become the Mapleton tailor, and one of the
                  most prosperous mechanics in town. This man's visits were a real comfort to Mr.
                  Douglass.
               "I, Mr. Tooney," he would say to him, "get nothing out of the alcoholic wreck but
                  the soul, the principal part. But what a miracle of grace, that you should get
                  both soul and body!"
               "It's marcy! marcy, all marcy!" said Tooney, with the tears of gratitude
                  glistening in his eyes. He protested that his life was for the most part a blank;
                  that he had no recollection of beating his wife to death, and that his
                  resurrection was like a dream to him, or like an event which had occurred in
                  another planet. Thus our country is full of madmen at large, and will be, till a
                  stringent legislation places the cup beyond their reach, and restores them to
                  sanity.
               When put upon his trial, Douglass insisted, at first, that he would plead guilty.
                  The fact was clear that he had killed his son, and why should he deny it?
               "But that does not make it certain that you are a murderer derer," said his counsel. "The killing must be with
                  malice aforethought, to make it murder. And can you, as an honest man, Mr.
                  Douglass, affirm that?"
               "No, I cannot," he replied, "but the law, I believe, construes it so, when the
                  killing is induced by one's voluntary act in drinking to intoxication. Many a
                  drunkard has been hung for killing with as little malice aforethought as I had.
                  And why should I be made an exception? The sentence of death is upon me, and what
                  matters it whether it be inflicted by the hand of man or the providence of
                  God?"
               "It matters much to your family, my dear," said Mrs. Douglass. "The wife and
                  children of a man hung,—think of that! If you was really a murderer, then we ought
                  to submit. But, my dear George, you are not; you know you are not. You have no
                  more consciousness than I have of killing our dear Sammy. And, is it right for you
                  to plead to a lie, because the law sometimes uses it as a pretext for hanging a
                  man?"
               "No, no, Mr. Douglass," added his lawyer, "drinking a glass of brandy, bad as it
                  is, is not murder; and you know that act deprived you of your moral agency. And
                  can a mere physical or animal agent be guilty of the crime of murder?"
               "No, you mistake," said Mr. Douglass; "it was not the drinking, but
                  the contact of the brandy, that made me insane. Had not madness been
                  induced by this contact, I should not have drank at all."
               These considerations induced him to plead not guilty. The state then
                  proceeded to prove the facts of Samuel Douglass' death, just as they were; which
                  they had no difficulty in doing. The defence set up the plea of insanity, and
                  witnesses were adduced to prove that alcohol invariably deprived the prisoner at
                  the bar of his reason, and that it was during the madness thus induced that the
                  killing took place. This also was an easy process.
               The state plead, that a man knowing such to be the effect upon him of taking a
                  beverage, narcotic, or article of diet, is in law responsible for all the
                  consequences which ensue from taking it; that half the murders were committed
                  under the alcoholic excitement; and that, on the principle set up by the defence,
                  law has no redress for the greater portion of crimes on its docket. It must leave
                  society to the depredations of this self-induced madness. The prisoner at the bar
                  was not only bound in law not to kill with malice aforethought, but
                  not to put himself into a state to endanger his fellow-man in property, limb, or
                  life. If he has put himself into that state, and has taken the life of his son as
                  a consequence, he stands before the law as a murderer, and the jury is bound to
                  give a verdict accordingly.
               The defence, on the contrary, thought it a poor redress for the state to hang men
                  who, according to its own showing, had by their own act ceased to be moral agents;
                  and that it could have no more effect to deter others from crime, who became
                  insane in the same way, than killing an ox that gores a man to death can deter
                  other oxen from doing the same. Is the sacrifice of irresponsible agents a redress
                  to civil law? Is there any redress known to that law which is not a preventive to
                  crime? If we hang men for the act of killing, during the paroxysms of alcoholic
                  insanity, because that insanity was induced by their voluntary act in drinking,
                  what is it but hanging them for getting drunk? And yet the state provides by law
                  and by license the means of getting the people drunk, wholesale and retail; and it
                  seemed to the defence cruel, after all this, for the state to hang men for
                  drinking,—hang them for buying at its licensed tippling-shops! It thought,
                     therefore fore, the jury could not,
                  in justice to the laws, in justice to the state, or in justice to the body
                  politic, give a verdict of guilty against George Douglass, the prisoner at the
                  bar.
               As the court was about to commit the cause to the jury, the prisoner was asked
                  whether he had anything further to say. Whereupon, Mr. Douglass rose deliberately,
                  and looked around on the court and spectators with great composure. His tall,
                  manly person, brilliant eye, and eminently intellectual expression, emaciated as
                  he was by disease and pale with confinement, impressed every one with his personal
                  dignity and superiority to any who were sitting in judgment upon his life.
               "May it please the Court and Gentlemen of the Jury," he said, deliberately and
                  coolly, "little did I think that I should come to this. Born of parents who were
                  able and ambitious to give their son the best education the country affords, I had
                  advantages above most others for reaching a widely different destiny from that to
                  which I seem to be doomed. The affluence in which I was cradled was my ruin. I was
                  made to believe that it was manly to take a social glass. I fell in with
                  companions, at college and elsewhere, who nourished in me this delusion. Our
                  potations were deep, our revels boisterous. I studied law, but left my profession
                  to look after my father's business, which was of a nature to keep the poisoned cup
                  ever before me. I drank till I had supplied the place of a natural repugnance to
                  strong drink with a maddened appetite, which defied control with the article
                  within my reach.
               "Your Honors, and Gentlemen of the Jury, the state would hold me responsible for
                  the consequences of drinking, on the ground of my knowledge of them beforehand.
                  This seems specious. Yet my experience assures me that the madness does not begin
                  with drinking, but with the causes that lead to it. It dates from personal contact
                  with alcohol, accompanied with the conciousness of the option to drink or not
                  drink. My wife saw the state of the case, and advised me to flee to a country
                  where society had not yet introduced my enemy. I listened to her advice, and
                  brought my family into this then wilderness country. For a few years we lived here
                  in security and peace. We prospered in the world, and acquired a competence. But
                  the state then located one of its licensed grog-shops near my door. I guarded
                  against the danger for months. My family stood sentinel around me," and, as he
                  said this, his chin quivered and the tears rolled down his manly face. "I
                  fortified myself with resolutions and prayers, knowing that my life and that of my
                  family were involved.
               "But, your Honors and Gentlemen of the Jury, my enemy subdued my strong-holds, and
                  led me in chains. I was surprised into the trap that the state had set for me,—I
                  say this in no spirit of recrimination,—and the moment I was there all my motives
                  to virtue perished. I was occupied with an inward feeling,—call it what you
                  please,—that absorbed my whole being. Wife, children, reputation, life, were
                  nothing to it. Had your gallows then presented itself in perspective, with myself
                  hanging upon it as a consequence of drinking, it would not have deterred me. That
                  was the beginning of my insanity; that is the beginning of my insanity in every
                  case. The contact is the conquest of my enemy over me.
               "In reference to the crime on which you are now to adjudicate, your Honors and
                  Gentlemen of the Jury, it is due to myself and family, yea, to justice and the
                  public, to say that I had for months kept under my great enemy, till a new
                  acquaintance, from no good motive, brought into my field, from our town groggery,
                  a bottle of brandy. That produced the madness ness which fired our destructive conflagration,
                  which led to the death of our worthy pastor, and which struck my own dear son dead
                  through a father's hand!" Here again his tears fell, and his utterance was
                  slightly obstructed; but he soon regained his wonted composure. "On my return; I
                  felt that I was pursued by dreadful creatures, which led me to arm myself with the
                  lever; and, as I approached my door, I thought I saw a cluster of poisonous
                  serpents all intertwined, writhing, hissing and darting at me, when I dealt at
                  them a blow. A huge monster then seemed to be coming at me, of the crocodile
                  genus, covered with great scales, with fiery eyes and open mouth, to swallow me
                  up. A dreadful terror came over me, and, to protect myself, I struck my lever at
                  it with all my might. I was then seized by giants (I give my own impressions), and
                  verily believed the hour of my doom had come. My fears and feelings overpowered
                  me, and I recollect no more till the next morning. When I came to myself, I was
                  weak, bruised, and felt more dead than alive. Soon my dear wife came, and, like a
                  ministering angel, began in her quiet way to soothe my feelings and alleviate my
                  sufferings. I said to her, 'My dear, why is your head bound up?' 'Never mind,' she
                  said, 'you are sick, and we must take care of you.' 'Call the boys to help me up,'
                  I said. My wife stepped out, and soon returned with my elder son George, when I
                  asked, 'Where is Samuel?' She waived an answer, and I had not the remotest idea of
                  our dear Samuel's death, till the sheriff came to apprehend me. Then I saw that
                  the love of those to whom I had made myself most unlovely had drawn a veil over
                  the sad event, to save me from the torments which I have since endured, and which
                  a hundred deaths on the gallows cannot equal." The court and jury were much moved
                  by this recital, and the numerous auditory were bathed in tears.
               "Think not that I detail these facts to screen myself. No, your Honors and
                  Gentlemen of the Jury, it is too late for me to hope for anything this side of
                  death. But, in justice to the state and its legislators, in justice to the
                  executors of the law, in justice to the mass of the people, the source of law and
                  power, in justice to others whose misfortune it is to lose the command of
                  themselves through the drinking customs of society, yea, as a sacrifice on the
                  altar of truth, the last I shall ever make in this public manner, I do affirm that
                  the state of mind which produced what your laws call murder did not result, in my
                  case, from the act of drinking, but from the previous steps taken, under authority
                  of the state, to insure that act. It resulted from the licensed hand that held the
                  cup to my lips. As a dying man, I leave this my true, my faithful testimony,
                  hoping and praying that it may lead to more just views on this subject, and to a
                  final withdrawal of the means of drinking from that unhappy class to whom it is an
                  unfailing incentive to crime. I do it to save the state from the inhumanity of
                  first instigating the crime, and then punishing the criminal."
               This speech thrilled upon the audience like a voice from eternity. The judges and
                  lawyers, who had plead earnestly against the constitutionality of the Maine Law,
                  felt themselves in an awkward position, hanging a man for acting out the insanity
                  which the constitution had produced within him! It is hard to convince a man
                  against the fixed course of his ideas. The court, therefore, repressed the
                     unconstitutional sympathy which they felt rising in their
                  hearts.
               "It does seem rather a hard constitution," said one judge to another, in a low
                  voice.
               
               "Yes," replied the other, "but constitutions are a mere reflection of the
                  fundamental principles of law and of liberty. Whatever the constitution is, these,
                  I take it, would be violated, if we denied a man the privilege of buying the means
                  to get drunk when he pleased. And those who abuse to purposes of crime the
                  parental care of the state, in providing for this by the license law, we have only
                  to imprison or hang."
               The court charged according to the sentiments of the last judge. But the jurors
                  said, in their quaint way of reasoning among themselves, that they thought it
                  would be wrong to hang a man on the constitution who had been made a
                  criminal by the constitution. Hence, they brought in a verdict of NOT
                  GUILTY. Thus the afflicted but now triumphant Douglass was allowed the only boon
                  he had to ask—the privilege of dying in the bosom of his family!
            
            FINIS.
         
      
   
