
    ----CITATION----
        W. D., (1808-1882). Ligan .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6324
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               LIGAN: 
               A COLLECTION OF TALES AND ESSAYS. 
             
            BY W. D.
             
            NINETY-NINE COPIES PRINTED. 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               MERRIHEW & THOMPSON, PRINTERS.
             
            1857. 
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               The African Fancy Ball. 5
                
               Erostratus, 11
                
               Verbal Criticisms, 21
                
               Passages from the Papers of the late George Lepner, 30
                
               Extracts from the Diary of a Whig, 36
                
               Readings on Shenstone, 42
                
               The Military Excursion, 49
                
               Our Given Names, 58
                
               Chips and Shavings, 66
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Ligan 
             
             
            LIGAN. 
             
               THE AFRICAN FANCY BALL. 
               (From the Philadelphia Monthly Magazine for April, 1828.) 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Now see prepared to lead the sprightly dance, 
                           The lovely nymphs and well-dressed youths advance; 
                           The spacious room receives its jovial guest, 
                           And the floor shakes with pleasing weight opprest: 
                           Thick ranged, on every side, with various dyes, 
                           The fair in glossy silks our sight surprise; 
                           So in a garden bathed with genial showers, 
                           A thousand sorts of variegated flowers, 
                           Jonquils, carnations, pinks and tulips rise, 
                           And in a gay confusion charm our eyes. 
                        
                      
                     Art of Dancing, Canto II. 
                   
                
               A few days after the Fancy Ball, given by the Managers of the City Dancing Assembly, a report was extensively circulated that the ladies and gentlemen of color, excited by a laudable spirit of emulation, were about to amuse themselves by tripping "on the light fantastic toe" in the characters of Queens, Fairies and Graces, Kings, Dukes and Cupids. But, although no doubt was entertained that a ball was in contemplation, no two persons could agree where it was to take place. Whilst one appropriately laid the scene in Ball Alley, another "from the most undoubted authority" assured his auditors that the offer of the New Theatre had been made by Mr. Warren, and accepted by the managers of the proposed ball, it being resolved to let the boxes to spectators, and divide the proceeds in equal proportions between twenty superannuated white-washers and the new performers from London. 
               The public was still undecided, when it was made known, about the beginning of March, that the ball had been held on the 28th of February, at Mr. August's rooms, in Fourth street near Chestnut, in the immediate vicinity of gentility and first circle-ship. 
               A meeting of the friends of the ball was held on the 20th of February, and three gentlemen and three ladies, who have resided for fifty years within sight and smell of Apollo street, were selected as a committee to decide upon applications for admission, having received instructions to furnish no person with tickets who could not trace his pedigree as far back as his mother at least. Messrs. Johnson and Murray's services were secured for the selection of a suitable orchestra, and Messrs. Bogle and Shepherd, with that politeness which distinguishes them, announced their willingness to attend, under the direction of the managers, to the arrival and departure of the carriages. 
               Quaminy Brown, Tiberius Fosset and Antoninus Fletcher, married men, and Marmaduke Matthews, Jesse Anderson and Augustus Copper, bachelors, were chosen managers without opposition. A motion to add three managers from the widowers met with so little countenance from the bachelors present that it was withdrawn. 
               With respect to the price of admission much difference of opinion prevailed, and it was at first resolved to value gentlemen's tickets at three dollars, one hall to be returned in refreshments. The addition of a supper being afterwards agreed upon, the price was advanced to five dollars, and the purchaser of a gentleman's ticket was to be entitled to three ladies' tickets. A resolution to invite such of the officers of the army and navy of Hayti as were known to be in town was carried by acclamation. 
               The meeting then adjourned, the managers retiring to a smaller room to enter upon the performance of their duties, and the other gentlemen returning home to give an account of their proceedings to the fair sex, and to provide costumes for the much expected evening. 
               As might readily be imagined, Cedar and New-Market wards, Southwark, Moyamensing and Passyunk were in great commotion upon the occasion. Never did Little Pine Street take so deep an interest in any event. From morning till night nothing was to be seen but belles and beaux bearing bundles of "costumes"; second-hand clothes rose fifty per cent., and the gentlemen of the three golden balls, licensed and unlicensed, made most unlicensed profits, There was no danger that the needles of Messrs. Appo and Sammons would rust for want of employment; and what advance was made in the price of perfumery, Mr. Cassey can best tell. 
               In the meantime the managers were not idle. In addition to their individual preparations, they had to make arrangements with cooks and confectioners, and to engage waiters and musicians, all of which was accomplished in three days. On the fourth, the committee of ladies and gentlemen who were appointed to receive applications for tickets, made a report, accompanied by a list of such gentlemen as were found worthy of admission. It is hardly necessary to state that their conscientious discharge of the task of examining the pedigrees laid before them caused much ill-will in the unsuccessful. 
               The managers, having received the list, lost no time in distributing tickets, accompanying each with three ladies' tickets, and a caution to bestow them upon none but persons of the first respectability. 
               The twenty-eighth of February at length arrived. Happy the footmen and chambermaids whose masters and mistresses could dispense with their services all the afternoon and evening! Thrice happy they whose leave of absence was accompanied with a pair of old silk stockings or the loan of a paste breastpin! The boot-blacks with one accord closed their cellars, and there was not a porter to be seen in all Market street. Showers of hair powder began to fall in the vicinity of Shippen and Sixth streets at four o'clock. Then commenced the creaking of whalebone and the snapping of corset laces. How many tender hearts were palpitating beneath those corsets with the hope of conquest and the joyful flutter of "coming out"! 
               The company began to assemble at half-past seven, and curiosity to see the result of the managers' arrangements overcame the fashionable fear of being too early. To judge of the encomiums bestowed upon the effects of those gentlemen's taste, never were managers so successful. Upon the floor was pictured in charcoal a map of Africa, designed by Mr. Quaminy Brown, representing in one part the Abolition Society benevolently breaking the shackles of the negroes. In the centre appeared the Alms-House, with a distant view of the New Penitentiary and the House of Refuge; whilst on the left of the picture was displayed a vessel about to sail to Liberia with a cargo of Africans, embarking for their fatherland. Had Miss Frances Wright announced her "Amalgamation" project a few months earlier, it is highly probable that she would have formed a part of the design. 
               With regard to the company it would be an invidious task to particularize where all was excellent. Suffice it to say that in splendor and variety of dresses the ball was fully equal to that given by the whites. It is true they had nothing like "Fifteen Hamlets," but there were at least thirty Macbeths, all in the true kilt. An exception to our rule of silence must be made in favor of Col. Sebastian Shapely of the Haytian army, whose easy manners and fascinating address gave all the ladies and gentlemen present a favorable opinion of the state of society in that island. We should not be considered as, faithful historians if we omitted mentioning that the old lady who supplies the lovers of chestnuts and apples, in the vicinity of Chestnut and Fourth streets, with those luxuries, was perfectly at home in the character of the Queen of Sheba. 
                
               After dancing cotillions until twelve o'clock, lemonade and other light refreshments were handed to the ladies, whilst brown paper and sugar were burnt preparatory to the. commencement of the waltzes, which lasted until three in the morning, when supper was announced. And now a difficulty arose which called all the conciliating abilities of the managers into play. The mustee ladies insisted upon sitting above the mulattoes, and these asserted their right to take place above the blacks. A compromise was made upon the suggestion of Mr. Quaminy Brown, that the changes should be rung upon black, mustee and mulatto, an arrangement which gave general satisfaction, as the supper was getting cold during the progress of the argument. 
               The cravings of hunger being allayed, waltzing was resumed and kept up until five o'clock, when the company began to retire, highly pleased upon the whole with the amusements of the evening, and proposing, should their masters and mistresses approve of it, to let no winter pass in future without an African Fancy Ball. 
               P. S. I think it my duty to contradict the report that Bishop Allen was present as Cardinal Wolsey. Nothing could be more entirely destitute of foundation. 
             
             
                
               EROSTRATUS. 
               (From the Southern Literary Messenger for July, 1839) 
                
                  I. 
                  Early in the afternoon of an autumn day, in the first year of the hundred and fifth Olympiad, the keeper of the light-house, which then marked the entrance to the harbor of Ephesus, announced the approach of a vessel, which from its size and proportions he decided to be from Corinth
                        I have more than half a suspicion now that Corinth is not a sea-port but I let it stand as it was written.
                      or Athens. Crowded, as the port of Diana's favorite city at that time was, with sails from every maritime town in the Mediterranean where commerce was cultivated, the arrival of a vessel was an event of hourly occurrence, yet the news of the approach of this spread rapidly through the city. The magistrate left the bench, the merchant forsook his warehouse and the mechanic dropped his tools. All hastened to the quay. It was expected that this vessel brought the news of the results of the Olympic games. With such rapidity the lusty rowers plied their oars that the most experienced eye could not decide whether the approaching bark carried three or four banks. The helmsman was singing the prize verses of the games, in which all the oarsmen joined at intervals as a chorus. Soon she neared sufficiently for the pilots, who stood upon an eminence, to decide that she was the Sphynx of Corinth. She presently came within speaking distance, and the name of the victor in the poetic contest was demanded. "Leonidas of Mgara" was the reply. Other questions succeeded, until the Sphynx was moored in the harbor, and then followed, amidst the embraces of friends and relatives, more minute enquiries and particular replies touching the events of the games, which then excited an interest in every land where the Greek tongue was spoken, of which the moderns can form but little conception. Preparations for the customary sacrifices to Diana of the Ephesians, Neptune and the winds, in grateful return for the prosperous voyage, were quickly made. 
                
                
                  II. 
                  The crowds which shortly before crowded the spacious quays had nearly all dispersed, when a young man, for whom no one appeared to wait, and who had sought no one in the joyful multitude, stepped on shore, bearing all his baggage in a small scrip. His countenance wore an expression of the deepest melancholy, which could not have escaped notice had not the sighs which broke from his breast and the half dried tears which stained his cheeks sufficiently testified that his bosom shared none of the general joy. Instead of seeking his home he bent his steps along the quays and shortly gained the suburb, passing rapidly through which, he sought the open country. Here throwing himself upon the ground, he gave way to the most passionate expressions of sorrow. "Cursed folly," he exclaimed, "that induced me to believe that glory was to be obtained by merit, and that the applauses of the crowd could be won by him who has no gold in his purse to purchase their praises. Cursed be the books of the philosophers which teach-." 
                  "Erostratus," exclaimed a young man, who, unobserved, had approached and gazed on him with astonishment, "what mischance has so disordered you that instead of seeking your friend's house, I find you embracing our mother earth and outshining our first tragedians? Is this a specimen of some successful drama which you have been composing, or-"Metazulis" said Erostratus, "cease these ill-timed pleasantries. I have just returned from the Olympic games."-"I know it, "interrupted Metazulis. "I was from home when the Sphynx arrived, and had I not learned from our neighbor Polisphercon that you and he had been fellow passengers I should have assured myself that the charms of Corinth had proved stronger than your patriotism. Excuse my interruption and pardon a friend's enquiring why those tears? why this anguish? Have you returned without that heart which you once vowed to Diana should never leave your keeping, and without the blue-eyed maiden who has robbed you of it?" "No, Metazulis," replied his friend, forcing a melancholy smile, "my heart is safe as though blue-eyed maidens had never been, but I went to Olympia, puffed up with the senseless expectation of gracing my brow with the wreath of poetry, which now encircles the head of a wealthy churl who feasted the judges. His name is celebrated through the cities of Greece; mine is unmentioned tioned, save as that of the deluded Ephesian who dared to put his doggrel in competition with the rich strains of the rich Leonidas. But I forever forswear-." "Forswear nothing," cried Metazulis. "Be not discouraged by a single failure. The next judges may be honester, and in four years the strengthened wings of your muse will achieve higher flights." "And Leonidas may become richer," said Erostratus. "How often, how often," said Metazulis, "have I to censure my friend's faint heart, discouraged at the slightest disappointment! Who ever swam a river at a single stroke? Make my house your home Let poetry continue your study. My sister's lyre shall accompany your odes. We will strive to put off the partiality of friends, and play the critics upon your works. I warrant not a spot shall meet the eye in the next production you lay before the Olympic Judges." Putting his arm into that of Erostratus, who offered no resistance, he led him to the city. 
                
                
                  III. 
                  Henceforth the streets of Ephesus rarely echoed to the footsteps of Erostratus. Immured in the house of the friendly Metazulis, his whole soul was occupied with the ardent hope of gaining the prize for poetry at the next Olympic games. The encouragement of Metazulis and Lesbia had fanned into a flame the spark of ambition not to be extinguished in his breast. Every day did his impatience increase, and nightly, upon retiring to his couch, would he reckon that a day less was between him and immortal glory. The poems and odes which fell from his pen fell not faster than they were wedded to music by the enthusiastic Lesbia. Unhappy Lesbia! it was not in thy nature to behold such kindred genius and remain unmoved! A fire was in thy breast, bright and unquenchable, save by death! Poor Lesbia! her admiration of the poet blinded her to the most glaring defects of the poetry, and the living Erostratus whom she daily saw seemed to her superior to all the poets who had sung since the days of Deucalion. 
                  Four years rolled by in poetry, music, and-though neither seemed conscious of it-in love. The hymn to Ceres, upon which Erostratus now builds his hopes, is completed and pronounced perfect by Metazulis and Lesbia. Lesbia gives her brother and his friend the parting embrace, and, with her scarf, waves them, again and again, farewell from the terraced roof. She is not to see Erostratus again until his brows are shaded with the crown of victory. Prosperous winds wafted on their course Erostratus and his friend, who had left his home and his sister, io share with his adopted brother the first triumphs of success. A few days were spent in luxurious Corinth by the travellers, and, postponing a more ample view until their return, they departed for Olympia, where they arrived after a journey which to Erostratus seemed to occupy an age. 
                
                
                  IV. 
                  With the usual ceremonies the games were opened, and the first, second, and third days devoted to chariot races, and the athletic exercises. The fourth day was assigned to the claimants of the palm for poesy. Erostratus was the first competitor who rose. His feelings at first overpowered him, but a look from Metazulis, a burst of applause from the countless multitude, and, more than all, a thought of the moment when he should lay the mead of victory at the feet of Lesbia, encouraged him. His voice was at first low and indistinct, but, as the plaudits increased, he became more animated, and towards the close, the delivery was worthy of the poem. The hymn being ended, the lengthened shouts dispelled all fear of failure from his mind and he fancied he already felt the olive wreath upon his temples. A single competitor appeared to contest with him the prize, many having withdrawn upon the conclusion of his ode. Cratinus of Plata arose as soon as the applause began to subside. Four times had the crown been decreed to Cratinus, and he now aspired a fifth time to that honor. The hitherto unconquered Cratinus began, and scarcely had he recited twenty lines when even Metazulis admitted in his heart the superiority of this poem to that of his friend. Cratinus was loudly cheered, and in justice would have been more so, had not a large portion of the audience been prepossessed in favor of Erostratus. Applause well merited followed the conclusion of the Judgment of Paris, (such was the theme of Cratinus,) and then a breathless silence succeeded whilst the judges compared their opinions. We cannot describe the anxiety of Erostratus in this interval. He trembled, a cold sweat bedewed his body, and leaning upon the breast of his friend, his life seemed to hang upon the decision. The presiding judge at length arose and delivered livered the award. The crown was decreed to Cratinus; and Erostratus fell senseless in Metazulis' arms. For a long time he remained insensible, and his friend was beginning to fear that his hopes and his life had terminated together, when he began to revive; but having murmured "the crown, the crown," he fell into a second swoon. So great an effect had the destruction of his long cherished hopes produced upon him that for some days there appeared scarcely a possibility of his recovery. During this time Metazulis wrote to his sister the following letter: 
                  "Weep with me, Lesbia. Our friend has failed. Cratinus of Plata has obtained the prize. Erostratus is dangerously ill. The physicians bid me hope; I have none. Should he recover from the fever which now threatens to terminate his life, what a life will be his! If contrary to my expectation he should survive this shock may our love to him be redoubled! Let it be on care to smooth his path to the grave, which, broken-hearted as he is, can be but short. Farewell." 
                
                
                  V. 
                  The medical attendants were not disappointed. A month having elapsed, Erostratus left the couch of sickness, but another passed by before Metazulis thought his strength sufficient to warrant his proposing their return. Erostratus made no opposition. The love he felt for Lesbia (with which the ravings of his delirium had acquainted Metazulis) urged his "return, although he felt that he scarcely dared appear pear before her. The task of diverting his mind from the sad recollections which occupied it was painful and difficult. Metazulis proposed visiting the curiosities of nature and the celebrated works of art which lay contiguous to their route. To this Erostratus made no objection, but his eye, once so delighted with all that was beautiful and sublime, now gazed on them without pleasure. Metazulis left Corinth in the first vessel which departed, anxious to see his sister, and to bear his friend from Greece, where everything conspired to bring to his mind his failures. Far different were the feelings with which Erostratus had Centered Corinth and now bade it a final farewell. They reached Ephesus. Metazulis found some of his domestics awaiting his return; but what was their anxiety, their horror, upon finding the house closed and the door posts marked with the insignia of death! They hastily opened the door. All is silence and desolation. Erostratus rushes to the sitting room, where he had parted from Lesbia. Metazulis following, arrives to see him fall senseless upon the couch whereon reposed the dead body of his sister, at whose head sat the motionless domestics, muttering the prayers for departed. 
                
                
                  VI. 
                  In a month after the ashes of Lesbia had been con signed to the tomb, those of Metazulis were laid beside them. The wealth of Metazulis was now the property of Erostratus, but could gold purchase peace for his anguished soul? Never was he seen to smile, and his solitary hours (and how few of his hours were not solitary?) were passed in grief and lamentation. The love of immortality remained inextinguishable in his breast, and he resolved upon an achievement which should give his name a place in the page of history; and in the moments of his phrenzy he imagined that the name of Lesbia would appear in the record with his, and that this would be accepted by her shade as an atonement on his part for the fate in which her love for him had involved her. In the middle of a dark and tempetuous night, he applied a torch to that temple, the boast of Ephesus, the wonder of the world! The Greek historians of after days asserted that the goddess was in Macedon attending to the birth of Alexander. Her fane was destroyed and reduced to a mass of blackened ruin. Erostratus unhesitatingly avowed himself the incendiary, and the rack could force no reply from him but the cry "I did it for immortality." He was condemned to be burnt to death, and expired in the most dreadful torture, with a smile upon his countenance and the name of Lesbia upon his lips. The magistrates, lest his desire of immortal memory should be gratified, denounced death upon all who should pronounce his name, that it might be blotted out forever. 
                   
                   
                  About twenty years subsequently, a citizen of Ephesus and his friend from Athens were walking upon the shore of the sea, a few miles from the former city. There were a number of young Ephesians exercising themselves in athletic sports upon the sands, at whom they looked for awhile and then passed on. After a few steps they stopped to examine something over which the sea was breaking near the shore. A few human bones blackened and mouldering met their gaze. "Near this spot" said the Ephesian, "We burnt Erostratus. "Who was he?" replied the Athenian, "I do not remember to have ever heard of him." The Ephesian made no reply, but hurried his friend on board a small fishing boat and put to sea. It was long before the Athenian could obtain an explanation of this singular conduct from his agitated friend. The Ephesian at length reminded him of the edict and avowed that the forbidden name had escaped his lips and been overheard by the youths who were near them. A vessel bound to Greece picked them up. The Ephesian settled in Attica, never daring to return to his native country. The greater portion of the incidents recorded above were communicated by him to his friend, and the tale, corroborated by others, became well known throughout Greece; but at Ephesus no one for centuries dared to utter the forbidden name of Erostratus. 
                
             
             
                
               VERBAL CRITICISMS. 
               (From the Southern Literary Messenger for May 1836. Jan. 1837, and April 1839.) 
               
                  Guessing and Reckoning.-Right merry have the people of England made themselves at the expense of us their younger brethren of this side of the Atlantic, for the manner in which we are wont to use the verbs to guess and to reckon. But they have unjustly chided us there for, since it would not be difficult to find, in many of the British Classics of more than a century's standing, instances of the use of these words precisely in the American manner. In the perusal of Lock's Essay on Education a short time since, I noticed the word guess used three times in our way. In section 28 he says, "Once in four and twenty hours is enough, and nobody, I guess, will think it too much;" again in section 167, "But yet, I guess, this is not to be done with children whilst very young, nor at their entrance upon any sort of knowledge;" and again in section 174, "And he whose design it is to excel in English poetry, would not, I guess, think the way to it was to make his first essay in Latin verses." 
               Was John Locke a Yankee? or have the people of the United States preserved one of the meanings of the verb to guess which has become obsolete in England? 
               In several passages of the English version of the New Testament, the word reckon is used as the people in many parts of the United States are in the habit of using it. In the Epistle to the Romans, chapter 8, verse 18, is an instance: "For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us." 
               "Take and tell."-"If you do so I will take and tell father," such is the constant language of children. What will they take? Is the expression a contraction of some obsolete phrases? Who can tell me if it is to be met with in print. 
               
                  Had have.-I have for some time since noticed this corruption in conversation. It has lately crept into print. Here are instances of it. "Had I have gone, I should not have met her." "If I had have been at the sale I would not have bought it at that price." I have a suspicion that a rapid pronunciation of "would have," "should have," and "could have," has given rise to this; "I'd have gone," "I'd have come," and similar phrases have probably introduced it, the contraction answering as well for had as would, could and should. It is very awkward and incorrect. 
               
                  Fully equal.-This is a tautologuous expression in constant use. "This work is fully equal to its predecessor." The writer means to say that the last work is equal to the first; but what is the use of the fully, unless there can be an equality which is not full and perfect? 
               
                  Eventuate.-The editor of Coleridge's Table Talk very justly denounces this Americanism. He says it is to be met with in Washington Irving's Tour to the Prairies. If so, so much the worse for the book. It is a barbarism. "I pray you avoid it." We do not need the word, so that it cannot be sneaked in, under the plea of necessity. The English verb to result means all, I presume, that the fathers of eventuate design that it shall mean. If we may coin eventuate from event, why not processiate from process, contemptiate from contempt, excessiate from excess, and a hundred more, all as useful and elegant as eventuate?
                
               
                  Directly.-Many of the English writers of the present day use this word in a manner inelegant and unsanctioned, I am convinced, by any standard author. They appear to think that it has the same meaning as "as soon as." For instance: "The troops were dismissed directly the General had reviewed them." "The House of Lords adjourned directly this important bill had passed." l am happy to find that writers in this country have not fallen into it. 
               
                  Mutual.-When persons speak of an individual's being a mutual friend of two others who perhaps may not know each other, they attach a meaning to the word mutual which does not belong to it. A and B may be mutual friends, but how C can be-the mutual friend of A and B it is difficult to comprehend. Where is the mutuality in this case? We should say C is the common friend of A and B. Several of the associations for interment which have lately been instituted have seized upon the word mutual and used it very absurdly. They style themselves "Mutual Burial Societies." How can two individuals viduals bury each other? And yet this is implied by the term "mutual." 
               Is not the familiar phrase "now a days" a corruption of "in our days"? 
               "If I am not mistaken."-This is evidently wrong. If what I say to another is misunderstood, I am mistaken; but if I misunderstand what is said to me, I am mistaking, and so we should speak and write. 
               
                  Degrees of perfection.-"The army," says President Monroe in one of his messages, "has arrived at a high degree of perfection. "There can be no degrees of perfection. Any thing which is perfect cannot become more perfect, and anything which falls short of perfection is in a degree of imperfection.
                
               "Is being built."-This form of expression has met with many and zealous advocates. It is an error almost exclusively confined to print. In conversation we would say "the house is getting built," and no one would be in doubt as to our meaning. Being built is the past or perfect participle, which, according to Lindley Murray, signifies action perfected or finished. How, then, can prefixing the word is or are, words in the present tense, before it, convert this meaning into another signifying the continuation of the building at this moment? We say "the house being built, the family moved in," and imply absolute completion by the phrase being built, as people are not in the habit of moving into unfinished houses. To say that the house is being built, is no more than saying that the house is built, and by this we understand that the building is completely finished, not that the work is still going on. [Since the above paper was printed, a very excellent work, "Harrison on the English Language," has appeared, which completely exposes the erroneous mode of speech above considered. 
               "Of a majority"-This is a phrase which many of our newspaper editors are fond of using in an improper manner-thus: "We learn by a gentleman who came on last night, that in A county, Squash, our candidate for Congress, received two hundred and three of a majority; but that in B county Mango had two hundred and five of a majority. C county is to be heard from, which we fear has gone against us;" instead of saying "a majority of two hundred and three," and "a majority of two hundred and five." This corruption is unaccountable and inexcusable. 
               "Tri-Weekly."-This Americanism has, I fear, become too firmly established to be eradicated.-Newspaper publishers, whose papers appear three times a week, call them "tri-weekly papers,"but tri-weekly cannot mean thrice a week, but once in three weeks, just as tri-ennial means once in three years. The proper expression, if one must be coined, would be ter-weekly, which would convey the idea which the publishers intend to convey by tri-weekly.
                
               A writer in a magazine published in the city of New York in the year 1818,
                     The American monthly magazine.
                   notices with censure "a very uncouth and inaccurate form of speech," which he says "has recently crept into our language." He describes it to consist in improperly using a noun in the nominative or objective case, where the clause itself in which the noun is used, or some other noun, stands in sense and ought to stand in grammatical construction as the nominative or objective." From a number of examples given by him of this vicious usage, the following are selected: 
               "1. The possession of the goods was attested by the owner taking them into his own custody."-Marshall on Insurance.
                
               "The meaning of the writer certainly is not that the owner was the means by which the possession of his goods was altered, but that his taking them into his own custody was so. In grammatical construction, however, the language expressed the former meaning and no other. 
               2. In consequence of the King of Prussia invading Saxony and Bohemia, the Aulic council voted his conduct to be a breach of the peace."-Edinb. Ency.
                
               "The fact which the historian intended to state is, in substance, that in consequence of the invasion of Saxony and Bohemia by the King of Prussia, the Aulic council voted, &c. But according to the grammatical purport of the sentence as it now stands, the words "invading Saxony and Bohemia" express merely an incidental circumstance, which might have been thrown into a parenthesis or distinct clause; and the whole sentence might, without any material alteration of the sense as expressed the writer, be paraphrased thus: In consequence of the King of Prussia, who by the bye, had invaded Saxony, &c., the Aulic council voted his conduct to be a breach of the public peace." If the paraphrase is nonsense, it is the nonsense of the original. 
                
               "3. The secretary wearing a sword and uniform Was a circumstance which added greatly to his natural awkwardness."-[Notices of Mr. Hume.
                
               "The meaning expressed by the words is that the Secretary (who happened indeed to wear a sword and uniform) was himself the circumstance which added to his own natural awkwardness. The fact intended to be communicated is that his wearing a sword, &c. was that circumstance." 
               "If any one can doubt the justice of these strictures, he may bring them to a very simple and decisive test by substituting pronouns for nouns in each of the passages cited. Thus: "The possession of one's goods is altered by him taking them into his own custody." "The Aulic council voted the King's conduct to be a breach of the public peace in consequence of him invading Saxony." "He wearing a sword and uniform was a circumstance which added to his natural awkwardness." 
               This awkward usage has, since the year 1818, been received with such general favor, that it is impossible to go through a book of any considerable size without meeting with it. The last book which I have read, Capt. Basil Hall's Schlop Hainfeld, abounds with instances. Here are a few:- 
               "As difficulties might arise, however, on the score of her being a Protestant or from the castle being no longer in the possession of the family, she thought it prudent," &c. &c. Page 43. 
               "Instead of the estate being put up for public sale, it was quietly arranged that the next heirs, two nephews, should come at once into possession."-Page 47. 
                
               "All the German world know, that so far from Sunday being kept holy as respects travelling, it is universally selected as the fittest day in the whole week for that purpose." Page 118. 
               "Old Joseph, however, who was a good Catholic, thinking perhaps that it might do no harm to give his mistress's soul a chance, took advantage of my back being turned and stuck a lighted candle into the old lady's hand a few minutes before she breathed her last." Page 192. 
               
                  To progress.-This word, as well as guess and reckon, is denounced by the English writers of the present day as an Americanism. In a former article it was shown that the people of this country were justified in using these words as they do by the authority of English writers of eminence. It remains to perform the same service to the verb to progress. It is to be found in Johnson's Dictionary, who cites Shakspeare as authority for it, and it is to be met with in Ben Johnson's works-I think in the Alchemist. Whilst the English are corrupting their language, and at the same time forgetting many good words familiar to their and our forefathers, it is fortunate for us that the language used by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's day is not obsolete. 
               
                  Declination.-"Mr. So-and-so, who was lately nominated for Congress, has sent in his declination to the committee of conference." Such language is not uncommon in our newspapers, particularly in those which speak of "two hundred of a majority," and "three thousand of a majority." Declination is an astronomical term; and if a new word is to be coined to express the fact of an individual's declining to be a candidate for an office, declension would seem preferable. 
               
                  Ameliorate and amelioration.-These barbarisms still maintain their ground. To meliorate would signify to improve, to better; but the a prefixed negatives what follows; and consequently the meaning of to ameliorate would be the same as deteriorate. 
               "Grant to bless,"-"Grant to prosper,"-"Grant to aid."-Such uncouth expressions are often heard in extemporaneous prayers. It is probably not too late to check this inaccurate and inelegant mode of speech, which has not yet made its way into print. 
             
             
                
               PASSAGES FROM THE PAPERS OF THE LATE GEORGE LEPNER. 
               (From the Southern Literary Messenger for February, 1837.) 
                
                   
                     
                        [My friend, the late George Lepner, was in the habit during the last eight or ten years of his life, whenever an idea struck him which he thought he might afterwards turn to account, of committing it immediately to paper. Three large portfolios, now in my possession, owe their contents to this practice. In the following selection from these depositories, I have made no attempt at arrangement, either according to the subject matter or the dates of the writings. Perhaps I am wrong in supposing that they will possess, in the eyes of others, any of the interest which they have in mine; but any one of their readers, who ever passed an hour with Mr. Lepner, will pardon their publication.
                      
                     ONE OF HIS ADMINSTRATORS.] 
                   
                
               How sickening are the sentimental effusions upon the subject of the "poor Indians," which are continually appearing in newspapers, fourth of July orations, &c. &c. One might almost suppose that their authors regretted that they lived in a land of civilization, and had strong yearnings for the tomahawk and blanket. I am very far from denying that many instances of cruelty and rapacity are justly chargeable upon the whites in their intercourse with the aboriginals; but he who is ignorant that the savage must ever recede before the man of civilization, is in ignorance of the purpose of Providence in placing us upon this globe, and of the terms upon which it was bestowed upon the children of Adam. "Be fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth," and "thou shalt eat the best of the field;" "in the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread," are the divine mandates. The square mile which furnishes game to a single family of hunters, will support a thousand families by agriculture and the mechanic arts of which agriculture is the parent. Man, the man of civilization, who has cultivated land, formerly overspread with forests and vocal with beasts of prey and men scarcely less ferocious, is asked for the production of his title to it; he may with more reason enquire "what was the title of him who preceded me?" Are the thousand families of cultivators and artisans to stand around the square mile of the savage and starve, whilst he is gaining a precarious subsistence by the chase? How then can the earth be replenished? The plain fact that the continuance and spread of beasts of prey are opposed to the increase of mankind, is a conclusive evidence that the life of the huntsman was not the calling destined for the continued employment of man. The hunter is necessary only that the farmer may follow. The savage who will not earn his subsistence, after the diminution of game, in the way which Providence prescribed, has the right of way upon the soil, and nothing more, until the agriculturist appears for whom it was intended. 
               The reviewer of Brockden Brown's novels, in a magazine which Dr. James M'Henry published in Philadelphia, some years since, finds fault with giving ing to a young Irishman, in Edgar Huntley, the name of Clitheroe, which the critic says is an Italian name. How that they be, I am not sufficiently versed in Italian to say; but certain it is that an English dramatic writer of eminence in the reign of James I was named Clitheroe, and there is now in Yorkshire a town of the same name. So much for hyper-criticism. 
               How common it is to hear the expression used, "Time seems to go faster and faster every year!" Few of us, however, observe that this apparently increasing fleetness may be explained upon mathematical principles. Every year is a less portion of the time which we have spent than the year which preceded it. The years appear to become shorter and shorter because the older we grow the longer period have we to compare the past year with. The child who has completed its second year has spent in its last year the half of its past life; but the child who is three years of age, has in its last year spent but the one-third of its past life, and having twice as long a previous existence to compare that year with as the child of two years, its last year appears shorter in proportion. Children and young persons are too busily engaged with the novelties which each year presents to their notice to know or care anything about the speed of time: it is only when the enjoyments of life begin to pall upon our senses that we have leisure to observe the flight of time. 
               If the theatre be, as its advocates assert that it is, "the school of morals," it must be confessed that the men and women, who are most regular in their attendance at school, must be considered very dull scholars from the little or no progress which they make in morals. 
               Persons in distress frequently have consolation administered to them in the shape of exhortations to compare their sufferings with those of others who are supposed to have suffered more. But if I have lost a child to whom I was devotedly attached, can it be, and ought it to be, any comfort to me that one of my neighbors has lost two? My own grief is positive, not comparative. I grieve because my own loss is great, not because it is greater than that of any other; with this question I have nothing to do. I cannot measure the anguish of others; and in the absorbing immensity of my own sorrow, I feel no desire to do so. Besides, one man of keen feelings may suffer more at the loss of a single child than another of duller sensibilities at the loss of his whole family. Such consolations are an appeal to the selfishness of our nature, and are insulting to him to whom they are offered. 
               So intent are we Americans upon carrying out our favorite maxim "go ahead," that the great, the mighty past seems unworthy of our regard. Possessed of a history of which any nation in the world might be proud, "few and far between" are they who will engage in its study. The memorials of our former days are carelessly scattered, never again to be gathered. A few years since, several trunks of valuable able letters by the men of the revolution lay exposed in a stable at Princeton, for any one to take as he pleased. A great disregard, which would amaze an Englishmen, is shown for the buildings interesting from their connection with past days. The Councils of Philadelphia have doomed to destruction "the old court house" where the provincial Legislature of Pennsylvania met; where the great lawyers of the province displayed their eloquence; where the elections of Philadelphia were held, and contests, not always bloodless, were carried on for the political ascendency between the Proprietaries' party and that of the people; where Whitfield preached from the balcony; and for the great and weighty object that the drays and carts may save five yards and six inches in going from one side of Market street to another. The Philadelphians now begin to talk of pulling down the State House, the Hall of Independence! Down with the antique-down with the time-honored and the venerable, if we can only turn a few pennies by their overthrow. 
               Were a man in a room full of company to approach a lady and lay his hands upon her waist, shoulders, &c., he would most probably be speedily ejected from the apartment. Such behaviour would be considered a gross insult. But if a few fiddles be playing this conduct which would be otherwise called insulting is now thought very allowable, being only called waltzing.
                
               Voltaire, who was wont, when alluding to our Saviour, to say and write "crush the wretch," was in the habit of partaking of the communion! It is easy to know what to think of Voltaire, but what shall we say of the priests who permitted such sacrilege? When at Ferny, he kept a chaplain, remarkable for nothing but his stupidity, which, perhaps, was Voltaire's motive for the choice of him. He probably wished that the contrast between their religious senments should be heightened by a contrast between their intellectual faculties, unfavorable to the professed Christian. 
               It is not unprecedented for a young lady of amiability, talents and beauty to pass her life in the single state, because she has in addition a fortune. The dread of fortune-hunters, who are not scarce anywhere, and the suggestions of friends and relations that the attentions which she receives are paid to her purse, inspire a distrust of the attachment of real and disinterested suitors, which shuts her heart to the admission of a reciprocal passion. Let not young ladies who respect Hymen be too desirous of possessing all the attractions which are commonly considered desirable for entering his service. 
               Have you received an anonymous letter? Throw it into the fire without mentioning the matter to your most intimate friend. The pleasure which the writer expected to derive was in knowing how you were mortified, vexed and enraged on the receipt of it. But if you conceal the fact that it has come to hand, you nip his base enjoyment in the bud and lead him to the conclusion that the offspring of his malignity has not reached its destination. 
             
             
                
               EXTRACTS FROM THE DIARY OF A WHIG. 
               (From the Pennsylvanian, September 7, 1847.) 
               1844, September 10. There is no doubt of Clay's election! The more I read the Inquirer, the North American and the United States Gazette, the more I am convinced of it. The only question is as to his majority. My own private opinion is that Polk will get the votes of only three States, New Hampshire, Arkansas and Illinois. I bet yesterday one thousand dollars against six hundred dollars on the general result. 
               
                  September 20. I was much pleased with a remark which I met with a short time ago in a Whig paper, (though I need not say Whig, because I would not condescend to read any other,) that "those who cannot reason must be made to feel." As a good Whig I resolved to do what I could to carry it out, accordingly when I went to market this morning I told the man of whom I buy butter, (a violent locofoco from Montgomery County,) that if Polk was elected I should have to buy two pounds of butter less per week than I now do. The man seemed greatly amazed. I have hopes that not only his vote but those of his neighbors will be influenced by my patriotic firmness. 
                
               
                  September 25. I have purchased twenty-seven flags with coons and other devices on them. These things (I am told) have a great effect upon farmers, mechanics and other people who cannot do their own thinking. It is said that the people who attend market have all come out for Clay except four or five. This is glorious! 
               
                  September 26. Hearing that there are a number of locofoco shoemakers and tailors in the alley back of our garden, I had two of my coon flags fixed on top of the one story building near my back gate. I trust they will not be without their fruits upon the day of election. 
               
                  October 1. Our arrangements with the leaders and wire-workers of the Native party are now complete. We are to assist in electing their candidates for County Commissioners, Auditor, and County Assembly ticket, and they are to vote for Markle and Clay. Markle is to have five thousand majority in the city and county of Philadelphia. I rather calculate that the Shunk men will look a little blue when they hear of that rousing majority. There is nothing like a good coalition now and then. I would be for making a coalition with the devil, if we could not get offices any other way. 
               
                  October 9. Glory! glory!! glory enough for one day! Markle has nearly six thousand majority in the city and county, and is no doubt elected by twenty thousand in the State. We look for returns this evening from Mercer, Venango and others of the counties nearest to Philadelphia. 
               
                  October 16. That rascal Shunk is elected after all, and the Whigs all over the Union are abusing us for our coalition with the Natives, whom they call church-burners and cut-throats. If we had elected Markle, these Natives would have been lauded to the skies for their patriotism. I got a letter this morning from a friend in New York who tells me that if Clay is beaten, the Philadelphia Whigs will have to shoulder it all. I have a great mind to give up politics! 
               
                  October 23. All the cotton factories in Philadelphia shut up to-day, and the hands were all discharged, the bosses telling them that, if Polk was elected, they would never open again. This is the brightest trick that we Whigs have played. Clay will have fifteen thousand majority in the city and county. This is glorious! 
               
                  November 2. "The long agony is over" and we have a less majority by fourteen hundred for Clay than we had for Markle. Mr. Clay is certainly not so popular as his friends supposed. My own opinion is that we should have taken up somebody that had killed an Indian. Markle's title of "the hero of Pipsissaway" was worth ten thousand votes to us among the Dutch and Irish. We must run a General next time. I am afraid the Natives have cheated us. Perhaps it would have been better to have had nothing to do with them. We should have looked cleaner at any rate. 
               
                  November 6. To-day the New York election concludes. Our friends there have been so fortunate as to form a perfect alliance with this young and vigorous Native party. I am assured that the city will give ten thousand majority for Clay, and the State thirty thousand. The New Yorkers are the cream of the Union. I bet very largely to-day on Clay's majority in both city and State. Although it is impossible for us to hear from the Commercial Emporium before to-morrow morning, yet five or six thousand of the young Whigs and a good many of the old ones went down last night to Walnut street wharf, where we soon drove away a few locofocos, who were attracted by the crowd to intrude upon us. A person near me said that he felt sure that he heard the Whigs hurraing at their head-quarters in Broadway, but I think his imagination ran away with him. 
               
                  November 7. Oh! dreadful! New York city has given four thousand majority for Polk. I wish I knew which to curse, the Natives or the foreigners! One or other of them has ruined us. I am told that all the Frenchmen in New York, some of whom had not voted for twenty years, voted for Polk and Wright. What can be the cause of it? It is most extraordinary. This country will never be happy until all the foreigners and all the Natives are driven out of it. I hope to live to see that day. 
               
                  November 8. We are now out of the woods. New York has gone for Clay and Frelinghuysen. The young Whigs went up last night to congratulate Mr. F., who made them a most eloquent address, wherein he congratulated the country upon the election of Mr. Clay and himself to the first two offices in the gift of the people. I would have given a thousand dollars to have been there. 
               
                  November 9. How can I write the words? New York has gone for Polk and Dallas. I wish all the foreigners were at the bottom of the Red Sea, and I wish all the Natives were there too. We elected Natives to Congress and the Legislature in the city of New York, and, in return for our kindness, the Natives that were once locofocos, voted for Polk, Dallas and Wright with as little ceremony as if their leaders had not sold us their votes? What an unprincipled set of men! But whilst there is life there is hope, and if we succeed in carrying all the doubtful States, (as I am sure we shall,) we can elect Clay in spite of New York. 
               
                  November 10. I felt very little in the humor of going to church to-day, as my head was full of nothing but election returns and bets, from the time my eyes were open. I concluded, however, that it was my duty to set a good example to the poor, and went. I heard but very little of either prayer or sermon. It happened to be collection day, and as my friend Mushhead (who is as good a Whig as I am,) handed in the box, I asked him if there was anything new about the election. He smiled and said that glorious news had arrived just before church-time, that Michigan, Indiana and Georgia had all gone for Clay, and there was no doubt of his election. I was so delighted that in the excitement of the moment I put a twenty dollar note into the box instead of a Camden one dollar note which I had brought to church for the collection. However, if Clay is elected I shall make my locofoco friends pay for that and more too. 
               
                  November 16. Oh! Polk and Dallas are undoubtedly elected. It is owing altogether to local causes, or to the foreigners, or to the Natives, or to something or other. I have been looking over my betting book and find that I have lost eight thousand four hundred and eighty-five dollars, sixty-three hats and eighteen pairs of boots by this disastrous result. The country is ruined!
                
             
             
                
               READINGS ON SHENSTONE 
               (From the Princeton Magazine for September, 1850.) 
               In an age that has but little taste for pastorals, it is not surprising that Shenstone's poetry, though good of its kind, is but little read; but that his prose essays are not better known seems unaccountable. These writings contain much that is just in sentiment expressed with beauty and precision. The writer was a man of refined taste and acute sensibility, and his knowledge of men and their motives was extensive. A life of retirement seems to have been the most agreeable to him; his chief delight was his garden, the embellishment of which impaired his fortune. Mr. Wirt, in his famous speech at the trial of Aaron Burr, could find no higher praise for Blennerhassett's Island than to say that it contained "a shrubbery which Shenstone might have envied." 
               The "Essay on Men and Manners" by Shenstone are comprised in a single volume, the contents of which this title does not fully describe, for it contains a few tales and some remarks upon the subject in which he was so much interested-gardening. Many of the essays are a series of detached thoughts, seeming rather hints for future essays than essays themselves, yet often these briefly expressed thoughts furnish the reader with more materials for reflection than the labored pages of other writers. 
                
               Here are some notes upon the passages which we have marked in a recent re-perusal of that work. 
               1. "The arguments against pride, drawn so frequently by our clergy from the general infirmity, circumstances and catastrophe of our nature, are extremely trifling and insignificant. Man is not proud as a species but as an individual; not as comparing himself with other beings, but with his fellow creatures," 
               This is a just remark. Men are not proud because the human race is superior to the brute creation and to inanimate nature. This is so obvious that we never bestow a second thought upon it. The individual man is proud that he excels, or fancies he excels, another man or a number of men; and we cannot argue a man out of this pride by reminding him of the shortness and uncertainty of life and of the trials and sufferings which beset his path. The life of him upon whom he looks down is equally brief and uncertain, and he too is tried and suffers, so that these considerations may be left out of the account altogether. Man is not proud that he belongs to an order of beings "made but little lower than the angels, and crowned with glory and honor;" so many share in this that the portion of each individual is too small to build pride upon, but the proud man glories that among this race so honored he holds a high position and can look down upon his fellows. To subdue this pride and demonstrate its unreasonableness, other arguments are needed than those which Shenstone justly calls "trifling and insignificant,"-arguments which are occasionally heard in our day and from others than divines. 
               2. "A wife ought in reality to love her husband above all the world; but this preference, I think, should in point of politeness, be concealed. The reason is that at is disgusting to see an amiable woman monopolized; and it is easy by proper management to waive (all I contend for) the appearance." 
               Part of one of Lamb's best essays,-"A Bachelor's complaint of the behaviour of Married People,"-elaborates this sentiment; and so strong is the resemblance in the ideas and expressions that we cannot help thinking that it was suggested by this passage of Shenstone, thus: "What oftenest offends me in the houses of married persons where I visit is an error of quite a different description,"-he had been speaking of the quarrels of man and wife-"it is that they are too loving. Not too loving, either: that does not explain my meaning. Besides why should that offend me? The very act of separating themselves from the rest of the world have the fuller enjoyment of each other's society implies that they prefer one another to the world. But what I complain of is this, that they carry this preference so undisguisedly, they jerk it up in the faces of us single people so shamefully, that you cannot be in their company a moment without being made to feel, by some indirect hint or open avowal, that you are not the object of their preference. Marriage by its best title is a monopoly, and not of the least invidious sort." 
               If this suggestion is correct, that the "delightful Elia" took the hint of this from the passage of Shenstone above quoted, we are under an additional obligation to the other author, who has been " not only witty himself, but the cause of wit in other men." 
               A person who thought upon this subject as Shenstone and Lamb did before him, maintains that married persons should so behave towards each other in company that a stranger should be unable to say which gentleman was the husband of any lady present, or which lady the wife of any gentleman present. Perhaps this is carrying the proposed reform a little too far, but there is something in the suggestion which merits attention. Billing and cooing in public are "disgusting," (to use Shenstone's word,) and those who have been condemned to witness it and listen to a stream of "loves" and "dears" generally revenge themselves by concluding that appellations of another character are as freely bestowed in private. 
               3. "Prudent men lock up their motives; letting familiars have a key a their hearts as to their garden"-an idea with which Shenstone seems to have been pleased, as he thus reproduces it in another place: "Prudent men should lock up their motives, giving only their intimates a key." 
               In those actions of a man's life which affect my own or otters' happiness, I may, and indeed must, feel interested; but this gives me no right to pry into his motives for those actions, much less into his motives for actions of an indifferent character. Charity calls upon us to ascribe the best motives to all the actions of another. As there is no obligation upon any one to wear his "heart upon his sleeve for daws to peck at," so no one is obliged to proclaim the motive for his actions upon the house-tops; for them he has no account to render to his fellow men. 
               But what Shenstone says of motives may with more force be applied to intentions. By announcing these a man runs always a great risk of having his designs thwarted by the opposition of those whom a prudent reserve would have deprived of that power; and if failure be the result of an enterprise, the preliminary flourishes of trumpets only make it the more noticeable. Observe how the failure of the most trivial design lays us open to endless enquiries and sometimes to commiseration still more intolerable. Thus if I have announced an intended journey at a particular time and am unable to start at the day, it is treated as a grievous offence by two thirds of my acquaintance, and I am saluted everywhere by the reproachful cry "why, I thought you were going to-" whatever may be my proposed destination; and to clear up my character I must enter into details of private matters which a man had better keep to himself. 
               As to this matter of travelling, it has been held that he who gives previous warning of his departure is sure to have the escort of ladies imposed upon him, the said ladies always having a distracting supply of luggage to look after; but this objection is so ungallant that it should not be enlarged upon. 
               A design successfully carried out strikes us the more forcibly if unexpected, whilst many failures would be unknown if the effort was not looked for. 
               4. (From the Essay on Envy.) "I believe this passage sage is oftentimes derived from a too partial view of our own and others' excellencies. We behold a man possessed of some particular advantage, and we immediately reflect upon its deficiency in ourselves. We wait not to examine what others we have to balance it. We envy another man's bodily accomplishments; when our own mental ones might preponderate, would we put them into the scale. Should we ask our own bosoms whether we would change situations altogether, I fancy self love would, generally, make us prefer our own condition." The idea in this last sentence he has elsewhere thus enlarged upon. "If envious people were universally to ask themselves whether they would exchange their entire situations with the persons envied (I mean their minds, passions, notions, as well as their persons, fortunes, dignities, &c. &c.) I will presume the self love common to human nature would make them all prefer their own condition." 
               This shows in a striking manner the unreasonableness of our envious repinings. We are dissatisfied at not possessing what others have and what we are in want of, and we would obtain these advantages without relinquishing any that we possess. A man sees one with whom he Started in life ahead of him in the race, and enjoying more of the goods of fortune than himself, and his self-love leads him to think himself the most worthy of them; but let him be asked, "Will you exchange your fortune for his, and at the same time receive his knowledge and learning, his principles and feelings, his family and friends in exchange for yours?" and the proposal will stagger him. This would be almost giving up one's identity, and exchanging his soul for that of another. No: unreasonable man would wish to retain all the good which he already possesses, and have the good of his neighbor added to it; but this is not the system upon which the world is governed. We frequently see the gifts of fortune lavished upon those who, in our judgment, least deserve them; but perhaps the very defects in them which we see as plainly as their wealth, prevent their enjoying their abundance as a man of sense would; whilst the latter, who can say, "My mind to me a kingdom is," has pleasures in possession of which the wealthy fool can never taste. "Compensation" is everywhere visible. Let us not be so unreasonable as to insist, with the child, upon having "cake and penny both." Mrs. Barbauld's "Remarks upon the Inconsistency of Human Expectations," contain some very just observations upon this subject. 
             
             
                
               THE MILITARY EXCURSION. 
               (From "Bizarre," for February 11, 1854.) 
               The ancient and respectable borough of Koonkle-town rejoices in a volunteer company. For ten years the Rangers have duly paraded on the Fourth of July, the twenty-second of February, and the eighth of January, besides an annual muster in battalion with three other companies in the county, under the command of Major Tompkinson, when they go through sundry "convolutions of the line," as the worthy Major calls it, with more propriety than might at first be supposed. 
               The Koonkletown Rangers always appeared at least equal to the other companies in these annual exhibitions, but something more was wanting to their glory; their renown had not extended far beyond the limits of their county, and they had become too aspiring to be satisfied with this "pent up Utica." A railroad that has lately been run through their town to the city of Hardscrabble, has put it in their power to see more of the "pride, pomp and circumstance" of military life, as far as parading goes, than they have ever previously enjoyed. 
               Accordingly, the Rangers, in August last, made an excursion to Hardscrabble, and it is our pleasing duty to serve as the historian of the expedition, an event that will not soon be forgotten in either the city or the borough. 
               Two months were devoted to the necessary preparations. Their uniforms were mended, arms and accoutrements cleaned, and their business operations so arranged as to allow of an absence of four or five days from their beloved homes. Pecuniary difficulties, that might have prevented the departure of some of the company with their comrades, were properly disposed of; the captain guaranteed the payment of a note for eleven dollars that would fall due by one of the privates during the time of their absence. 
               At length all was ready, and a lovely morning dawned over the village, giving promise of fair weather during the trip. They were to start at nine, but that they might be ready in time, every soul in the borough was waked by the drum and fife at day-break; and the company commenced assembling at seven o'clock, after breakfasts somewhat disturbed by the tears and sobs of their wives and little ones; many of whom could not have shown more distress if the gallant corps had been under orders for Mexico, instead of Hard-scrabble. 
               We say that the company commenced assembling at seven o'clock, by which we mean that at that hour Captain Kegarice and the drummer and the fifer were on the ground. The rest of the company, as became free and independent citizen soldiers, did not make their appearance until an hour later. It is not to be supposed that they could be tied down to hours and minutes, just as if they had belonged to the regular army! No, indeed! 
                
               After favoring their fellow-citizens with a short march through the principal streets, and receiving an address from the Chief Burgess, in which he told them that he was sure that the honor of Koonkletown was safe in their hands, they ascended the cars of the Slapdash and Hardscrabble Railroad Company, and were off at nine o'clock precisely, for locomotives will not wait for even the bold volunteers." 
               A ride of four hours brought them to Hardscrabble. It is only an act of justice to the corps to state that they bore it with the steadiness of veterans. Not an accident occurred, and their pleasure was increased by plentiful supplies of pop-corn and ground-nuts, which attentive boys and girls provided at all the stopping places, on reasonable terms. 
               The city of Hardscrabble was properly excited on the occasion. The church bells were rung, and had they possessed any cannon, they would have been fired in honor of the joyful event; but having none, all that the authorities could do was to suspend the ordinance against firing squibs and crackers, which the boys discharged in great numbers. They would have done just the same if the ordinance had not been suspended. The Mayor, who was to deliver an address of welcome on the following day, overhauled Plutarch and the, history of the American Revolution. 
               The depot in Hardscrabble was about two hundred yards from the hotel (the Bumgarten House) at which they were to put up; but as the object of the excursion was to see and be seen, it was out of the question for them to proceed at once to their quarters. A procession was indispensable, in which the volunteers of Hardscrabble undertook to form the escort of their gallant guests. Originally, it had been intended to take them through every street in the town, from one end to the other, but as the thermometer was over ninety, and the dust six inches deep, the route was shortened to three miles. A troop of cavalry-seven men, including the trumpeter-led the way; then followed two companies of infantry, averaging twenty-three men each, and then the guests, the rear being brought up by a company of riflemen. We cannot state the number of this corps on parade, as it fluctuated considerably, the weather being warm, as above mentioned, and the lager beer saloons very abundant. The captain commanding, who seldom appeared mounted, had as much as he could do to keep in the saddle, and the rear guard, therefore, enjoyed peculiar advantages. That officer could not have told whether the riflemen paraded five or fifty. 
               As the longest lane must have an end, so must a march, whether long or short. In an hour and a half they reached the hotel, and if the heat and dust was intolerable, they had much to compensate for their sufferings. Every window was filled with the joyous faces of the fair, (and Hardscrabble, as the Hard-scrabblers say, is famous for the beauty of its women,) who showered on the officers nosegays, (which those who do not understand French are fond of calling boquets,) and the men were not neglected, for no one reached the Bumgarten House without three or four holly-hocks and sunflowers under his crossbelts. 
               After fifteen minutes spent in the necessary ablutions, they sat down to dinner, a meal somewhat needed ed and much relished; after which the Hardscrabble Browns, whose peculiar guests they were, marched them to their hall and gave them another dinner; another company of infantry gave them another repast, and the riflemen provided them with a very handsome collation, in which lager beer was not for gotten. By this time the hour of supper had arrived, and the rangers marched back to their hotel to enjoy it. A short visit to the menagerie followed, after which they repaired to the wax-works. A military ball closed the amusements of the day. Never did the fair of Hardscrabble look lovelier-never did the heroes of Koonkletown Appear more gallant! Both parties covered themselves with glory! 
               Breakfast being despatched on the following day, at a late hour we must confess, the company repaired to the city hall to have a public reception. The Mayor delivered a magnificent address, which outdid his previous outdoings in that line; and in such things his experience was great, as he gave to every volunteer company and every fire company that passed through the town, a reception. Bunker Hill and Julius Csar, Themopyle and Marion, Pharsalia and Sergeant Jasper, figured in it in glowing periods. It gave almost universal satisfaction; only one person found fault with it, and all that this unhappy grumbler could find to say was that the Mayor should have omitted all mention of "our glorious ancestors, the heroes and sages of '76," seeing that he was the son of an Irish-man, who did not arrive in America until long after the Revolution, and that Captain Kegarice was the grandson of one of the Hessians who surrendered at Trenton. 
                
               Captain Kegarice replied with a mixture of manliness and modesty. He hoped that our peaceful shores might be free from the scourge of war, but if it should come the Koonkletown Rangers were ready-and here the Captain looked unutterable things. Another military dinner followed, and another ball closed the festivities of the second day in Hardscrabble. 
               The next day was devoted to short excursions in the vicinity, and to private parties given by the principal inhabitants. It will be enough to say that the reputation of the Hardscrabblers for hospitality did not suffer any diminution. 
               Uninterrupted felicity is not the lot of mortals; some time or other the Rangers would have had to go back to their wives and families. The fourth day was fixed for their departure. They left their kind entertainers with hearts full of gratitude, and the muzzles of their guns full of flowers.. When about starting, the only accident occurred that befel them during the trip. Corporal Jenks, whilst standing on the rail road, had two of his toes taken off by a car. He has had two cork ones made by Mr. Palmer, and his marching is not materially affected. 
               The ride back was melancholy, as might have been expected; the pleasures of feasting and dancing and hearing speeches were now to be succeeded by the hum-drum of every-day life. It was a week before any of them could settle down to business. The Orderly Sergeant's Report presented that the killed were, none; wounded, one, Corporal Jenks, as above mentioned; and the missing, one, Fifer Budge, who was left behind and said that he missed his passage; but as he showed no hurry to come on by the next train, and is said to be about marrying the cook of the Bumgarten House, this is rather doubted. He had a severe lecture from Captain Kegarice when he did appear; and had there been another fifer in Koonkletown, he would undoubtedly have been court-martialed. 
               No time was lost in preparing a testimony of thanks to their kind hosts and all who had contributed to their enjoyment. A committee of two lieutenants and three non-commissioned officers was appointed to draw it up, but it is thought that they received much aid from the captain. Here and there his style breaks out in the document, as will be admitted by all who know that officer and have read the following 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "CARD. 
                           With gushing and overflowing hearts we sit down to prepare a slight tribute of gratitude to our noble entertainers of Hardscrabble. Faintly, indeed, will it express our feelings, but Our laboring bosoms must have some safety-valve. 
                           First, we have to tender our thanks to the managers of the Slapdash and Hardscrabble Railroad for their generosity in affording us a free pass; to the conductors, firemen, brake-men and other employees of the company for our agreeable journeys to and from the noble city of Hardscrabble. Their road is an honor to our county, and indeed to all the counties through which it passes. Their ears are comfortable and well ventilated, and their apparatus for catching the cinders most admirable. 
                           To the various volunteer companies of cavalry, infantry and riflemen, who received us with an escort, and especially to the Hardscrabble Browns, whose guests we particularly were, we are under an eternal weight of gratitude, Their courtesy, their unwearied attention and their unabated assiduities would have won the applause of a Chesterfield or a Count D'Orsay. We cannot forget them, if we would; we would not forget them, if we could. 
                           To the lovely fair of Hardscrabble, the glory of the female sex, we are under immense obligations. We thank them for their waved handkerchiefs, for their flowers, and, most of all, for their smiles. Never, while the heart of a soldier beats within our bosom, shall we forget the smiles of the fair of Hardscrabble. We should have to go through the whole Directory, if we named all to whom we owe many and most delicate attentions; we may be allowed especially to mention Miss Sallie Jones, Miss Fannie Updegrove, the Misses Smith, Miss Bessie Judkins, Miss Pollie Thompson, Miss Lizzie Adamson, Miss Sookie Webb, and the amiable and accomplished Miss Higginson, whose first name has unhappily escaped our recollection. 
                           To all the authorities of the city we must offer our feeble but heartfelt acknowledgements; to the Mayor for his admirable, patriotic and spirit-stirring address, and to Constable Peck for preventing the interesting children of Hard-scrabble from pressing too closely on our line. We do not doubt that this rising generation will be worthy of their sires-yes, and what is more, worthy of their mothers. 
                           To the host of the Bumgarten House, words would be feeble to express our gratitude. Delightful are his chambers, clean and luxurious his cookery, and all his arrangements unsurpassed. To the traveller in want of a home we can safely recommend the unrivalled Bumgarten House. 
                           Our thanks must be briefly expressed to the employees of the hotel:- 
                           To Pollie, the cook, for the unrivalled fare provided for us. Never, while the heart of a soldier beats within our bosom, shall we forget those sausages. 
                            
                           To Peggio and Betsie, the chambermaids, for the neatness of the rooms', beds and crockery ware; and to Peter, the boots, the excellence of whose blacking is only to be equalled by the skill displayed in its application. 
                           And lastly, to all others who have contributed to our enjoyment during the excursion; if we have omitted any, we beg them to believe that it is an error of the head rather than the heart. 
                           
                              JASON DOBBS, 
                              LAFAYETTE P. SPLURGE, 
                              CHRISTOPHER SCHMIT, 
                              TIMOTHY O. BUCKALOE, 
                              SOCRATES JENKINSON, 
                              Committee."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               We have just learnt that Captain Kegarice had to pay that note for eleven dollars, and talks of resigning. 
             
             
                
               OUR GIVEN NAMES. 
               (From Putnam's Monthly for January, 1855.) 
               "Who gave you this name?" 
               "My sponsors in baptism." 
               Then these sponsors have much to answer for in this matter of naming, to say nothing of the obligation that they take upon themselves. 
               The name of a person is a sound that suggests the idea of him. It is indissolubly united with every notion of him; the name and the man are more closely bound than man and wife, for even after death we associate them together. How important, then, is it that no one should suffer for his name, that no unpleasant, ridiculous or infamous associations should be connected with it, but rather that it should be honorable and honored. 
               It is true that the fair Juliet, in a passage often quoted and oftener misquoted, asks 
                      
                        "What's in a name? that which we call a rose, 
                        "By any other name would swell as sweet." 
                     
                  
                
               Very true; but we do not go to names for smells, any more than to colors for music. And in the instance which she gives, what a loss it would have been to the world, if the word "rose" had not existed as the title of the queen of flowers; but instead of it, some such common unmusical Word as turnip or squash had been selected by the founders of the English tongue! What could poets have done with such a word? Where would they have found rhymes for it? The queen of flowers should have a name of beauty, and she has it. We are not able, at present, to say how many of the modern languages of Europe call this flower by a name resembling rose, or identical with it; but we believe that all of them do, which are based in any degree upon the Latin tongue, which had its rosa, a derivative from, and an improvement upon the rodon of the Greek. Juliet is in a very small minority upon this question. 
               And we would strengthen our position as to the importance of first names by quoting Sterne's remark that no one has ever thought of calling a child after Judas Iscariot. Some come pretty near it when they select the name Judah, which is radically the same name as Judas, but how carefully do they stop here! What an immense difference does a single letter, an H for an S, make! 
               We say given names, not Christian names, as is more common; for it is not every one having a first name that has a Christian name, as was exemplified in the case of Mr. Levi, who appeared as a witness before the Lord Mayor of London. 
               "What is your Christian name, Mr. Levi?" said that civic functionary. 
               "I have not got any, my Lord," was the reply, "I am a Jew, but my first name is Moses." 
               Various are the tastes in the selection of a name for a child, various are the motives that influence the decision. Sometimes a rich friend or relation is to be conciliated, and therefore some barbarous designation is affixed to a child, that is a thorn in his side as long as he lives; and after all, the unfortunate may miss the expected legacy. Sometimes the name of some distinguished man is selected, to which the life of the new wearer adds no new lustre; thus we see George Washington and John Wesley occasionally figuring in the police reports, as the names of people arrested for riot or petty larceny. A classical taste inspires others, who are not always very particular in the names provided they smack of the ancients, owing to which it happens that there is a boy now living in Philadelphia, who has been christened, if we may thus use the word, after Commodus, one of the most infamous of the Roman Emperors. 
               The late Bishop Chase, of Illinois, had a dislike to having Greek and Roman names imposed upon children, which he displayed very pointedly on one occasion when a child was brought to him to be baptized. 
               "Name this child," said the bishop. 
               "Marcus Tullius Cicero," answered the father. 
               "What?" 
               "Marcus Tullius Cicero." 
               "Tut! tut! with your heathen nonsense! Peter, I baptize thee," and the child was Peter henceforth and forever. 
               Others again set much store by Scripture names, many of which, to our ears, are anything but melodious; for instance, Obadiah, Jeremiah, and all the other iahs; but this fashion is not near so prevalent as it was a century or two ago. Some of the Bible names have much sweetness, such as Beulah, Ruhamah and Rhoda, but even these are rarely used. 
               The story is well known of the man, who having called four sons after Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, wished to have the fifth christened Acts, because, as he said, he "wanted to compliment the apostles a bit," but the sequel, as given by Mr. Lower, in the last edition of his valuable work on "English Surnames," is not so familiar to us. It appears that the father had two other sons, who were christened Richard and Thomas, and that the story of the name which had been prepared for No. 5, getting wind amongst his schoolmates, he was constantly annoyed with having this distich repeated, of better metre than rhyme: 
                      
                        "Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, 
                        Acts of 'Postles, Dick and Tom." 
                     
                  
                
               Some persons appear to have tried how near they could come to the height of absurdity, by giving names to their children. Benjamin Stokeley, the first white settler in Mercer County, Pennsylvania, (whose account thereof is in the fourth volume of the Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania,) gave most extraordinary names to all his children; at present but one of them occurs to our memory-Aurora Borealis-by which he thought proper to designate one of his daughters. A Mr. Stickney, a distant relative of Dr. Franklin, numbered his children, calling them One Stickney, Two Stickney, &c. We might mention here the ease of Mr. New, who is said to have called his first child, Something, and the next, Nothing; but the story is probably the creation of the fertile imagination of Mr. Joseph Miller or some of his sucessors. 
               We will venture to add a few rules which are the results of our reflections upon this subject. 
               1. The son should not be called after the father, nor the daughter after her mother. 
               The object of giving first names is to distinguish a person from all others bearing the same last name, particularly from those of his immediate family; but this latter is not attained where a child bears the name of its parents. Confusion must always follow, not always to be avoided by the additions of senior and junior, or the designations 1st, 2d, &c., which are common in New England. 
               An eminent lawyer, who adorned the Philadelphia bar forty or fifty years ago, had a son with the same first name as himself, who was studying law in his office. One day a letter arrived without any addition of junior, but intended for the younger, which the elder gentleman opened and read. It was from a source not very creditable to any one. 
               "I am ashamed of you," said the father indignantly, handing it to his son. 
               I am ashamed of you, sir," replied the son, handing it back, with his finger pointed at the direction. 
               One of the sons of the Benjamin Stokeley, of whom we have spoken above, was born during his father's absence from home. On his return, his wife told him that she had called the child Benjamin, after him. 
                
               "None of that," said he, "I have no notion of hearing people talking of old Ben Stokeley." 
               This confusion is one objection to the practice which we condemn; another is that if a parent calls a child after himself, he is in danger of becoming partial to that child, at the expense of the others. This is a feeling which makes its way into the minds of even good men and good women; it seems to some that a child, bearing their name in full, is more fully their representative than others. As all this is wrong, it is best to prevent the arising of such feelings by giving no occasion for their existence. 
               2. The more common a last name is, the more uncommon should the first name be. We can pardon almost any prefix to Smith, Brown and Jones. As one of the learned fathers of the bar lately observed in a discourse, "Who shall declare the generation of the Smiths, and especially of the John Smiths?" The very mention of John Smith in a court-house, police office, or other public place, and it is of frequent mention therein, brings a broad grin into every one's face immediately. 
               3. No name should be given to a child which will suggest a ludicrous idea when written in full, or when the initial only is used. We always pitied Mr. P. Cox and Mr. T. Potts, both worthy men, but with thoughtless god-fathers. 
               Middle-aged persons, in Philadelphia, can recollect a druggist named Ash, (now deceased) whose friends had selected Caleb for his given name. He was constantly annoyed with inquiries from school-boys and others of the rising generation, as to the residence of Mr. Calabash. 
                
               Forty or fifty years ago a very worthy little French tailor, named Frogg, resided in Charleston, S. C., and on the birth of one of his sons some wags persuaded him that it would be a very good thing for the child, to call him after the chief magistrate of the State, Governor Bull, which was done accordingly, the unlucky combination of the two names never striking the father until it was too late. 
               4. Females should have but one given name, and, when they marry, should retain their maiden name as a middle name. This is the practice among the Society of Friends, and were it generally adopted it would have many advantages. We should know at once, on seeing a lady's name, whether she was married or single, and if the former, what the name of her family was. And it is further to be considered that the adoption of this rule of but a single first name for girls would put an end forever to the whole brood of Emma Malvinas and Euphemia Helen Lauras, a style of nomenclature which is thought by most persons to be ridiculous in the extreme. 
               Have many of our readers seen the pretty verses on the naming of a child, written by Mary, the unhappy sister of Charles Lamb? We shall presume that they have not, and without apology conclude this essay with them: 
                
                  "CHOOSING A NAME. 
                   
                     I have got a new-born sister; 
                     I was nigh the first that kissed her. 
                     When the nursing woman brought her 
                     To papa, his infant daughter, 
                      
                     How papa's dear eyes did glisten! 
                     She Will shortly be to christen; 
                     And papa has made the offer 
                     I shall have the naming of her. 
                   
                   
                     Now I wonder what would please yer, 
                     Charlotte, Julia or Louisa? 
                     Ann and Mary, they're too common, 
                     Joan's too formal for a woman. 
                     Jane's a prettier name beside; 
                     But we had a Jane that died. 
                     They would say if 'twas Rebecca, 
                     That she was a little Quaker. 
                     Edith's pretty, but that looks 
                     Better in old English books;
                           Southey was of a different opinion from Mary Lamb; in one of his sonnets he says," Saxon Edith pleases me the best."
                        
                      
                     Ellen's left off long ago; 
                     Blanch is out of fashion now. 
                     None that I have named as yet 
                     Are so good as Margaret. 
                     Emily is neat and fine- 
                     What do you think of Caroline? 
                     How I'm puzzled and perplexed 
                     What to choose or think of next! 
                     I am in a little fever 
                     Lest the name that I should give her 
                     Should disgrace her and defame her; 
                     I will leave papa to name her." 
                   
                
             
             
                
               CHIPS AND SHAVINGS. 
               (From Bizarre and the Fireside Visitor.) 
               It is a noteworthy circumstance that hardly any young ladies named Sarah or Elizabeth have been married in Philadelphia for several years past. To make up for this, however, a number named Sallie, Bessie and Lizzie have been led to the hymeneal altar. This new nomenclature must please every judicious mind. It ought not to stop here. Other names should be treated in the same fashion. Thus the name of Mary, the favorite of the poets, should be dropped at once, and Pollie or Mollie substituted for it; Jane should become Jennie; Susan, Sookie; Ellen, Nellie; Margaret, Peggie; Catharine, Kittie and Emily, Emmie. Nor is there any reason why this brilliant innovation should be confined to the female sex. How pleasant it would be to read in the papers of the union of Mr. Josie Jones to Miss Tabbie Taylor; of Mr. Dickie Diggs to Miss Abbie Brown, and Mr. Tommie Smith to Miss Annie Tompkins! Let this delightful system spread. Is not this the age of progress? 
               
                  Newspaper Obituary Verses.-A few months ago the New York Knickerbocker had some sprightly remarks upon this subject. Some of the choicest specimens were from the columns of the Public Ledger of this city. Few who read the article will forget the lines about 
                      
                        "Sweet little Billy, 
                        Whose breath was as pure as a lily," 
                     
                   whose friends added that 
                      
                        "Though we put thy death in the papers 
                        Still we miss thy innocent capers." 
                     
                  
                
               The following verses often appear in the Ledger: 
                      
                        "Fare thee well, my child, forever, 
                        In this world I've lost my joy; 
                        In the next we ne'er shall sever, 
                        There I'll meet my angel boy." 
                     
                  
                
               If the writer and the deceased are never to sever in the next world, the impropriety of bidding fare-well forever ought to be obvious to the meanest capacity. Occasionally, the word girl is substituted for boy at the end of the last line, making it the blankest of the blank verses. 
               The following appeared in the Ledger for May 7th. 
                      
                        "Dearest Mary Elizabeth, she is gone, 
                        Her sister went before- 
                        Now they both meet in heaven, 
                        Never to part any more. 
                        They have a little brother they left behind- 
                        Nor do we know how soon 
                        They may call on their dear little brother 
                        To play around the silver moon." 
                     
                  
                
               This theory of the locality of heaven differs from that of the Rev. Mr. Harbaugh, who has suggested one of the Pleiades as the spot. 
                
               The following hints to those gentlemen and ladies, who have had the misfortune not to have learned French, may be useful to some of the visitors at Cape May, Newport and Saratoga: 
               
                  Bouquet is pronounced boo-kay, not bo-kay. 
               
                  Sobriquet is pronounced so-bree-kay, not su-bree-key. 
               
                  Quadrille is pronounced kad-ril, not kwod-ril. And the following may be useful to sign-painters and advertisers: 
               
                  Stationers sell stationery, not stationary; milliners sell millinery, not millinary, and confectioners sell confectionery, not confectionary. Carpenters make joists, not joices. In Broad street near the Ridge Road is the sign of a person who calls himself a "joice-turner." 
               Considering that the public schools of Philadelphia cost us upwards of $400,000 a year, it is strange that English Grammar is not taught in them. The following is a specimen of the English to be heard at every corner of our streels: 
               "When did you see your brother Tom?" 
               "I seen him yesterday." 
               "Have you done all your work?" 
               "Oh, yes! I done it before dinner." 
               Some persons say "I have saw the elephant." 
               There is but one word in the English language which ends with a double T; namely, the word butt, meaning originally a target; and now metaphorically an object of ridicule; therefore, the auctioneers and others, who advertise setts of chairs, setts of china, setts of books, &c., &c. for sale, are giving the typesetters unnecessary trouble. 
                
               The commercial news from Liverpool is sometimes worded very strangely. Mr. McHenry is given as authority for some late intelligence respecting bacon and tallow. 
               "Bacon is moving more freely, but without any improvement." 
               This is painful news for the friends of Bacon. What has been the matter with Bacon, we are not informed. Bacon is able to take Exercise, moves more freely, and yet is no better. Bacon has not been, properly cured. 
               "Tallow is more calm," (meaning to say calmer). 
               This shows that the heat of the weather is abating. Tallow was anything else than calm during the late hot weather. It moved as freely as the above-mentioned Bacon. It was not "firm in firm hands," or on first bodies. 
               "Shoulders are quiet." Perhaps they have had too much to do lately, have had heavier burdens than they can bear. It is well for them to take a little rest. 
               The editor of one of the big Philadelphia newspapers lately informed his readers that as soon as a certain chain of railroads was completed, the people of Oswego, (N. Y.) would get coal from Pennsylvania one hundred per cent, cheaper than at present! This prospect of cheap fuel must be very gratifying to the people of Oswego. Soon afterwards a tailor in our city advertised that he was prepared to furnish clothing to his patrons two hundred per cent, cheaper than it could be obtained at any other store in the city! When fuel can be had for nothing, and clothing is given to people, who, receive the value of it for taking it from the tailor's, we may reasonably look for the Millenium. 
               A set of people calling themselves the Vegetarians, recently had a Convention in our city. They denounce the use of animal food as leading to sensuality, brutality, &c. Whether animals are intended to eat meat or vegetables may be learnt from an examination of their teeth, and as men are provided with both kinds of teeth, graminivorous and carnivorous, the conclusion is irresistible that Providence intended their diet to be of a mixed character. The Vegetarians denounce milk and eggs as well as meat. How their babies are fed was not mentioned at the Convention. Probably they give them pea-soup from sucking bottles. This new ism is not likely to spread, but if it should, there will be one good result attending it, the price of meat must fall. 
               If we visit the Falls of Niagara, we hear of the American fall and the Canadian fall, as if Canada were in Europe, Asia or Africa. A most striking example of this ridiculous usage occurs in Mr. Hawthorne's life of President Pierce, wherein he mentions that General Pierce set sail "from America to Mexico." 
               Unanimity means that all persons taking part in the decision of any question are of one mind. Hence there can be but one decision that is unanimous. Yet an expression has crept in which should be denounced and discontinued. When a majority for anything is large, many persons say that the question was decided with great unanimity, whereas there has been no unanimity at all, supposing that there could be two kinds, great and little. 
               A New York newspaper says, "The violinist Paul Julien, a wonderful little favorite with the public, is at the present time lying dangerously ill in this city. Fears are entertained of his recovery." 
               It strikes us that it would be more charitable to entertain fears of his dying. 
               The elegiac verses in the Public Ledger will be the death of us yet. The following lines appeared in the paper for Thursday, February 2d, (1854). 
                      
                        "Oh! dry your tears and shed no more, 
                        Because your husband has gone before- 
                        In love he lived, in peace he died, 
                        His life was asked, but was denied. 
                     
                      
                        Oh! happy husband, how fast you go 
                        And leave me here behind- 
                        Don't stop for me, for now I see 
                        The Lord is just and kind." 
                     
                  
                
               The last verse conveys the idea that the deceased had gone up to the other world by the fast train, whilst his wife had missed the cars-which is absurd. 
               
                  Wearing the hat indoors.-Have you noticed, reader, how this ungraceful and unhealthy practice is gaining ground amongst us? You walk into a counting-house, and there are the members of the firm sitting at their tables with their hats on, and the clerks standing at their desks with their hats on. Go into a broker's office, and there he is with his hat on; and so on through a number, of the callings of men. 
               The object of a hat is to protect the wearer's head from the sun and the rain, but as there are none indoors the hat should be removed on crossing the threshold. A man who should insist on moving about a room with an open umbrella over his head, would be just as wise as he who wears a hat in such a situation. 
               One of the 'rules of health is to "keep the head cool;" but wearing a hat heats the head, produces headache, and causes the hair to become "thin and fall out. One who always wears his hat will feel but little benefit from it when in the air, and will feel the effects of bad weather more sensibly. 
               Bayard Taylor, in a letter from China to the New York Tribune, speaks of paven squares and paven courts! 
               This is about a match for the practice of some of the county papers in Pennsylvania, which call proved proven, preferring a Scotch law-jargon to an English word. There are enough irregular verbs in the English language without adding to their number. 
               Let us try our hand at improving the English tongue. 
               "It is evident from Bayard Taylor's letters that the Chinese are not loven by him, and their mode of life not approven. After he has returnen to the United States it is believen that his letters will be collecten and printen in a volume, and publishen illustraten with wood cuts executen by the best artists. When completen they will be as much liken as in their separate shape." 
               Bayard Taylor, Bayard Taylor, this is affectations, look you!" 
               Some persons use only in the sense of except: thus in an advertisement of a rail-road running north from Albany it is said, the cars will not stop at the Arsenal only when a signal is made." This means directly the reverse of what the writer intended. 
               An auction room in this pity, which was formerly occupied by the Continental Congress, has had this inscription put up in it: Out of this hall grew the thunder of the American Revolution." This is decidedly novel-thunder growing out of a hall! if it was accompanied by lightning, the hall must have been a hot house.
                
               When Bonaparte died at St Helena, some poetaster sent a string of verses to a Magazine in London, beginning 
                     "France's thunder now is dim!"
                  
                
               
                  Works of the Imagination.-Some narrow minded fanatic residing in one of the Western States has favored the world with his views upon the subject of works of fiction. His article is headed "Reading of Novels is a Crime!" and his nonsensical rapsody has been copied into a periodical published in New York by one of the religious denominations in that city; which is more surprising still than its original production. 
               The writer has not as yet stated whether this crime should be punished by imprisonment or death; perhaps, for the present he will be content to imprison for two or three years a man or woman who reads a Waverly novel. Nothing less than death should be inflicted for reading the English novels of the last century. Children detected in reading Goody Two Shoes or Jack the Giant-Killer, should, of course, be sent to the House of Refuge. What a delightful world this will be when there are no works of fiction to be read, at which time, but not before, the writings of such men as this driveling fanatic will be held in high esteem. 
               What is to be done with the parables in the Bible, both in the Old Testament and the New? Are we to have an expurgated edition, that the minds of our children may not be injured thereby? 
               The whole matter lies in a nut shell. The imagination is one of the faculties of the human soul, just as much as the reason and the memory, and a man must be a very vain creature who thinks he can improve upon the workmanship of the Almighty. "Every good and perfect gift cometh from above." Sir Walter Scott, Cooper, Dickens, Thackaray and others have been endowed with great imaginations by their Maker. They have made use of this divine gift, and have added thereby to the happiness of millions of their fellow beings. They were sent into the world to exercise their talents, and they have fulfilled the task imposed upon them to their own honor and to our advantage. 
               Every child knows, or ought to know, that it is bad logic to reason against the use of anything from the abuse of it. To say that there should be no novels because there are some bad novels, is as absurd as to denounce any other branch of literature, for the reason that there are imperfect and injurious works in it. There are a few divines, not so many now as there once were, who cannot write a sermon that is not soporific; but let us not abolish the pulpit from dread of these drowsy pastors. 
               Fanaticism always defeats itself. Innocent amusements are decried, and as man is so constituted as to require some amusement, pernicious amusements are sought after. A religious publication society, which has done much for the education of the young and the spread of religion in the western country, issued a work a few years ago in which it was suggested that it was irreligious to go to a concert! Luther, the great and good reformer, had another and a better opinion of the science of music. He delighted in it, and not only performed himself upon different instruments, but had his children taught. The lines commencing, "The man that has not music in his soul are too familiar to need quotation. We will not go so far as to say "let no such man be trusted," but we will say that we prefer to trust a man who has music in his soul to one who is deficient. 
               This is something of a digression, but we naturally fell into it. The bigotry that would banish all works of the imagination from our libraries is akin to that which would extinguish music; but as works of fiction will continue to be written and to be read, and music will continue to delight mankind, because such is the will of our Maker, we shall not waste time in the inquiry what substitutes for them are to be presented by the sour and the melancholy. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
