
    ----CITATION----
        De Normand, Hugh. Julienne .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6265 wright2-0736
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
            
         
         
         
            
               JULIENNE:
               The Daughter of the Hamlet.
            
            BY HUGH DE NORMAND, AUTHOR OF "TWO ERAS OF FRANCE; TRUE
               STORIES FROM HISTORY," ETC.
            
               
                  Tout ce qui est beau, est aussi rare.
               
            
            
               NEW ORLEANS:
               BURNETT & BOSTWICK.
            
            1854.
         
         
         
            
               ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by ALONZO G.
                  BEARDSLEY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for
                  the Northern District of New York.
               THOMAS B. SMITH, STEREOTYPER AND ELECTROTYPER,
               216 William Street, N. Y.
            
         
         
            Preface.
            THE following story has been reproduced from a French romance, but in such way, and
               with such free handling of the original story, in the structure of the plot, and in
               the sentiment, as to leave in the copy but slight resemblance to the model. Whether
               the reader of these pages will gain or lose by the freedom which has been used, it is
               not for me to say. The labor it has cost has not been without reward in the
               gratification which near contact and association with a character so pure, so simple,
               and so religious as JULIENNE'S, have brought to me in hours when I felt the need of
               some relaxation from severer duties. I would trust that the reader will find a
               similar gratification in the perusal of what has been written.
            
               H. DE N.
               May, 1854.
            
         
         
         
            
            Contents.
            
               CHAPTER I. CHILDHOOD—YOUTH—TRIALS. 9
               
               CHAPTER II. THE ARRIVAL—THE CHATEAU—THE PARSONAGE AND THE TWO YOUNG FRIENDS.
                     29
               
               CHAPTER III. THE BIRTH-DAY FETE—DEPARTURE TO A MILDER CLIMATE—ALLEVIATION OF
                  SUFFERING—TROUBLED HAPPINESS—FORESHADOWINGS OF EVIL. 53
               
               CHAPTER IV. THE DEPARTURE—THE VALLEY OF SAN LORENZO—THE CAVERN. 77
               
               CHAPTER V. GOOD IN EVIL—HISTORY OF A GIPSY—JOACHIMO'S OATH. 108
               
               CHAPTER VI. THE ATTACK UPON THE VILLAGE—JOACHIMO AND PEPITA—THE MISER—ABRUZIO,
                  THE BRIGAND—CONSULTATION—THE EMBARKATION AND PASSAGE—CUNNING MAB AND HER DEAD
                  CHILDREN. 134
               
               CHAPTER VII. THE INSPIRED DAUGHTER—THE FOREST OF GLENMORE—ELECTION OF THE GIPSY
                  CHIEF—THE SONG OF THE BOHEMIANS—ADONAI AND JANIE. 164
               
               
               CHAPTER VIII. THE MESSENGER—RANSOM AND DELIVERANCE—THE PATERNAL
                  HOME—PREDICTION. 183
               
               CHAPTER IX. THE DAY CLOSES—LAST WISHES. 212
               
               CHAPTER X. THE DEPARTURE—NAYA AND JANIE. 232
               
               CHAPTER XI. COMMUTATION OF THE SENTENCE—JULIENNE RETURNS TO FRANCE—THE JOY OF
                  THE HAMLET. 253
               
               CHAPTER XII. THE COTTAGE ON THE COAST—SHIPWRECK—RESCUE FROM THE WAVES. 272
               
               CHAPTER XIII. THE FISHERMAN'S SON—TROUBLED MUSINGS—THE COURSE OF TRUE
                  LOVE—WILLIE STEDMAN. 291
               
               CHAPTER XIV. JULIENNE GOES TO LONDON—WALBURY CASTLE—THE SCHOOLS—SIR THOMAS
                  SYDENHAM—UNFORESEEN OBSTACLES. 311
               
               CHAPTER XV. EDWARD TO JULIENNE—HIS HISTORY, AND HIS FATHER'S NARRATIVE—THE END.
                     332
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Julienne
            
               CHAPTER I.
               CHILDHOOD—YOUTH—TRIALS.
               JULIENNE was a peasant's daughter. The house in which she was born was an humble
                  cottage, poor in appearance, and covered with thatch; and the garden in which her
                  first footprints were impressed, was only a narrow enclosure between the highway
                  and the willows which bordered the river and the meadow. The first monument on
                  which her eye had rested was the village church, whose gothic tower, venerable
                  with time and with signals of decay, lifted itself up among the aged trees which
                  surrounded it. Her prayers to the good God, which she had been taught at home, by
                  her humble and pious parents, she had said there. All her associations were rude and humble. The conversation she had
                  listened to was between countrymen, whose occupations were limited to seed-sowing
                  and harvesting. The companions of her young years were the children of the
                  neighboring hamlet. While she enjoyed, with ingenuous freedom and the impulse of
                  happy youth, the merry sports of her companions, she listened also, in maturer
                  years, with interest to the old friends of her father, who came at evening, when
                  the cares of the day were over, to talk of their flocks and their fields.
               In all that surrounded the early years of Julienne, there was nothing to indicate
                  any change or elevation in her future position. And yet, this simple girl, who
                  seemed born to live, grow old, and die, in her native place, gradually attained a
                  station of influence and usefulness much beyond her aspirations or her dreams. She
                  who in her childhood heard no other conversations than those of the simple
                  husbandmen of her native province, in after years listened to that of ministers
                  and kings. Raised from so low a position to one so high, it might be supposed that
                  she had among her friends some who could command influence and control what we
                  call fortune. But it was not so. Worldly protection descends not to the lowly.
                  Make yourself a name, and the world will repeat it. The great ones of the world
                  seldom grasp with cordial interest and affection the hard hand of toil and
                  poverty, and elevate it towards themselves.
               One of the first occupations of Julienne, or Liennette, as she was called among
                  her companions, was to tend the flocks of her father. She was entrusted with this
                  charge before she had attained her tenth year. Before quitting the farm-house, her
                  mother furnished her with a small basket of fruit and bread, her daily provision.
                  Her head, covered with beautiful flowing ringlets of soft auburn hair, was
                  protected, in the summer season, by a large straw hat, such as the peasants wore;
                  and in winter, when the freezing north wind was abroad, the mother wrapped her
                  cherished child in a mantle of wool, and gave her an earthen vessel, containing a portion of charcoal,
                  by whose glow she might warm her hands and feet. Cheerful and happy the little
                  Liennette went forth gaily to her charge, waiting always, however, for the tender
                  embrace of her mother, and her parting words,—"Go, darling, guard the flocks well,
                  and God will guard thee."
               That the mind may open for the ingress of wisdom, and that the imagination may be
                  elevated and refined, it is not always and only necessary that the lessons of the
                  schools should be taught. He who made man knows that in the long succession of
                  ages, among the children of our common humanity, there will be a countless
                  multitude born, not upon the lap of fortune, and in the way leading up to the
                  temple of knowledge, but in the humble and narrow households of poverty, where
                  there is neither time nor facilities for intellectual culture.
               The little Julienne exhibited in her countenance, even in childhood, indications
                  of an active and inquiring mind. Already—while playing the part of the rustic
                  shepherdess upon her native hills—she gave promise of the rich harvest of future
                  goodness and intelligence. There were avenues of instruction open to her in the
                  familiar aspects of nature, and in her observations and calm reflections upon what
                  was passing around her in her limited sphere.
               There are many who see and observe so little, that the day is born and dies
                  without furnishing anything for their observation or study. They know that the sun
                  rises and sets, but they are neither moved at the morning glories of the luminary
                  of day, neither at the majestic pomp of his setting,—the glorious pavilion of
                  clouds in which he makes his couch. Although he mounts the heavens "as a giant to
                  run his course," and bends and declines towards the west, draped with purple and
                  gold, yet these unreflecting, unpoetic minds are so engrossed with their business
                  or their pleasures, that it would be absurd to talk to them of the grandeur and
                  power thus manifested in the heavens, and of the beautiful effect of light and shade, playing over the fields, the
                  meadows, the forests, and the waters. To them the twelve hours of the day are
                  alike in interest and beauty, and they allow them to pass unobserved, leaving such
                  thoughts to painters, romancers, and all other dreamers. Poor, stupid beings! they
                  regard with pity all those who are not like them, occupied with material things.
                  They study and love nature only as it yields them revenue. They look upon the
                  majestic oak only to measure it with the eye, in order to calculate what will be
                  its value in its returns of money, when the axe of the woodman shall have brought
                  to the earth this monarch of the grand old forest. In the meadow, enameled with
                  flowers, over which the breeze of spring-time passes caressingly, they think only
                  of the food it will produce for their cattle. Show not the beauty of the country
                  to their stupid and vacant minds! Talk to them of the value of the lands, and the
                  gain that can be gathered from their surface; then they will listen!
               It was not thus that Julienne understood nature. The love that this young soul
                  felt for God, made her, though only a child, study and love the works of the
                  Creator. She knew the name of the flower which opens itself to the first rays of
                  morning, and which the people of the country have named belle-du-jour.
                  * She had remarked
                  that this flower never opens itself to the mid-day sun. She knew that the bind-weed of the hedges shuts its cup under the great heat of the
                  sun, and opens it only to receive the dews of the night. She knew the herb that
                  the sheep love best, and that which is best fitted for the lambs of the flock when
                  separated from their mothers. It was from the trunk of the old oak that she
                  gathered the gray moss which stanched the blood of the fresh wound. And then this
                  child, who could have no sorrow of heart, or cause for disquiet, fell,
                  notwithstanding, into long reveries, when the bell of the church sounded the
                     Angelus of the evening. There was something
                  extraordinary in Julienne, which the inhabitants of the hamlet, and even her own
                  family, could not
                     
                     *The morning-glory.
                   comprehend. They looked
                  upon this young girl as they would upon the flowers of the field,—herself a
                  beautiful flower,—or upon those which grew by the way-side, and without any deeper
                  regard. As the lily of the valley, which has received into its white cup pearls of
                  dew, and which keeps them there, because the wind and the storm cannot reach down
                  to the deep seclusion, so Liennette kept in her young heart the love of God, which
                  her mother had infused there, by divine grace. And during the long hours that she
                  passed in the fields, her greatest pleasure consisted in contemplating the heaven
                  so beautifully blue, the forests clad in greenness, and the waters of the clear
                  river, and in singing her grateful hymns of praise. One day, in the month of May,
                  she was seated near a hedge of hawthorne, white with its fresh flowers, and
                  gladdened by the sun, which shed its golden light over all created things. The
                  young girl sang as sweetly and as joyously as the birds which build their nests in
                  the perfumed hedge. At that moment, Hardouin, the good and venerable ble pastor of
                  the village, passed along in the path below where she was seated. Fatigued by his
                  walk, he paused to rest himself on some rustic steps beneath the shade. Julienne
                  was holding in her hand a wreath of flowers, and with her eyes raised towards the
                  clear heavens, she was mingling her voice with the songs of the birds, joyously
                  carolling around her. After regarding her for a moment, the pastor called to her.
                  The familiar voice of the old man drew her towards him.
               "My child," said he, passing his fingers through her fair ringlets, "you sing well
                  always, and your hymn to-day is very beautiful."
               "Yes, sir, it is one of the hymns which my mother taught me."
               "You do right to remember what your parents have taught you. But tell me, do you
                  not tire of being thus always alone?"
               "I am never lonely, but sometimes I am afraid. Yesterday, for example, when the
                  sudden storm came down, the thunder rolled in a frightful manner, and the red
                  lightning appeared like serpents of fire
                  hissing through the black heavens, I dared not shelter myself under the old oak
                  which you see below, for my father says there is greater danger there, and has
                  forbidden it, and I seated myself in the midst of my flock. I was there with all
                  my little lambs, and they, too, were afraid. And so I prayed, in a low voice,—My
                  God, have pity on us!"
               "It is well—it is well—my child, thus to put your trust in God. Storms are often
                  His voice, and this great voice makes itself heard to remind men that He has in
                  His hands the power to punish the earth when the earth forgets Him. You were
                  seated, all trembling, in the midst of your flock. On the branches of the trees,
                  bent and twisted by the storm, were the frightened birds trembling in their nests.
                  But God watched over them and you, and to-day they sing among the leaves, as you
                  among the white flowers of the hedge. You may, then, safely trust in Him who will
                  protect and keep you in sunshine and in storm."
               The bell sounded for prayers. The good pastor returned to his parsonage, and
                  Julienne to the farm.
               When St. Germain of Auxerre and his friend St. Loup went forth on their mission to
                  preach the Gospel and to do good to men, they travelled by short journeys. In
                  traversing the plains of Nanterre, one day they fell in with a young peasant girl,
                  seated by the side of a fountain, watching her flock, and accompanying the music
                  of her spinning wheel with her voice. The travellers entered into conversation
                  with her, and found in her words so much faith and love, so much good sense and
                  piety, that they foresaw, at once, the exalted station of usefulness and influence
                  to which the providence of God afterwards called her. St. Germain gave her a
                  medal, and his blessing, with these words,—"Keep this, and it will recall to you
                  that you are the servant of Jesus Christ."
               The pastor of the hamlet of Saules hearing Julienne singing her sweet religious
                  songs, in the midst of the birds and flowers, was reminded of the heroine of Nanterre, who with her simple shepherd's
                  crook had repulsed the proud array which that Scourge of God, the
                  redoubtable Attila, had marshalled against Paris. And truly the simple pastor was
                  not altogether wrong in entertaining the thought. Julienne certainly did not
                  attain the same height of distinction as the shepherdess of Nanterre, nor did she
                  seek it in the same way, but yet she gained an elevation far above that of many
                  who have dreamed of renown and glory. Her ambition was to do good—to be useful in
                  the state of life to which God had called her. And it was by His providence that
                  she was lifted above her own station, in order that she might be useful in a more
                  extended sphere.
               There are some minds which, left to solitude, waste away by an imperceptible
                  decay, and die. There are others whom solitude nourishes into greatness and glory.
                  For the first, it is like the blow of the Indian club which fells them to the
                  earth. For the last, it has wings wherewith they approach heaven. The idea of a
                  profound solitude has tempted many a spirit from the world. It has peopled the
                  Thebaide, and it is not the vulgar spirit alone, and always, that has deserted the
                  city to live, meditate, and pray under the palm tree of the desert, and in the
                  caverns of the rock. It was in solitude that the first impulses of the mind of
                  Julienne were formed, which were afterwards developed, as we shall see, in
                  healthful and noble activity.
               After the conversation of the pastor with Julienne, he was convinced that she was
                  no ordinary child, and that her future life promised much. Charmed with her grace
                  and good sense, he asked of her parents the privilege of providing for her
                  education. His sister, a good and pious woman, would teach her to read, and the
                  domestic duties, while he would take charge of her religious instruction.
               One may divine with what readiness they acceded to this arrangement, and with what
                  earnestness they counselled the little Liennette to profit by the offered
                  advantages. And so she did. After twelve
                  years under the roof of these kind friends, her beauty of mind and person, and her
                  pure, consistent and well-developed religious character, rendered her peculiarly
                  attractive and lovely, while she had lost none of that simplicity, and humility,
                  and calm enthusiasm which made her beloved by all, and not less by those of her
                  own original rank in society, than by the cultivated and refined.
               There are flowers whose cups open and spread their perfume, as the first rays of
                  the sun glitter among the dew-drops. It is the same with the minds of some
                  children which open to the first words of instruction, and in whose dew of youth
                  the light of wisdom is reflected as in the dew of flowers. Julienne displayed a
                  docility of mind and an aptitude to receive instruction which made the task of
                  teaching her a pleasure, and so she grew up to reward the care and affection which
                  had been freely bestowed upon her by the good pastor and sister.
               The simple husbandmen were sleeping tranquilly under their rustic roofs, though a
                  strong wind had risen in the clear night, that swayed the branches of the trees
                  which formed a grove about the hamlet. Notwithstanding the increasing tumult of
                  the storm that broke in upon the silence of the night, and the calm repose in
                  which the fields were sleeping, the tired husbandmen rested tranquilly beneath
                  their rustic roofs. They who gain their bread in the sweat of their brows, sleep
                  soundly. Idleness and remorse drive sleep far from their couch. Suddenly the cry
                  of fire was heard, loudly ringing through the village, and startling the
                  inhabitants from their beds.
               You may have witnessed the zeal and courage with which the firemen in large cities
                  address themselves to the work of rescue. In small villages, while the confusion
                  is greater, there is no less brave exertion prompted by the common feeling of
                  humanity and good will. Here the pastor is generally the first at the scene of
                  conflagration. It is true that here there are no costly pictures, nor sumptuous
                  furniture, nor precious works of art to
                  rescue from the flames, but there are the harvests of the reapers to save, and the
                  thatched roofs which cover them, and every one works with a good will.
               And now in the hamlet every one is abroad. The church bell has sounded the alarm,
                  the red flames gleam upon the darkness, and everywhere is confusion and
                  dismay.
               A poor, old paralytic woman, deaf and very infirm, had not been awakened by the
                  alarm, and the fire was approaching her cottage. In the general confusion she
                  seemed to have been forgotten by every one except Julienne. The beautiful girl, in
                  her thoughtful care of others, and forgetful of herself, ran to awaken and save
                  mother Gertrude. When she reached her cabin, she discovered that the roof already
                  was on fire, for the wind, which was constantly increasing, carried the burning
                  brands in every direction.
               Julienne, who had not strength herself to force the door, called for assistance in
                  saving the old woman's life. Being but partially awakened, it was some time before
                  they could make her aware of the danger, and persuade her to attempt to escape. At
                  length a broad-shouldered peasant lifted her in his arms and bore her from the
                  blazing cottage, while a burning rafter fell upon the head of Julienne, striking
                  her to the ground, where she would have perished, had not the pastor, in his care
                  for the poor and suffering,—like a father for the children whom he loves,—came to
                  rescue mother Gertrude. He found not the infirm old woman, but saw with affright
                  Julienne stretched upon the floor, pale and motionless. He raised her in his arms,
                  and bore her away to a place of safety, blessing God that she was rescued.
               Notwithstanding the zeal and brave exertions of the inhabitants, aided by those of
                  the neighboring hamlets, many of the cottages were destroyed, and the produce of
                  their fields consumed.
               The father and mother of Julienne were soon at her bedside in the parsonage,
                  weeping over her tears both of sorrow and of joy—of sorrow for her sufferings, and
                  of joy for her rescue. But, alas, how was
                  their affliction deepened when they found that the flames had scorched her head,
                  and injured her eyes. She was blind. She would see them no more. The light of her
                  beautiful eyes was extinguished, and with blindness must come—they thought—the
                  extinction of all their proud hopes and aspirations for her future career.
               Julienne, hearing the loud grief of her parents, said to them, with a voice as
                  sweet and composed as when chanting the songs of David:—
               "Do not thus make yourselves unhappy. Your grief makes me more sorrowful than the
                  loss of sight. Do not believe that I shall always remain blind, for He who has
                  taken away my sight, knows with what joy I look upon his works."
               Three months had passed since the hamlet was made desolate by the fire. The roses
                  no longer bloomed, but the queen-marguerites blossomed in the garden, and the
                  dahlias also were putting forth their first gay flowers. In the fields and by the
                  road-side the massive foliage of the trees was becoming flecked with yellow and
                  crimson. Autumn was silently approaching. In this interval the physician of the
                  hamlet had in vain applied his skill in restoring the sight of Julienne. Her
                  eyelids fringed with long black lashes, were constantly closed. No longer was seen
                  the mild, deep expression of her fine blue eyes, but upon her lips descended all
                  the graces of sweetness and beauty. She continued to dwell at the parsonage, for
                  under the care of the pious pastor and his sister, her parents believed that she
                  was nearer to God.
               After the labors of the day were done, the fond mother, evening after evening,
                  came to pass an hour or two with her daughter, and was consoled by Julienne saying
                  often,—
               "Dear mother, you see me here, surrounded with all that I can desire. But,
                  notwithstanding my pleasant chamber, my abundant home, the perfume of the garden,
                  and the quiet repose which I enjoy, I often regret my simple country life. My
                  happiest hours were those which I passed with my flocks. The blessedness of your
                  warning benediction went with me through the whole day. I remember member, too, how we sang together the holy song of
                  David, who, in his love to God, calls on all created things, the sun, the moon,
                  the stars, and the seas, torrents, tides, waves, and streams, to praise with him
                  the Eternal Creator. Now I see not the golden light of the sun. I know not if the
                  heaven be blue, or whether it is covered with gray and sombre clouds. Yet through
                  all this darkness, Hope, like a single ray of the sun, remains to me. Then, dear
                  mother, do not afflict yourself. Tobias was blind, as we read in the sacred
                  story,—but was restored to sight. The God of Tobias is still in the heavens, and
                  His angels are always ready to conduct and console the afflicted."
               These words of hope and resignation flowed from the lips of the blind girl as a
                  healing balm to the fond mother's bleeding spirit, assuaging her grief, and
                  sending her home to her husband to infuse into his heart something of the
                  consolation and reliance which her daughter's words had breathed into her own.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE ARRIVAL—THE CHATEAU—THE PARSONAGE—THE TWO YOUNG FRIENDS.
               DURING the long emigration of the French clergy at the time of the great
                  Revolution, Hardouin, the pastor of the hamlet of Saules, had passed the days of
                  his exile in Germany, in the grand-duchy of Baden. There he cultivated
                  successfully the science of Music, and had often desired that he might introduce
                  into the churches of France the sweet and harmonious chants which he had heard in
                  the land of his banishment. During the years of his exile he had often said, that
                  if it pleased God to restore him to his own country, the service should be chanted
                  in his church. This vow of the exile priest had been performed, and in his
                     little gothic church in the hamlet of
                  Saules, the service was chanted with a perfection of harmony exceedingly rare in
                  France, and which would have been impressive and effective even in a grand
                  cathedral.
               During her months of blindness, Julienne had learned to move without a guide
                  through the parsonage, the garden, the churchyard, and into the church, where her
                  daily prayers were said. There she passed many hours, improvising, upon the organ,
                  chords full of sweetness and melancholy. Soon taught by her loving and exalted
                  sense, she acquired a skill which often astonished and always touched the hearts
                  of others. God has consolations to give to those from whom He has taken away the
                  sense of sight. It is observed that their appearance is always quiet and serene,
                  and that wrinkles seldom appear upon their brows.
               Julienne recovered in music much of the charm of her early life, while watching
                  her flocks in the solitudes of the hills. The clouds driven by the winds, sailing
                  over the azure heavens, like ships on the wide waters of the sea; the rays of the
                  sun, playing and sparkling upon the waves; the willows, the alders, and the
                  poplars, bending under the breath of the morning and evening, and lifting again
                  their leafy tops; all those things which, in the past, had plunged her into long
                  reveries, she saw again when she abandoned herself to her inspirations. Sometimes
                  her music recalled scenes of the laughing and joyous days passed in the meadows,
                  and at other times days of storm and gloom.
               This music, more of sentiment than of science, is that which one loves. Born of
                  the soul, it reaches the soul. In its effects we recall a thousand reminiscences
                  of nature. Sometimes it is the rivulet, gently flowing over its pebbly bed,
                  between banks of flowers; sometimes the full flood, rolling and flowing; then it
                  is the lion that lifts his voice in the desert, demanding his prey; and again it
                  is the nightingale that repeats to the moon her song of love.
               There was little variety in the life of the simple-minded minded villagers of Saules. In spite of the old
                  proverb, that "no two days are alike," there to-day was like yesterday, and will
                  be repeated to-morrow without changing its likeness. It is perhaps difficult to
                  say whether one should regret such monotony of life, or sigh for such scenes as
                  furnish more stirring events and changes. In what we call the drama of life, there
                  is more sorrow than joy, more tears than smiles, more adversity than prosperity,
                  and from the depths of my soul I pronounce happy a rural home, like that of the
                  hamlet of Saules, in not being the theatre of any great event in the annals of
                  France. Glory is a costly gift or heritage. A man of great genius has said, "Happy
                  the people whose history is Dulness."
               However, an incident did occur in the quiet little hamlet, which took the place of
                  a great event in the minds of the simple inhabitants. An English nobleman, with
                  his family on his way to the château of Landais, stopped at the village inn to
                  make inquiries as to the route and the distance, and to afford rest to his family,
                  and especially to their invalid daughter. The magnificence of their travelling
                  equipage excited the wonder of the inhabitants, who crowded to their doors as
                  their carriages passed. Master, mistress and servants, as seen through the
                  carriage windows, were covered with dust.
               Finding that they were within half a league of the château, the servants and
                  baggage were sent on, while from the remaining carriage descended a gentleman,
                  clad in a travelling-dress of gray summer-cloth, with shoes and gaiters of the
                  same color. The traveller holding in his hand a note-book, asked the inn-keeper if
                  there were any curiosities in the neighborhood worthy of being visited.
               "As to curiosities," he replied, "I know of none, yet it happens sometimes that
                  travellers like yourself find our little church curious and beautiful. For myself,
                  sir, I find it old and very ugly."
               The English gentleman then extended his hand to a lady, who appeared nearly of his
                  own age—past the middle of life—of elegant manners, dressed in a robe of
                  unbleached linen, a hat of green, and a
                  long veil of the same color, which shaded her face without hiding the noble
                  expression of her countenance, the clearness of her complexion, or the profusion
                  of hair which time had already sprinkled with gray. They assisted in descending
                  from the carriage a young girl of fourteen or fifteen years, dressed like a child
                  in white, who, with a smile tender and sad, thanked them for their affectionate
                  courtesy.
               "Oh, this freshness is charming, and will make me well," said the young girl,
                  taking off her bonnet, and shaking her fair locks. "It is like the breath of
                  evening, my mother—it is like one of your caresses." Then addressing her father,
                  she asked, "Is there anything to see, now that we have alighted?"
               "My child, there is an old church. I know that you love to linger around them, and
                  it is for your sake that I have delayed here, while your brothers and your aunt
                  have proceeded to Landais to prepare for our reception."
               "I thank you, my father. I love well the old churches; above all I love to visit
                  them at the hour of sunset, and this evening is so beautiful."
               "If you intend, Amelia, to make a sketch of the time-worn church and parsonage, it
                  will be necessary to hasten, for you are forbidden to expose yourself to the night
                  air, you know, my love," said her mother, throwing a mantle of white cashmere over
                  the shoulders of her child.
               The party proceeded to the church, and while examining its gothic carvings, and
                  sculptures, and the rude figures of angels and saints which ornamented its portal,
                  they were greatly surprised to hear, at that hour of the day, and in the humble
                  village church, the sound of an organ.
               The astonishment of the travellers was increased when, on entering the church,
                  they found it empty. No person was visible either in the nave or aisles, and yet
                  from the high gallery under which they were standing, flowed waves of harmony.
                  There was something in this music simple and touching, like the voice of an angel,
                  which impelled one to bend the knee and adore. Thus these strangers, although not of the Roman Catholic Church, did not
                  deem it superstitious or wrong in them, as they approached the chancel, to kneel
                  at the rail, and pray to God in the house consecrated to His name. After their
                  silent devotions, they seated themselves and listened with admiration and delight
                  to the inspiring music.
               To their regret the organ soon ceased to pour forth its melody, and in the silence
                  of the church they heard the steps of some one descending from the gallery. The
                  noble stranger wishing to know to whom he was indebted for music so full of soul,
                  hastened to the entrance of the stair-case, and saw issuing from it, in the shadow
                  of the door-way, a young girl of about the same age of his daughter.
               "Tell me, I pray you," said the traveller, "who is the organist to whom I have
                  been listening with so much admiration. Will he come down soon? I wish to thank
                  him for myself, and for my wife and daughter as well, for the pleasure he has
                  given us. Do you think he will remain much longer in the church?"
               "My lord, there is no person here, and in leaving the church, I must lock the
                  door, and return the key to the pastor."
               Saying these words, Julienne—for it was she—descended the last stair of the
                  turret, coming into fuller light, where the strangers could see her more
                  distinctly. They observed that there was great purity and beauty in the lines of
                  her face, that her complexion was somewhat darkened by exposure to the sun, and
                  that her eyes, veiled by long black lashes, and seemingly bent upon the pavement,
                  gave her an appearance of great modesty and timidity. It was not long, however,
                  before they discovered that she was blind.
               "Is it possible," said the stranger, "that you are the performer to whom we have
                  been listening?"
               "Yes, my lord, it was I," answered Julienne, very low, and very timidly.
               "You so young—in this village—it is hardly conceivable. And who is your
                  master?"
               "The pastor, Father Hardouin."
               
               "What, the priest of this hamlet?"
               "Yes, my lord."
               "And where is he who is capable of giving such instruction as you have
                  received?"
               "Oh, my lord, I know very little. I only know how to place my fingers upon the
                  keys, and then I pour out my soul here before God. But, sir, the pastor is a great
                  musician. He has passed many years in Germany, and it was there that he acquired
                  his skill."
               "Does he ever preside at the organ?"
               "O yes; when assisted by a neighboring priest, he then plays the organ, and one
                  might imagine that he was listening to the music of paradise."
               "We have already felt that in listening to you," said the lady, who had approached
                  with her daughter, and now joined in the conversation.
               At these gracious compliments, the village musician, taking from her pocket the
                  key of the church, made a step towards the door.
               "It is time for us to leave,"said the stranger,—"we have still to reach Landais
                  before night. We shall come again to listen to your music, if you will permit us.
                  Will you say to the pastor that we shall make our home for the present at Landais,
                  and that we shall soon call to pay our respects to him?"
               While the father of Amelia was speaking to Julienne, the young English girl
                  regarded her with attention, and felt her heart penetrated with pity and interest
                  for the blind child. Thus face to face the two young persons now stood. Amelia was
                  the child of wealth and station, but under the brilliant exterior—under that
                  mantle of cashmere—there lay concealed the germ of death, like a beautiful rose,
                  filled with perfume, and the cherished pride of the gardener, but pierced at the
                  heart by the worm that kills. But the afflicted child of the hamlet had none of
                  the consolations which wealth brings, but He whose goodness compensates in some
                  way or other, for the sorrows and misfortunes which are ordained for us, had given
                  her a calm and pious spirit of trust and confidence, and endowed her with a poetic
                     imagination tion. Some saint has
                  likened imagination to an insane asylum. I beg pardon of the saint, but I believe
                  imagination is often the best consoler.
               The brilliant tints of the dying day were mingling with the dark shadows of
                  evening, when the noble strangers again seated themselves in the carriage to
                  proceed to Landais.
               The château of Landais had not, for many years, been inhabited by its ancient
                  masters. Attached for more than two centuries to the royal house of France, the
                  Counts of Mareuil had abandoned Poitou, and lived at Court, where they had
                  hereditary possessions. In 1790 they emigrated, as did many other royalists. At
                  the commencement of the empire, this noble family returned to France, and the two
                  young sons of the old favorite of Louis XVI., seduced by the glory which
                  surrounded the soldier emperor, who had come to dethrone anarchy, had entered the
                  army, on their return from England, and following the victorious eagle, had
                  visited all the capitals of Europe. Descendants of Agenor de Mareuil, who had had
                  the honor of fighting by the side of Henry IV., and distinguished among the
                  bravest, Napoleon had attached himself to the two brothers. He had appointed the
                  elder an officer of ordnance, and to the younger, who was wounded at the battle of
                  Jena, he had given one of the most important prefectures of Italy.
               When Napoleon, by his retreat to the island of Elba, had freed from their oath the
                  French who were devoted to his cause, these two officers came to offer their
                  swords to the Bourbons, whom their father, Agenor de Mareuil, had served. Thus
                  having spent many years in exile, and known all the sorrows of banishment, the
                  Counts of Mareuil had at last established themselves at Paris, where they mingled
                  in all the fêtes of the Tuileries.
               Although the château of Landais had long been abandoned by its owners, it had been
                  kept up under the care of a faithful steward. He had grown old in the service of
                  the family, and showed his zeal and fidelity in the management of the estate, and
                  in his care of this beautiful mansion, which the family of Lord Mountclare had leased for a
                  series of years. During the reign of Francis I. the château had been ornamented
                  and adorned by several illustrious artists, and it contained many fine engravings
                  and paintings, and several choice specimens of sculpture. The main building, in
                  its style of architecture, and by its high roof and towers, and clustered
                  chimneys, gave evidence that it was erected during that age of magnificence and
                  taste, and recalled the wonders of Chambord, and the green façade of the château
                  of Blois. The wings, built during the reign of Louis XIII., were wanting in that
                  lightness and elegance which belonged to the original structure, and the confused
                  mingling of brick and stone which they exhibited, injured essentially the effect
                  which they were intended to produce.
               Lord and Lady Mountclare had known in England the Count and Countess Mareuil,
                  having met them in the melancholy saloons of Holyrood, where many of the
                  distinguished French exiles had found a re-union. It was there that, having
                  expressed their desire to find, under the softer sky and milder heavens of France,
                  a pleasant habitation to which they might retreat with their suffering daughter,
                  the Mareuils had offered them their estate at Landais.
               After parting with Julienne at the hamlet on the evening of their arrival, the
                  travellers proceeded to the château, so long deserted by its owners, intending to
                  remain so long as the health of Amelia should be benefited by the change. The
                  English have abundance of wealth at their command, and build splendid palaces for
                  their dwellings. These favorites of fortune gather around themselves gorgeous
                  furniture, and all the appliances of life which taste and wealth combined can
                  furnish. They adorn their walls with the choicest paintings of all the schools.
                  They shut out from their dwellings the north wind, which brings the cold, and
                  surround their palaces with immense parks; and yet the blue heavens and the warm
                  sun cannot be found in their three kingdoms! So much to be envied as they are for
                  their wealth, and for all which it brings
                  of comfort and enjoyment, yet they are forced abroad for their health, under the
                  delightful skies of France. If you examine them closely, you will see beneath all
                  their outward appearances of health and vigor, faces pale and melancholy,—the old
                  folks full of spleen, the young girls consumptive,—pale flowers, whom it is
                  necessary to bear far from the cold, gray fogs of their native land.
               Amelia was one of these flowers, and it was beautiful and touching to see the
                  tender care with which the preparations for her arrival had been made by her
                  brothers and aunt. The chamber which commanded the finest view of the country had
                  been chosen, the windows of which opened to the south, and admitted only the cool
                  and balmy air, laden with the perfume of the orange, reminding one of the climate
                  of Italy. Consumption, of all forms of disease, attracts most sympathy and
                  interest. Those who thus suffer have, I know not what, which attracts and charms.
                  They are more loved and caressed than other invalids. One foresees sees that their
                  days are numbered. Amelia had this attraction. She exercised it over all she saw,
                  with an unspeakable grace which made even her sickness lovely. She had also a
                  tender care for all about her. When afflictions come upon us, it is necessary to
                  receive them with resignation. It is right so to receive them, not only because
                  they are sent by God, but on our own account. Resignation is the balm of grief. It
                  is also the attraction which surrounds with friends the couch of suffering. In a
                  word, resignation is the grace and the attraction of grief.
               Many days had not passed after their quiet settlement at Landais, when Amelia said
                  to her mother,—
               "When shall we return to the village to hear again the blind organist?"
               "This very evening, if you wish, my child," replied Lord Mountclare, looking up
                  from his book, in which he was reading. When in the room with his daughter, his
                  thoughts were with her, more than with his book, or whatever occupation in which
                  he seemed to be engaged.
               
               The aunt and brother of Amelia had heard the talent of the country girl so highly
                  praised, that they begged to be of the party, and so together they proceeded to
                  the village church, intending, also, to call upon the pastor.
               The servants, as well as all the other members of the family, had but one fixed
                  thought—one paramount desire, that of relieving the sufferings, and seeing
                  restored to health, the young girl on whose forehead seemed the mark of the finger
                  of death. During the few days of their residence at Landais, the air had been soft
                  and balmy, and one might have thought that the country had put on its most
                  attractive appearance to welcome the charming invalid. Thus in the family there
                  were more smiles than had for a long time been seen, because hope, the last to
                  desert us, had gladdened their loving hearts.
               When the carriage reached the gate of the churchyard, the sound of the organ was
                  again heard, mingling harmoniously with the murmurs and shadows of the evening.
                  Having silently crossed the open space, they opened softly the little gothic door,
                  and fearing lest the sound of their footsteps upon the pavement might be heard,
                  they remained in the porch.
               Julienne, believing that she was alone with God, surpassed herself. Never had she
                  drawn out such strains of harmony as then, and again the noble strangers thought
                  of the music of angels. For nearly an hour she continued to play, without knowing
                  that there were listeners in the church below.
               On leaving the church, Lord and Lady Mountclare, as they had promised Julienne,
                  turned towards the parsonage, to visit the good pastor. When they opened the gate
                  of the parsonage, they saw the priest seated on a stone bench near his door,
                  surrounded by a number of young boys, who were listening attentively to his
                  instructions, while he was explaining to them, in simple and earnest words, the
                  meaning and application of that divine saying,—"Suffer the little children to come
                  unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven."
               
               As the strangers entered, Father Hardouin rose, and approaching them, said:—
               "I regret, my lord, not to have known beforehand of this visit with which you
                  honor me, that I might have been prepared to receive you in a more fitting manner.
                  At this season of the year our occupations leave us little unemployed time. I beg,
                  therefore, that you will excuse the disarray and confusion in which you find our
                  poor place."
               "I know," said Lord Mountclare, "that your time is occupied in attending upon
                  those who have claims upon you—the sick and the poor. But after them, when you
                  have alleviated their sufferings and provided for their wants, you must visit us
                  at Landais. We are now your parishioners, for though we hold the Protestant faith,
                  and worship under different forms, yet it is the same God, and the same blessed
                  Saviour, whom we serve and adore. We have already twice visited your church, and
                  we shall claim, my dear sir, your pastoral care."
               "Yes, my lord, I know that you have been here, and that you have deigned to praise
                  the peasant girl, the little Julienne, for her skill in music."
               "Praise ought, also, to be bestowed upon her teacher," said Lady Mountclare, "upon
                  him who has skill to cultivate such talents as she evidently possesses. It is to
                  you that such praise belongs."
               "By no means, my lady. It is God who has given to Julienne the gift which you have
                  admired. I have done but little. But I am convinced that she is gifted in an
                  extraordinary manner. She is not only a musician, but a poet. She is not only a
                  poet, but better than that,—she is endowed with a holy inspiration. It is
                  marvellous to listen to this blind child—the daughter of poor and simple
                  parents—speaking of the power and goodness of the Creator with such enthusiasm,
                  and with the wisdom of the prophets and elect of heaven."
               "Dear mother," said Amelia, "may I not see her, and know her better?"
               "I beg you," said Lady Mountclare to the priest, "to bring her with you to
                  Landais."
               
               While Father Hardouin was doing the honors of his house to his noble guests, and
                  while they were admiring the simplicity and good taste which were everywhere
                  apparent in the arrangement and adorning of the parsonage, Julienne, returning
                  from the church, opened the door of the court, and with the uncertain step of the
                  blind, to which her youth and beauty lent a certain grace, she walked to the
                  covered well, and took from it a basket of grain, which she scattered around, at
                  the same time singing these simple words:— 
                     
                        "Come, come, morning and evening,
                        You, whom alas, I shall never more see,
                        My doves, my turtle doves.
                        Little creatures, so beautiful,
                        Who fly so high in the heavens,
                        Would that I had your sight and your wings.
                     
                     
                        Gentle birds, fly to me,
                        Come and eat without fear
                        From my hands, which love to hold you.
                        My duty is to feed you—
                        My happiness is to cherish you—
                        My pleasure is to hear you."
                     
                  
               
               Soon a large number of pigeons and doves quitting the roof where they were lazily
                  reclining in the evening sun, came at this well-known voice, and partook eagerly
                  at the feet of Julienne of their repast. While some of them were picking up the
                  grain scattered upon the ground, others were flying around the head of the poor
                  child, sometimes resting upon her shoulders, making plaintive cooings, seeming to
                  pity her misfortunes. She took the tame creatures in her hands, kissing them and
                  pressing them to her bosom, as if to thank them for the pleasure they gave
                  her.
               The pastor called her, and she entered the saloon without awkwardness or
                  embarrassment. She had already recognized the voice of Amelia, which she had heard
                  once before in the church. That voice was more pleasant to her than that of any
                  other person, and especially was she delighted when the young English girl said to
                  her:—
               "My mother has begged M. Hardouin to bring you with him to Landais. I shall be
                  delighted to see you there."
               
               "And I," replied Julienne, "shall be happy to go. Your voice is so sweet, that I
                  am sure you must be beautiful. I cannot see you, but my heart understands you, and
                  goes out to you."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE BIRTH-DAY FETE—DEPARTURE TO A MILDER CLIMATE—ALLEVIATION OF
                  SUFFERING—TROUBLED HAPPINESS—FORESHADOWINGS OF EVIL.
               SEVERAL days after the visit spoken of in the last chapter, Lord Mountclare wrote
                  to M. Hardouin that the 25th of August was the anniversary of the birth of their
                  invalid daughter, Amelia, and that on this occasion his presence would give them
                  much pleasure. Lady Mountclare added,—"Bring with you the interesting blind girl.
                  It will give great pleasure to us all, but to my poor daughter especially, for she
                  has conceived a great attachment for Julienne, and everything is dear to us which
                  she loves."
               This invitation filled the heart of the blind girl with joy. The good sister of
                  the pastor was careful ful to provide for
                  her favorite suitable clothing, such as was worn by the peasant girls of the
                  hamlet. She loved the child as if she were her own, and in all that belonged to
                  her toilet there was displayed something of maternal pride.
               The pious family of Mountclare would have felt that the celebration of their
                  daughter's birthday was incomplete without having first invoked the blessing of
                  heaven, and the protection of the Almighty Father. Accordingly, the chapel of the
                  château was elegantly adorned with flowers and wreaths, and at an early hour of
                  the day the family repaired thither, and the morning service of the English
                  Church—in which all joined devoutly—was read.
               Lord Mountclare, in his letter to the pastor of Saules, had said,—"There will be a
                  collation for all your parishioners laid in the great hall of the Elm park, and it
                  is my desire that you extend this invitation generally, that all who can come may
                  join with us in the festivities. Let me ask you, also, for a list of all such of
                  your parishioners ers as are in sickness or distress, that we may relieve them, in
                  the name of our child. Especially let me know if there any are any girls of her
                  own age who need assistance, and it will give us much happiness to relieve
                  them."
               If the rejoicings of the rich and happy were often like those of the parents of
                  Amelia, they would be more blessed to those who participate in them, while from
                  the height of heaven the angels would look down with interest and with love upon
                  such festivities as are made, not solely to be enjoyed, but, also, to carry
                  consolation to the afflicted.
               On the 25th of August, the sun arose serene and glorious. The whole country seemed
                  prepared for the festivities. No shade of gray, no rain-cloud, marred the azure
                  heavens, or threatened to interrupt the pleasures and enjoyments of the occasion.
                  A beautiful day is an offering that heaven gives to the earth. A cool and
                  refreshing breeze agitated the tree-tops and the shrubbery of the park of Landais,
                  and the well-kept walks were strewn with
                  flowers that the morning wind had scattered. For Amelia, the day of the fête was
                  one which she had looked forward to with joyous anticipation. The air of the early
                  morning being recommended as most conducive to the restoration of her health, she
                  had risen early, as was her custom, and, accompanied by the gardener, she had gone
                  out to gather flowers, and to arrange them in vases and wreaths for the
                  chapel.
               It was a touching sight to see this pale and beautiful girl, in her white morning
                  dress, making her way through the massive clumps of shrubbery, sometimes elevating
                  her arms to reach some rare flower almost beyond her grasp, or pending over the
                  low plants, to gather some odorous blossom, worthy by its beauty and fragrance to
                  be placed on the altar of prayer. Seeing her thus employed, one would have been
                  reminded of those beautiful angels which Raphael loved to paint, and whose office
                  it might well be to serve at heaven's altar of incense.
               At the hour of nine, M. Hardouin, his sister, and Julienne, arrived at the
                  château. The worthy pastor had desired to see his parishioners in their Sunday
                  attire, and as he approached the château he encountered groups of them clustered
                  together here and there, eager for enjoyment. He and they were cordially received.
                  Julienne was taken possession of by Amelia, who would not allow her to be
                  separated from her sight.
               Before the sports and the more active amusements of the day began, M. Hardouin, at
                  the request of Lord Mountclare, made a brief address to the assembled peasants and
                  villagers, welcoming them, in the name of the noble Englishman, to the château,
                  and expressing his desire to aid them, in every way consistently with his new
                  relations towards them, while he remained in their neighborhood. The French priest
                  then turned towards the party of English people, and in turn, and in behalf of his
                  parishioners, and in his own name, welcomed Lord Mountclare and his family to
                  Landais. Referring to Amelia and the blind Julienne, who were standing side by
                  side near by, he said, with a touch of
                  national pride: "Although, my lord, your faith differs from that of those whom you
                  see around you, you will, I trust, pardon me for saying that God did not refuse
                  the saint whom France has given to heaven. Among the virtues of Louis IX., we
                  cannot fail to mark his charity, and his benevolence towards all, and especially
                  his symthy and compassion for the blind. After his return from Palestine, he
                  established a hospital for the benefit of the soldiers of the cross, his
                  companions in arms, who had lost their sight on the burning sands of Africa, and
                  since his death many have been restored to sight by visiting his tomb, or by
                  touching his relics."
               When the priest had finished speaking, Amelia took the hand of the blind girl, and
                  said to her:—
               "Julienne, I have been taught to believe that such miracles are no longer done.
                  But I trust in God that you may be restored to sight. All that my father can
                  procure to be done for you by medical skill, I am certain he will gladly do."
               It were long to describe all that passed that day. There was the dance upon the
                  lawn; the sail upon the lake; the race through the grand avenue; the collation in
                  the Elm-tree park, and the display of fire-works in the evening. Of course,
                  everywhere there was music, and everywhere there was enjoyment. There was nothing
                  to mar the harmony of the festivities. As the day had dawned brightly, with a
                  promise of happiness to all, so it closed calmly, having seen that promise
                  fulfilled.
               When the time arrived for the pastor to return to the hamlet, it was proposed by
                  Amelia, and warmly seconded by her mother, that Julienne should remain, and it was
                  settled that she should pass a week at the château. Lord Mountclare promised that
                  she should have an organ to practice upon, having ordered one from Paris, which
                  should have been received, as he had expected, before that day. "Thus, my friend,"
                  said he to the priest, "be assured, she will not neglect her music by remaining
                  with us."
               
               At these words, Amelia threw herself upon her father's neck, and embraced him,
                  saying, "Oh, how happy we shall all be together." This expression of joy from the
                  noble young girl filled the heart of Julienne with happiness. Her darkened eyes
                  shone not with the joy she felt, but on her rosy lips one saw a revelation of the
                  deep emotion within her bosom.
               After a few weeks had passed without any change or event worthy of notice, the
                  season approached when the cold northern winds began to be severely felt at
                  Landais. The alleys of the park were no longer strewn with flowers by the morning
                  breeze, nor was the early dawn balmy and sweet with the perfume of blossoms, as on
                  Amelia's birth-day, but dry and yellow leaves rustled mournfully under the
                  footsteps. The summer, with all its glories, was gone. Early autumn, with its
                  fruits and flowers, had departed too, and bleak winter was approaching. Fogs, gray
                  and cold, like those of England, began to veil the horizon, and if at times the
                  sun pierced the humid atmosphere, his rays seemed to have lost all their heat. The
                  flowers, especially, felt the change of the season; their stalks were bent, and
                  their beauty and perfume were gone.
               But Amelia suffered most by the change. For the last few weeks she had daily,
                  though almost imperceptibly, declined. And yet her days had been rendered happy by
                  the continued presence of Julienne, whose visit of a week had been protracted into
                  a month. She believed herself better, because happy and contented, but those whose
                  hope and love were centered in her, felt their hearts oppressed with sorrow when
                  they saw the feverish excitement with which she planned excursions and amusements
                  for the pleasure of others.
               The parents of Amelia had been counselled by their physicians in England to remove
                  her to a milder climate than that of her native land. France had been chosen for
                  its verdure and beauty of scenery, as well as for its healthfulness. But now the
                  beautiful fields were bleak and dreary, and the hills cold, while the distant
                  mountains were covered with a robe of
                  snow. The trees no longer waved their verdant foliage between the eye and the blue
                  heavens, but their long, leafless branches, glittering with frost, were pencilled
                  against the gray sky. The physicians said it was only in genial Italy that the
                  Lady Amelia could regain health and vigor. When such advice is given, sending the
                  patient abroad, the hopes of friends die. They look only for alleviation, not for
                  cure. With sad hearts Lord and Lady Mountclare again prepared for a change of
                  residence, and Naples was chosen—that ancient Parthenope—that siren which, in the
                  luxurious life it gives, makes us forget our native land. It was the city above
                  all others which Amelia had desired to see, and of which she had read with
                  delight. And now it was proposed as a residence which promised most for the
                  restoration of her strength and health! But when informed that arrangements for
                  leaving Landais were completed, and that they were really soon to take their
                  departure, she felt that her love for the peasant girl Julienne was stronger than
                  her desire to see Italy. She could not part with her favorite, whose cheerful and
                  affectionate disposition, and attractive loveliness of mind, and grace of person,
                  had made her inexpressibly dear to her. It was, therefore, finally arranged that
                  Julienne should accompany them, though many sad hearts would be left in the little
                  hamlet of Saules. But the promise of Lord Mountclare to return and make Landais
                  their home, softened, in a measure, the grief of parting. The family of the
                  Mountclares had made themselves greatly beloved among the simple villagers,—a
                  class of persons on whom love and kindness are seldom lost.
               It was during the first days of December that the Mountclares left Landais, after
                  having deposited in the hands of the pastor of the hamlet a considerable sum to be
                  expended at his discretion in relieving the poor and the suffering of his charge.
                  Julienne wept much in parting with her father and mother, her young companions,
                  and the venerable pastor, whom she had loved as a parent. Some one has said that
                  adieus are sad chiefly to those who
                  remain, not to those who go. Julienne had many bright hopes mingling with, and
                  softening her regrets. To the friends she left there remained only their quiet,
                  homely cares, and the wide void occasioned by her absence.
               I will not attempt to picture the joy and enthusiasm of our young travellers, as
                  they journeyed through the delicious scenery of Italy. There were the cities where
                  genius built its palaces of marble, now deserted:—Venice, the city of the Doges,
                  who remembered their former glory, and wept for their past grandeur; Florence, the
                  pearl of Italy, the city of arts, of marvellous statues and pictures, of churches
                  and libraries, its elegant society and its beautiful heavens; Rome, the queen of
                  cities, the city of the seven hills, where the Christian religion came and seated
                  itself in the home of the Scipios, of Paul Emilius, of Marcus Aurelius and of
                  Titus—called, and perhaps justly, the Eternal City; Naples, whose beauty may be
                  learned from the saying—"See Naples, and die."
               Like true tourists, Lord and Lady Mountclare travelled leisurely through these
                  beautiful regions. The soft Ionian breeze brought bloom, and vigor and beauty to
                  their invalid daughter, while the wonderful creations of genius opened up to her
                  sources of enjoyment hitherto unknown. Nor were the benefits of travel confined to
                  her alone. At Florence, Julienne, for the first time, began to perceive a faint
                  dawn of light. In that city she was placed under the care of an oculist, eminent
                  for his skill throughout Italy, and soon her long night of darkness began to be
                  dissipated. His instructions to the protégé of the Lady Mountclare were doubtless
                  somewhat poetic, but this is not surprising, for in the elder days men who held
                  the lyre, and by their songs healed the maladies of the soul, possessed, also,
                  wonderful secrets for healing those of the body.
               "My child," said he, "put not all your faith and hope in my medicines. Leave it to
                  the breeze of the morning, and to the water of the far-off fountains to give you
                  light. The breeze of the morning is as the breath of God. Open your eye-lids, and this breath shall heal you. But as
                  the morning is salutary, so you must avoid the dews of night. Let not the soft
                  splendor of the moon among these melancholy ruins and beautiful monuments, tempt
                  you forth."
               "Notwithstanding my scientific studies," added the old doctor, "there yet remains
                  something of the poetry of the soul, and I know all the charms of lingering among
                  orange and myrtle groves, under the clear, starry heavens. But from this charm and
                  attraction, defend yourselves, for in the serene and dewy night there is something
                  fatal to the best and most beautiful eyes."
               The same morning regime being recommended both to Amelia and Julienne, they, with
                  their governess and servant, were often seen climbing the loftiest hills to catch
                  the faint rays of the sun, and to offer their prayers in the face of the great
                  luminary of day, coming to awaken and reanimate all nature. These scenes called
                  forth all the enthusiasm of their souls, and if something like idolatry mingled
                  with their prayers, there was never idolatry more innocent.
               "'I have seen Naples,'" said Amelia one day to Lord and Lady
                  Mountclare, with a charming smile, "and I die not. I daily feel new
                  life since you have brought me here."
               This smile, and these words, so well calculated to chase inquietude from the
                  breasts of her parents, and make the hearts of all who surrounded her rejoice,
                  were very different from the smile and the words of the pale and feeble child when
                  they left the château of Laudais a few months before.
               During their sojourn in the capital of the Two Sicilies, Lord and Lady Mountclare
                  received many visitors from their native country, who were returning from their
                  travels in Calabria, and who spoke with raptures of the south of Italy. There,
                  said the enthusiastic travellers, you never meet the trace of those eternal
                  tourists who efface the bloom from nature. There is a poetic wildness in the
                  scenery, and you dream again of virgin nature. Like Lord Byron, Mountclare wished,
                  as much as possible, to avoid the society
                  of his own countrymen, and finding himself, perhaps, too much annoyed at Naples,
                  he listened to these accounts of Calabria, and finally resolved to pass some time
                  in visiting that highly-lauded portion of Italy. Meanwhile, the health of Amelia
                  had become so nearly re-established, that her mother no longer feared the effects
                  of a fatiguing journey. As for Julienne, the change would be beneficial.
               Like the morning mists resting upon the plains which the sun, lifting itself in
                  the orient, disperses, so the cloud which had hitherto obscured the sight of the
                  young village maiden was dispelled, as the invigorating air of Italy had developed
                  her whole person. She, too, now enjoyed, with keen appreciation, the beauties of
                  nature and of art. The grand and imposing scenes which she witnessed, filled her
                  mind with ecstasy which seemed almost to recompense her for the trial of her
                  patience and constancy during the long months past, when the shadow lay so dark
                  upon her path.
               Lord Mountclare was a sensible traveller. He could not imagine that travel could
                  contribute either to one's pleasure or instruction, without stopping occasionally
                  for rest—without breathing-spaces, when the mind could have an opportunity to
                  re-collect its disturbed faculties, and arrange the impressions and images that
                  had been made upon it, and the ideas it had gathered amidst the dust and stains of
                  the journey. He avoided fixing in advance, and in an irrevocable manner, the
                  number of hours, or days, or weeks, or months, during which an excursion should
                  last, and he looked with a hearty contempt upon such travellers as never take into
                  the account the way-side and unsuspected attractions which might bind one to a
                  place longer than he had foreseen in his plans. In parting, he said to his curious
                  friends who wished to know when he would return:—"If Ennui travels with us, our return will be speedy. On the contrary,
                  if Pleasure makes itself the companion of our route, I cannot tell
                  you when we may come back."
               Acting on this principle, the man of good taste and observation makes frequent
                  halts here and there, as the scenery or
                  the society offers interest either to himself or to his companions. In planning
                  and arranging his journey and his sojourns, he follows no geographical chart, but
                  determines his course and his delays for repose by the unforeseen circumstances
                  which offer interest or study.
               Our party established themselves for a time in the environs of Rossano, some fifty
                  leagues from Naples, in a charming villa, situated near the site of that ancient
                  and voluptuous city of the Sybarites, so named from the luxurious indolence of its
                  inhabitants, who suffered to dwell among them neither locksmith nor forger,
                  neither carpenter nor any other workman, who by the noisy din of his handicraft
                  might trouble their indolent enjoyment, the dolce far
                     niente in which they dreamed their lives away. Reclining on beds of
                  flowers, the fold of a leaf was sufficient to trouble their repose. Indolent and
                  effeminate, they had no thought beyond the present hour, and sought no pleasures
                  even, which could not be procured without exertion. To Lord Mountclare this quiet
                  and beauty was agreeable, though he was no Sybarite, but he had found here
                  subjects for geological study, and they established themselves here for several
                  weeks.
               The Prince of Callano, to whom the villa belonged, had left not only his pictures,
                  and statuary, and furniture, but also a part of his servants, and all the
                  necessary supplies for the convenience and comfort of a household. Our travellers
                  congratulated themselves in being established in this beautiful and picturesque
                  residence, and in escaping the incessant agitation and constraint of society at
                  Naples. They found the coveted repose amidst these wild and attractive scenes.
                  Julienne's sight daily improved. Her noble protector and her sweet friend Amelia
                  sat with her in the same bowers in which the luxurious Sybarites had once
                  reclined, while Lady Mountclare, with her usual impulses of benevolence, sought
                  out the poor and the suffering among the neighboring peasantry, to minister to
                  their wants. Amelia's health was still improving in the pure atmosphere, which the
                  sea-breeze rendered refreshing and invigorating vigorating. Calabria recalled, at first, to our
                  travellers the fearful stories of brigands and robbers for which the region had
                  been famed, but their fears—if any had been excited—were soon dissipated by
                  hearing that no depredations or outrages had been commited at Rossano for several
                  years.
               It was on the morning of the 10th of October. The eastern heavens were becoming
                  white with the light of the dawning day. The trees, the roofs and chimneys of the
                  houses, the village church-tower, and the broken walls of the old Roman ruins,
                  were all drawn in dark shadows on the pearly sky. It was not yet the fourth hour
                  of the morning,—as they reckon time,—yet the peasants were already astir for the
                  labors of the day. The farm-gates, one after another, swung open, and the
                  ploughboys, stretching their arms and rubbing their eyes, were seen issuing forth
                  to their work. The shepherd with his flock took his way towards the pasture, his
                  dog, barking at the lambs which remained behind, frightened from the bushes the
                  birds which would have remained longer upon their nests, for their plumage was
                  still wet with the dews of night. Confused sounds were heard on all sides, as the
                  toiling world roused itself once more to its daily tasks.
               "Alas!" cried Januario, the shepherd of the farm lying nearest the villa, "my best
                  sheep are gone! But, look, Joseppa, the gate of the sheep fold has been forced
                  open in the night!"
               "Yes, certainly," replied the servant girl, "and so has also the door of the
                  dove-cote."
               "Ah, what a disaster!—our choicest pigeons gone, and the finest of our flocks
                  carried off!"
               "There must be a band of robbers in the neighborhood."
               "There can be no doubt of it."
               "But, Joseppa, where is your favorite dog, Fidelio?"
               "Why, I heard him but just now."
               "I also heard a faint sound, but it ceased instantly."
               "Let us see if he is sick."
               "Sick? No, Joseppa. As sure as you are living ing, he is there, near the cottage, stretched upon
                  the grass—strangled—dead."
               "Oh, what misfortunes for a single night!"
               "So they have attacked the sheepfold and dovecote, and we may soon expect them
                  upon the farm; and then, Januario, we must look to ourselves."
               "Joseppa, fear not, for if this alarm should force you to return to your grand
                  city of Naples, what shall I do when you are no longer here?"
               "Januario, do not talk thus, in the midst of all these traces of the robbers. Poor
                  old Fidelio! Good and faithful dog! The Prince, our master, will weep for his
                  loss, for his father brought him from the Pyrenees. He was in the house before you
                  and I. Poor, old, faithful servant. Januario, let us bury him under the large
                  mountain fir-tree."
               "I think, Joseppa, we had better bury him near the lake, in the same spot where he
                  drew the Prince, our master, whom he saved from drowning when a boy."
               While Joseppa and Januario were talking thus, new disasters were discovered as the
                  day fully dawned. Evidently a band of robbers had passed during the night over the
                  country, and through the village of Rossano. Loud complaints and lamentations were
                  heard from all directions, and these were increased by an act of sacrilege
                  committed in the churchyard. Some persons, going at an early hour to prayers,
                  found the shrubs and flowers trampled under foot and destroyed. A tombstone had
                  been used for a table, and the remains of a feast were found strewed around the
                  sacred resting-place of the dead. Other monuments had been defaced, and especially
                  the wooden churchyard cross had been overturned and broken. In the neighboring
                  forests were found their traces also, and the finest trees had been cut and
                  destroyed. In the hamlet, on the doors of the houses, were drawn strange lines and
                  irregular letters and characters, and words were written in such language as the
                  master of the school could not make out. These characters had been written in the
                  dark, with red chalk, by hands unknown.
                  Were they human hands? Aforetime in Egypt, the houses where the first-born
                  children slept were thus marked by the fingers of the destroying angel! Such were
                  the perplexities and thoughts of the simple and superstitious villagers of
                  Rossano.
               No doubt remained of the passage of a horde of vagabonds and robbers. And with
                  these certain traces of their wild foray, the simple country people connected
                  various exaggerations and portents with the mysterious occurrences of the night,
                  which increased their perplexity and their fears. The women asserted that for many
                  nights the owl and the osprey had called through the darkness, to awaken the
                  people to the coming misfortune.
               Two leagues from the villa, tears were shed, not alone for the death of a
                  watch-dog, and the loss of sheep and doves, but young children and infants had
                  been mysteriously carried off. Everywhere there were evidences of this
                  unlooked-for incursion, and, as may be supposed, the whole country was earnestly
                  aroused and excited.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE DEPARTURE—VALLEY OF SAN LORENZO—THE CAVERN.
               ON the same day, Lord Mountclare, having heard, at an early hour of the morning,
                  of what had transpired in the neighborhood of the villa, after conversing with
                  Joseppa and Januario, made a visit to the priest, who, like his parishioners, was
                  much excited by the occurrences of the past night. The priest thought himself
                  obliged in conscience to say, that, after his experience, he believed as well as
                  feared that these thefts would be followed by other crimes, and perhaps murder. "I
                  have seen," added he, "the Gipsies or Bohemians traverse our mountains, and they
                  are always the precursors of brigands the most formidable. They seem to go before,
                  to sow the seeds of fear in the minds of
                  the people, and when apprehension and terror are well spread abroad among them,
                  the great blow is struck."
               These facts, given by the priest, determined Lord Mountclare to return at once to
                  Naples, for he feared the effect of these frightful rumors upon the excitable
                  imagination of his daughter. They quitted the villa for a time, until the country
                  should again become settled and serene, for they had learned to love this tranquil
                  residence, where Amelia seemed to breathe more freely, and had become more
                  vigorous and animated. When we look beneath the surface, in our study of life, we
                  are convinced that the country which pleases us best is that which is most
                  agreeable to those we love. Thus, had Calabria been without picturesque sights,
                  without wild and poetic scenery, without interest for the geologist, Lord
                  Mountclare would still have loved it, since there his cherished child had found
                  renewed health.
               One would have thought that Amelia would have quitted the villa with many regrets,
                  for there, in company with Julienne, she had been very happy; but youth loves
                  change, and with a light heart she entered the carriage to return to Naples. They
                  left in the early morning, which happened to be a dull one for that cheerful
                  climate, and during the whole day indeed the heavens were covered with clouds, and
                  the heat was almost insupportable. The evening came, without, however, the
                  faintest breeze to scatter freshness over the earth, which seemed as if stifled
                  under the weight of the low black clouds. The moon would have enlightened the
                  surrounding landscape, and given interest to their journey, but it was hidden by
                  the stormy veil, which left no openings through which light could reach them. In
                  descending towards the sea, the road was shut in between two wall-like mountains,
                  and in this gorge the heat was almost intolerable. Conversation languished,
                  notwithstanding the efforts which were made, especially by the gentlemen of the
                  party, in order to dissipate the vague fears which weighed upon the spirits of the
                  travellers.
               
               The ladies having been well assured before setting out upon their journey, that
                  the way was thought to be perfectly safe, passed the day as pleasantly, and gaily
                  as possible. But the evening gloom, the approaching storm, and the solitude of the
                  country brought to their recollection all the fearful accounts of brigands which
                  they had heard, and in spite of their efforts, they felt apprehension and
                  alarm.
               No sound had been heard along their route, but the noise of the carriage wheels
                  upon the mountain road, when suddenly they were startled by the report of
                  fire-arms, and their postilions refused to advance. In vain Lord Mountclare
                  commanded them to proceed. They obstinately refused to take a step further. Then,
                  with the aid of his son, and some of his own domestics, the postilions were pulled
                  from their saddles, and mounting in their stead, they drove on with all possible
                  speed. It was evident that there was an understanding between their assailants and
                  the postilions, with the purpose of robbing them of their money, and other
                  valuable effects. They feared, also, that the robbers would overtake them, as they
                  ascended the mountain towards San Lorenzo. And to add to their terror and
                  distress, the storm now fell upon them in all its fury, and in the darkness there
                  was danger of missing the road, and of being precipitated over some of the
                  frightful precipices, on the brink of which it had been constructed. The
                  mountain-side, down which they were plunging, was steep, but fortunately they
                  reached the valley in safety, and stopped to consult as to what they should do;
                  whether they should attempt to retrace their steps to Calabria, or continue on
                  towards San Lorenzo. It was necessary to decide at once, for the night was growing
                  darker, and every moment's delay would afford their assailants time to rally, and
                  intercept them in the pine forest beyond. Lady Mountclare insisted that it would
                  be safer to return than to advance, for, "be assured," said she to her husband and
                  son, "that the postilions have joined the brigands, whose accomplices they are,
                  and they will await us as we ascend the hill."
               "Without doubt danger is to be feared," replied Lord Mountclare. "But there is danger either way:
                  in returning, we shall doubtless meet some of the robbers, and there would be no
                  more safety in going that way than in advancing. But we are well armed, and we
                  need not fear. I am sorry, however, that we left the postilions free."
               "Yes," said young Mountclare, "it would have been better to have put them in a
                  condition in which they could neither speak nor run."
               "A few shots from the carbines would have finished the affair," added the
                  valet-de-chambre.
               "It would have been better," said Amelia, "to have bound them to the pines, then
                  no blood would have been shed."
               Meanwhile, they succeeded in lighting the lamps on the carriages, and finally came
                  to the bold resolution to go on instead of returning. The horses were once more
                  put to the top of their speed. Neither the violence of the storm nor the obscurity
                  of the way had diminished, and the rolling of the thunder was continuous and
                  frightful. They passed in safety the narrow valley lying between the two mountain
                  ridges, and commenced the ascent leading to San Lorenzo. Suddenly, several shots
                  were fired at them from behind the trees, and they found that their progress was
                  arrested by several strong ropes which were drawn across the narrow road. This
                  attack was vigorously repulsed, and for a time the assailants were driven back by
                  the fire of the English party, and their escape seemed certain.
               Already the young Mountclare, although wounded by a ball in the shoulder, had,
                  with the aid of two of the servants, cut away the barrier of ropes. A free passage
                  was thus made, and Lord Mountclare was getting together his party in order to
                  proceed, when the brigands, armed with long daggers, and creeping stealthily among
                  the under growth, avoiding the light of the lamps, approached the carriage, in
                  which were the ladies of the party. They burst open the door, and a loud cry of
                  terror and affright was heard, which reached the ear of Lord Mountclare, and
                  summoned him to the spot. He sprang at once to their assistance, but before he
                  reached them, he received a ball in his breast, which brought him to the ground. Bleeding, and unable to
                  interfere, he saw his daughter and Julienne dragged from the carriage by the hands
                  of the ruffians. Lady Mountclare was not with them. Though fainting from the loss
                  of blood, this sight gave new energy and life to Lord Mountclare, and he dragged
                  himself with painful difficulty to the carriage, where a horrible spectacle
                  presented itself. There lay the dead body of his wife, slain by the daggers of the
                  ruffian bandits, and covered with blood.
               The young Mountclare hearing the cries for help from the carriage of his mother
                  and sister, had, like his father, hastened to the rescue, but was met by several
                  of the assailants, who overpowered him at once, and threw him down into the ditch
                  by the road-side, with the dead bodies of two of the domestics, who had fallen in
                  defence of their master. There lay the noble and gallant young man, unable to
                  rise—powerless to help, and distracted with agony as he heard the cry of his
                  aunt,—
               "They have killed your mother! they have carried ried off my niece! Help, George!
                  Where are you? Help!"
               "Silence!" cried the chief of the band, "silence, or my dagger shall quiet
                  you."
               The unhappy lady continued to groan and cry for help. Two discharges of pistols
                  were heard, and then no more lamentation. This silence was far more horrible for
                  George Mountclare than the anguish of his wounds, and the agony of his own
                  personal apprehensions.
               While all this horrible drama was going on around the carriages, Amelia and
                  Julienne were carried far into the depths of the forest by the hands of their
                  captors.
               In their terror and despair, and notwithstanding the menaces of the robbers, the
                  two young girls ceased not to call for help, and filled the air with their cries.
                  For nearly two hours, the bandits, headed by the famous Abruzio, who had led on
                  this sanguinary attack, traversed the winding-paths of the forest. The day had not
                  yet dawned when they reached a wide glade, covered with a rank growth of brambles, with here and there a bare
                  rocky cliff. The storm still continued, though with abated force. The heavy
                  rolling thunder and the gleaming lightning were still heard and seen, while the
                  wind swept fiercely through the tall firs which swayed their stems and bent their
                  heads before the blast.
               Near one of these tall granite cliffs, almost entirely concealed by the low bushes
                  and tangled briers, was the mouth of a cavern. Arriving at this opening, the
                  leader lighted a torch, and ordered his men, who were carrying Amelia and
                  Julienne, to follow. A rapid descent led them into the depths of this cavern,
                  which was the rendezvous of the fierce band of the robber Abruzio.
               Amelia, borne by the hands of the men whose clothes were stained with the blood of
                  her dearest kindred, was happily unconscious to all that passed. Julienne,
                  stronger and less timid, was allowed now to walk. With a firm step she kept near
                  her friend, clinging to her hand, and watching every movement of their
                  captors.
               Soon the narrow entrance of the cavern began gradually to enlarge. An hundred
                  paces brought them to an immense room, brilliantly lighted with torches fixed in
                  the crevices of the projecting rocks.
               Under the irregular arches of this cavern were seen many of the robber's band, and
                  retainers passing in and out; sometimes in the broad light of the torches, and
                  again disappearing in the deep shadows of the subterranean galleries. More hideous
                  in appearance than even the bandit crew, were two women, who approached, in
                  obedience to the summons of the chief, who gave the two young ladies into their
                  charge, saying, with the fierce and imperative tone of one not used to be thwarted
                  or disobeyed,—
               "Behold, I confide to your care these two princesses. Surround them with every
                  care and attention: be to them most reverential: watch that you obey them in every
                  particular; and take care, that if a single complaint of you reaches me, the
                  justice of the great Abruzio is here to take vengeance and to punish you."
               
               While the chief was thus speaking, Amelia was placed upon a pile of mattrasses, in
                  a corner of the cavern, shadowed by a projecting arch of rock. Julienne seated
                  herself behind her friend, supporting her beautiful head, and endeavoring to
                  recall her to consciousness. And as the daughter of the hamlet looked around in
                  this wild cavern, and on these savage men, what a spectacle presented itself to
                  her view! She had been so pre-occupied with Amelia, that she had scarcely remarked
                  the strange objects that surrounded her. On one side, as in a vast armory, were
                  piled up swords, daggers, pistols, poignards, carbines, and all kinds and
                  descriptions of weapons. On another side she saw a collection of the costumes of
                  all nations—mantles of all colors; habits of all forms and fashions. Here was the
                  Calabrian chapeau, with pointed crown and broad brim; the Phrygian cap of the
                  lazzaroni; the casque of the dragoon; the bonnet of the Greek; the Spanish
                     résille; the Swiss cap; the black hood of the
                  priest, and the turban of the Arab and Turk;—and these were all the various and
                  cunning disguises of the troops of Abruzio. Here there were trunks, boxes, and
                  cases, filled with precious spoils, the results of their daring robberies. On the
                  other side there were heaped together furniture for the table; pitchers, cups,
                  richly-cut glasses, and various costly articles of plate; while in another corner
                  there was carefully stored a supply of ammunition—powder and balls. In another
                  part of the cavern, which was called by the brigands the chapel, there were
                  carefully arranged the products of their sacrilege. From this apartment the chief
                  brought to Julienne a beautiful and costly crucifix, saying,—
               "My lady, your friend begins to revive, and she will wish to pray for those of her
                  family whose obstinacy, to our great regret, compelled us to put to death, during
                  the past night. Here is a crucifix. Before this you can pray for the repose of
                  their souls. As for yourselves, you have nothing to fear. The loyalty and honor of
                  Abruzio will be a sufficient safeguard and protection, and I his second, his
                  friend, his other self, will be
                  answerable for every hair of your heads."
               Saying these words, he reverently kissed the crucifix, and handed it to Julienne.
                  What a mockery, thought she, of all that is holy and blessed, when such a man as
                  this recommends to us the consolations of prayer! And what a system of faith must
                  that be, she was compelled to think, which could reconcile a man to such wrongs,
                  and outrages, and bloody crimes, as consistent with itself! She had already begun
                  to feel the influence of the purer faith which she had, almost unconsciously,
                  imbibed from her intercourse with her English friends. Pure and devoutly religious
                  herself, and nurtured under the guardian care of the excellent village pastor,
                  Hardouin, and his sister, she had never thought at all whether there were, or
                  could be, a purer faith than that in which she had learned to love and serve God,
                  until she saw, in the family of Lord Mountclare, and in their devout example, how
                  far removed a true piety is from the superstitions and formalities to which she
                  had been accustomed, from her earliest years.
               In the simple hamlet, all was sincerity and devout piety. As she saw more of the
                  world, she found that it was not so, in the society of the larger Italian cities
                  especially; but that, under the cloak of scrupulous external observances and
                  forms, there was much corruption of life and manners. And this troubled and pained
                  her. She knew that religion is pure and lovely, and that a true faith could not
                  fail to work out into good living. Such were the manifestations of the religion of
                  her dear English friends; but such, alas, it was not always among those of her own
                  faith. But we return to Amelia.
               Julienne, assisted by the women, applied such restoratives as were at hand, and
                  Amelia soon regained her consciousness. Seeing whose arm supported her, she arose
                  and embraced Julienne, saying, with a heart-rending voice,—
               "Dear Julienne, are we two, then, entirely alone? My mother, my father, my aunt,
                     my brother, where are they? Have they
                  all perished?"
               To these questions Julienne could reply only by tears, and from this silence
                  Amelia learned the depth of her misfortunes and the horror of her isolation. The
                  agony of her heart overpowered her, and she seemed like one who was dead to the
                  world, which had visited her with such cruel inflictions of suffering.
               Julienne had been obliged to accept for her friend the offered assistance of the
                  women of the cavern, but now having thrown aside the fears which had almost
                  overpowered her, and rousing herself by an effort to meet the new responsibilities
                  which she felt to be resting upon her, she therefore repulsed the attendants, and
                  administered with her own hands the remedies necessary for her friend. The elder
                  of the women saw with discontent how promptly this young girl roused her energies.
                  It seemed to her a species of defiance, and her manner betrayed her displeasure.
                  But the other, a woman of about twenty years, seemed of a more gentle and
                  sympathizing character, and she said to her companion,—
               "Why are you angry, Beatrice? Is is not natural that she should wish to take care
                  of her friend?"
               Then addressing Julienne, and pointing to Amelia, Pepita added,—
               "When for the first time I found myself in the midst of these bandits, I was also
                  overcome with terror, and it was the voice of a friend only which gave me courage.
                  Continue, then, young lady, your cares for this beautiful girl, and ask me, if you
                  please, for whatever you wish."
               Seeing that Beatrice listened with an angry brow, Pepita placed her fingers upon
                  her lips, intimating to Julienne that at some other time she would speak more
                  freely. There was something gracious and attractive in the appearance of this
                  young woman, although at the same time her manners were abrupt,—graceful enough,
                  perhaps, but somewhat strange. Her countenance, which was for the most part stern
                  and hard, became at times illumined with
                  great sweetness and modesty. Her voice, while speaking to her vagabond companions,
                  was harsh and imperative, but when she addressed those whom she loved, it melted
                  into tones of sweetness and affectionate softness, and in her lively and animated
                  conversation were heard words of interest and compassion for those whom fate had
                  seemed to cut off from all hope of happiness.
               The hair, eye-brows, and long eye-lashes of the Bohemian girl were black as the
                  raven's wing, and the carnation of her brown cheek was as deep as that of the
                  Andalusian, or of the women who bathe in the waters of the Nile. Her costume was
                  as picturesque as it was strange, leaving bare her shoulders and her arms, and
                  displaying her fine and well-developed form to great advantage. Her robe,
                  embroidered in various colors, descended only to the knee. Her large, full
                  pantaloons were gathered and fastened just above the ankle, while upon her small
                  foot she wore the Turkish shoe. Around her head was twisted a red scarf, the long
                  flowing ends of which fell on each side of her beautiful face, and waved over her
                  shoulders. Around her neck was a chain made of large grains of coral, to which
                  were attached a silver cross, an Agnus Dei, and
                  various amulets and talismans. An Indian scarf encircled her slender waist, in the
                  folds of which she wore a poignard, with a shining hilt.
               Thus the most striking contrasts were exhibited in her strange costume, and in the
                  diversity of her ornaments; the scapularies and the Agnus
                     Dei suspended from the same chain to which were fastened the fetishes and the oriental talismans, and all them in
                  contrast with the cross and the glittering steel of the poignard.
               In the mind and character of Pepita were the same discords and disparities as in
                  her dress. Thus she wore the cross, knowing little of the religion of the
                  crucified. The native goodness of her heart would have prevented her injuring any
                  one, and would have made her the protector of the oppressed and suffering, and yet
                  she kept the blade of her dagger always sharpened and ready at hand. Sometimes she invoked the Madonna for aid,
                  and again she asked of her fetishes that she
                  might be the most beautiful and captivating among the girls who mingled in the
                  Gypsy dance. Although a companion of the brigands, she was kind and gentle as a
                  sister of mercy.
               As Pepita moved around the cavern, seeking restoratives for Amelia, the bandits
                  addressed to her words of raillery and merriment, but with the dignified aspect of
                  a queen she commanded silence, and enforced respect. Beatrice and her young
                  companion gave orders to some of the men to bring from the magazine some pieces of
                  tent cloth, and to erect a screen across that part of the cave where the young
                  girls were seated. When this was accomplished by fastenings from the projecting
                  rock, Pepita took a girdle of Abruzio's, and hung it above the alcove, thus
                  indicating the will of the chief, that no one should enter. In all that troop,
                  among the most fearless and insubordinate of the brigands, no man could be found
                  of sufficient hardihood to violate this sanctuary, so protected by the girdle. The
                  instant punishment of death would have been the reward of such rashness.
               Notwithstanding the courtesy and tender care manifested to Amelia and Julienne,
                  their first night in the cavern was passed without sleep. Their guardians,
                  accustomed to this mode of life, threw themselves upon pallets before the bed of
                  these young girls, and were soon in profound repose. And often, during the night,
                  the attention of Julienne was attracted towards these two singular beings. She saw
                  them by the light of the large iron lamp, suspended from the arched roof of the
                  cavern, resting upon the same pillow: the long black locks of Pepita mingling with
                  the white hairs of the aged Beatrice; the one young and full of hope, and
                  resplendent with beauty, and the other wrinkled, and worm with years, and sorrows,
                  and sins. It was a contrast well fitted to excite attention, and to provoke deep
                  and earnest thought.
               From the part of the cavern beyond the screen, low sounds were heard through the
                  whole night. There were hurryings to and fro, passing and repassing passing; the noise of bringing in heavy bales and
                  trunks and packages, but not the faintest sound of the human voice. How welcome to
                  Amelia and Julienne would have been even groans, or sobs and sighs, assuring them
                  that some of their friends were still living, and that all besides themselves had
                  not perished. But, alas! it seemed only too true that Amelia was henceforth an
                  orphan. They were confident that all their effects had fallen into the hands of
                  the robbers. Of all their jewels and ornaments, they had not even their watches,
                  to mark the hours as they passed. In vain they sought to discover the glimmering
                  of any other light than that of the lamp, or the ruddy torch. In that frightful
                  cavern, all was dismal and gloomy, while, perhaps, without, nature was smiling at
                  her re-awakening; all things rejoicing as the sun rose to shed down upon the broad
                  earth his light and cheering warmth. Alas! to the prisoners in that cavern, no ray
                  of the gladdening sun ever penetrated. The young girls thought that if only the
                  rocky vault were removed from over their heads; could they once more see the east
                  lighted up with the splendors of morning, they could joyfully mingle their voices
                  in the grand song of nature, giving thanks to Him who makes the outgoings of the
                  morning and evening to praise Him, not-withstanding the perils which surrounded
                  them, and the sorrows that filled their hearts.
               The early dawn was the hour when these robbers—these men of rapine and murder,
                  into whose power Julienne and Amelia had fallen, withdrew to conceal themselves.
                  For many of these men the noise of the world, the agitation of villages and
                  cities, the cultivation of the fields, the eagerness of pleasure in spectacles and
                  fêtes, the sound of church-bells, the smoke and roaring of the forge, the ring and
                  clang of the hammer and the anvil, and, in fine, all the various movements of busy
                  life, and all the voices of the day and of labor, were only as vague murmurs heard
                  as from far-off shores; for the greatest number of them had grown old in these
                  subterranean regions. They were outlaws from society, and they must, therefore, envelope themselves in the
                  shadows of the rocky caves and tangled woods in order to escape the arm of
                  justice, which would have pursued them always and everywhere among the usual
                  haunts of men. Among them were found, also, young men and women, and even
                  children, for evil, vice, and crime,—each has always his devotee and his victim.
                  As in society, States have their grades and hierarchies, so the band of Abruzio
                  had theirs.
               When the stars have grown pale, when the dark shadows of night are folded back
                  from the east like a curtain, when the first broad band of white upon the horizon
                  gradually deepens into the crimson flush, and purple and gold, silence is brooding
                  upon all the face of nature. All things still sleep. But when the broad sun lifts
                  itself above the waters of the sea, or the distant landward horizon, and tinges
                  with his glory the crests of the mountains, and presently the harvests of the
                  plain,—at that moment a solemn trembling, like deep joy; an emotion which we may
                  conceive to belong to the awakening of the just—is felt and understood by all. It
                  is as the first strain of a hymn to the Creator, when the morning stars sing
                  together and all the sons of God shout for joy. Of all the hours which are given
                  to man on this beautiful earth, this is the sweetest and most poetic. There is a
                  freshness and perfume in it which impart themselves to his frame and to his very
                  mind and heart, and rough and harsh must be his encounters with a hard, cold
                  world, if they do not go with him to his evening couch. Yet this first hour of the
                  dawn has not that sweetness and charm which can break the dull slumbers of the
                  sluggard, and call him forth from the close air of his room to taste the
                  invigorating breath of fresh morning. While under the first rays of the sun, the
                  birds shake their humid wings, and warble their matin songs; while the light
                  vapors, like veils of gauze, are born aloft upon the breeze, to mingle with the
                  clouds of the upper deep, and the flowers erect again their bended stems, and open
                  their cups to drink the morning dew, there are creatures having life and powers of motion—having eyes to see and
                  ears to hear, and tastes to be gratified with beautiful forms and colors—who dream
                  away their glorious morning hours upon their indolent beds, and rise, at last, as
                  the day wears on, unrefreshed in mind or body, peevish in temper, and impatient of
                  the cares and duties of life.
               The robber band of Abruzio shrunk away, of course, from the light of day, and
                  concealed themselves in their caverns, while honest men went forth to their work
                  and labor, until the evening. They were silent as the dead, fearing to attract the
                  notice of the authorities, with whom they were in constant and declared
                  hostility.
               Old Beatrice and Pepita had risen, and from one of them the young captives had
                  learned that it was broad day. Pepita, the gypsy girl, had travelled, she said,
                  over a great part of Europe, and instead of addressing Julienne and her companion
                  in Italian, she spoke to them in English:
               "My companion has been called elsewhere," she said, "for an hour or two. The
                  captain requires quires her services for some purposes in which his band is
                  concerned. During her absence, refuse not to ask me for whatever you may desire. I
                  and one other will watch over your comfort and safety. Be silent, and hope." Then
                  she added—"I will prepare some tea for this sick English girl."
               She soon returned, with a large silver salver, containing a breakfast service
                  which, as soon as the young girls saw, they burst into tears. It was the Lady
                  Mountclare's, which she always carried with her in travelling. Pepita, in her
                  eager desire to please, had chosen this service from among the spoils, little
                  dreaming what cruel recollections the sight of these familiar objects would
                  recall. Poor Amelia abandoned herself to grief—kissing every well-known article,
                  and refusing the food which had been prepared for them.
               As soon as their breakfast was over, the gypsy again appeared, announcing the
                  arrival of the lieutenant of Abruzio, who desired to wait upon them with a message
                  from that chief. The curtain covering the entrance of the alcove was withdrawn, and a young man, tall and finely
                  formed, advanced, and, removing his gray, broad-brimmed hat, and bowing
                  respectfully and courteously, he said,—
               "If the Signor Abruzio, my valiant chief, were here, he would deliver to you,
                  better than I know how to say it, the message which he has commissioned me to
                  give. Your family and friends, who are expecting your arrival in Naples, must know
                  that you are in our power, and if they wish to see you, they have the infallible
                  means of doing so. Abruzio, who never forfeits his word, has sworn with a solemn
                  oath that he will restore you to your parents the day he shall find, at a place to
                  be designated by him, the sum of thirty thousand ducats, the price of your ransom.
                  Furthermore, he has sent by me—his lieutenant Joachimo—this crucifix. Join hands,
                  and on your knees before this symbol, ask of Him who died upon the cross, that
                  these conditions may be acceded to by your friends, and that your ransom may be
                  promptly paid to our chief and master. Then, young ladies, you will be set at
                  liberty, and you will be able to say that if the troop of Abruzio are robbers,
                  they know how to protect the feeble, and to respect females."
               "Alas!" cried Amelia, "you have spoken of my parents. Have they not fallen by your
                  hands?"
               "By my hands? No, lady. Murder is not my employment. I prepare an ambush, force
                  gates, overleap ditches, scale walls, and relieve those who happen to be burdened
                  with too much wealth, of the surplus, because I wish, in the spirit of justice and
                  equity, to see riches equally distributed; but to assassinate, to spill the blood
                  of old men, women, and children, is not at all to my taste: it is repugnant to my
                  habits, as well as my nature, and would make me ill at heart. Were I to meet a man
                  on the highway, my equal in strength and years, and he were to oppose me, I would
                  strike him down as the hunter strikes the deer."
               Julienne remarked, while he was speaking, that the hands of the brigand were white
                  and delicate, his fingers long and slender, and loaded with rings, set with costly stones, indicating that no rude
                  toil had ever been performed by him. Amelia was too much oppressed with grief to
                  notice anything, and looked the very picture of suffering and hopelessness.
                  Joachimo seemed touched with sorrow, and approaching her, he said:—
               "The confined and impure air of this subterranean abode aggravates your illness,
                  my lady. It will do you good to go forth and inhale the fresh and balmy air of the
                  morning under the old firs that grow above our heads. Let us hold council. You
                  shall be the good genius of this place, and shall rule here. Pepita shall
                  accompany you in your walks, and you will promise me that you will not attempt to
                  escape, for, be assured, that it would be absolutely in vain. Have hope only in
                  the ransom that is demanded. If that is paid, you are at liberty; but, otherwise,
                  it cannot be possible for you to escape our watchfulness. Our pledges shall be
                  exactly redeemed, and for myself, I think that your friends ought to be willing to
                  purchase your ransom at any price whatever."
               At these words, there came upon the lips of Julienne the shadow of a smile of
                  hope. In the dreams of her imagination, and in whatever she had heard or read of
                  robbers and brigands, she had pictured them to her mind as men of savage ferocity,
                  whose hands were stained with human blood, and their lips defiled with brutal and
                  blasphemous language. She had not conceived that there could be in these lawless
                  men any touch of compassion, any gentle feelings. And yet Joachimo stood before
                  them in that rude cavern with a form and mien that might have belonged to a hero,
                  and spoke to them with a gentleness, and refined courtesy, which would have graced
                  a noble hall, or the prouder palace.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               GOOD AND EVIL—THE HISTORY OF A GYPSY—JOACHIMO'S OATH.
               WHEN Joachimo had left the alcove and joined his companions in another part of the
                  cavern, Julienne entreated Amelia to avail herself of the permission to leave the
                  damp and chilly atmosphere in which they were confined, and to go out into the
                  fresh, invigorating air of the forest.
               "Strength is necessary for us," said she, "for we have not reached the end of our
                  trials, and, dear friend, that your mind may be able to bear what God may have
                  ordained for us, it is necessary that your body should be able to withstand
                  adversity."
               Julienne encouraged and assisted her pale and afflicted friend to dress for a
                  walk, and calling the gypsy, she escorted them from their closely-curtained corner
                  into the grand hall of the cavern. Here was gathered a large body of the bandits,
                  with their companions and servants. But all was quiet and orderly. Some were lying
                  upon mats, wrapped in mantles; others seated upon the boxes and trunks, which were
                  placed in order against the wall; others, again, supported upon fragments of the
                  rocks, and others armed, were standing talking with each other, in voices
                  suppressed and low. There were old men there, with locks and beards like snow;
                  young men of vigorous and active frames; gypsy girls, and children with flaxen
                  hair.
               From this multitude arose a murmur of surprise and admiration at the sight of the
                  young and beautiful captives, who really seemed, in that thronged cavern, and in
                  the uncertain light shed from the lamps and torches, like two beings of a brighter
                  sphere wandering among the lost. The bandits, both old and young, men and women,
                  ranged themselves respectfully on either side, thus opening a passage for them. If their words had been
                  audible, these two girls would have heard loud praises of their beauty and grace
                  as they passed along. But Abruzio had trained his followers to observe silence in
                  the presence of strangers, and to avoid all demonstrations of interest or
                  curiosity in what might be going on around them.
               Julienne cast her eyes around the vast subterranean hall, but could see nothing
                  which indicated an opening or a passage to the light of day. On all sides her eyes
                  were arrested by walls of gray rock, which rose fifteen or twenty feet above the
                  floor, and bending inwards, formed a symmetrical arch, from which depended
                  stalactites, resembling the tracery with which the architects of the middle ages
                  ornamented so richly the naves of the churches.
               Julienne remembered that the approach to the cavern from without, was beneath one
                  of the projecting giant rocks which she saw scattered over the purple heath, but
                  how the entrance was closed, she could not divine. This cave being the receptacle
                  and general depôt of the numerous and formidable bands of Abruzio, the entrance
                  was, of course, so contrived as to be invisible and out of the reach of discovery,
                  except to the initiated. The gate was neither of iron, nor of bronze, but a huge
                  rock had been so fixed and poised, that it opened with ease under the proper
                  application of a single hand, and thus formed an entrance for men and plunder.
               When Julienne and her friend reached this mysterious gate, they were surprised to
                  see the heavy mass of rock, which the united strength of an hundred men could not
                  lift, move slowly from its place and give them egress. Scarcely had they passed
                  beyond this singular portal, when they met the sweet and fragrant breath of
                  morning, which seemed to these desolate young girls like a caress of heaven. It
                  was no longer the chilly and damp atmosphere of the cavern,—it was no longer the
                  pale light of the lamp or the resin torch,—it was the soft and odorous, and pure
                  breath of nature and the blessed light
                  of day, and God's own smile on all inanimate things.
               When they had ascended to the plateau, and saw the white clouds and the blue sky
                  over their heads, with spontaneous joy they fell upon their knees to pour forth
                  their gratitude to Heaven. But there was bitterness mingled with this taste of
                  joy. The air they breathed; the heavens they saw once more; the trees, the
                  branches of which made harmonious music over their heads; the health, enameled
                  with flowers, on which they knelt; all these enchanting scenes were no longer
                  known to those whom they best loved. It is when we are in the enjoyment of such
                  bright blessings as these, that we most regret the absence of those we love; then
                  it is that we feel most keenly the loss of those whom death has taken!
               Julienne and her companions, Amelia and Pepita, had not passed from the cave
                  alone. Notwithstanding their promise that they would not attempt escape, Joachimo
                  had ordered two of the men to follow them at a distance, but to keep concealed, so
                  as not to interfere with their enjoyment of the walk, and their exercise of
                  liberty. Amelia was too feeble and sad to go far. Reaching a mossy bank, near a
                  little stream which bubbled up from the sand, and after a short distance
                  disappeared among the heath, Julienne and Amelia seated themselves, while Pepita
                  placed herself near them, and taking the feet of Amelia in her lap, she wiped from
                  them the dew, and wrapped them in her scarf to make them warm. Thus sympathizing
                  and caressing, she well divined that she inspired confidence in the bosom of the
                  strangers, and that they would wish to know all she could properly tell them of
                  their present condition and prospects.
               "We have now two hours of liberty," said she, "in which we can talk without
                  constraint, and I can tell you many things. Then, first of all, we are expecting,
                  to-day or to-morrow, our great chief, Abruzio. Old Beatrice has been sent to a
                  neighboring village, in order to procure from the priest, by some means, if
                  possible, certain documents which he possesses, and which are necessary for the accomplishment of some grand
                  scheme which is about to be undertaken. On her return, she will be occupied with
                  preparations for a banquet to be made for Abruzio. She orders and superintends all
                  such affairs.
               "It is necessary that you know, noble ladies, that for more than three years a
                  price has been set upon the head of Abruzio, and no person among us has yet been
                  tempted to betray him, though the reward offered is large. And yet, just now, our
                  band is in a state of disquiet and uncertainty. The King of Naples has sent a body
                  of troops into Calabria, to hunt out the brigands, and we believe that our chief
                  will disperse the bands who acknowledge him as their leader, and break up the
                  present organization till such time as they can combine again with safety. It is
                  said that Joachimo will cross the Alps into France; and if he goes, I shall go
                  also. He is not cruel and sanguinary,—as you may have learned from what he said
                  this morning,—his heart is as noble as his form, and as good as his face is
                  beautiful, and I love him, as a brother. He was not present at the attack in the
                  valley of San Lorenzo,—oh no, he was not there, I assure you he was not; and you
                  may look upon him without fear,—he has no blood stains upon his hands."
               "Pepita," said Julienne, "if what you say is true; if, before our ransom is
                  received by Abruzio—if we do not regain our liberty before the dispersion of these
                  men among whom you live,—obtain from Joachimo, over whom, I think, you hold
                  control, the promise that we shall not be separated from you. Your kind and
                  sympathizing attentions have gained the heart of my friend, and when our ransom
                  does arrive, we will give you proofs of our gratitude and of our friendship."
               At these words the large hazle eyes of the beautiful Bohemian filled with tears,
                  and a sweet smile glanced upon her coral lips.
               "Oh," said she, putting her hand into that of Julienne, "for one so unhappy as I
                  am—for a daughter living so long from her home—for a poor brigand—your words are
                  kind and sweet."
               
               "How long have you been attached to this band?" asked Julienne of the young
                  girl—"you have not certainly been long with them, for you could not have remained
                  so compassionate and good among companions so gross and disorderly."
               "Alas, nearly two years," said Pepita, blushing. "Joachimo, who came from the same
                  village, and whose father and mine lived side by side, was engaged in a sad
                  affair, which led to his escape from home. He was the rival in love of the son of
                  a wealthy neighbor. They fought, and the rich man's son was killed. I had played
                  with Joachimo in our childhood, and he was called my brother, because we were as
                  brother and sister to each other. He was forced to fly to hide himself, for with
                  us, as elsewhere, the rich have power to avenge themselves on those they hate.
                  Joachimo fled, and secreted himself in the neighborhood, and his parents and
                  friends, each in turn to avoid suspicion, carried him nourishment, and whatever
                  else he needed. My turn came with the others, and one evening I went with a basket
                  of provisions ions to his place of retreat—a cave which the waves had worn in the
                  rocky sea-shore. I found him sleeping on a bed of sea-weeds, which he had gathered
                  and dried in the sun.
               "I had seen him in his days of happiness; I had danced with him at our village
                  festivals; I had passed long evenings with him, listening to stories of outlaws
                  and robbers, which the old people of the village related: indeed, my young years,
                  in all their occupations and pleasures, were interwoven with his. Yet I never
                  thought him so beautiful as he looked that evening. For some moments I dared not
                  wake him, and seating myself upon the sand at the entrance of the cave, while the
                  waves broke in murmurs at my feet, and the curlews uttered their plaintive cries,
                  as they passed before me, skimming the waves, I then asked myself why he had not
                  loved me more? wherefore the daughter of the rich man had charmed him more than
                  the sister of his childhood? If it had only been me whom he had loved, he would
                  have found no rivalry; there would have been no deadly encounter counter, and he, poor Joachimo, would not have been
                  obliged to flee like a hunted man, and seek refuge in this wild and lonely
                  place.
               "I fancy that in my pre-occupied mood I spoke aloud my thoughts, for Joachimo,
                  suddenly awaking, said, 'Who calls me?'
               "His voice made me tremble, and turning my eyes towards the sea, in which the
                  silvery light of the moon was reflected, I said, 'Joachimo, it is Pepita, thy
                  sister, who comes to bring thee the food which thy mother has prepared.' Then he
                  rose, and taking me by the hand, said, 'At this hour there is no danger for me,
                  let us go and seat ourselves outside the cave, there where the moon and stars may
                  shine down upon us from the heavens.' I seated myself beside him on the sandy
                  beach gladly, for the growing obscurity of the grotto had made me sad and
                  apprehensive, but now, having over our heads that glorious firmament, I listened
                  without dread or fear to all he wished to say to me.
               "'For two nights,' said he, 'after my retreat to this place, I did not sleep, for
                  when one has avenged himself, and shed the blood of his fellow; has been cursed by
                  the family of his foe; driven from his home, and forced to seek refuge in secret
                  and desert retreats, sleep comes with difficulty to close the eyes, and the spirit
                  knows no repose. Then in my waking hours, I thought of our hamlet, of my parents
                  and friends, and of you, Pepita.'
               "'Of me,' replied I, 'it was not of me you dreamed, but of Ambrosia, the beautiful
                  girl who always wore in her shining black hair rich ornaments of gold, and
                  diamonds in her ears.'
               "'Speak not to me of her,' said he, 'she is the cause of all my misfortunes. She
                  it was who armed my hand, and kindled in me the fire of jealousy and the ardor of
                  vengeance. If I had only listened to the first impulses of my heart towards you,
                  if I had loved only you, my young and beautiful sister,—but my destiny is
                  fixed.'
               "'Your destiny, Joachimo, what is it?'
               "'It has been fixed by the powers on high: it is necessary that I obey.'
               
               "'That you obey—whom?'
               "'Fate and chance. The death of Pedro has placed me in their power. But let me
                  explain to you, Pepita. During the long and painful nights which I passed without
                  sleep, in the profound silence which enveloped my savage retreat, I heard the low
                  sounds of oars breaking the surface of the calm sea. Going from my cave, I wished
                  to ascertain who were these nocturnal voyagers, and through the darkness I
                  perceived a group of men upon the shore, just landed from a long vessel, which lay
                  at anchor at a little distance. At a given signal, a troop of men descended from
                  the rocks, and a consultation was then held, which lasted for many hours; and as I
                  was accustomed to the darkness, I was able to discover that an exchange was made
                  of chests and boxes between the men from the rocks and the rovers of the sea. A
                  ledge of rock running down to the water's age, and elevated several feet above the
                  level of the beach, was the throne or chair of state, which was occupied by the
                  commander of these bands—a man of great stature and of imperious mien. Around him
                  were seated in a circle the whole assembled company. I saw all, but wishing to
                  hear also, I passed silently from the cave, and keeping in the shadow of the rock,
                  approached near enough to distinguish the words of the speaker.
               "'The subject of discourse was the new measures taken by the Neapolitan government
                  against the brigands. They were more rigorous and severe than ever. They were no
                  longer to employ native soldiers, but mercenary troops—regiments of the Swiss—who
                  were charged henceforth to make war on the sons of independence and liberty—on the
                  defenders of equal rights.
               "'You see, brave and valiant friends,' said the chief, slightly elevating his
                  voice, 'our tyrants pursue us; and in order to hinder us in the equal distribution
                  of wealth, they are obliged to hire strangers. This recourse to foreign
                  influence—to the aid of soldiers not born on our native soil—does it not reveal
                  all we wish to know? Does it not proclaim that the Neapolitan population is not
                     hostile to us? And wherefore is it
                  that our own citizens are not our enemies? Is it not that in pursuing our work of
                  equal division, we unite humanity with our daring, and clemency with success?
               "'It is well known, both in the villages and in the country, that our troops are
                  as generous as they are valiant, and that blood is never shed except in the last
                  extremity. We shall never be overcome by tyrants. Five thousand foreign soldiers
                  have entered into the states of King Ferdinand, and are penetrating and spreading
                  themselves among our mountains. It is necessary, then, to recruit from all parts,
                  and to increase our ranks. All things around us are favorable to our success.
                  Injustice everywhere weighs upon society. The oppresed and the spoiled, and all
                  the discontented spirits of the times, and all who are struggling against tyranny,
                  turn their eyes to us. Let us extend to them the hand, and say to those who groan,
                  bending under the weight of despotism,—to those whom the foot of power has trodden
                  to the earth—to those whom arbitrary laws have compelled pelled to exile
                  themselves from their own firesides—friends, come to us, and you shall find
                  protection and vengeance!'
               "'I will come to you,' I cried, showing myself to the chief of the band. 'I am one
                  of the unfortunate men. I am proscribed. I come to you, and like you, have need of
                  liberty and vengeance.
               "'My sudden appearance, the words which I had pronounced with a loud voice,
                  startled Abruzio—for it was he—and rising from his seat and advancing several
                  steps towards me, he demanded:—
               "'Whence comest thou? Who art thou?'
               '"I am, I repeat, a proscribed man.'
               '"What hast thou done?'
               "'I fought with my rival, and killed him.'
               "'The cause of the combat?'
               "'Love.'
               "'He was thy rival?'
               "'Yes, my happy rival.'
               "'He was then rich, since justice pursued thee?'
               
               "'His father is rich and powerful.'
               "'Oh, then, it is the order of things that justice should arm itself against thee.
                  What seek you among these rocks?'
               "'A shelter.'
               "'And thou hast seen us come and disembark?'
               "'Yes; for since my exile from my aged mother, I have scarcely slept, and in the
                  silence of the night the sound of your oars struck upon my ears. I watched your
                  approach. I have seen, and heard, and understood all.'
               "'What, hast thou dared to listen to the deliberations of our council?'
               "'Yes, I heard the appeal made to the discontented and the compromised, and taking
                  courage from your words, I revealed myself.'
               "'Then, since thou hast heard and understood our deliberations, thou art no longer
                  thine own. You belong to us, for if you remain free, our projects may be
                  discovered.'
               "'Reveal them; I will support them with my courage and my arms.'
               "'It is well. We will admit you among us when you have submitted to the test, and
                  given proofs of your valor. If you show yourself worthy, by your zeal, your
                  address, and your courage, to be one of us, you shall be received; if not, as you
                  have our secret, you know we will not leave you your life:—the dead, alone, speak
                  not.'
               "'The proofs which you require of me,' said I, 'shall not be beyond my daring.
                  Tell me what I shall do, and it shall be done. Order, and you shall see that I
                  obey.'
               "'Young man, thy language pleases me. But tell me from what country art thou? By
                  thy accent, I recognize thee for a Calabrian; but from what part of Calabria?'
               "'From the village of Santa Maria, near the valley of Lorenzo.'
               "'Ah, it is a village that has furnished many good additions to my troop. The
                  young men of that valley are vigilant, brave, and adroit in an attack. But listen.
                  We are now to re-embark. You will
                  remain with ten of my men. They will conduct you to the Roche Percée, through which there is a passage to this port,—a rock
                  which the hand of man has not elevated, neither can over-turn. The waves of the
                  sea have worn this narrow entrance, and made it a door to our dominions.
                  To-morrow, or the day after, Count Toleno, minister of marine, under the escort of
                  a company of cavaliers, will pass this way, to inspect the place, with a view to
                  erecting a fort and lighthouse, which, if accomplished, will be greatly
                  prejudicial to our interests, as well as to those of our brothers, the
                  contrabandists.
               "'It is important that this man, our bitterest enemy, should not pass through this
                  door, opening upon this wild solitude. We regard it as our own domain, and his
                  project must not succeed. Luis Vampa will command the little troop which I leave,
                  and which is composed of my most intrepid followers; and he will take care to
                  place you where you can show what you are, and what you can do.'
               "'I thank your excellency for placing me at once among your most valiant men. This
                  honor deserves my gratitude: may the occasion soon come to show it!'
               "'I had scarcely pronounced these words, when the chief drew from his vest a
                  relique, suspended from his neck by a brilliant chain. With a solemn voice, he
                  said,—holding it up before me,—'Believest thou in the power of the great Saint
                  Janvier?' I answered,—
               "'I believe in it as I do in my own existence.'
               "'Well, then,—swear upon this parcel of his bones, that of all thou hast seen; of
                  all thou hast understood; of all thou knowest, thou wilt reveal nothing, not even
                  when torture shall tear thy flesh from thy body, or the fire shall wither and
                  consume thee; nor even when thy soul, exhausted by their torments, shall be ready
                  to quit its mortal covering and appear at the tribunal above!'
               "'I swear it,' I replied, placing my hand upon the golden casket.'
               "When Joachimo reached this point of his his. tory; when he spoke of his oath upon these relics
                  of the patron saint of the kingdom, I shuddered as before a sacrilege. To me it
                  was no less than sacrilege to take an oath over these holy relics which bound him
                  to thieves, brigands, and assassins.
               "'Oh, Joachimo! Joachimo! what hast thou done!' I cried, bursting into tears. 'Thy
                  friends will weep for thee; thy mother will die when she learns thy resolution.
                  There will be no longer any person to love thee!'
               "'And wilt thou detest me, now that I have told thee all?'
               "Detest thee? Never!'
               "I wished to continue, but sighs stifled my voice, and it seemed that despair
                  would break my heart. Joachimo, fearing the effect of his revelation, fell upon
                  his knees, and holding my hands, kissed them, and watered them with his tears,
                  saying,—'Pepita, that I may not be eternally lost, curse me not! The guardian
                  angels, we are taught, never abandon the greatest sinners; not withstanding their
                  crimes, they still remain near them. Oh Pepita, whom I have always loved as a
                  cherished sister, if thou canst no longer preserve a friendship for me, at least
                  retain in thy heart a spark of pity for the poor outcast. Now return to the
                  village, to my mother and our friends. Take back the basket of provisions which
                  they sent by your hands, and say to them, that entering the cave, you found it
                  empty; that at the entrance you saw upon the sand this paper; then read to them
                  this which I have written:—
               "'Be not disquieted on my account. I am safe beyond the reach of my persecutors. I
                  will think of you always. Pray for me. Our separation may not be long. Think of me
                  with affection and kindness.'
               "'You must give these lines, dear Pepita, to my mother, and you must swear that
                  you found me not, neither in the cave, nor in the neighborhood.'
               "'You wish, then, Joachimo, that I shall, also, take an oath?'
               
               "'Yes, and I am sure you will do what I ask. It is the only means of saving my
                  life.'
               "'I will swear to anything you wish,' I cried, extending my hand to the friend of
                  my childhood. 'May God forsake me, if I ever speak a word that shall put your
                  safety in peril.'
               "'Dear Pepita, see the moon is already high in the heavens. The men with whom I am
                  sworn to make the attack at the Roche Percée
                  will soon be here, and I would not have them find you here. Let us part now. I
                  will guide you as far as the cabin of Paoli, and he will conduct you to the
                  village.'
               "My suspicions with regard to the character of these persons with whom Joachimo
                  was associated were now fully confirmed. The name of Luis Vampa had often occurred
                  in the stories of brigands which I had heard, and always with horror, and it was
                  this same man who was now chosen by Abruzio to lead the attack upon the Minister
                  of Marine.
               "Obeying, then, the command of Joachimo, and supported by his arm, we left the
                  cave, and took our way towards the hamlet. My heart was torn, my mind was filled
                  with fear and dark presentiments. I must leave him whom from childhood I had loved
                  as a brother, and with those who gloried in the name of robber,—must leave him
                  with these brigands, who have been meditating the great crime of murder this very
                  night!
               "As you may imagine, in our walk to the cabin of Paoli, I made every effort, and
                  used every argument, to induce him to return to the village with me, but all in
                  vain. 'Honor,' he said, now bound him, as if duty had not done so before.
               "'I have taken the oath, I have pledged my faith,' repeated he. 'I belong to
                  myself no more, but have devoted myself, body and soul, to Abruzio.'
               "'Before making that oath, thou hadst pledged thyself to God,' I said to him. 'It
                  is to Him that you belong.'
               "'To God, yes, for eternity but for time, for my entire life, to Abruzio. Seek
                  not,' added he, 'to make me fail in my duty to him. And remember member, Pepita, that if I were to follow your
                  counsels, and accede to your wishes, I should fall into the hands of my enemies,
                  and from the prison I should pass to the scaffold.'
               "At these words, my blood froze in my veins. I could find no other arguments to
                  induce him to return to the village, for I knew that his enemies were lying in
                  wait for him.
               "At last we reached the cottage of Paoli, and then we said our last sad adieus.
                  Then suddenly taking me in his arms, and pressing me convulsively to his heart, he
                  said, 'Pepita, say not the word adieu; it is too sad. It is au revoir—goodbye till we meet again, that you must
                  say,' and tearing himself from me, he walked away with hasty steps; and when at
                  some distance, I heard again his voice, saying, 'au
                     revoir, au revoir.'
               "'Henceforth how are we to meet?' I asked myself in ascending the aclivity on
                  which stood the cabin of his friend. How might we ever find ourselves together
                  again? Between us now I seemed to see chains, and the prison, the block, and the
                  axe!
               "As I promised Joachimo, I related to Paoli that I had found the cavern empty, and
                  showed him the written paper I had brought from the beach.
               "'He feared to be discovered,' said the old man, 'for the Swiss soldiers are now
                  soon to occupy the country near his retreat. An officer of Marine has been ordered
                  to establish himself at the Roche Percée.'
               "For the first time in my life, I was obliged to hide from my mother the truth,
                  and from this time my life became a different one from all it had been before.
                  From a bright life of joy and happiness, I entered now upon a saddened one. Silent
                  and retiring from my companions, I had in my mind one fixed and constant thought,
                  and on my heart a stifling weight. In church, when I wished to pray, the thought
                  that he prayed no longer—that he had renounced his religious
                  engagements, and attached himself to the chief of the robber tribe, extinguished
                  all hope in my soul, crowded back my prayers, and kept them from rising up to
                  heaven."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE ATTACK UPON THE VILLAGE—JOACHIMO AND PEPITA—THE OLD
                  MISER—ABRUZIO—THE COUNCIL—THE EMBARCATION AND VOYAGE—BROTHER ANSELM—THE CHIEF'S
                  WIDOW—THE STOLEN CHILDREN—CUNNING MAB.
               INlistening to the history of Pepita, Julienne and Amelia began to understand her
                  character, and to know her worth. They learned that her heart was still fresh and
                  pure, uncontaminated by the vices of those among whom they found her, and with
                  whom she formed a striking contrast in most respects.
               As one of the most effectual means of dissipating our own sorrows, is entering
                  into and sympathizing with the misfortunes of others, so the orphan Amelia, in
                  listening to the narrative of Pepita, had felt less cruelly the horrors of her own
                  situation. Julienne perceiving the effect of this recital upon her friend, begged
                  the girl to continue her narrative, and relate to them how she had become
                  connected with the band of Abruzio, and once more the companion of the bold
                  Joachimo.
               "You remember, ladies," said Pepita, "that when Joachimo quitted me, his last word
                  was au revoir.
               
               "In order to accomplish his purpose, one day in a council which was held soon
                  after the expedition to the Rock, and the capture of Count Toleno, who was
                  afterwards ransomed, Joachimo proposed an attack upon an old man named Hieronimo
                  Banti, who was known as one of the richest proprietors of the neighborhood of San
                  Lorenzo, and who for more than sixty years had been occupied in heaping up his
                  gold in a subterranean passage of an ancient château, on the ruins of which his
                  own house was built. 'There,' said Joachimo, 'our troops will find heaps of gold
                  and silver;' and for the relief of their consciences, and to stimulate their zeal,
                  he made them to understand that the wealth of the old miser and usurer had been
                  amassed at the expense of the poor.
               
               "The proposition of the new brigand, who, in the affair at the Roche Percée, had shown as much cool courage as sound
                  judgment, and who had thus gained the spurs of knighthood, was agreeable to
                  Abruzio. It was by the advice and through the instigation of Joachimo, that the
                  troops took their way to our village. Oh, Joachimo almost merited a malediction
                  for counselling an attack upon his native place! But you will see that in acting
                  thus, he had another end in view than that of filling the purses of the
                  freebooters. As he could no longer live with his mother and with those he had
                  loved from infancy, he compelled them to adopt a life which cruel necessity had
                  driven him into,—a life culpable, without doubt, but which for a young man like
                  him, thirsting for adventure, was not without its charm.
               "One night, then, Abruzio and his followers, excited by the love of gold as
                  vultures by the thirst of blood, attacked the house of old Banti. They effectually
                  secured their rich booty without staining their hands with blood, for Abruzio,
                  having ing learned that his aged father was ill, had made a vow to be, during an
                  entire month, compassionate and humane, and to spill no blood, if it could be
                  avoided. He contented himself, therefore, with causing the miser to be bound with
                  his two domestics, saying to the men who executed his orders:—'In returning to the
                  mountains, you will pass the Abbey of Charity, and you will leave at the gate of
                  the holy house these three wicked Christians, and you will attach to their persons
                  a note in my name, recommending them to the charity of the good fathers. And
                  further, I have vowed to establish, with a part of the wealth taken from this old
                  miser, four new beds at the hospital of St. Janvier, at Naples.'
               "While these things were passing with Banti, Joachimo, with a band of masked men,
                  and himself disguised, having ordered his followers to harm no one, bore from our
                  homes his mother and mine, with myself and my young brother. It will be two years
                  on All Saints' Day since we were brought to this place. Our two aged mothers wished to call down curses upon these
                  marauders, but Joachimo knew how to obtain their pardon and mine, for he declared,
                  with such simple earnestness, that he knew not how to live so far from those he
                  loved, and as he could not remain with them, he had brought them here to be with
                  him.
               "'The violence I have committed, in bringing you here,' said he, 'you will pardon,
                  for it is in consequence of the love which I am commanded to cherish for such dear
                  friends, and, therefore, I am sure it cannot be wrong.'
               "He added yet further, that among the list of those on whom their vengeance was to
                  alight, was the name of my father, who had powerfully assisted in the arrest and
                  subsequent execution of Antonio Abruzio, the elder brother, and predecessor of the
                  present chief of the band.
               "'Without me,' said Joachimo to my poor mother, 'you would have been immolated
                  during the attack: a cross of red chalk had been made upon your door, and the
                  meaning of that cross was, Here it is necessary to exterminate
                  all.'
               "And then Joachimo, though he was a robber, as a son showed himself so respectful
                  and tender; displayed so much kindness and attention to my mother and myself, and
                  to my brother Pedro, that we could never find in our hearts, nor bring our lips to
                  utter a malediction against him.
               "My mother lived but a short time after she was brought here from the home and
                  house where she was born, and where she had passed all her days. She was old and
                  infirm, and she gradually relaxed her hold upon this world, and passed away to a
                  better, for which she had long been waiting. In her last moments, she placed her
                  hand upon the head of the 'good brigand,' as she called Joachimo, and said,—
               "'You have been careful and kind to me and to my daughter and son,—you have been
                  tender and respectful towards your mother, who reared you in the ways of goodness,
                  and I invoke for you the blessing of Him who said, 'Honor thy father and mother.'
                  Joachimo, when one stands, as I do, on the verge of the other world, the future
                     is sometimes unfolded and revealed.
                  I see, through those mists which are gathering over my fading sight, what will
                  happen to you. You will not remain as you now are, but you will return to the
                  safer and happier path which you trod in early youth.'
               "I have strong hopes that this prediction uttered by my mother, in my hearing,
                  will be realized."
               Pepita had reached this point in her narrative, when a confused noise was heard of
                  horsemen advancing through the heath and undergrowth of that wild and savage
                  place. At the sound, the gypsy rose and went forward a short distance; but soon
                  returned, saying,—"It is the chief Abruzio himself who has arrived, and we shall
                  soon receive orders to return to the cavern."
               It was not so, however; they still remained undisturbed. Abruzio descended into
                  the cave, and the mysterious door swung to its place again. A council was then
                  held in the great hall of the cavern, to which were admitted thirty of their
                  number, most renowned for their prudence, judgment, and energy. They were, in
                  fact, the aristocracy of these dark regions, the cabinet and privy council of the
                  great chief.
               During the long sitting of this conclave, the glade was animated by the
                  recreations and sports of those who had been excluded from their deliberations.
                  Among the younger part of the band, was one who, by his feats of strength and
                  agility, and by his grace, surpassed his comrades. He seemed as if playing yet in
                  his native meadows, with his familiar companions. His appearance was modest, and
                  there was nothing in his manners of rudeness or savage boldness, which one might
                  expect to find in such associations. The sun of Calabria had not burned his fair
                  locks, nor browned his cheeks, and his voice was still sweet and melodious, as he
                  chanted the wild mountain song.
               At the close of one of the dances, the young lad brought to Pepita two large
                  bouquets of wild hyacinths and roses, and said to her,—
               "Thy hand is whiter than mine; offer these to the two ladies; from you they will
                  not refuse them."
               
               Then he bounded away like a young fawn, and mingled again in the sports of his
                  companions. It was Pedro, the beautiful young brother of Pepita.
               What was discussed and resolved upon in the council, no one not admitted to its
                  secrets ever knew, but ten days afterwards one part of the band repaired, with all
                  their baggage, during the night, to the borders of the sea. There, riding at
                  anchor, some rods from the shore, was a ship waiting to transport these troops
                  away. Among these men there were very few of those whom the great chief was
                  accustomed to employ in perilous adventures; those who were to embark represented
                  not the strength of the band, but those who were noted for their address, and
                  skill, and cunning. The veteran bandits were not there; the men of athletic forms,
                  whose muscles had been hardened into steel by exercise, whose visages were browned
                  by exposure, and marred with the sears of many encounters, and whose air and
                  bearing were ferocious and arbitrary. They were the young men and women; the
                  brave, and hardy, and careless young adventurers, whose nonchalant air and attitude reminded one of the lazzaroni, whose
                  unobserving indolence, and careless disregard and improvidence of all beyond the
                  present moment, would attract the eye of the painter, who would find in their easy
                  attitudes models of grace and poetic beauty. Two old men and some matrons, among
                  whom was Beatrice, had been selected by Abruzio as the guides and managers of this
                  singular company of Zingari, Gypsies, and Bohemians. Except Joachimo, not one of
                  the more distinguished of the band was allowed to join this expedition.
               Above the wide plane of waters, far away in the east, was seen a silvery line of
                  light, announcing the coming day. At this moment, escorted by a company of men,
                  there approached a friar, wearing the garb of the Capuchins. Soon Abruzio himself
                  appeared upon the beach, and standing apart from the rest, he called Joachimo and
                  Beatrice aside, and gave them secret instructions in regard to Julienne and
                  Amelia, who were to go with them, and
                  when all was ready they embarked and set sail.
               Julienne, who, by her courage and hopefulness, sustained the sad and suffering
                  Amelia, and, with the assistance of Pepita, supported her on board, saw with
                  surprise that the white-bearded Capuchin was to be of their company on the voyage.
                  She had learned from Pedro, that in one of his expeditions Abruzio had pillaged a
                  convent of Capuchins, and had brought away the steward, a simple lay brother, who,
                  by good humor, and a faculty of making himself useful as well as agreeable, had
                  become very popular in the community. This man had been promised by the chief,
                  that he should be set at liberty as soon as he should disclose the place where
                  their treasure was hidden,—a treasure which was known in the traditions of the
                  country as the "Purse of St. Francis." Now, as there was no treasure to be
                  disclosed, and no revelation of hidden wealth to be made, the deliverance of the
                  good brother never came. Anselm, for that was his name, consoled himself by the
                  good which he sought to do among the depraved men with whom he was condemned to
                  live; and truly, if the holy man succeeded not in bringing them into the ways of
                  virtue, he arrested and checked them many times on the road to crime, and as other
                  servants of God before him have attained to sanctity in prisons and in the
                  galleys, so it was his to seek a like perfection among a band of robbers.
               With his genial and benevolent character, he was never very severe, except towards
                  himself, and showed himself towards all others benevolent and compassionate. His
                  words were rarely bitter or hard, and when he addressed himself to the most
                  perverse and culpable, his rebukes were always softened with charity. By such
                  tolerant treatment, enforced by his pure and edifying example he diffused among
                  those unhappy creatures who surrounded him, the seeds of repentance and
                  reformation.
               The proud and imperious Abruzio, wrapped in his black mantle, and with his broad
                  hat drawn over his face, rode down to
                  the extremity of the strand. The white-crested waves struck the feet of the noble
                  steed on which he was mounted. As the men passed before their chief to embark, he
                  waved his hand, and courteously bade them good-by. But when the Lady Amelia
                  Mountclare approached, leaning on the arm of Julienne, he bowed gracefully and
                  respectfully, saying, "Your ransom, my lady, has not been deposited as I
                  stipulated, in the place I have indicated: consequently, I cannot give you
                  freedom; but, owing to the unsettled state of this country, by which our affairs
                  are rendered uncertain, and also to the entreaties of Joachimo, and the girl
                  Pepita, of whom I have learned how much you suffer, and how nobly you bear your
                  misfortunes, I have determined to send you back to your friends."
               Then calling the brother Anselm, and presenting him to her, he added,—"I have
                  given to this man, who is bound to me by oath, my instructions with regard to you.
                  Your family and friends are on the other side of the water. He goes to seek them
                  out, and if they fulfil the conditions imposed, you will be set at liberty, and
                  also your beautiful friend. Of both of you, then, I ask prayers for Abruzio, who
                  will not soon forget you."
               The boat then pushed out from the shore, and thus they parted from their captor,
                  who turned and rode off towards the mountains.
               As they stood on the beach, they had scarcely noticed the scattered troops, but
                  when they were all embarked together, men and women, old and young, Julienne and
                  Amelia shuddered at finding themselves in contact with such a motley
                  company,—Zingari, vagabonds without a home, a country, a shelter, without morals,
                  and almost without God. The good Anselm seemed to understand their thoughts, and
                  divining their terror, came and seated himself near them, in the forward part of
                  the vessel.
               Amelia, like all English people, breathed with pleasure the air of the sea; for to
                  them it is the air of their homes. She beguiled the moments by watching the
                  crested waves glittering in the first
                  rays of the sun, while the curlew and the halcyon were skimming along the surface,
                  sometimes rising a little from the water, and again settling down to be carried
                  along by the waves.
               Julienne was, also, charmed with this grand spectacle of the sea. Born in the
                  little hamlet of Saules, she had seen the sun rising over the rivulet which flowed
                  through the meadows, beside which she had watched her flock. She had also seen the
                  grand luminary shining over the laughing plains of Tuscany, and the magnificent
                  bay of Naples, and gild with his glorious rays the monuments of Florence, of Rome,
                  and of Pæstum; but now she felt her heart overflowing with more than human love,
                  and stirred with strange emotion, as she witnessed this dawn of day from the ocean
                  bed.
               These sublime scenes of nature bear to the most desolate soul a wonderful power of
                  calming its human passions; and these captives of Abruzio, though surrounded by
                  the roughest and most abject of our species, wept less bitterly. Before so much
                  beauty, and serenity, and purity, the aspect of the whole scene immediately around
                  them was subdued, and even the wild, wandering band of the Zingari seemed to feel
                  the influence of the hour and the scene. What were their feelings it would be
                  difficult to define, but perhaps God, in his great goodness, accepted them as a
                  prayer.
               The wind was propitious, the heavens serene, and the waves, gleaming and sparkling
                  in their own beauty, shone like the green and flowing robe of Venus, as she
                  emerged from their bosom. In answer to the questions of Julienne, the pilot said
                  that in the course of a few days, the land would be in sight, and their voyage
                  ended.
               "And what country shall we reach?" asked Julienne.
               "That is a secret of Abruzio's," replied the pilot, "and as no man who betrays a
                  secret survives the indiscretion, it will be well, my lady, not to reply to your
                  question."
               But Pepita, with her usual address, had discovered that they were bound for some
                  port in the west, whither their chief,
                  Abruzio, was soon to repair, to be present at the election of a new Waidda, or supreme chief of the Bohemian tribes. In
                  every part of the globe, the Zingari, gypsies, fortunetellers and jugglers—an
                  immense nation scattered ever all the earth—had received orders to send
                  deputations to elect a successor of the crafty and terrible Bensam, who had long
                  presided over these wandering people.
               It was, then, towards England that this portion of the brigands were directing
                  their course. It would be impossible to detail all the incidents of the voyage.
                  The fair weather, however, did not continue, but tempestuous days soon followed,
                  and the passengers, so laughing and light-hearted, so gay and turbulent, trembled
                  and grew pale, as the angry waves dashed the vessel hither and thither, while the
                  rolling thunder and the gleaming lightnings added to their terror. Those whose
                  lives are passed in forgetfulness of religious duties, are generally most timid in
                  times of peril. The fear which the gypsies felt was excessive, and the good
                  brother Anselm had employment enough in going among them, administering
                  consolation, and cheering them with hopes of safety.
               Joachimo and Pepita, with her brother and the two English girls, formed a group
                  themselves apart as far as possible from the others, whose terrors and sufferings
                  they could not relieve.
               In a bay near Holy-Head, the ship was driven ashore. Instead of landing quietly
                  and secretly during the night, as Joachimo had been instructed, they were forced
                  to abandon the vessel, and reach the land by means of boats and rafts, as best as
                  they could. Here at last gathered this motley crowd, all in safety. They who in
                  their hours of idleness had danced and sung, and in the fury of the storm had
                  trembled, and wept, and prayed, now became mad with joy the moment they trod the
                  land again.
               "To us, to us," said they in their songs, "belong the broad fields and the village
                  lanes; to us, the farms and the hedge-rows, and the old ruins; to us, the rich and
                  the poor; to us, all the broad earth,
                  where we may roam, and enjoy, and explore.
               "Young boys, be ye agile, and cunning, and hardy; let your language be enticing,
                  your minds acute, and your hands ready.
               "Young girls, gather the flowers of the heath and of the meadow, the wild poppy
                  and the bluebell of the field, and weave garlands for your heads. Learn to read in
                  the hard and callous hand, as well as in the white and soft, the signs of the
                  future, and promise, to those who wish to know what destiny the future will
                  disclose, great riches and happiness. Under the moon, and under the sun, in the
                  cities and in the fields, in the forests and in the plains, in the palace and in
                  the hut, on the firm earth and on the bounding billows—wherever we find
                  restlessness and curiosity—wherever there is need of hope—let us go there and sell
                  our secrets of the future to grief and to credulity."
               While chanting these rude songs, repeated from generation to generation among
                  these wandering children of the earth, the young men and women joined hands and
                  dancing, encircled an ancient stone of the Druids, where the priestess of that old
                  superstition once uttered her predictions, mingling her observation of the stars
                  with the cry of the raven, and reading the future in her leaves of fate.
               Two or three days after their arrival, Joachimo had an interview with the widow of
                  Bensam, the late king of the Zingari. After this, he marked out to the company the
                  bounds beyond which they were not to pass, and within which he gave them
                  permission to occupy themselves in such ways as suited their habits and tastes.
                  They were to take care not to render themselves obnoxious to the people living
                  near their encampment, and were strictly charged to commit no depredations upon
                  their property. Such wandering tribes are common in all parts of England, and
                  excite little observation, unless where they are guilty of encroachments upon
                  property. In the secluded neighborhood of Holy-Head their camp was undisturbed, while they confined themselves within
                  the limits which Joachimo had prescribed.
               A few weeks after their arrival, Anselm, at the solicitation of Julienne, left
                  them, and set out on his way to London to seek there the relatives of Amelia, and
                  to make arrangements for her ransom. Before his departure, a package of letters
                  was given him by Joachimo, addressed to the father and mother of Amelia. These
                  letters were from their friends and relatives at home, written at various times
                  while the Mountclare family were travelling on the continent, and they afforded,
                  therefore, the means for discovering such persons as would be interested in the
                  release of the Lady Amelia.
               The good Anselm, having been the steward of the convent, had evidently occupied
                  himself with the secular affairs of the brotherhood more than with the study of
                  theology and morals, and he believed himself bound by the oath which the robber
                  chief had exacted from him. He had pledged his faith never to give intelligence
                  where by he or any member of his band could be discovered, and if ever employed in
                  arranging the ransom of any one whom they held captive, to execute with exactness
                  every article of the stipulation. By this oath alone his life had been spared, and
                  nothing could tempt him to break it.
               Such was the man who was charged with the business of finding the friends of
                  Amelia Mountclare, who would interest themselves in procuring her liberty. How he
                  would succeed in his mission, was uncertain. Julienne was alarmed for her friend's
                  health, and would see no obstacle in the way of her release. In the midst of so
                  many vicissitudes, privations and dangers, the malady of Amelia had made frightful
                  progress. Through the kindness of Joachimo and Pepita, a comfortable place had
                  been secured for these two young girls in the hut of the widow of the Gypsy king.
                  From the appearance of this house, it was evident that the deceased Waidda had amassed but little wealth. Some cabalistic
                  signs, which the eye of the uninitiated could not comprehend, were the only
                  ornaments of the walls of her chamber, and the room in which the widow received her visitors, who came to
                  consult her, was equally unornamented and bare of furniture.
               To Julienne and Amelia the adventures of the Gypsy queen were a subject of
                  interest and curiosity. In her narratives, there was a singular mixing up of great
                  and dignified with low and vulgar events; of evil actions and of generous
                  sentiments, and a sort of virtue teaching vice. In all her conversations, the name
                  of God was never pronounced; and if she acknowledged a superior power, it was
                  Fate. Her code of morals was to take from others whatever she had need of, and at
                  the same time to give, whenever the hand of the unfortunate was stretched out to
                  her.
               The gypsy king had chosen this woman, known by the name of Cunning
                  Mab, to be his wife and queen, particularly because she excelled in one branch of
                  thieving, that of picking up children. The number of children of wealthy parents
                  whom she had brought to the camp, was almost beyond belief, and many a home was
                  made desolate by her. This kind of theft, the most cruel and horrible of all
                  others, the gypsy queen had been made most severely to expiate. Of the three boys
                  and four girls whom she had borne, not one remained to her. They had all been
                  strong and healthy in their infancy, and had grown up, beautiful as the flowers of
                  the meadow, till near the age of five, when they were seized, each one in turn,
                  with an unknown malady; the color faded from their cheeks, and they became
                  languid; the brightness of their eyes faded, their intellects were darkened, until
                  at last they ceased to recognize even the mother who had fondly nourished them at
                  her own breast; and so they died.
               The wretched mother, who had broken the hearts of so many parents, and caused so
                  many tears to flow, was inconsolable for the loss of her own children. The darkest
                  and most insupportable sorrow is that which is born of remorse; which shuts out
                  from the soul every ray of gladness and of joy. There was something savage in
                  Mab's grief. She wore, at all times, around her neck, a collar, ornamented with the small teeth of her
                  children. Notwithstanding Bensam had filled her casket with diamonds, and pearls,
                  and precious stones, she would not wear them, but preferred this strange memento
                  of mourning and grief. At all times, whether in her solitary walks, in desolate
                  places, or seated at her hearth-stone, or watching from the door the clouds
                  sailing through the heavens like ships on the seas—she had with her seven gray
                  doves, with a black circle round their necks, which seemed to represent to her the
                  seven children whom she had borne and buried.
               The gypsies live in profound ignorance of the Christian religion, and those who
                  have studied their habits and characters most closely, and know them most
                  intimately, have in vain sought to discover among them traces of any religion
                  whatever. It appears, indeed, that they believe in the existence of the soul after
                  death, but all their ideas of God and immortality are confused and indistinct.
               Mab would often call her doves to her, and fondle dle them as if they were her
                  children. She would talk to them in a strange, wild way:
               "My doves," she would say, "my darlings, whom I love as my children, you are
                  welcome, you who perched upon their cradles, and to whom they extended their
                  little arms. Ah, you were with them in their last hours, and bending over their
                  pale lips, inhaled their souls. Poor gentle creatures, you have ravished me of my
                  children, whom I would have protected with care and affection. O my children, I
                  seek you—I seek you everywhere! I go up upon the mountain; I descend to the
                  valley; I hasten over the heath-clad hills; I penetrate into the darkest shadows
                  of the forests to find you; but I see you not, oh darling children!
               "I ask of the flowers which open in the morning, and of those that close at
                  evening, if your spirits dwell with them; but neither the flowers which shut their
                  chalices at night, nor those which scatter their perfume upon the breath of
                  morning, reply to my demand.
               
               "But you, gentle turtle-doves, when I caress you, and kiss your rosy beaks, while
                  thinking of my sons, you reply to me by your sad moanings. I believe that the
                  souls of my children are animating you, and when I hear you complaining, it is my
                  children who speak to me through you.
               "When the little bird comes to provide for itself, it finds in the fields many
                  bitter grains. You, poor children, if you had over-lived your infancy, might have
                  found your wayfaring as barren and desolate as mine. Dear and cherished doves,
                  guard well, I beseech you, the souls of my infants,—fly with them among the most
                  beautiful flowers, and rest in the coolest shades. Make them happy as they are,
                  that they may never wish to return to this vale of tears. Bring them to me only in
                  my dreams, that I may see them again in their beauty."
               In such wild strains as these did the weird mother bewail her lost infants.
                  Julienne and the lady Amelia felt a singular interest in her, and resolved that
                  they would seek, in every way, to enlighten her mind with the truth, that she
                  might receive such consolations as her case demanded. Preoccupied with this
                  thought, Amelia said one evening to Mab, when she saw her surrounded by her doves,
                  talking to them and caressing them:—
               "Like you, I love these beautiful doves, and it gives me pleasure to observe their
                  graceful movements, and to listen to their plaintive moanings. Have a care for
                  them, caress them, and cherish them, since they were dear to your children. But do
                  not believe that the spirits of your loved ones, who were called away to heaven,
                  were arrested and shut up in the bodies of these birds. No, young children are
                  brothers to the angels, and when they die the ministering spirits which God placed
                  near their cradles, spread their wings and mount up to the abode of the Creator,
                  bearing with them, as an invisible flame, the souls of the dead."
               "I am not a Christian," said the Gypsy Mab, "and I know not what I worship. My
                  father and my mother taught me no religion, and I know of no God. But when my
                  first born child, at the age of four
                  years, began to wither like an autumn flower, one of the women of our company told
                  me that to restore him, and to bring back his smiles, it was necessary to pour
                  upon his head the waters of baptism. That woman was a Christian woman, and she
                  performed the ceremony; for my love taught me to believe that she said the truth.
                  But, unhappy mother that I was,—your Christian baptism availed nothing. It was
                  tried upon all, but one after another, they all passed away, and left me desolate
                  and sorrowful,—with no comfort in this life and no expectation or hope of anything
                  beyond."
               "We have," said Julienne, "no other way to comfort those who mourn for their dead
                  children, than to say that the Saviour has opened to them an eternal abode with
                  the angels, and that He himself has said, 'Suffer little children to come unto Me,
                  and forbid them not.' If you would rejoin your lost children, far away beyond the
                  clouds which are floating above us—far beyond the sun and the stars,—you must
                  believe in God, and worship ship Him,—that God who alone is our support in sorrow
                  and captivity."
               "Ah!" replied the gypsy queen, "when I can be persuaded of the truth of your
                  words,—when I shall see opening before me the way leading to my children, then
                  your worship shall be mine, and your God mine also."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE INSPIRED DAUGHTER—THE FOREST OF GLENMORE—ELECTION OF THE GYPSY
                  CHIEF—THE SONG OF THE BOHEMIANS—ADONAI AND JANIE.
               IF you plant the simple field flower near the queen of our gardens, the daisy of
                  the meadows will imbibe the perfume of the rose. So with Pepita and her friend
                  Joachimo, who being much in the society of Julienne and Amelia, and listening to
                  the instructions which they gave to Mab in the Christian faith, they comprehended
                  and took in something of the purity of its doctrines, and became day by day more
                  impressed with the truths which they had learned early in life, but which they had
                  sadly neglected. More than once they formed the resolution to break from their
                  present wicked associates, and return to a life of repentance and virtue.
               Julienne employed the long days of her captivity in composing and arranging music
                  which she sung in Italian,—the language spoken by most of the band,—and with so
                  much soul that it touched the hearts of all who listened to her. Hers was a song
                  of admiration, called forth by the wonders of creation and love for the Creator.
                  Morning and evening, and often in the calm hours of the night, the poetic daughter
                  of the little hamlet of Saules was heard, accompanying herself on a guitar which
                  Joachimo had provided for her. At the sound of her voice the gypsies would cease
                  from their conversation or amusements, and crouching around Julienne, they would
                  listen with an interest which would soon pass from silent enjoyment into loud
                  applause. The hearts of the wild wanderers seemed touched and softened under this
                  influence. Two months had scarcely passed since they landed here, but even in that
                  space of time many of them had become interested in the teachings of these young
                  girls, and their characters essentially improved, for the present at least, under
                  their influence ence. Especially was it
                  so with Pepita and Joachimo, and with old Beatrice, and others who were most
                  brought together under their direct influence.
               Since the departure of brother Anselm, the company had greatly increased in
                  numbers. They arrived by various routes, and generally at night, avoiding the high
                  roads and the light of day. They came from Scotland and Ireland, and even from
                  Sweden and Denmark. During the six months which had elapsed since the death of the
                  old king, ships touching at the English ports seldom failed to land some
                  individuals or families of the great tribe of the Zingari, or Gypsies. The
                  election of a king of this nation—a nation without a country, who had taken the
                  title of "Children of space, of the air and of liberty"—was the great event which
                  drew together such numbers from all the scattered tribes.
               The late Waidda had under him prefects and subprefects, by whom the notice of his
                  death had been transmitted faithfully, though silently as the footsteps of the
                  night, to the remotest wanderers. Finally, as the day of the election drew near,
                  there were arrivals from London and the provinces, from the villages and the
                  country.
               To those who are accustomed to see men alone engaged in political
                  affairs, this assemblage of families would seem a novel sight.
                  Matrons, and young girls, and children crowded the heath-clad hills around Holy
                  Head,—wandering parties who traversed the length and breadth of the island,
                  without soiling their feet with the dust of its highways, or sleeping beneath a
                  roof of its countless households.
               A vast glade in the forest of Glenmore was the place where the election was to be
                  held, and the summit of a scraggy rock, encircled by immense fir trees which had
                  stood for centuries, was the throne sacred to the vagabond king. For this grand
                  ceremony, the preparations were neither long, nor sumptuous, nor imposing.
               The young men had prepared the glade by removing every impediment to the formation
                  of three entire circles around the rocky throne, composed posed of all the gathered tribes, old men and
                  women, young men, girls and children. To break this triple chain was an ill omen.
                  The chief elect was to be seated upon the rock, while three of the wisest and most
                  prudent of the old men, standing at the base, examined his qualifications for the
                  office. The new chief was not to be selected from among the aged, for to a nation
                  never at rest, a ruler is necessary who possesses all the vigor of life. A gypsy
                  king is never expected to die in his bed, but to be ready to encounter perils and
                  endure hardship and wandering, until accident or sudden death in some form, shall
                  close his reign.
               The aspirant for this office is obliged to make a full and unreserved statement of
                  his whole manner of life—his wiles and deceptions; his thefts and cunning; his
                  revenges and his cruelties;—all things that Christian society repels and condemns
                  and punishes, took the place, in the estimation of the gypsies, of morals and
                  probity, and were reckoned as qualities of distinction and eminence among
                  them.
               This beautiful glade in the forest of Glenmore now presented a singular scene.
                  Young girls were there, with their large black eyes; their rich glossy black hair
                  flowing over their shoulders; their parted lips displaying the brilliant whiteness
                  of their teeth; their necks, arms, and feet naked; and so light and airy in the
                  dance, that the purple heath scarcely bent under their tread. The dance itself was
                  wild and bewildering in its mazes, and the music to which they kept time not less
                  bewildering and enervating. As these Bohemians were wanderers in all lands, so had
                  they learned the popular music of all nations, and there were collected in this
                  strange assembly all kinds of musical instruments; the horn, the harp, the guitar,
                  and the flute; the shrill fife and the noisy tambourine; the harsh bagpipes, and
                  the cymbals, whose clang was like the Chinese gong. These combined songs produced
                  a powerful effect, and excited a delirium of enthusiasm. As the young danced and
                  sang, the old caught something of their maddened spirit, and shouted out their
                  applause.
               
               Each family had their silver goblet, which passed from hand to hand, filled with
                  intoxicating drinks. They drank freely, but not to the worst excesses. They say
                  that intoxication is madness, the death of the soul; but exhilaration is the
                  inspiration of the spirit which quickens its energies and prepares them for the
                  encounter with the greater exigencies of life.
               After a while, the music and dancing ceased, and a bugle, which had belonged to
                  the late king, was put into the hands of a young brigand by one of the three
                  judges. The bugle sounded three calls, the summons to the election. At this
                  signal, the candidates for the vacant place advanced towards the throne. Among
                  them was a noble-looking young man, of vigorous frame and graceful carriage, who,
                  at the close of the dance, had seated himself upon a bank of moss beneath the
                  pines, while a young woman, who placed herself beside him, said,—
               "Adonai, do you wish to become king?"
               "Since my first recollection, it has been my only aim and aspiration. All that I
                  have ever done has been with a view to this."
               "But to know if you merit this distinction, the judges will ask of you an account
                  of all you have done."
               "That I well know."
               "And will you declare all?"
               "Yes."
               "What, reveal all?"
               "My duty is to hide nothing. I shall say all."
               "Ah, you will not speak of the agony and despair of my mother; you cannot tell of
                  the curses of my old father, when they found how you had abused their hospitality!
                  Adonai! Adonai! I conjure you, speak not of us."
               Saying these words, the poor girl fell upon her knees, weeping and sighing, and
                  endeavoring to detain the Bohemian. The bugle sounded a second time. Then the
                  young man pushed her rudely away, and in so doing the head of the poor girl struck
                  against the tree, and from the wound thus made the blood flowed copiously. Adonai
                     seemed not even to hear her fearful
                  cry of pain, but advanced with perfect coolness and self-possession towards the
                  judges.
               Surrounded with stars like a queen in the midst of her court, the moon was shining
                  in the azure depths of heaven, and her tranquil light contrasted strongly with the
                  lurid torches and the restless agitation of that strange assembly, in the midst of
                  which stood the rocky throne, conspicuous in the blaze of the illumination. The
                  candidates for the black wand of the Waidda were seen crossing the glade, and as
                  they approached, the confused murmurs of the multitude died into a silence so
                  profound that the rustling of the leaves in the treetops might be distinctly
                  heard.
               When these aspirants for Gypsy royalty approached the judges, the elder arose and
                  required them to proclaim all they had done to merit the distinction which they
                  sought, telling them to lay aside the lying tongue, and to speak the truth, for
                  they were surrounded by those who knew them, and could detect any falsehood.
               We will not speak minutely of the revelations made by these men to support their
                  pretensions to the sovereignty—pretensions based on deeds of injustice and crime,
                  recounted and enumerated in the presence of the multitude, with the utmost
                  boldness and impudence. It would be too long and shameful a history to narrate all
                  that was said that night under the old trees of Glenmore. The candidates boasted
                  and gloried in their crimes of falsehood and robbery, of cupidity and deceit, of
                  every selfish and vicious principle put in action, whenever they, as individuals,
                  or as members of a community of brigands and vagabonds, could be profited. They
                  were examined by the elders, each in turn, and as no one exhibited himself in his
                  life and revelations, so false, so adroit, so successful in deceits, so
                  hypocritical, so ungrateful and so criminal, in short, as Adonai, he was
                  pronounced by the judges the leader and king, and the baton of power, which, since
                  the death of Bensam had been concealed in one of their caverns, was placed in his
                  hands.
               When he received this symbol of sovereignty, loud acclamations rose from the crowd, which,
                  combined with the crash and the confused sounds of the musical instruments, scared
                  the raven from his nightly perch in the tree tops, and as it flew it mingled its
                  harsh croaking with the unearthly din which arose from the glade, and on the
                  mountain of Glenmore, from its base to its summit, every living creature awoke—the
                  fox in his burrow, the owl in the crevice of the rocks, and the little bird in its
                  mossy nest.
               The newly-elected king was invited by the judges to take his seat on a couch
                  formed of branches of the trees, covered with a brown mantle, and ornamented by
                  female hands with ribands and wild flowers. This constituted the whole pomp and
                  ceremony of the coronation of the Gypsy chief. Adonai, receiving at the altar a
                  true crown, could not have been more proud; his heart could not have palpitated
                  with greater joy, than when he ascended to his place among the elders. In his
                  unbounded love of independence and hatred of restraint, he repeated to himself, "I
                  shall obey no longer; I shall command others;" and at this thought his eye beamed
                  with a fierce joy, like that which Satan felt when he commanded the demons of the
                  abyss.
               To increase the proud exultation of the new chief, the young men and women around
                  him chanted the song which they had learned from their forefathers, while the
                  voices of the whole multitude joined in the refrain, and swelled the wild
                  chorus.
               "King of the night! child of the shade! thou hast received the black baton of the
                     Waidda, and we, who wish to obey no other
                  power, will obey thee. King of the night! child of the shade! we hail thee
                  king.
               "We have chosen thee, young, active, and strong, that thou mayest better deceive
                  those whom thou wishest to overcome and despoil. Thy arm is strong, go, break the
                  iron fetters; thy soul is crafty, go, deceive thine enemies.
               "King of the night! child of the shade! we hail thee king!
               "They have placed kings on thrones, magistrates trates in cities, judges in the tribunals, jailors
                  in the prisons, and executioners on the scaffold; all these tyrannies have been
                  created to make man a slave; but thou, newly-elected, we have chosen thee to fight
                  against our enemies.
               "King of the night! child of the shade! we hail thee king!
               "The day is for others; the night for us. The night is the mother of great deeds;
                  she is ready to conceal those who seek deliverance and enfranchisement. Freedom
                  shall come to us at last, and then the sun will shine for us also. Be thou cunning
                  as the fox; by-and-bye thou shalt be terrible as the lion.
               "King of the night! child of the darkness! we hail thee!"
               While they were singing this wild chant, the Gypsies left the forest. Their march
                  was illuminated by torches, which they held aloft, and waved and shook in order to
                  keep alive their lurid fires, and to scatter the sparks around them. In passing
                  near a tree which, the lightning had blasted, Adonai saw a woman stretched upon
                  the ground, and in the full tide of joy and triumph his heart was suddenly wrung
                  with remorse. It was Janie, she who wished to prevent the revelation of such
                  crimes in his past life as related to her own family; the unhappy woman whom he,
                  in the delirium of his ambition, had repulsed and wounded.
               "Stop!" cried he to the men who were bearing him along in triumph—"Stop!"
               His voice had already learned the accent of command, and his new subjects obeyed.
                  Adonai, descending from the litter on which he was seated, placed himself beside
                  the prostrate girl. But from the loss of blood she had become cold, unconscious,
                  and motionless. All pale and inanimate as she was, Adonai lifted her in his arms,
                  and placed her by his side on the litter, and then ordered the triumphal march to
                  proceed. And thus they encircled three times the Gypsy throne. But the aspect of
                  the company was suddenly changed. The motionless girl, over whom the newly-chosen
                  chief was bending, gave to the procession something of a funeral appearance, and the old gypsies shook
                  their heads, saying among themselves,—"It is as though death had come to the
                  feast; Adonai will not be prosperous and happy."
               Before the ceremonies of the coronation were finished, the moon had kissed the
                  horizon, and the stars were extinguished in the heavens. Janie at last recovered,
                  and found herself alone with Adonai. Solitude and silence once more reigned in the
                  forest; the sounds of the dance and songs were hushed, and the wandering children
                  of the night were fast locked in the arms of sleep.
               The good brother Anselm had hastened his departure for London, in order to avoid
                  being present at the ceremony of the election; but Julienne and Amelia were forced
                  to remain and witness the wild scene. Joachimo and Pepita had said to them,—"You
                  are now in our secret, and that your influence may increase, as you wish, over
                  these tribes, with whom you may be obliged to remain for some time yet, it is
                  necessary for you to be present at the election. It is our great festival, the
                  most imposing ceremony, as well as the most important event, which ever occurs
                  amongst us." Mab, the widow of the late king, who had also become much interested
                  in these young ladies, also entreated them to go with them to the forest and
                  witness the ceremonies.
               All strange and wild as were these proceedings, they served to alleviate the
                  profound grief of the Lady Amelia, and to furnish to the poetic mind of Julienne
                  subjects of interesting and grave speculation. They were both greatly moved at the
                  bad treatment which the poor Janie received from Adonai, and especially when they
                  saw him conveying her lifeless in the triumphal procession. When the ceremonies
                  were over, they begged Mab to invite Janie to their cabin, with the double purpose
                  of consoling her grief, and teaching her, if she should be willing to receive it,
                  Christian truth. She promised to comply with their wishes, and told them something
                  of the sad history of the beautiful girl in whom they felt such interest. Among
                  the Gypsies Janie was called the "beautiful ful weeper;" for from the day she was brought into
                  the company, she was rarely seen to smile. According to the regulations and laws
                  which governed them, each member must become useful, performing some duty which
                  shall add something to the common stock. Janie possessed a fine voice and a talent
                  for music. The chief had instructed her that she was to make herself useful by
                  singing at fairs, markets, and village fêtes, for her beauty and her charming
                  voice would not fail to draw crowds around her, which would afford the others
                  opportunities for fortune-telling and other means of gain. But the poor girl,
                  remembering her childhood's home, and the manner in which she had been torn away
                  from it, could never command herself so as to sing a single song. Tears and sighs
                  stifled her voice, and she would be obliged to break off at the end of the first
                  verse. Then Adonai would reproach her with eating their bread without contributing
                  by her own exertions to pay for it. Sometimes, too, he would beat her cruelly. The
                  pale and beautiful Janie would then reply to him,—
               "I could be useful if I might apply the knowledge and skill which I acquired from
                  my mother in aiding the poor and healing the sick. When young, I went often with
                  her among the rocks along the coast, to gather the gray moss and the healing
                  lichens; and sometimes in the meadows and on the river banks, to collect the
                  simple remedies which Providence has distributed for all, by which their maladies
                  may be healed. If the care of the sick and suffering in our company were confided
                  to me, then you would no longer reproach me, Adonai, for being useless."
               Since that day Adonai has obtained for his victim employment as nurse for the
                  sick.
               "If it should be my fortune to remain among you," said Amelia, "if Anselm should
                  not succeed in procuring my liberty, I would wish, with Julienne and the poor girl
                  Janie, to be employed in dressing the wounds, and in healing and comforting the
                  sick, for, you understand, that to know how to feel for the sufferings of others,
                  it is necessary ourselves to have suffered. The healing balsam sam never flows from the tree until its bark has
                  been wounded.
               "When you know the sweet spirit over which Adonai tyrannizes," replied Mab, "you
                  will find that she deserves compassion, for griefs of all kinds have fallen upon
                  her."
               Amelia and Julienne heard with interest all that Mab related of the history of
                  Janie, and they thought that if they were destined to live and die among the
                  Gypsies, they would wish to attach themselves to the beautiful wife of Adonai, and
                  to adopt her method of giving hope to all hearts that need its consoling power.
                  Hope is, in reality, one of the most effective means of assuaging suffering. It is
                  the best remedy for the pangs of the body, as well as for the grief of the
                  soul.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE MESSENGER—RANSOM—DELIVERANCE—THE PATERNAL HOME—THE
                  PROPHECY.
               AS the chief Abruzio had foreseen, there were living in England many friends and
                  relatives of the family of Mountclare, and Anselm was almost certain of finding
                  some of them in London. His difficulty would be, not in obtaining an interview
                  with them, but in being able to persuade them of the propriety and safety of
                  entrusting to him the sum demanded for her ransom. His principles were such as
                  forbid him to violate either the letter or spirit of the oath by which he was
                  bound to the brigands, and his mind and thoughts were occupied incessantly in
                  contriving how he should prove that the Lady Amelia was still living, and could be
                     restored stored, while it was
                  impossible for him to reveal where she could be found before her ransom was
                  paid.
               To accomplish the mission with which he was charged, Anselm also ran the risk of
                  being regarded by the persons with whom he was to negociate, as an accomplice of
                  the brigands who retained the two young girls as captives, and perhaps as having
                  been accessory to the assassination of the other members of the family on the
                  night of the fatal encounter in the mountains of Calabria. He was exposed to the
                  risk of being denounced to the police as soon as the revelation was made. However,
                  he hastened his journey, for though bound by the force of his oath to these
                  terrible men, he had always preserved in his heart a Christian zeal and charity,
                  and an ardent desire to repair, as much as he might, the evil committed by the men
                  with whom unhappy necessity had made him the associate for the time being.
               Anselm expected to find in London Sir Thomas Sydenham, the maternal uncle, and
                  god-father of the Lady Amelia. During the sojourn of Lord Mountclare's family in
                  France, and their travels in Italy, his god-daughter had often written to him, and
                  she could not now suffer the monk to depart without a letter to her uncle, which
                  Anselm promised to deliver on condition that it should be short, and that it
                  should contain nothing which would indicate, in any manner, the place whence she
                  wrote, or the kind of people by whom she was detained in captivity. Amelia wrote,
                  therefore, as follows:—
               "Dear uncle: Of the family whom you saw depart, three years ago, from London, to
                  seek, on account of my feeble health, a warmer sun and a more temperate
                  climate,—of all this family, so happy and so united, there remains only your
                  unfortunate niece and god-child. You will recognize that it is she who writes you
                  these lines, and I am not permitted to say to you in what place I may be found,
                  and by whom I am detained from your affectionate embraces. The person by whose
                  hands you will receive this letter, is a lay brother of the order of St. Francis in the Romish church. His
                  convent is in the neighborhood of Naples. He has laid aside the habit of his
                  order, that he may visit London without attracting attention. He can and will
                  reveal to you the only means existing by which I can be restored to the relatives
                  who remain to me. You may trust his word, for I believe that he is incapable of
                  deceiving you. Adieu, dear uncle, pity me with your whole soul, and hasten by
                  every means the moment when I may embrace you as my father."
               Furnished with this letter, and some other tokens by which her friends might be
                  certified of her being still living, and in captivity, the Capuchin brother set
                  out for London. In order to make the journey without awakening suspicion or
                  attracting inconvenient curiosity and attention, by which his journey might
                  possibly be interrupted or delayed, Anselm was obliged—to his great regret—to part
                  with his long white beard, which the razor had never touched during all the years
                  of his cloister life. It was expedient, also, for him to lay aside his peculiar
                  dress, and to clothe himself in the costume of other laics, that he might mingle
                  with other Christian men without attracting attention.
               Thus transformed in his personal appearance, and improved, he arrived in London,
                  and after some inquiries in suitable quarters, he found that Sir Thomas Sydenham
                  was not then in town, but at one of his seats in the northern part of the kingdom.
                  A steward of the family of Amelia, a Mr. Wright, was desirous of detaining, for
                  several days, the old man who had brought news of the daughter of his master. He
                  showed him Lord Mountclare's house, a noble and beautiful residence in one of the
                  aristocratic quarters of the city, and Anselm could not avoid contrasting the
                  magnificence and comfort here displayed, with the rude life of privation, the mat
                  of straw, the coarse food, and the mean cabin in which the heiress of this
                  splendid mansion was now forcibly detained. How unlike this mansion in Portland
                  Place was the miserable cabin of cunning Mab, the old gypsy queen!
               
               If Anselm should succeed in his mission; if the heiress should return to her home,
                  how would she come back? Would it be with the color of health in her cheeks and
                  the serenity of joy upon her brow, and the smile of pleasure on her lips? No, he
                  feared that disease had already made sure inroads upon her health; that fatigue
                  and suffering and disappointment had already done their fatal work. These sad and
                  mournful presentiments brought tears from the old man's eyes. He thought that the
                  days of the young and lovely girl were numbered, and more than once he said to
                  himself:—"Poor child, when she shall have returned to her home, she will again
                  soon be torn away from it, and then not by human hands, but by the cold hand of
                  death, and from that captivity no friends or wealth can ransom her."
               Sir Thomas Sydenham had been endowed with a fine disposition, loyal, and generous,
                  and confiding, and it was with regret that he was obliged to distrust any one with
                  whom he had to do. For persons like him, of open and frank natures, prudence dence
                  is a most difficult virtue. Such men cannot endure that any doubt or distrust
                  should be felt in regard to themselves, and therefore they feel a great repugnance
                  in doubting the good faith of others.
               In his youth, Sir Thomas had often been the dupe of this generous and good-natured
                  confidence in men; but years had taught him by experience something of distrust. I
                  will not say that he had become suspicious, but more prudent.
               Before reading the letter written by his niece, he had received with all
                  hospitality the brother Anselm. He had learned, long before, the sad news of the
                  horrible ambuscade and slaughter in the valley of San Lorenzo. And when the
                  stranger told him that the Lady Amelia had been spared and carried away by the
                  robbers, he was inclined to credit the story of the old man, for it was confirmed
                  by all the accounts he had received from Italy. But when he held in his hands, and
                  read the letter of his niece, whom he had always loved as a daughter, he wept for
                  joy at the assurance of her safety. He felt that all his fortune was not too much to sacrifice for the ransom of
                  the poor orphan, and he promised the messenger that he should not have long to
                  wait, and he begged that he might be permitted to accompany him, and bring her
                  home.
               Two days after this first interview, the sum of twenty thousand crowns was put
                  into the hands of Anselm for the ransom of the captives. There was in the
                  character of this simple old man something of the same ingenuousness which
                  distinguished the uncle of Amelia. Suspicion of others had come to him only after
                  long years, and after having been many times deceived. His first impulse,
                  therefore, was to accede to Sir Thomas' wishes, and to take him with him on his
                  return to Glenmore, that he might, at once, receive the orphan, and conduct her
                  home. But his second thought was, that in this way these gypsies would be
                  denounced to the civil authorities, and he recalled his instructions, which forbad
                  him to admit any person into the secrets of the band, and so he set off on his
                  return alone.
               Three weeks only had passed since Anselm took his leave of the inmates of the
                  gypsy cabin, and he again drew near, with a light step, rejoicing in the success
                  of his undertaking. The sun had set, but its rays still lingered over the
                  surrounding country. The crests of the pines and the ridges on the mountain sides
                  were still filled with the purple and golden light. On reaching the door of the
                  hut, he perceived Amelia lying on a miserable pallet of straw.
               "Amelia," said he, "rise and return to the house of your father."
               Julienne was sitting near the bed of her friend, who was growing more feeble and
                  exhausted every day. "Yes, rise, my sweet friend," said she, "by the goodness of
                  God we have been ransomed, and let us depart."
               Amelia made an effort to rise, but sunk back through weakness, and joy at their
                  deliverance.
               "Let us thank God in our hearts," said Anselm, "that it has pleased Him to give us
                  success, and let us humbly ask Him for grace and strength to serve Him faithfully, in gratitude for all his
                  mercies."
               "Yes, dear mistress," cried Pepita, "take courage, and I will follow you wherever
                  you go."
               "And will you abandon me, then?" demanded Joachimo.
               "O no, you will come with me; you will forsake evil associates and attach yourself
                  to the good," said Pepita, "and we will beg on our knees these our noble friends
                  to retain us in their service."
               "It is well," said Anselm, much moved at the sight of these young girls, and at
                  the attachment which they had inspired among the rude Bohemians—"it is well; and
                  when Abruzio shall have received this purse, I shall in my turn be free, and if
                  God permits—my oath preserved, and my mission accomplished—I too will come to die
                  near you."
               With a feeble voice Amelia added—"O do not say to die, but to live with us. You
                  shall remain near us, and we will recall your kindness and your consolations in
                  our unhappy days. And that is not all. Your words of instruction, and the
                  influence and example of Julienne, have happily turned the thoughts of many of
                  these wandering people to a different and better kind of life. When I have reached
                  my home again, I shall have farms and fields to cultivate, and, with your
                  assistance, we will form a community of these Bohemians, and provide them with
                  honest employment, where they can be contented and happy." And then with a sweet
                  smile she added—"Pepita shall be my dairy maid, and her husband, Joachimo, my
                  gamekeeper, and little Pedro, so gay and so active, shall have the oversight of my
                  flocks and herds."
               "And I"—said Mab—"when you are gone, who shall take your place as my guide and
                  friend? You have taught me the way back to my Father's house: you have told me of
                  the mansions where my children are; you have led me, with a gentle hand, into the
                  ways of peace. My heart is bound to yours, and do not break the cords which fasten
                  me there. Take me away with you. I will adore and serve your God. I have need of His pity and
                  yours."
               "Reassure yourself, my good Mab," said Amelia, "the ties which our evil days have
                  knit together, shall not be broken. I will never break them."
               While these words were passing, Amelia rose from her couch and attempted to walk,
                  but she was too feeble to sustain her steps, without the assistance of her
                  friend.
               "My child," said Anselm, "grief and anxiety have taken away your strength, but
                  happiness will restore it. The manner of life to which you have been subjected for
                  several months past, has impaired your health, but that which awaits you when you
                  are again restored to the comforts of home, will chase away all anxiety and
                  suffering. But you must recruit yourself for your journey. Remain, then, calm
                  during the day. Be quiet and seek rest. Sleep, if you can, and do not excite
                  yourself. We will arrange everything for the journey."
               Amelia promised to follow his advice and to seek repose, but first she must learn
                  from Anselm what news he brought her from her friends, and whether he had found
                  her uncle, and what messages he brought for her.
               "My lady," replied the old man, "it has pleased Providence, in that wisdom of His
                  which we cannot understand, to deprive you of your parents; but there is left to
                  you, in your uncle, another father, and if I could have permitted it, consistently
                  with my oath of secrecy, he would have accompanied me hither, and would have been
                  already at your couch, calling you his child,—his well-beloved,—and pressing you
                  to his bosom."
               "Go then," said she, "I will sleep with this thought, and I will trust to you to
                  make the necessary preparations for our departure."
               In the consultation held between Julienne, Anselm, and Joachimo, it was agreed
                  that these preparations should be made quietly and in secret, that they might not
                  excite too much notice in the gypsy camp. Joachimo, with Pepita and Pedro, was
                     resolved solved to separate from his
                  companions, and after the promise made by Amelia to Mab, she also was to be
                  counted among their number. Anselm, who retained the dress which he had worn
                  during his late journey to London, was to go to the neighboring village and to
                  make arrangements for carriages and horses, and Joachimo was to accompany him to
                  procure for himself and the females such clothing and other supplies as they
                  needed. All this was done promptly, and after two days of repose for Amelia, it
                  was decided that in the night following they would abandon Mab's cabin and
                  commence their journey towards London.
               The night came; it came without moon and without star in the heavens, and sombre
                  with large black clouds. Silently the little company left the cabin, and when they
                  reached the high road, they took their seats in the carriages which were waiting
                  for them. It was an hour of excitement, hope and joy. They were leaving the arid
                  heaths and the strange companionship which they had known so long. We may readily
                  conceive what emotions tions stirred the hearts of Julienne and Amelia but we
                  cannot so well divine the feelings of her companions. More than once, we suppose,
                  the old gypsy queen turned her head to distinguish, as well as she might through
                  the darkness, the place from which she was separating herself forever. No doubt
                  she was desirous of abandoning her manner of life hitherto, and of passing her
                  remaining days in peace, for she had found what she never knew before, in the
                  hopes of religion a balm for the wounds of her mind. But she had grown old in the
                  wandering band, and notwithstanding her present happiness in being under the care
                  and protection of the Lady Amelia, yet there were, in the depths of her soul,
                  painful regrets that she was leaving behind the little graves of her children.
               In consequence of the feebleness of Amelia, they travelled slowly, and it was
                  several days before they reached London. Sometimes during the journey she wished
                  to hasten their speed, at others again to slacken their pace, for she shuddered to
                  think of standing on the deserted hearth of her childhood's home. But, at last, there she stood;
                  there where her young years were nurtured in tenderness and affection by those who
                  should have welcomed her back, but who, alas, were now no more!
               We have described different scenes in the life of Amelia and Julienne; we have
                  seen them side by side in the little church of the French hamlet, and in the park
                  at Landais, and journeying through Italy; we have followed Julienne, with
                  solicitude and interest, while she was recovering her sight, and have witnessed
                  the joy of her friend at the restoration; we have shuddered in describing the
                  fearful onslaught of the brigands in the valley of San Lorenzo; we have explored
                  the cavern of Abruzio, and followed the wanderers across the sea to the English
                  coast; we have witnessed the forest scene of the election of the gypsy king, and
                  traced the journey and return of Anselm, and thus, step by step, we have followed
                  Julienne and Amelia down to the time when they stood together on the threshold of
                  the home in which the high-born English girl was nurtured in her early childhood;
                  but we cannot describe her emotions as she stood there once more, again in the
                  house of her father, now empty, sad and silent! Oh, there are, in the human heart,
                  more and finer cords of grief than of joy! Man smiles for an instant, but weeps
                  through long years!
               Amelia now took possession of her home, and was restored to all that society has
                  to offer for the repose of the body, or to direct the mind, or alleviate
                  suffering, but yet she was unable to receive the congratulations which were ready
                  to be offered by the friends of her father. The best physicians of London were
                  already in attendance, but all their art could afford her no alleviation, nor
                  allay the fever which increased continually. They could order no other
                  prescription than that which the friar Anselm had recommended,—silence and
                  repose.
               There is never anywhere absolute silence; even night has its murmurs. Under the
                  cabin roof of cunning Mab, where everything had been provided for repose, vague
                  sounds would reach the ear. Sometimes
                  it was the far-off and monotonous beating of the waves upon the shore, or the wind
                  rising as the day was dawning, and rustling the tree-tops. In London, other sounds
                  broke the stillness of the night. Sometimes it was the rolling of the carriages
                  upon the pavement, or the clocks marking the hour of time, or some poor workman
                  who toiled all night to gain the bread for the day, or the man of letters who
                  meditates and writes till the dawn, or the young dancing at the merry-making, or
                  the poor mother who watches by the cradle of her suffering child. So life goes on,
                  and in some form or other its movements and sounds are audible all the night
                  through to the listening ear.
               It cannot be supposed, that when the physicians prescribed solitude and silence to
                  Amelia, that it was intended to keep from her couch her friend Julienne, she who
                  had become more than a sister,—the half of her soul. Nay, she was scarcely absent
                  from her side, watching with anxious solicitude the alternatives so frequent and
                  peculiar to consumptive patients.
               When the brilliant day is gone; when the radiant sun no longer sheds down upon the
                  earth light, and warmth and life; when the twilight is past, and night is come,
                  there is still over our heads a beautiful spectacle; it is the moon, reigning in
                  the midst of her court of stars, and letting fall their melancholy light upon the
                  trees, the meadows, and the waters. The life of Amelia had only these pale
                  reflections, and when over her wan lips there strayed a smile, it was sad, like a
                  ray of the moon falling upon a lily broken by the storm, or shining upon a tomb.
                  At other times her features wore an expression still more painful,—as when there
                  passed over the face of this frail and lovely girl, a breath of hope, or a
                  remembrance of past happiness. Then, when the friends who surrounded her heard her
                  projecting new plans for travel and amusement, and improvements in her house,
                  their hearts were almost broken. It is often less painful to hear the groans and
                  complainings of the sick than to listen to their half delirious anticipations and
                  projects for the future.
               
               Amelia had always loved music passionately, and Julienne, to recall the happy
                  hours of the past, had, without her knowledge, placed an organ in the chamber next
                  to her apartment, and one evening about the same hour as when she met for the
                  first time the family of Lord Mountclare, in the church of the old hamlet of
                  Saules, she left her lying half asleep, and went silently, and seating herself at
                  the organ, she again poured forth the hymn which Amelia had first heard in her
                  native village. The notes fell upon her ear soothingly, as angel voices.
                  "Julienne, Julienne!" cried she, "come and let me thank you. How kind you have
                  been to contrive this surprise. You know well how to reach my heart. Your magical
                  fingers have placed me again in the little French church, where I saw you for the
                  first time at the foot of the gallery stairs, receiving with modest blushes the
                  praises of my dear parents."
               "Dear Amelia, I felt that day that I was to love you always, and this presentiment
                  has not deceived me."
               "I know it—I know it, dear Julienne. Neither of us have failed in that which we
                  vowed to each other in the chapel of Landais, on the day of my fête. But, my sweet
                  friend, look around you to see how destiny, which promised so much happiness, has
                  deceived us."
               Julienne found nothing to reply, and one of those long pauses of silence which
                  sometimes seize the heart, had already reigned some moments in the sick chamber,
                  when Pepita, divining the impression and the painful emotions which weighed upon
                  the spirits of her friends, seated herself upon the carpet at the side of the Lady
                  Amelia's couch, and taking the hand of her mistress, covered it with kisses, and
                  then by force of habit, the gypsy opened her hand, and sought, under the fair
                  white skin, the lines which were there traced. Raising her head a little, Amelia
                  saw what the girl was doing, and she said to her,—
               "Do you wish, Pepita, to predict the future for me?"
               "My lady, you have never been willing that I should reveal it. You have always told me, when I
                  wished to predict joyous and happy days, that it was an offence against God to
                  seek to know what He has not revealed. And yet I could have foretold much of joy
                  and happiness."
               "And how is it now, Pepita?"
               "Now?" asked the Bohemian, with a troubled voice.
               "Yes, now. Open my hand—look at it—study it—recollect your ancient occupation, and
                  if you are still able, give me hope."
               Pepita's inquietude increased. She rose and seated herself upon the bed, then
                  taking the hand of her benefactress, she fixed her large, deep eyes upon it. While
                  she traced and studied what she called the signs of the future, the others around
                  the bed were regarding the expression of the gypsy's countenance with anxious
                  scrutiny. A long and painful silence ensued, which was, at last, broken by her
                  saying, pointing out at the same time to Julienne the lines she was
                  observing:—
               "Behold this cross at the base of the first finger, which foretells sorrow, but
                  see,—mark well this sign which encircles this emblem of sorrow above, like a
                  crescent, and nearly effaces it. This sign is what we call the arc
                  of felicity. It countervails the sign of ill fortune beneath it. And do you not
                  distinguish under the fourth finger several little rays which form a star in
                  appearance? This star never appears in the hand except as a reflection of one in
                  the heavens. Let us then pray the good angel of the lady Amelia, that he will make
                  visible to us this propitious star which I announce to you, and which will not
                  fail to appear to us."
               With an indescribable smile Amelia withdrew her hand from that of the gypsy, and
                  laying it caressingly on her dark locks, she said:—
               "Good child, I thank you. To-night we will seek for my good star, and you will aid
                  us, will you not, in discovering in what part of the heavens it may be found? And,
                  then, will you be able to convince me that I shall recover my strength, and be
                  well again?"
               "Yes, my lady."
               
               "And that I shall be able to travel, and return to Landais, and see Italy
                  again?"
               "Without doubt."
               "I thank you, Pepita. If I shall realize all that you predict; if my weakness
                  leaves me, we will set out. We will go to Marseilles, Julienne, with Pedro and
                  Joachimo; we will revisit Naples and Calabria, and there drink and bathe in the
                  cool waters which before gave strength to your sight and vigor to my frame. And if
                  it pleases God, also, to give me strength and courage, we will visit the fatal
                  valley of San Lorenzo, and there erect a cross in memory of the cherished beings
                  whom I seek daily, but in vain in this desolate mansion."
               "It is a pious purpose, and worthy of your affectionate heart. Would God that you
                  may be able to accomplish it," said Julienne, as she turned away to wipe the tears
                  which were flowing from her eyes.
               At the same time the uncle of Amelia entered the room, and extending her hand to
                  him, she said:—"I shall be cured, dear uncle. Pepita has predicted it. She reads,
                  by her mystic wisdom, the signs of my recovery in this hand which presses
                  yours."
               "My child, it gives me joy to see you once more cheerful and hopeful, and I beg of
                  you always to consult your beautiful Bohemian. She is the most skilful leech whom
                  you have yet tried."
               "Yes," replied the invalid, "and now that she has predicted my future, I wish,
                  also, that Julienne would allow her to foretell her fortunes."
               "My dear Amelia, I am sorry to refuse anything you desire, and which may serve to
                  interest or amuse you; but the future of a poor girl like me is scarcely worth
                  inquiring into."
               "You are right, Julienne," said Sir Thomas. "My niece has Scotch blood in her
                  veins, and she, I suspect, more than half believes in second sight. But you,
                  reared in France, do not credit our superstitions. And it is well that you do not
                  trouble your thoughts with them. There are instances, doubtless, which look
                  marvellously like prophecy, and there may be, for aught I know, certain states of mind or conditions of the nervous
                  system in which we become more sensitive to spiritual influences, and when the
                  mind seems to go out, so to say, from its sensuous environment, and to take hold
                  of things beyond the present. But it is wisely ordered that we cannot know the
                  future. A merciful Father will provide for all that is to come, and will give us
                  grace and strength sufficient for the day. Our duty is with the present, and here
                  are our reponsibilities."
               The conversation then fell, as it had often done of late, into a discussion of the
                  differences between the faith of the English Church and that in which Julienne had
                  been nurtured. Sincere and simple in her piety, trained in the household of the
                  good priest, Hardouin, the village pastor, whose benevolence and devotion she had
                  witnessed daily for years, and instructed by the living example of his pious
                  sister, she had never thought at all that there could be corruptions in the faith
                  they professed, or that this faith could lead to inconsistent practices. There
                  were many things which she did not understand, and with which she did not trouble
                  her thoughts. She had been taught to pray before images and pictures of the
                  saints, and she had learned, as an indelible thing, to reverence holy places and
                  sacred appointments, but she was not conscious that there was any feeling of
                  idolatry in these practices. She invoked the protection of the Virgin and of the
                  saints, and there was, doubtless, in her mind, as there must be in all of the same
                  faith, notions more or less distinct and clearly defined, of the efficacy of their
                  mediation. But it was not until her attention was called to the subject in her
                  intercourse with her English friends, and by her more extended observation of the
                  working of the system of the Romish Church, which she witnessed in Italy, that she
                  began to suspect that under this system the Saviour himself was dishonored by a
                  depreciation of His atonement and His mediatorial power. She had observed
                  carefully, but silently; and on her arrival in London, she had quietly set herself
                  to work to examine. She had read such books as fell in her way, and had attended, altogether, the
                  services of the Protestant Church.
               It was with great joy that her friend Amelia witnessed the silent progress of this
                  change. Julienne had confided to her her difficulties, and she had given her such
                  guidance and counsel as she was able, and had put into her hands such books as she
                  judged would be useful in removing her doubts and settling her faith. Sir Thomas
                  Sydenham had also taken much interest in her case, and had been of much assistance
                  in directing her inquiries. She had also derived much instruction from Mr. Grant,
                  the friend of the family, and the clergyman whose ministrations they attended.
                  With a gentleness and tolerance which were admirably calculated to win the
                  confidence of such a mind as hers, he had explained to her the doctrines of the
                  Church catholic, as distinguished from the corruptions of the Roman communion, and
                  had happily succeeded in clearing up her difficulties, and she was now settling
                  down in the assured certainty of the truth.
               One thing only gave her uneasiness, and that was, that among Protestants there was
                  no provision made—corresponding with the conventual system of Rome, but without
                  its abuses—for that large class of persons, like herself, who had no comfortable
                  homes of their own, and who would willingly devote themselves to a religious life
                  in which they might be usefully employed in the instruction of the young, and the
                  care and nursing of the sick, instead of eating the bread of dependence, or being
                  exposed to the encounter with the rough elements of life. This seemed to her a
                  defect in the system of the English Church, and she had often talked with Amelia
                  on this subject, and they together had endeavored to devise some plan by which the
                  good could be secured, without the evil. It was to this topic that they again
                  recurred this evening.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE DAY CLOSES—LAST WISHES.
               WHEN the winds are steady and gentle, they only ruffle the broad plain of the sea;
                  they uplift no mountain waves, they plough no deep furrows. So in some stages of
                  consumption, hope and fear seem nearly evenly balanced.
               During the two days succeeding the evening when Pepita had predicted the recovery
                  of her beloved mistress, she seemed really to be gaining strength, as if she were
                  rallying with sufficient energy to overcome the disease. The physicians even were
                  struck with the evident improvement, and without giving encouragement in words,
                  their looks were less foreboding and more cheerful, seeming to promise hope. The
                  good and affectionate ate heart of her uncle, like that of a tender father, opened
                  itself to this feeling, of which all men have need, but above all those whom
                  friendship and family ties keep near the bed of suffering.
               During these tranquil days, Mr. Grant was often with her. He was a man of piety
                  and intelligence, of gentle manners and of simple faith, and of experience in the
                  practical duties of his profession. The good loved him, and the evil respected him
                  for his sincerity and consistency. When he entered a house where there was
                  suffering or grief, he seemed to bring with him a blessing. In the practice of the
                  pious duties of his ministry, and in his near relations with sacred things, there
                  seemed to have descended upon him a calm serenity and composure, whose influence
                  was felt by all with whom he came in contact, and especially by the sick, and by
                  those whom friendship and love had collected around the couch of the suffering.
                  His presence always brought relief and hope into the chamber of the sick.
               Loving solitude, which refreshes and strengthens the soul, he was yet by no means a stranger to the
                  habits and manners of society. He had mingled in the world in his early life, and
                  had known, appreciated and despised the pleasures in which he had taken part.
                  Having tasted of them, he had a right to proclaim their vanity and worthlessness.
                  And yet he was always moderate, treating with true Christian tenderness and
                  tolerance those who were not yet disabused of the enchantments of the world.
               A firm friendship had grown up and cemented between this man and the uncle of
                  Amelia. Sir Thomas had eagerly desired to bring him into association with these
                  two young girls since the day of their arrival. Clergymen, by their profession,
                  are often brought in contact with the sorrows and sufferings of humanity, and they
                  know, more than others, by their personal observation, of the evils and trials of
                  life. In the sad school of experience, too, they acquire, like the physician, some
                  knowledge of disease, and the symptoms of its virulence.
               From the moment that Mr. Grant first saw the Lady Amelia, he doubted not that the
                  disease was firmly seated, and that it was impossible, as far as human means were
                  concerned, to restore her. He was convinced that the poor child could not remain
                  long in the home in which she had been born, and that in the midst of all the
                  comforts of friends, and all the appliances of wealth, she must continue to
                  suffer,—even these could not shield her; and that in this respect, the home of
                  opulence was little better than the cavern of the robbers, or the gypsy queen's
                  hut. And in this he was not deceived, for, all at once, the disease which seemed
                  to have been arrested, reasserted its power, and as if to make up for what had
                  been lost, its progress was more fearful and rapid than ever before.
               But notwithstanding this increase of suffering and debility, the sweet girl
                  enjoyed, in the intervals of pain, a deep serenity and thankfulness of soul. In
                  one of these respites from suffering, while breathing more freely, she said to the
                  clergyman, who was seated near her, with her uncle and Julienne:—
               
               "Perhaps, sir, I ought to accuse myself for having had my fortune told by my gypsy
                  girl a few days since. Having lived for several months, as you know, among the
                  Bohemians, I fancied that it would dissipate the tedium and dispel the sad
                  thoughts which fill the sick chamber to listen to the prophecies of Pepita, my
                  companion in captivity. It was wrong, I am sure. I should have relied upon other
                  and holier consolations, but it was a childish impulse which controlled me for the
                  time. I regret it now."
               "This was wrong, undoubtedly," replied Mr. Grant, with a smile, "for you know, my
                  child, that it is tempting God to wish to know the future. It is not to man that
                  we must address ourselves to know what is reserved for us; it is not for the blind
                  to lead the blind. How can he who may not live till to-morrow, foretell long days
                  to come? The Lord alone holds in His hands the hours, days, and years, and He
                  alone knows the part given each one of us to perform. It is wrong, therefore, to
                  pretend to believe in the prescience of the gypsies."
               "But those who are gifted with second sight," asked Sir Thomas, "can they not
                  reveal future events?"
               "I have in my veins," replied the clergyman, "Scottish blood, but I have little
                  belief in what they call second sight. To each one, I leave what belongs to him;
                  to the creature a limited knowledge, to the Creator a knowledge without bounds.
                  The bird which builds its nest in the depth of the valley, cannot take in the wide
                  prospect that the eagle embraces with a glance of his eye as he hovers over the
                  mountain top. And, besides, if there are persons gifted with a knowledge of the
                  future, would it be wise to consult them? No; for neither our minds nor our hearts
                  have been formed to appreciate and use such knowledge."
               "It was this sentiment, doubtless," said Sir Thomas, "which suggested the saying
                  of Madame de Stael, 'we live only because we forget death!'"
               "As a Christian and a clergyman I neither would wish, nor recommend a
                  forgetfulness of death. To youth, suffering before its time; to age, bending under the infirmities which years
                  bring with them, I would say—'live to-day as if you were to die to-morrow;'—indeed
                  to all, to the happy children of fortune, as well as to those who eat their bread
                  steeped in tears, I would show that death comes as God's messenger, knocking at
                  our door when least we expect it."
               Then seeing the large, clear eyes of Amelia fixed upon him with so much sweet
                  resignation and patient hope, he added:—
               "Health and life are like this mysterious messenger of whom I have just spoken.
                  They also come to us when we least expect them. They take by the hand the feeble
                  sufferer; and he is restored by degrees to health again. But in any event, either
                  in health or sickness; either in suffering or in freedom from pain; either in life
                  or death, there is a sustaining hand that can soothe the throbbings of the aching
                  head, and cheer the desolate heart, or temper with suitable moderation the
                  enjoyments which are given. And even though we walk through the valley of the
                  shadow of death, we need fear no evil, for He is with us; His rod and His staff
                  shall comfort us."
               It was in such conversations as these that the good clergyman, with a peculiar
                  gentleness and tenderness, mingled words of hope and resignation. But for himself,
                  he felt that there could be no earthly hope of her recovery. Her days were
                  numbered, and the messenger of death was already at the door.
               Amelia had desired to receive the communion before her strength should be so much
                  exhausted that it would be difficult and painful for her to follow the services,
                  and join in the commemoration and oblation of the sacrament. It was, therefore,
                  arranged that it should be administered on the following day. Poor Julienne
                  desired to receive it with her; to make, in the sick room of her dear sister and
                  friend, a renunciation of the errors of her former faith, and to give in her
                  solemn adhesion to the pure catholic system.
               For a long time the daughter of the hamlet had watched her sweet companion, and
                  seen her gently but daily declining
                  towards the grave. But yet when the clergyman recommended her to prepare herself
                  for receiving the sacrament, it seemed that now, for the first time, she had
                  become conscious of the truth that she was really in danger. She wept with an
                  almost inconsolable grief. The world seemed darker and gloomier than it had ever
                  appeared before in all her sorrows. How could she give her up and see her no
                  more!
               "To-morrow," said Amelia to Julienne, "is the great day when I must, by a formal
                  act of submission, lay aside this world forever, and give myself up, henceforth,
                  to my Lord alone. That I may prepare myself for this act of faith, and love, and
                  resignation, when the sun returns again to enlighten this beautiful earth, I would
                  wish to fill my soul to-night with holy thoughts, and you shall assist me in doing
                  so with your music. Under your fingers, dear Julienne, the organ has ever been to
                  me like the voices of angels. That was my first thought when I heard you play in
                  the church of the hamlet. Let me hear its harmonies this evening. And in the
                  morning do you and Pepita select from the green-house the freshest and most
                  fragrant flowers, and adorn my room as if it were the day of my marriage. Let my
                  servants arrange bouquets and wreaths of flowers on the staircaise and in the
                  antichamber. Oh, how have I loved the sunshine, and music, and flowers, of the
                  earth; surely, dear Julienne, I shall not miss them in heaven!"
               With that self-command and strength of character which belonged to Julienne, she
                  presided over all these arrangements as her friend desired. A large part of the
                  evening she spent at the organ, pouring out her whole soul, with all its passions,
                  and griefs, and tears, in strains of harmony which seemed as if inspired. She
                  recounted all her past history, and told out all incidents of joy and hope, of
                  sorrow and disappointment, and every touch of her hands upon the keys seemed to
                  answer back to the deep feelings of her soul. At last she reached the great
                  catastrophe of her life,—the great sorrow whose shadow was, even now, brooding
                     darkly over her spirit. Ah, how
                  mournful, how touching, how deeply sad, was that requiem for "the loved and lost."
                  No more for her, the living, was there remaining the sweet counsel and the glowing
                  love of the friend, and more than sister, now passing away. The cold grave opens
                  for the colder bosom. The kind heart beats no more against her loving heart. The
                  bright world fades as the stars go out in the heavens, and the poor crushed heart
                  of the weeping Julienne is desolate and alone. But again—that strain is scarcely
                  of sorrow; it has an undertone almost of joy. The grave is there; the grass above
                  it is withered and dead;—the frosts of winter have seared it as if with fire. But
                  on that grave there are springing flowers; the sweet violet is growing there. All
                  is not dead. There are tokens of revival; images of the resurrection. The strain
                  becomes more jubilant; the funeral wail dies out into soft and more joyous tones;
                  the harmony rises and expands, and becomes richer and deeper, and seems to utter
                  as with an audible voice, that glorious sentence of hope and triumph—I AM THE
                  RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE!
               This night was one of wakefulness and prayer. Amelia had fully comprehended and
                  followed the music of the organ, and when Julienne returned to her bedside, and
                  saw the calm and holy expression which had settled upon her face, she was
                  satisfied. Taking her hand, and drawing her to her, and kissing her, Amelia
                  said,—
               "My dear, kind sister, I thank you with my heart. I thank you that, before I go to
                  join, I trust, the concert of angels, I have been made happy once more, in
                  listening to those sweet sounds on earth."
               At last the morning came,—the morning of the day of which the Lady Amelia
                  Mountclare was not to witness the close. A table was prepared in her
                  chamber,—beneath a beautiful picture by Guido, representing the morning of the
                  resurrection, with the women at the vacant sepulchre,—for the celebration of the
                  sacrament of the last supper. Sir Thomas Sydenham, Julienne, and one or two other friends of the family, knelt
                  around the couch of the dying girl, and the clergyman then proceeded to minister
                  in these sacred rites of the Church. A solemn awe pervaded their minds, and a
                  sacred sorrow oppressed their hearts. When they came to the Trisagion, Amelia made a sign to Julienne to go to the organ, and as they lifted
                  up their voices—"Therefore with angels, and arch-angels, and all the company of
                  heaven"—a smile of deep serenity rested upon the pale lips of the dying, as if she
                  had already caught the echo of that song in heaven.
               What I am now writing may, doubtless, meet the eye of the young reader, who may
                  have already learned that it is not necessary to have become old in order to have
                  seen death. The apprenticeship of grief waits not mature age, and eyes which flash
                  with all the fire and brilliancy of youth have already often overflowed with
                  tears.
               I will not attempt to describe all the events of that day in the chamber of the
                  dying girl. Over her last moments were reflected the influences of that solemn act
                  which she did in grateful remembrance of her Lord, and she calmly awaited His
                  coming. Towards five o'clock in the evening she spoke some incoherent words, but
                  it was impossible to understand what she said. Soon afterwards she made signs for
                  some music. Julienne seated herself at the organ, and played what they had been
                  accustomed to call the evening prayer,—a chant full of touching melancholy. All at
                  once, while those she loved were standing around her,—her uncle, the clergyman,
                  Joachimo, Pepita, and Pedro, while several of the domestics were in the
                  ante-chamber, she raised herself on her pillow and called to Julienne,—
               "Come, Julienne, come; give me your hand."
               Julienne arose, hastened to her side, and took her hand. It was no longer warm and
                  moist, but icy cold. Amelia said,—
               "Do not leave me. We will go together. I see them up there—they call us both. Ah,
                  how pale the sun is here below, and how poor and miserable is man's dwelling
                  place. But the regions now opened are
                  beautiful and bright. Oh my Lord, give me wings that I may fly to you."
               The clergyman then knelt down by her bed, and commended the departing soul to God,
                  "as into the hands of a faithful Creator and most merciful Saviour." Her voice,
                  clear, sweet, and low, repeated the amen at the close. Poor child! during the few
                  years of her life, this voice, which was now heard in its last utterances, she had
                  employed only to say caressing words to her father, and mother, and friends, and
                  consoling words to the suffering and poor. Now this voice was soon to be silent in
                  death.
               And now the last prayers were said. The beautiful and graceful head of the young
                  girl recalled that which a great sculptor had given to Sleeping Innocence. More
                  than once Julienne placed her cheek to the open mouth of her friend, to assure
                  herself that she still breathed, and from time to time her uncle pressed his
                  fingers upon her pulse, to ascertain if her heart yet beat. All the servants and
                  nurses stood at a distance, watching eagerly, and with suspended breath, to see if
                  the eyes of their young mistress would ever be opened again upon them. Julienne
                  held her hand in her own, standing calm and pale by her side. No movement or noise
                  was heard in that chamber; all was silence, as if death had already descended
                  there.
               "Let us go; let us go;" she said all at once, and raising her hands, she turned
                  her face towards Julienne, and added,—
               "Dear Julienne, leave me not; dost thou not see them? they hear us; they call us;"
                  and then in a more feeble voice,—"God of my youth, of my father and mother, have
                  pity on me. Watch over Julienne, and keep her in Thy care."
               After these words, exhausted by the effort, she ceased to breathe. Death sealed
                  forever her lips, and the soul of the young Christian girl went to its rest in
                  paradise. That spirit which, for eighteen years, had animated her fair and
                  delicate frame,—who shall tell what sights and sounds were presented as it emerged
                  from its earthly prison-house? It may
                  be that this sweet and timid spirit remained yet some moments, hovering over that
                  still chamber, around those who knelt, and wept, and prayed! Ah, if it was so, if
                  it could look into the heart of Julienne, it would have been contented with her
                  grief; never did friendship or love shed more sincere or bitter tears.
               Amelia lay in her chamber, which was hung with white drapery, with a crown of
                  white roses around her beautiful hair, and with her ivory hands crossed upon her
                  breast. After several days had passed, Sir Thomas Sydenham, who mourned for her
                  loss with all the affection of a father, had her remains removed to Walbury
                  Castle, the family seat of the Mountclares. When the coffin left the house, it was
                  like a second death, and tears and groans broke forth again. Julienne accompanied
                  the funeral train, and it journeyed onwards towards the place where the dead was
                  to be laid in her rest. On the day after their arrival at Walbury Castle, the body
                  was taken to the church, and there committed to the earth.
               For several weeks after the funeral, Julienne remained in the country, unwilling
                  to leave the place where her friend was reposing. But Sir Thomas Sydenham
                  persuaded her that it would be better for her to return to town, for a time at
                  least, where there were more objects and interests to draw her away from her sad
                  thoughts, and to restore the tone of her mind. After she arrived in London, the
                  seals were duly removed from the room of Amelia, and in a cabinet which had been
                  her mother's, a will was found, and read. By this will, her whole estate was to be
                  divided into two equal parts, one of which was to go to her uncle, Sir Thomas, and
                  the other moiety to her friend Julienne Genevieve Garnier.
               I know not whether this will, made by a person yet under age, was legally binding;
                  but Sir Thomas, with a generosity becoming his noble nature, hastened to confirm
                  it by his own act, and thus to fulfil the last wishes of his niece. This property
                  amounted to five thousand pounds a year, and was duly transferred to the daughter of the hamlet. It remained for her now
                  to arrange her plans for the future. She felt that a stewardship of responsibility
                  had been entrusted to her, and providence, in giving her wealth, would also
                  require a prudent use of it, for the good of others, as well as for her own
                  comfort. Her religious principles had changed, or rather I should say, that her
                  faith had changed, by the adoption of a reformed and purer system of belief, for
                  her principles were never wrong. She could not now think of returning to the
                  hamlet to live. She had become a Protestant; all her convictions and habits of
                  thought and feeling were with them, and as she could not think of foregoing the
                  privileges of the church, she could not, therefore, determine to return to
                  France.
               About this time she received a letter from the pastor of the hamlet, the good old
                  priest, Hardouin, and she proposed, as soon as she could arrange her private
                  affairs, to visit her family, make suitable provision for her aged parents, either
                  in their own country or in England, if they were willing to emigrate, and
                  afterwards to settle down upon some systematic plan of life.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               THE DEPARTURE—NAYA AND JANIE.
               WHEN in our days of grief we receive letters of business, or of mere friendship,
                  they are unwelcome; they derange us, and disturb our sorrow. Far otherwise when a
                  friend, entering into our feelings, speaks to us of those whom we have lost, and
                  whom they have loved as we have, and whom they too regret. When, as with us, the
                  departed live in their memory, then the letters they write to us are as melancholy
                  harmonies in perfect accord with the sadness of our thoughts, and these letters we
                  read over and over again.
               The letter of the pastor of the hamlet had caused Julienne to reflect much, and as
                  she walked the shady alleys of the park at Walbury, or repaired to the tomb of her
                  friend, she would say to herself,—"Yes, my parents have become old and infirm, as
                  the good pastor says—they need my care. Amelia sleeps in the quiet churchyard, and
                  has no longer need of my support. The grave is a bed where we suffer no more. My
                  duty is to the living; to those whom I may yet benefit by my affectionate care,
                  and especially to my aged father and mother. Who shall care for them if I neglect
                  them?"
               This thought of duty to the living now dwelt continually in her mind, and served
                  to lighten the burden of her grief for the dead. She consulted with Sir Thomas
                  Sydenham, who approved of her resolution, but begged her to persuade her parents
                  to return with her to England, where he was sure she would be happier, and they
                  better contented in knowing that she was making no sacrifice in providing for
                  their comfort.
               "My child," said he, "with a heart like yours, one is never happy if he does not
                  do what seems his duty. It is right for you to go, and succor your parents, but you must promise me to return. I
                  exact it of you as a duty, also, to one who—now that the other is taken away from
                  me—is to me as a daughter."
               The next day it was known throughout the castle that Julienne was to return to
                  France, and there was much anxiety felt on the part of her gypsy friends to know
                  whether any of them would be permitted to accompany her. Pepita had become very
                  much attached to her, and she was specially desirous not to be separated from her.
                  It was, therefore, arranged that she and Joachimo, her husband, were to go with
                  her, while Pedro and the old widow, Cunning Mab, were to remain, the former in the
                  service of Sir Thomas, and the latter suitably provided for in one of the cottages
                  of the estate at Walbury Castle.
               Monday had been fixed upon as the day of their departure for London, where
                  arrangements for the voyage were to be completed. Sir Thomas had not left his
                  friends and neighbors ignorant of the fact, that the beautiful and accomplished
                  French lady—as she was known to them—was on the eve of returning to her own
                  country, and she received many parting visits. She had charmed and captivated all
                  hearts by her intelligence and accomplishments, and by the loveliness of her
                  character and the graces of her person. And it was not only the noble friends of
                  the baronet who loved Julienne, but the poor and aged, and her servants and
                  tenants. She had visited them in their houses, made herself familiar with their
                  condition, and with her own hands had ministered to their wants.
               The day preceding her departure was passed sadly enough. After the services at the
                  church, Julienne had passed the evening with Sir Thomas and a few friends, who had
                  come to say their last adieus. They had talked much, but with calmness of the
                  past, and revolved many plans for the future. It was Julienne's desire, and the
                  highest ambition of her heart, to establish somewhere in the neighborhood and
                  asylum for aged and destitute women, and a school for the education of the
                  children of the poor—a school where they would be trained in the principles of religion, and fitted for
                  usefulness in their own sphere of life. The subject was discussed in all its
                  bearings, and Julienne was happy to find in the rector of the parish, a person
                  whose wisdom and prudence promised to be of essential aid to her, in carrying out
                  such plans of benevolence as she might finally adopt.
               The next morning a travelling carriage was ready at the door, and Julienne, in her
                  mourning habit, and leaning on the arm of the baronet, descended the steps, said
                  adieu to her household that crowded around her, and taking her seat, with Pepita
                  beside her, set out on her journey. As she traversed the beautiful country, always
                  so attractive to the eye of the traveller, her thoughts were busy with memories of
                  the past and plans for the future, so that she had no eye for the rich and
                  luxuriant scenery along her route. For two years she had been absent from her
                  native hamlet. There awaited her at home her father and mother, and her venerable
                  friends, the pastor and his sister, in whose house her childhood had been
                  nourished, and to whom she had been so much indebted for care, protection, and
                  instruction. When she thought of all these, she became impatient of delay, and
                  urged the postilions to hasten their pace.
               As they proceeded on their journey, Julienne imparted to Pepita the plans which
                  she had formed for her future life, and for doing good with the abundant wealth
                  which it had pleased Providence to bestow upon her.
               "If I am anything," said she, "if I have been the means of good or blessing to any
                  one, if I have consoled any heart, or wiped away any tears, it is because I was
                  taught in my childhood to love God and my neighbor. This love I wish to teach
                  others. My first duty is to my parents. If I can prevail upon them to leave
                  France, I will bring them to this country, and we will settle down upon the estate
                  at Walbury Castle, and there we will build our school and our asylum, and employ
                  our time in doing good. I will surround myself with the children of the poor. I
                  will show them the earth, where they ought to be useful, and the heaven where the good Father of all will keep and
                  recompense them at last, when their work on earth is done. The more I reflect, the
                  more am I persuaded that knowledge, and influence, and wealth, are gifts from
                  heaven which we must not hoard up for ourselves, but make them blessings to others
                  also."
               "I am ignorant and unworthy," said Pepita, "but I have learned from you, and from
                  my dear mistress who is gone, that there is something for even me to do; and if I
                  am not sufficiently skilful to aid you in your school, and to instruct the little
                  children, I beg that you will employ me in the household duties of the
                  establishment, that I may repay with gratitude, the great debt I owe you for
                  having rescued me, and Joachimo, and my young brother, from a life of wandering
                  and crime."
               Talking thus, the time passed less tediously, and at the end of the second day,
                  they reached London, where they found everything prepared for their reception,
                  through the kindness of Sir Thomas, who had given orders for that purpose. It was
                  necessary that she should devote some days to affairs of business, and although
                  poetic as was the mind of Julienne, it was not light, and she could comprehend
                  clearly things less fugitive than dreams, and more fruitful in good results than
                  sentimental reveries. As business still detained her in London for several days,
                  she visited the monuments and curiosities which she had not been able to see
                  during her first stay there, on account of Amelia's sickness.
               One morning, as she was driving through Hyde Park, she saw a large crowd collected
                  around a young woman and some children, who were exhibiting feats of agility upon
                  a carpet spread upon the ground. The spectacle had no attraction for Julienne, but
                  Pepita, who was with her, told her that it was a company of gypsies. Thinking
                  there might be among them some whom they had formerly known, they left the
                  carriage and made their way through the crowd. Pepita immediately recognized the
                  girl as Naya, the sister of Adonai, and as soon as the exhibition was over, she
                     conducted ducted her to Julienne,
                  who had returned to the carriage to wait to learn some intelligence of poor Janie,
                  who was still remembered with interest, but of whom they had never heard since
                  they left the gypsy encampment in the forest of Glenmore.
               Naya told them that Janie was with her in London, sick and suffering in a
                  miserable lodging in one of the suburbs. Having learned where she could be found,
                  they promised to visit her the next morning.
               Early the next day they set out to fulfil their promise. They found the house with
                  some difficulty, a miserable dwelling in an obscure and filthy street. "Oh what a
                  palace," said Pepita, "for one who has been crowned as queen."
               "Let us ascend the stairs," said Julienne; "this is only poverty; higher up we
                  shall find suffering."
               A ragged and desolate looking child led the way to the chamber of the wife of
                  Adonai. When they had reached the head of the stairs, under the roof, the child
                  pointed to a door, saying, "Ladies, she is here." They opened the door, and a sad
                  sight presented itself. On a miserable mattress, under a blanket, torn and scanty,
                  on a pillow much the worse for wear, lay a woman, young and still beautiful,
                  notwithstanding the hardships and sufferings she had endured.
               "Ah," said Janie—for it was she—perceiving Julienne before her, so young, fresh,
                  and resplendent in beauty. "Ah, thou art the angel of comfort that Naya announced
                  to me last evening."
               "Janie, I am no angel, but a poor girl who has suffered almost as much as you, but
                  now, after many trials, it has pleased God to give me the means to help those who
                  are in need."
               Saying these words, Julienne seated herself on a low stool by the side of the bed,
                  and taking the hand of the gypsy, she added,—"Janie, you are suffering with a
                  burning fever."
               "Yes, my lady; for three days and nights it has never left me."
               "You must quit this chamber and come with me; you are too ill here."
               
               "Oh he is much worse off than I; much more to be pitied."
               "Where is he, then?" asked Julienne, for she comprehended that it was of Adonai
                  that the poor creature wished to speak.
               "He is in Newgate, confined in the prison, from which he goes put only to
                  death."
               "Is he already sentenced?" asked Julienne.
               "Yes, he is under sentence of death, and this very morning I must go and place
                  myself in the way of the king and queen, as they enter the Park. When they descend
                  from the carriage, I will throw myself at their feet, and will beg for mercy—beg
                  that they will grant him life, and send him into banishment."
               "But you are not in a condition to rise; you are sick and suffering."
               "But if I succeed, happiness will make me well. If they refuse, despair will kill
                  me, and I shall bless that which gives me death."
               "Janie, you comprehend your duty, and I will aid you to fulfil it. I will go to a
                  lady whom I have seen at the house of my friend, Sir Thomas Sydenham, and who is a
                  near relative of the attorney-general, and while I am gone to see what can be done
                  in this quarter, I will leave Pepita with you, who will assist you to rise and
                  dress, and then bring you to my house."
               "To dress, dear Madame!" said Janie. "I have only these tattered garments, and I
                  cannot go to your house,—I should be ashamed to show myself there."
               "In an hour my carriage will return for you. I will send you some clothes, and by
                  the time you arrive, I shall have ascertained what can be done for Adonai."
               "My dear Madame, in the forest of Glenmore, when I saw you for the first time, you
                  gave me consolation. To-day it is more than that which you give me; it is the hope
                  of saving the unhappy Adonai. Bless you, lady! God will bless you! He who has
                  promised to hear the unhappy, and to succor those who suffer and weep, has surely
                  heard my sighs and prayers. Since the day when the sweet and caressing voice of Adonai lured me from
                  the house of my father—"
               "Some other time," interrupted Julienne, "we will speak of your unhappiness, and
                  of what has been done for you; but now it is necessary to act; there is no time to
                  lose. I will go, as I have said; and you, Pepita, remain here with the poor
                  invalid, and when the carriage comes back, bring her to my house."
               When Janie was alone with her old forest companion, she said to her,—"What a good
                  angel you have met with in your friend and protector."
               "Oh yes," answered Pepita, "a true, helpful friend and protector. As you see her
                  now, such she is always. She lives, thinks, acts, only to do good. But you, poor
                  Janie, you have suffered much since we parted."
               "More than ever. The power which Adonai acquired when chosen chief of the band,
                  made him delirious. I was to him no more than the veriest slave. Before he reached
                  the station to which he had all his life aspired, he sometimes listened tened to
                  me when I spoke to him submissively of the promises he had made of returning to an
                  honest life. But since he became chief, I have not been able to approach him on
                  the subject with one word of prayer or entreaty. I never dared to utter
                  remonstrances. But now he gave me not only harsh words, but cruel treatment. I now
                  renounced all hope of softening him, and of ever seeing him abandon the disorderly
                  and criminal life he was leading. And while he was engaged in some bold and
                  dangerous enterprise at a distance, I said to myself one day, I will arise,
                     and go to my father.
               
               "Brave and firm, then; strengthened by an unknown power—perhaps by grace from on
                  high—I left the forest of Glenmore never to return, and took the road towards my
                  native village, where my parents still lived. I had with me some money, and I
                  purchased at a farm-house the dress of a peasant girl, with which I replaced my
                  gypsy costume. I seemed to breathe more freely when I had laid aside the Bohemian
                  dress and put on the other. As I travelled along, I trembled whenever I saw any persons upon the road,
                  fearing that they were sent to overtake me, and carry me back to my husband.
               "When Adonai enticed me away from home, my parents, as I afterwards learned, wept
                  for me, but did not curse me; they wept much, and my mother above all, who almost
                  broke her heart with grief. To sustain and encourage myself on my weary journey,
                  which lasted three days, I was continually repeating to myself, 'Since they did
                  not curse me, they will pardon me.'
               "Ah, Pepita, I was not deceived. When I presented myself on the threshold of the
                  old home of my innocent childhood, a great cry was heard,—a cry of joy and pardon.
                  I fell upon my knees, but they raised me from the floor—the father and mother whom
                  I had forsaken—they embraced me, and we mingled our tears—tears of repentance and
                  gratitude, of pardon and welcome, I cried, 'Forgive me, father, mother;' they
                  replied, 'Janie, my child now and always. We love you still.'
               "From that day not a harsh word, not a look or tone of reproach has escaped from
                  them. My mother, to whom I related all my sufferings, has endeavored in every way,
                  by all care and attentions, to make me happy, that I might suffer no longer. Ah,
                  it was like regaining paradise after wandering among the evil and the lost! Under
                  the roof where I was born, I recovered my self-esteem, and when I came to recall
                  my past life, I remembered it only as a bad dream.
               "This repose after fatigue, this sweet enjoyment of rest after so long wandering
                  and suffering, endured for many months. I recovered my strength, and having so
                  much for which to thank God, I went every morning to the parish church, where
                  there was the service at an early hour. One day, as I was returning from prayers,
                  I noticed a noise and commotion in the village; children, women, and men were
                  collected in the street, as if attracted by some unusual spectacle or event.
                  Beyond the crowd and over their heads, I perceived the bayonets of the soldiers
                  glittering in the sun. I hastened my steps, and as I approached the excited assemblage, I saw several carts filled
                  with men and women, badly dressed, and looking haggard and wretched. They were
                  gypsies and prisoners, and among them I recognized Adonai. At this sight my heart
                  was pierced with grief, and I felt as if I were going to die.
               "When the carts had passed through the little village, and the prisoners were
                  consigned to jail, I hastened home and begged my father to send quickly for the
                  clergyman, whom I must see at once. My parents were greatly alarmed at seeing me
                  so much excited, and the clergyman was immediately summoned. When he came, I told
                  them what I had just seen, and that among the prisoners was the man who had taken
                  me from my home, and torn me from their love. I hastened to assure them that
                  Adonai, yielding to my tears and prayers, had gone with me, on the day of my
                  flight from home, to a neighboring town, where we were married in the presence of
                  witnesses.
               "'And so, unhappy child,' said my father, 'you are the wife of that man.'
               "'Yes,' I said, 'before heaven, and before men.'
               "'Oh, heaven!' cried my mother, 'what misery is this!'
               "'God has not sent this woe for naught. Janie, what will you do now?' asked the
                  clergyman.
               "'I must do my duty,' I replied; 'pray Heaven to give me strength for this great
                  trial.' Then addressing my parents, I said,—
               "'That I may be more worthy of you, and of the pardon that you have granted me,
                  let me go with your friend and pastor, and visit my husband in prison.'
               "'And what do you wish to say to this man who has betrayed you, and embittered all
                  your life, and is now about to be arraigned as a felon?' cried my father,—and
                  anger, and anguish, and pity, I could see, were struggling in his heart as he
                  turned to me with the question.
               "'I would say to him that repentance is the second innocence of man,' I replied;
                  'and I would urge him to repent.'
               
               "'Ah, my child, your words would have no power over a conscience like his.'
               "'It may be so,' said the clergyman, 'but it is not for us to refuse to make the
                  attempt to save him. Let her go; I will accompany her.'
               "Under the protection of this good man, I obtained access to the prison, and when
                  after some formalities I was admitted to the cell of Adonai, I found him lying
                  upon the straw, heavily ironed. Seeing me he half raised himself, and cried,
               "'Janie, you are come to save me!'
               "'I come to do all that I can to restore you to liberty.
               "'Say, then, to restore me to life, for the hand of the executioner is already
                  extended over me.'
               "'O Adonai! Adonai!' I cried, in the bitterness of grief.
               "'Yes, you may weep. Adonai, the chief, the king of the Bohemians, his reign has
                  not lasted long. When you left me, I rushed on in my career without restraint.
                  These hands which you see loaded with these heavy fetters, Janie, these hands are
                  not free from blood.'
               "Saying these words he raised his hands, and shook the heavy chains with which
                  they were bound.
               "'Repent,' said the clergyman, 'of the crimes which you have committed, and boast
                  no more of the blood you have spilled, and I promise you that I will assist your
                  wife in every effort to obtain your pardon.'
               "'Pardon, do you say? yes, that is the word. Well, it will be necessary, then, for
                  you to set out for London, for I and my companions are destined to make our
                  appearance in the balcony of Newgate, and to give to the inhabitants of that
                  humane and refined city, the spectacle which they prefer to all others.'
               "Scarcely had he said these words, when the keepers came to conduct him before the
                  magistrate.
               "'To London, then. There it is, Janie, that we make our last rendezvous.'
               
               "He then extended his hand. I took it in mine, saying, 'Adonai, I shall be
                  true.'
               "Since that moment I have not seen him, but I believe what Naya tells me, that the
                  government has resolved to make an end of the gypsy troops which are spread over
                  the kingdom. Let us not lose time, Pepita; let us go to your mistress, whom
                  Providence has sent to my aid."
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               COMMUTATION OF THE SENTENCE—JULIENNE RETURNS TO FRANCE—THE JOY OF
                  THE HAMLET.
               THROUGH the exertions of Julienne, aided by some influential persons,—friends of
                  Sir Thomas Sydenham, with whom she had become acquainted at the house of the
                  baronet, such representations were made to the government as induced them to
                  change the sentence of death into that of transportation. Janie had now recovered
                  her health, and seemed comparatively at ease and happy. She had resolved to
                  accompany her husband, and was not without hope that his reformation would be
                  accomplished. He seemed softened and subdued by the dangers he had just escaped,
                  and he leaned towards his poor wife with more tenderness and affection than he had exhibited for
                  a long time past.
               Before quitting London, Julienne sent for Janie to advise and encourage her, and
                  to provide her with money to purchase such supplies as would make them comfortable
                  on the voyage. Janie was profoundly grateful for the kindness she had received,
                  and in her simple but earnest way, she expressed her thanks and invoked blessings
                  on the head of her benefactress.
               "I go, Madame," she said, "with the man whose life you have saved. I cannot
                  abandon him in his evil days, for I am convinced that the ties which bind my fate
                  to his are such that even crime cannot break them. I have heard you speak, dear
                  lady, of that divine goodness which has spread light over the darkness of this
                  world, and opened an avenue to a better beyond the grave. My heart has been
                  touched with these truths as it was never touched before. They will be my solace
                  and support on the distant shore to which we are bound, and never can I cease to
                  remember, with lively gratitude, the good you have done for me, and the great
                  kindness you have shown to the desolate and miserable woman who blesses you and
                  thanks you with all her heart."
               Of the journey from London, by way of Paris, to the hamlet of Saules, it is not
                  necessary for me to speak. Before setting out for Italy, Julienne, with the family
                  of the Mountclares, had visited Paris, but there the blindness of the poor child
                  had prevented her enjoying the sights which are furnished in this great capital.
                  Now it was her purpose to remain here several days, and to visit and examine such
                  works of art especially as were most worthy of attention. For a few days she
                  enjoyed this sight-seeing exceedingly. She was capable of appreciating the
                  beautiful in art, because she had, all her life, admired the beautiful in nature,
                  and her wandering life, since she first left the hamlet, had afforded her many
                  opportunities of observation and study. But even this enjoyment was not without
                  what might be called a species of remorse. The old cathedral of Nôtre Dame,
                     while it delayed her under its
                  venerable and magnificent dome, prevented her arriving, as soon as she otherwise
                  might, at the little church of the hamlet, which she loved so dearly. The palaces
                  of the Louvre and the Tuileries were beautiful without doubt, and surrounded with
                  a very halo of historic and poetic interest, but, she thought to herself, "there
                  is the farm and cottage of my father, and there he and my mother are waiting for
                  me."
               Thus anxious to reach her old home, she hastened her departure from Paris, much to
                  the regret of Joachimo and Pepita, who thought the capital the city of wonders and
                  enjoyment. I shall not attempt to describe the emotions that filled the soul of
                  Julienne as she approached her native hamlet, and saw once more, above the
                  tree-tops, the cross and the gilt weather-cock which surmounted the old tower of
                  the church. There was the brook whose murmuring voices again filled her ear, as
                  when in childhood she sat upon its banks, and listened and dreamed, as its waters
                  went gently past. There was the meadow where, many a time, she had gathered the
                  wild flowers, and beyond, the hills where she had tended her flocks through many a
                  live-long day. And then, further on, beyond the village, she distinguished, above
                  the lofty trees, the roof and turrets of Landais, where, with Amelia—Amelia, then
                  her childhood's friend, and afterwards her benefactress—she had, notwithstanding
                  her blindness, passed so many gay and happy hours.
               There are hours, truly,—rare hours, it must be said,—when we feel as if the heart
                  were too small to contain the happiness which fills and overflows it. As Julienne
                  saw these well-remembered objects once more, she felt all this excess of emotion
                  and joy, and she said to Pepita,—
               "I have been able to endure much suffering and hardship; I have witnessed the
                  death of my kind friends and benefactress, in the valley of the San Lorenzo; I
                  stood by the death-bed of Amelia, and my heart did not break; but now I feel as if
                  I should sink under the happiness of this hour."
               Before you reach the village of Saules, you pass through a low and monotonous country, with fertile
                  fields, rich lands, and gleaming harvests; but as the richest country is not
                  always the most beautiful, there is nothing here grand or picturesque to attract
                  the eye. But before reaching the valley in which the hamlet is planted, the
                  country suddenly changes. You climb to the top of a dividing ridge by a gentle and
                  easy ascent, and there opens before you a new view. It is no more the yellow
                  gleaming of the corn, but the verdure of meadows, bordered with the willow, with
                  its silver foliage, and the Italian poplar, which serves to mark the meandering
                  course of the stream which waters the plain and turns the mill. In the midst of
                  this valley lies the hamlet, with its cottages so simple and rustic, covered to
                  their roofs with climbing roses and fragrant jasmine, and these overtopped by the
                  old tower of the church, which had grown gray in the storms and sunshine of many
                  years. In all this picture there is nothing grand, but the effect is eminently
                  pleasing. There is an air of seclusion and comfort which suggests happy thoughts
                  of home, and love, and simple content. Often in Italy and England, when her
                  attention was directed to some grand or beautiful scene, or magnificent landscape,
                  which she admired, as all the world does, Julienne had said to herself,—"I love
                  still better the view of my dear little hamlet of Saules."
               When Julienne reached the hamlet, it was not long before she was surrounded by the
                  whole population—old and young, men and women. She was greeted with joyous welcome
                  by her parents, and by the pastor and his sister, indeed the whole population was
                  thrown into a state of great excitement. She had been absent for a long time; she
                  went away a poor, blind child, but now she returned a rich, beautiful woman, whose
                  grace, loveliness and intelligence made her a suitable and welcome companion of
                  even the high-born and aristocratic families of England.
               It were easier to conceive than to describe the joy which filled the hearts of her
                  parents, and their pride in their daughter now returned so lovely and so accomplished. Their first thought
                  was that she would purchase the estate at Landais, which had been offered for
                  sale, and that she would settle down among them as the mistress of the château,
                  and the patroness of the hamlet. As they left her that night at a late hour at the
                  parsonage—where the sister of the priest insisted she should occupy her old
                  room—and while they were retiring to their own cottage, they talked over the plans
                  which they hoped Julienne would adopt, and made themselves happy—in their simple
                  hearts—in anticipation of the consideration and importance they would acquire in
                  their new relations with the world, and their more elevated position in the social
                  scale. They could scarcely be said to be ambitious in their aspirations, but
                  rather childish. They had seen the world at a distance, heretofore. Its pinnacles
                  and towers glistened in the sun, and they imagined—weak and blind mortals—that
                  wealth was happiness, and that beneath the gilded roof the aching head could find
                  repose, and the wounded heart a balm for all its sufferings.
               Serene and happy days followed Julienne's arrival at the hamlet. She found the
                  humble pastor busy and cheerful in his work; his heart overflowing with kindness,
                  and his hands ever ready for deeds of benevolence. He heard, not without regret,
                  but with evident disappointment and sorrow, that Julienne had abandoned the church
                  in which she had received her earliest Christian instruction, and joined the
                  Protestant communion. Father Hardouin was really more tolerant than most of his
                  brethren; but in this case he felt that he himself had failed—that it was through
                  his neglect that Julienne had imbibed what he considered heretical opinions, and
                  he endeavored to bring her back to the ancient faith. He supposed that it was
                  through the influence of associations that she had been led to make this change;
                  and not understanding well the differences which separate one communion from the
                  other, he thought it was possible for her to be a good Protestant among the
                  English, and a good "Catholic" at home. He said to her, therefore, one day, as
                  they were discoursing plans for the future:—
               
               "I propose, my dear child, that you purchase this estate which is now to be
                  disposed of, and settle down in the château. There are many ways in which you may
                  be useful in the employment of the wealth which it has pleased God to intrust to
                  you. We need schools for the young, and a retreat for the aged poor, where they
                  may enjoy refuge and comfort in their closing days, and I am sure you will find
                  happiness in such work, a far deeper content than you could look for in the midst
                  of society, and surrounded by the cares and absorbing occupations of the
                  world."
               "But you must remember, my excellent friend, that I have become a Protestant, and
                  that in such a scheme as you project, I must teach a different religion to these
                  children, or else do violence to my own conscience."
               "Nay, but you will return to the ancient, Catholic faith, Julienne, from which
                  your English friends have drawn you away."
               "I have come back," said Julienne, "to the ancient, Catholic faith. I
                  have learned to distinguish between the pure primitive faith and the corruptions
                  which have been introduced into the Roman branch of the church. I rest upon the
                  principles of the English reformation."
               "But that," said the priest, "was schismatical. The English church separated from
                  the Catholic church. They broke the unity of the faith, and they can no longer be
                  considered as parts, or members of the body of Christ." Julienne, in her humility,
                  was desirous of avoiding, as much as possible, all controversial discussion with
                  her venerable friend, but she felt that it was due to him who had shown her so
                  much kindness, as well as to herself, that she should declare distinctly and
                  unequivocally, the grounds of her faith, in order that he might understand, once
                  for all, that it was impossible for her—having once freed herself from the
                  shackles of superstition and error—ever to return again to their embrace.
                  Accordingly, she took this occasion to go over the ground which she had traversed
                  in her own investigations, when, for many months, her mind was in a state of
                     painful ful suspense; balancing
                  between the opinions and habits she had acquired in childhood, and the new and
                  deep convictions of reason and conscience which she now felt. It was easy for her
                  to answer the common and obvious objections which he made, and to show, to a mind
                  so pure and honest as his, the necessity there was for a reformation of the
                  discipline of the church. Julienne was familiar enough with the history of the
                  times under consideration, to be able to make clear to him the distinctions
                  between the reformation on the continent and in the English church, and the
                  difference of the principles on which they proceeded. He himself readily
                  recognized the distinction between matters of faith and matters of discipline. She
                  then traced out the history of the church in England, down to the present time.
                  She reminded him of its first planting in apostolic times, and possibly by
                  apostolic hands; of the mission of Augustine; of their unwillingness to admit the
                  interference and control of the Bishop of Rome; of the gradual encroachments of
                  the papal power, notwithstanding withstanding the continual protests of the
                  English Christians; of the final corruption of religion, and the successful
                  efforts which were at last made, by which the church was regenerated and the pure
                  faith once more acknowledged and maintained. She showed that in the progress of
                  this work, so necessary and so salutary, the faith of the church was
                  never impaired or violated; that it was preserved in its integrity; that there
                  were still, as there had always been, in England, the same faith, the same
                  ministry, the same sacraments, and, therefore, the same church which was planted
                  there in primitive times.
               "But," asked the priest, "why did the English church separate from what you call
                  the Roman church;—what was the necessity for the schism, and why could not the two
                  remain in communion, if, as you say, the faith was preserved in its
                  integrity?"
               "The reason why they could not remain in communion," replied Julienne, "is simply
                  that your church requires unscriptural and uncatholic terms of communion. You have overlaid the faith with
                  corruptions. You refuse to reform the faith, and, by your acts of discipline, you
                  require us to receive doctrines and practices which were unknown to the primitive
                  church. Yours is a new religion; ours is the old and catholic. We went back at the
                  reformation. We laid aside all that had grown and accumulated upon the system,
                  since the early and pure ages of Christianity, and the position the English church
                  now holds and maintains, is that of the pure, primitive, and reformed faith."
               As regards the charge of schism, Julienne showed by reference to history, that the
                  Roman church was guilty of that sin, and that it could not be charged upon the
                  English. She reminded Hardouin that the popes of Rome, Paul IV. and Pius IV.,
                  being desirous of regaining their supremacy in England, offered to confirm and
                  acknowledge the English prayer-book, which contains and teaches the system of the
                  reformed religion, provided they would recognize the papal authority and restore
                  the papal ascendency, and that it was not until the twelfth year of the reign of
                  Queen Elizabeth that a separation was effected between the two, and that this was
                  done by a bull of the pope, excommunicating the queen, and absolving her subjects
                  from their allegiance to her.
               But it is not necessary that we dwell upon this portion of our history. As was to
                  be expected, the reasons and arguments of Julienne, did not convince the priest,
                  though they satisfied him that she had followed her conscientious convictions, and
                  not been led by impulse, or the influences of mere association; and while he
                  thought that these convictions were wrong, yet he never doubted her devotion and
                  humility, and her earnest purpose.
               On the other hand, the firmness and constancy of Julienne were not at all shaken
                  by the reasoning of her good old pastor. She saw that he was not used to
                  controversy, and indeed that he was more ignorant than she could have supposed, of
                  the whole subject in debate. He had passed most of his life in this little and
                  obscure hamlet, in the humble and
                  faithful duties of his calling, and as he had never occasion to discuss such
                  questions, or to resolve the doubts of such minds as might be troubled in this
                  way, he was not prepared to defend his church against any intelligent objector. He
                  had learned from his authorized teachers, that such was the faith and practice to
                  which he must conform, and his simple duty was obediently to receive and
                  faithfully to teach what he had learned. And so tolerant was he, so little was his
                  meek and quiet spirit tinged with controversy and party zeal, that even Julienne's
                  abandonment of the ancient faith, as he called it, did not occasion him the sorrow
                  or disappointment which she feared, or weaken his interest in her or her future
                  plans and fortunes.
               The weeks that Julienne passed in the hamlet were weeks of delightful enjoyment.
                  She had recovered her tone of mind, which the death of her dear Amelia had
                  disturbed, and had become again cheerful and happy. She had easily gained the
                  consent of her parents to accompany her to England, and now began to look forward
                  with some anxiety to the time when she would be once more at home at Walbury. As
                  she thought of the past, how it had pleased Providence to conduct her, by such
                  steps, and through such a discipline, to a position where she could be useful, she
                  felt the more than ever deeply persuaded, that she had not been so favored and
                  blessed with prosperity merely that she might gratify her vanity and pride, and
                  pass her life at case and without care. Her mind was constantly occupied with
                  plans for usefulness. It had been the fixed desire of her heart to contribute, in
                  some way, to the comfort and improvement of her own sex, and she had projected a
                  scheme for founding a home for the aged and destitute, as well as a school for
                  young girls, where they could be taught useful knowledge, and be trained to
                  exercise such employments as would secure independence, and make them respectable
                  and useful. "It is my vocation," she thought, "to teach the young and the
                  ignorant, how much God is to be loved, and how light and easy is the yoke of his
                  service."
               There are some soils where the seed only germinates minates, but through lack of moisture, perishes
                  before it can ripen into fruit. There are others where the plant springs and grows
                  into perfection, under the hand of the anxious husbandman. The soul of Julienne
                  was like the fertile land; when once a thought of benevolence and kindness had
                  fallen there, it took root, and grew apace. There was beneath the quiet and calm
                  exterior you saw, an energy and fixedness of purpose, a deep persistency of
                  character, which saw no obstacle and was repelled by no difficulties. Having once
                  determined what was right and proper to be done, she set herself to the doing of
                  it, not with noise and confusion of preparation, but with calm constancy of
                  effort. She had been thrown so much upon her own resources, and especially during
                  her captivity among the brigands and gypsies, that she had become self-relying.
                  Not that she was obstinate or perverse, for she took counsel of her friends always
                  when friends were at hand, but having once come to see what was her duty, she
                  allowed no discouragements to turn her aside.
               Her arrangements being now completed, she turned her steps once more towards
                  England. Having made suitable provision for the pastor and his sister, and
                  deposited with him a considerable sum for the relief of the poor, and sick, and
                  the aged in her native hamlet, she bade them adieu and departed.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE COTTAGE ON THE COAST—THE SHIPWRECK—RESCUE FROM THE WAVES.
               ON the south-eastern coast of England, and near the hamlet of Rainsford, there
                  stands, or did stand a few years ago, a snug little cottage, over-shadowed by a
                  wide elm, which, by a certain air of serenity and comfort, attracted the attention
                  of the traveller, and suggested to his mind the association of like qualities in
                  its inmates. There was something about it, with its thatched roof, over-mantled
                  with the creeping vine, and its sweet shrubbery, that accorded with our ideas of
                  the comfortable English cottage. On the north it was sheltered by a precipice,
                  feathered with ivy and wild honey-suckle, from whose side a fountain of cool water
                  fell in a crystal shower into a natural basin formed from the solid rock, and
                  thence it ran with gentle murmurs through the garden. It was one of those sweet
                  spots lovers dream of, and whither we can repair in peace when wearied with the
                  cold and selfish world.
               In front of the cottage a green velvet lawn sloped down to the shore, where was
                  moored the boat of a fisherman, which indicated the avocation of the cottager. The
                  view from the cottage was charming. The bay, bounded on the south by an island
                  about a mile in length, and covered with a grove of trees, with here and there a
                  house smiling through them, formed a most beautiful little picture in the scene we
                  are sketching. Around the bay were scattered several rocky islands, which were
                  inhabited only by the sea-gulls, which screamed from the rocks, and the dry limbs
                  which overhung their nests.
               This was a spot well fitted for the home of an old sailor, after having been
                  tossed about for many a long year upon the billows of the ocean, the mere plaything of the storms and the
                  fickle waves. And such was the person who at this time made his home in this
                  place. William Stedman was a happy man, though an humble fisherman. His boat and
                  cottage, with its inmates, were his all, and when he lost his skiff in a storm, he
                  was indebted to the generosity of the gentlemen whose table he supplied with fish
                  for another. He had seen better days, as far as this world's goods are concerned;
                  yet in the enjoyments of his present life he was happy, for his home was the home
                  of content.
               Of his early history, nothing was known by those among whom he now dwelt; the log
                  of his life was a sealed book to all but himself and wife. Still, gossip had not
                  been idle, and there was a report that he and his wife and child had been landed
                  on the coast during the war, in a boat with muffled oars from a privateer. However
                  this may have been, he was a good and industrious man, and Mary Stedman, his wife,
                  was a woman of no ordinary qualities for one in her station. She associated but
                  little with the families of the neighboring fishermen. Her time and affections
                  were bestowed upon her little family, and a small collection of books, which were
                  carefully preserved in the cottage, occupied her leisure hours in the absence of
                  her husband.
               Willie Stedman had long been a sailor,—had cruised in all seas, been wrecked on
                  every coast, seized by pirates, and wounded in battle; his life for many years had
                  been checkered by scenes incident to the mariner. At the age of forty, having
                  ceased from his wanderings, and with little else than an honest heart and peaceful
                  conscience, he had at last cast anchor in this place, where he might weather the
                  rest of his life in safety. He possessed all the characteristics which are
                  peculiar to the sailor,—a heart frank and free, that would yield its last drop to
                  serve a friend or his country, while he carried many a scar that gave evidence of
                  his bravery. His mind and temper bore a strong affinity to his favorite element.
                  When insulted, his anger was as rough and resistless as the ocean in a storm; but
                  when in his own peaceful home, beneath
                  neath the smile of his wife, he was as calm as the sea when the moon sheds her
                  mellow radiance over the slumbering waters. He was still attached to the deep, and
                  loved to drift about in his boat, sometimes with his boy Edward for a companion,
                  and always with his dog Neptune, who enjoyed this idle life upon the wave as
                  keenly as his master. Long ere the sea-gull had left her nest, he was seen in his
                  boat, bound on his daily voyage along the coast. He was a successful fisherman;
                  and when others caught nothing, his cars were always well stored. He frequently
                  spent the whole day in his favorite employment, seldom returning, except in bad
                  weather, until the lamps of the light-house on the neighboring headland could be
                  seen shining like the stars, brighter as the waters grew darker in the shades of
                  the evening; and then he was happy when he met his family, and gathered with them
                  around the evening board and the cheerful fireside. Thus his daily routine was the
                  miniature of his past life,—the parting, the voyage, and the return. When he was
                  compelled to lie by for a day or two, he spent his time repairing his nets and
                  fishing-tackle. Nor was he without his amusements, when the cold and stormy season
                  set in. Often he could be seen with his books and his boy Edward engaged in the
                  study of navigation, or of some of the higher branches of mathematics with which
                  he had made himself familiar. And there were the pleasures of his own cheerful
                  fireside, and the thick curling wreaths of smoke which rose from the chimney, gave
                  evidence to the passer-by of the comfort within. Thus lived the Stedman family,
                  with sufficient variety in their life to render it pleasant, and with nothing
                  apparently to cause a single care or overshadow their content. It almost makes one
                  covet the lot of the poor when we see associated with it so much happiness. Then
                  we feel that peace of mind makes not her home in the halls of magnificence, but,
                  like the dove, seeks out some secluded retreat, far from the mart of gilded
                  misery, to build her downy nest. The proud lord beneath his sculptured dome sleeps
                  not so sweetly as the poor fisherman under the thatched roof of his hut, for the storms that beat
                  upon it wake him not to bitter thoughts and unattainable longings, but serve
                  rather to make his slumbers still more deep and sound.
               But was there no restlessness within that cottage; no waking in the night-watches,
                  and no visions of dreams with their golden wings unfolded under that thatched
                  roof? There was something about Edward Stedman which you would not look to find in
                  the son of a poor fisherman. His countenance was stamped with a lofty and noble
                  impress that arrested attention and awakened interest. His dark eye shone with a
                  sparkling and intelligent light,—it was the mirror of a mind that possessed
                  elements which would raise him to a position superior to that he occupied—a fire
                  that might be enkindled until it would charm men with its eloquence or awe them to
                  obedience. His face, shaded by his black soft hair, was slightly bronzed by
                  exposure, but beamed with intelligence, good-nature, and manly beauty.
               Willie Stedman was proud of his boy. Himself well educated and fond of books, he
                  had imparted to Edward what knowledge he could; instilled into his mind a love for
                  reading; imparted to him his own high principles of honor and honesty, and his
                  deep reverence for God, and all that is holy, and pure, and sacred. When he had
                  done what he could do, with the aid of his wife, for his education, he then placed
                  him a school in a neighboring town, where he had made rapid progress in learning,
                  and grew up to man's estate, himself a man in the best sense of the term; armed
                  with principles and preparations for the great battle of life, and eager to take
                  his part and "be a hero in the strife."
               At the age of nineteen, Edward Stedman had gone up to London, and taken his place
                  as a clerk in the office of an eminent barrister, who had a summer cottage near
                  Rainsford, on the coast, and who had long known and taken an interest in the young
                  man. He had been with him a few months, when he found it necessary to send out a
                  trusty agent to Jamaica to attend to some business connected with the settlement
                  of an estate, and he chose Edward to
                  execute this business. He had been absent from England six months; had
                  successfully accomplished his mission, and had now returned, and was on a visit at
                  the cottage of his father.
               It was a calm evening towards the end of summer, and, as Willie Stedman was
                  returning into the bay, he discovered a large ship in the offing, which, although
                  every sail was unfurled to woe the breeze, sat as silent and as motionless as if
                  chained by immovable moorings. The hollow voice of the deep was heard as its surf
                  broke on the strand, seeming to forbode, in portending accents, the storm which
                  was about to agitate its waters, although not a breath of air curled its surface,
                  and its waves were hushed into a calm as deep as if they had been congealed to the
                  bottom, save when a long line of foaming breakers marked the course of a reef
                  which, as they rushed forward towards the rocky battlements of the shore, seemed
                  like the white, flowing crests of war-horses, rushing onward to the charge.
               All day the islands in the distance had loomed up, till they seemed like dark
                  clouds suspended in the air, and the vessels with their snowy sails traversing the
                  sky. The sea-gulls careered and screamed in large flocks over the surf; the
                  curlews were flying landward, and the black ducks, in long, chain-like flocks,
                  were seeking shelter within the narrow bays, or up the streams. The experienced
                  eye of the fisherman also read on the clouds and sky, many a sure sign of the
                  approaching tempest. He moored his boat with more than ordinary care to its
                  security, and looking once more towards the ship, he said to Edward, who was
                  idling along the beach,—
               "Unless that ship keeps away, where she can get a wider berth, she will stand a
                  chance of being thrown upon the breakers, and then, God help her crew and
                  passengers."
               "Did you make out her name, father?" said Edward.
               "No; I have been but just outside the island, and not near enough to see who or
                  what she is."
               
               "But they know, father, the dangers of the coast, and that there is no shelter for
                  them along this whole line, and they will, of course, put out from the land as the
                  breeze freshens."
               The sun was sinking into the deep between two distant islands—a beautiful sight,
                  exhibiting all the splendors of a sunset at sea. Large clouds, in rich crimson
                  folds, curtained his sea-couch, and his parting rays tinged them with colors as
                  changeful and delicate as those of the dying dolphin. But there was treachery in
                  the smile of nature; although the scene was now brighter than the conceptions of
                  the poet's dream, it was soon to wear a darker and more threatening aspect. Just
                  as the sun rested upon the waters, a cloud passed before it, and hid it from the
                  sight; the gorgeous coloring faded away, and a sombre purple occupied its
                  place.
               The moon came forth, but it had a pale look. A large bank of clouds, which had
                  been seen in the south, now by degrees rolled up their murky masses, like smoke
                  from some submarine volcano, and were extending rapidly towards the opposite side
                  of the horizon. Those in the west, but a short time since so beautiful, now
                  extended to the north-west, where they were joined by another mass, and thence
                  they stole over the firmament, gradually quenching the light of the moon and the
                  stars, and casting a gloomy shadow over sea and land. All was silent as the
                  dreadful calm which precedes the earthquake. The sound of the streams on the hill
                  was distinct, but all was motionless, save those dark clouds fast converging
                  towards the zenith. At last they met—the darkness was complete—and it seemed that
                  light had been extinguished forever. Then was heard the mighty march of the
                  tempest, like the clamor of hosts hastening to battle. A few faint flashes of
                  lightning were seen, low mutterings of distant thunder heard, and then a rushing,
                  roaring sound like the fall of a cataract. Soon there followed a jarring crash, as
                  if unsphered planets had come in collision—the earth trembled, and it seemed that
                  the whole armament of heaven had been combined in one shock. The lightnings dashed, like writhing,
                  fiery serpents, with the speed of thought, across the heavens. The angry ocean was
                  roused from its slumber. The roaring waves leaped madly towards heaven, and rushed
                  in foam on the rocky shore, as if in their rebellious rage they were striving to
                  overleap the bounds by which they had been circumscribed.
               The deafening thunder peals now followed each other in awful succession, till it
                  seemed that the knell of the universe was tolling, and that the ocean was
                  answering back with its deep chant of the dirge of time. The rain now poured down
                  as if the earth were threatened with another deluge. The cottage rocked like a
                  cradle, but the fisherman and his family thought not of themselves,—their trust
                  was in Him who "stilleth the raging of the sea and the noise of his waves." Their
                  thoughts wandered to those who were upon the deep, who were now, perhaps,
                  perishing beyond the reach of aid.
               But what could they do in this terrible night? were the thoughts of Willie
                  Stedman. In his mind he saw the foundering hulk—the barkless mariner clinging to a
                  shattered spar—the hand of the drowning man raised in vain for aid;—he heard his
                  strangling gasp as he sank down and the waves covered him forever.
               The sympathies of his wife were also with those upon the deep. She knew well the
                  anxiety of the sailor's wife in such a night, and she dropped a tear when she
                  thought of those who, after this storm, would look in vain for the return of
                  husband or father.
               There are times when we are awed into silence by the rage of the elements, as if
                  in the tempest we heard voices from another sphere. And there was a stillness in
                  that little mansion; the shaded lamp threw a dim light around the room; and now
                  and then, during a pause in the storm, the ticking of the old chronometer that
                  hung over the mantle-piece could be distinctly heard, and it sounded like the
                  death-watch in the chamber of the dying. The dog lay crouched in the corner. Suddenly he pricked up his ears and
                  barked, as if he heard some strange noise, and when the blast ceased, a booming
                  sound was heard in the distance. The old sailor imagined it to be a gun of
                  distress from some bark in danger of being wrecked. Looking forth from his window
                  he saw the flash of guns a few miles out at sea, and heard the report of heavy
                  cannon. He well knew the fate of that ship. If she could hold on by her cables
                  until morning, she might ride out the storm in safety. But no chain and anchor
                  could hold her with that wind on a lee shore, and a heavy groundswell.
               Willie and Edward Stedman could endure their suspense no longer. Buttoning their
                  rough sea-jackets around them, they took each a lantern, and accompanied by
                  Neptune, their faithful and inseparable companion at such times, they sallied
                  forth into the darkness. They directed their steps towards a neighboring headland,
                  whence they could best calculate the situation of the ship, for they had no doubt
                  it was the same vessel they had seen in the evening, before the storm.
               It was impossible to see a cable's length from the shore, and the only means of
                  judging of the ship's distance was by observing the flash and reports of her guns.
                  Many of the fishermen had collected on the spot, and having set fire to a heap of
                  fagots, they hoped to apprize them of their proximity to the land, which, in the
                  extreme darkness, they were unable to perceive.
               It was soon known that the vessel was dragging her anchor, and had struck upon the
                  reef. What few hopes they had entertained, that she would take a narrow channel
                  and drift under the lee of a small island, were suddenly destroyed. But a new
                  horror was now presented to their sight. The wreck had been struck by lightning,
                  which had set fire to the hold, and the flames, bursting up from the hatchways,
                  were gradually creeping aloft, and firing the sails, spars, and rigging. It was a
                  heartrending sight to behold that noble ship, which had the day before floated in
                  all the pride of her white plumage like some large and majestic bird on the
                  waters, an object of admiration, now stranded upon the rocks and on fire, so near the shore, with its
                  cargo of human beings, exposed to a terrible death, beyond the possibility of
                  relief. By the light the crew could be seen moving about in wild confusion, while
                  to one part of the deck had retreated a large group of wretched beings, who shrank
                  back in despair from the awful element that threatened inevitable destruction. The
                  masts fell, with their blazing rigging and sails, into the deep. The sailors were
                  seen to launch the long-boat, which was immediately swamped alongside; the
                  breakers drove over her, and the waves and the flames seemed madly struggling for
                  the mastery. A terrible and heart rending wail of woe was wrung from the group
                  when the flames reached the spot where they were collected—the deck fell in—and
                  fair hands and bright eyes were, for the last time, raised to heaven. The vessel
                  had now burnt down to the water's edge, and the sea gradually extinguished the
                  fire, till there was no trace left in the black darkness of the wrecked ship!
               All this was going on so near the shore, that it was hoped that some, at least, of
                  the crew and passengers might be saved by clinging to the spars and pieces of the
                  wreck, and so brought ashore by the force of the waves. Edward and his father
                  hastened down to the water's edge. Another large fire was kindled on the beach,
                  and the search was commenced. After a short time, charred spars and fragments of
                  the ship were driven in upon the shore, and clinging to them were a few sailors,
                  who had, by some means, escaped from the burning element. As they continued the
                  search, Edward heard, at a little distance, the bark of his dog, and hastening
                  towards him, climbing over a point of rocks which jutted out into the water, he
                  came to a little cove which the reef protected from the violence of the storm and
                  waves, and there was the faithful Neptune, standing over the lifeless body of a
                  young lady, lashed to a light bench, or settee, which the dog had dragged upon the
                  bank.
               Edward knew what to do in such circumstances, for he had more than once assisted
                  his father in restoring life to those who were rescued from the deep. He removed the wet shawl, he wrapped the cold
                  from in his own thick jacket, and taking up the lovely and senseless burden, he
                  hastened with it to the cottage. Mary Stedman received the charge with all a
                  mother's tenderness; placed the fair girl in her own couch, and applied such
                  restoratives as she well knew how to use, and in a short time she was made happy
                  in seeing life restored;—again the lips moved; a sigh heaved the bosom; the purple
                  lips changed to a damask dye; a flush like the blushing hue of the morning tinged
                  the cheeks with returning life, and the beautiful eyes of Julienne opened, and
                  turned with a wondering and perplexed look upon the two persons to whose care and
                  efforts, under God, she owed her life.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE SURVIVORS—TROUBLED MUSINGS—THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE—WILLIE
                  STEDMAN.
               VERY few of that ship's company survived the wreck. In the course of the night
                  Pepita and another woman were brought to Willie Stedman's house and revived. The
                  few sailors who floated on the beach, clinging to the fragments of spars and
                  furniture, were taken to the cottages of the neighboring fishermen. During the
                  next and the following days the bodies of a number of the unfortunate crew and
                  passengers, many of them horribly scorched, and bruised, and disfigured, floated
                  up along the beach, and were buried by the fishermen. But nothing was ever found
                  of the remains of Joachimo and the aged parents of Julienne. In the hurry and confusion of the terrible night, she
                  only remembered that while crowded together on the deck,—some calm and self
                  possessed, and others frantic with fear; in the midst of a wild and exciting
                  scene, where some were praying, others cursing and screaming, and others still
                  overcome with terror, lay fainting upon the deck; she was seized by Joachimo,
                  fastened to the seat on which she had floated ashore, and then let down into the
                  waves. Her consciousness fled, and she knew no more until her eyes opened in the
                  cottage, and she saw Edward and his mother hanging over her, and, by their
                  assiduous attentions, bringing her back to life.
               Pepita was saved by the exertions of Joachimo, in the same way. Everywhere was he
                  active and busy; encouraging the desponding; endeavoring to calm the excitement of
                  the frantic; pointing out the best methods of escape, and assisting all, as far as
                  he could. When Pepita was launched over the side of the vessel, he threw himself
                  also into the water. As he rose to the surface, she heard him call to others who
                  were standing upon the bulwarks, to follow him; and at that instant, a wave swept
                  her away from him, and she saw and heard him no more.
               Deep and profound was the grief which Julienne felt at the loss of her aged
                  parents. She had anticipated for them a calm and peaceful old age at Walbury,
                  while she should watch and support their steps along the declivity of their life,
                  with tender and affectionate care. One great interest and concern of life had been
                  rudely destroyed, and she felt that the ties were lessening and becoming weaker
                  which bound her to the visible world, and with the more interest and longing, she
                  began to look forward to the life unseen. For several days after her rescue, she
                  was confined to her bed, exhausted by the hardships and sufferings she had
                  endured, and the exposure of that terrible night of storm. But her frame was too
                  hardy to yield long to such weakness, and after a time she began to recover, and
                  to venture out upon the shore, and to breathe again the free air of heaven.
               
               It was now time for Edward Stedman to return to his employment in London. He had
                  been some weeks at home, and he felt that it was necessary that he should present
                  himself at the office and make a final settlement of the business which had been
                  entrusted to him. But, somehow or other, he could not make up his mind to leave
                  the cottage. He seemed to think that his presence was, if not essential, yet
                  likely to contribute to the comfort of the young ladies whom he had assisted in
                  rescuing, and that until they were ready to take their departure, it would hardly
                  be right for him to go. He was with them a great deal, or rather with Julienne,
                  and there was something which seemed to draw them together—a mutual interest,
                  which was perfectly natural, and certainly not unusual—for persons brought
                  together in such circumstances. He accompanied her in her walks along the shore,
                  and over the neighboring hills, he rowed her boat around the bay; he gathered the
                  wild flowers which she loved; and in the evening he read to her, or they listened
                  together to the wild stories of the sea with which Willie Stedman beguiled their
                  time. Nor did it seem that Julienne was anxious to hasten her departure, for she
                  yielded without opposition to the remonstrances of the fisherman and his wife
                  against her undertaking the fatigues of the journey until she had recovered her
                  strength. She became enamored of the seacoast, and spent much of her time in
                  rambling about. Nor was she often alone. Edward, too, loved the open country, and
                  the free air, and the charms of social intercourse, and it was evident that a
                  warm, pure, and deep interest in each other had already grown up in their young
                  hearts.
               One evening, after Julienne had retired to her chamber, she sat by the open
                  casement which looked out towards the bay, on which the moonlight was resting like
                  a smile of heaven, absorbed in thought, with her head resting on a delicate hand,
                  which looked almost transparent as the pure light fell upon it. Poor, sorrowful
                  Pepita, who mourned deeply and faithfully the loss of her husband, had sought her
                  pillow, and oblivion in sleep from the
                  grief which oppressed her. Julienne was alone, and in that hour of stillness and
                  silence, there was sadness brooding within her heart, and yet with that sadness
                  there was mingled an undertone of happiness, as you sometimes hear a strain half
                  of joy running through the mournful cadences of music. She thought of her past
                  history; of all the way which Providence had conducted her since she first left
                  the hamlet with her dear friends, now no longer living to love and protect her; of
                  her present desolate state, and of that impenetrable future, with all its burden
                  of cares and responsibilities, which lay before her. She had now been for nearly
                  three weeks an inmate of the fisherman's cottage, and the daily companion of the
                  fisherman's son. She was conscious of a growing interest and regard for Edward,
                  which must either be checked at once, or—and she blushed, as the thought dwelt in
                  her mind—be suffered to ripen into an absorbing passion. It must be checked; it
                  was not for her to love and be loved,—to be wooed and won. There were other duties
                  for her—other relations than that of wife, which must encircle her and bind her
                  affections, and employ her activities of mind and heart. And yet, on the other
                  side, why checked? Edward Stedman was a noble man, high-souled and intelligent—her
                  equal in birth,—a man whose principles and dispositions, whose tastes and
                  pursuits, were such as her heart as well as her reason approved. He had saved her
                  life, and if he asked it, could she refuse to give that life to him, as far as the
                  service of the affections was consistent with the higher service which she owed to
                  her heavenly Father? But would he ask it—did he love her? With the quick intuition
                  which belongs to the heart of woman, she had already settled that question. It is
                  true he had never spoken of love, he had never poured into her ear the sweet
                  flatteries and the earnest protestations of affection; on the contrary, he was
                  timid, and as far as the affections are concerned, reserved. Frank, open and
                  generous in ordinary intercourse; anxious to oblige, and studious of pleasing;
                  much interested in her society, and constantly seeking it, there were a thousand delicate and nameless
                  attentions, and implications of affection, which betrayed his secret, while he
                  thought it concealed from all eyes, and most of all from hers.
               Edward had conceived a deep affection for Julienne. It had grown up unconsciously
                  to himself, and before he was aware of its strength, it had entwined and
                  interlaced itself so firmly in his heart, that he could not escape. He saw the
                  obstacles that stood between them. He knew that if even her affections were
                  gained, the relations in which she stood to Sir Thomas Sydenham and the proud
                  family of the Mountclares would present serious obstacles to their union, and
                  perhaps produce an estrangement on their part which would be a perpetual source of
                  grief and mortification to her. As the son of a poor fisherman he dared not aspire
                  to her hand, and he resolved that he would return to London without any
                  declaration of the state of his affections, and before she could know or suspect
                  that he loved her. He would leave her; avoid her presence; fly from the sweet
                  enchantment of her smile and voice, and in the employments of the office, and the
                  cares of business, endeavor to forget that such bright visions had ever flashed
                  across his mind. But he found, as we ever do, how much easier it is to resolve
                  than to do, and especially when it is against our inclinations and affections that
                  we are arming ourselves. He resolved to go away, but his resolutions vanished with
                  the next morning's dew. "One more day," he said to himself, "one more sail upon
                  the bay, and ramble along the beach at nightfall, and then I must depart; I must
                  crush this growing love, hide it in my own poor heart, and let her be happy, as
                  she deserves, in the sphere in which she belongs."
               The sail upon the bay followed; the walk upon the beach at evening, which was
                  protracted far into the night, and in the light of that moon, by the sounding sea,
                  breathing the balmy air, they walked to and fro, his arm around the fair girl, and
                  her hand in his; and he told his love, and received in return her frank
                  confessions, and her promise that when her mourning for her parents was ended, she would be his. There was joy in their
                  hearts when they returned to the cottage that night, where Pepita was waiting for
                  her mistress—joy which overflowed in their eyes, and in smiles upon their
                  lips,—joy not unmixed with devout thankfulness to Him who gives us happiness.
               It was now arranged that Edward was to return immediately to London, and re-enter
                  upon his professional studies. Julienne, in a few days, would also go up to town,
                  and from thence to Walbury Castle, to put in execution the noble plans she had
                  formed for providing a home for the aged and destitute, and a school for the
                  children of the poor.
               "You must aid me in my mission," she said to Edward; "this is the vocation towards
                  which my heart has always leaned."
               "And what you love," he replied, "shall be the object of my affection and care
                  also."
               The joy of the fisherman and his wife was scarcely less than that of Edward, when
                  he told them of his happiness. The beauty, intelligence, and goodness of Julienne
                  had charmed them from the first. Although now in humble station, the day had been
                  when their associations were with the refined and wealthy, and they had not only
                  imparted the same tastes and habits to Edward, but had retained them themselves.
                  He was the sole earthly object of their solicitude; the centre of all their sphere
                  of hope and interest in this world. They had sought and expected for him a career
                  of usefulness and distinction, and this alliance would place him at once on a
                  vantage-ground where he could command success. But there were other reasons aside
                  from the affection which they felt for Edward, which had kept alive their interest
                  in him, and made them solicitous for his advancement. He was not their son; a
                  mystery enveloped him which they had never been able to penetrate. Committed to
                  their care in early childhood, he had been nurtured and educated by them as
                  tenderly as if he were bound to them by the ties of consanguinity.
               The history of William Stedman had been an eventful one, though unmarked by any
                     uncommon incidents to render it
                  romantic. He began life as a merchant in the city of Glasgow, and it was there
                  that he married. For several years his business prospered and his gains
                  accumulated, and he was enabled to gather around himself and his beloved Mary all
                  the comforts and such of the luxuries of life, as they cared to enjoy. They were
                  both of them fond of society and music, and with a taste for reading, in addition
                  to these other enjoyments, they passed the first five years of their married life
                  in as much happiness as usually falls to our human lot. The two children that had
                  been born to them died in infancy, before they learned to lisp the endearing names
                  of father and mother. These losses had grieved them sadly, but the effect of the
                  chastisement was salutary, inasmuch as it taught them to look forward and upward
                  to a better world, where they would be reunited in a holier affection and with
                  undying ties But this was not all the burden of suffering and trial which was
                  ordained for them. The grave closed over their children, and then other sorrows
                  came. As they passed from one cloud, others gathered their blackness over their
                  path. Mr. Stedman's commercial interests were large and extended. The India trade,
                  which had yielded him heavy profits, was every year increasing, and the began to
                  anticipate the time when he would be able to retire from business, give himself up
                  to his favorite pursuits in some rural home, and thus realize the fond dream which
                  beguiled him in the midst of the cares and perplexities in which he was toiling. A
                  few more prosperous and successful ventures, and he would then be in a condition
                  to withdraw from business. But these plans were never to be realized, and the goal
                  attained. Misfortune and reverses, in one form or another, overwhelmed him,
                  stripped him of his wealthy, and compelled him to abandon his business, and resort
                  to some other employment for a livelihood. In closing up his affairs, he found
                  that there were heavy obligations which he could not meet, and that in addition to
                  the loss of social position involved in his failure, and the sacrifice of his home
                     comforts, and the gratification of
                  tastes which had now become habitual, his sensitive nature would also suffer the
                  imposition of the oppressive burden of debt to so large an amount as to require
                  years of prosperous industry to wipe it out.
               Under these circumstances he felt his spirit almost utterly crushed within him,
                  and had it not been for the calm and cheerful conduct of his wife, he would have
                  succumbed, possibly, to his misfortunes, and given up in despair. She was hopeful
                  still. There was underneath the calm exterior of her character, a depth of energy
                  and a firmness of faith in the wisdom and goodness of Providence, which, by
                  degrees and at length, imparted strength also to her husband, and gave him hope
                  that all was not lost.
               Among those with whom he had business connections was a shipping merchant in
                  London, of the name of Wray, who offered Mr. Stedman the place of supercargo in a
                  trading voyage to the East Indies, together with some advances which would enable
                  him, if the voyage were successful, to realize ize considerable profits, and thus
                  lay the foundation on which he could rebuild his ruined fortunes. Accordingly,
                  they removed to London, where Mary Stedman was established in comfortable
                  lodgings, and her husband, now more cheerful and hopeful for the future, began his
                  voyage. But unfortunately, the prospects which cheered the beginning, were never
                  realized. After an absence of more than twelve months, he returned as poor as he
                  had left, having encountered numerous delays and disasters, by which the profits
                  of his speculations were almost entirely consumed.
               In this way passed several years of his life, bringing no permanent
                  success,—yielding no fortune to his faithful and strenuous endeavors. His touch
                  turned nothing to gold;—his ventures were barren of success;—all his toils, and
                  privations, and hardships, barely yielded enough for the comfortable support of
                  his patient and cheerful wife. Thus separated for a large portion of the time, and
                  exposed to the perils and hardships of sea-faring, Mrs. Stedman urged upon her
                  husband some change of employment which
                  would allow them the only comfort and happiness they looked for in this life, that
                  of being together, and so, hand in hand, passing down the remaining pathway which
                  led to a better world, and an enduring home. His early and well-tried friend,
                  Wray, again proposed that he should try his fortune once more upon the sea, and by
                  an arrangement for that purpose, the cottage on the coast was assigned to Mrs.
                  Stedman for a residence. Thither she transferred such furniture as was necessary
                  to comfort, and a small, though choice collection of books, which remained to
                  them. Her husband went down to the coast with her, and spent several weeks there,
                  putting everything in order, and providing with affectionate care for her comfort
                  and protection. While thus busied, he began to feel as if he had found a home at
                  last, where he could rest, after the buffetings which he had experienced in the
                  rude world.
               "With thee, Mary, and in this cottage," said he, "I could find all that I now
                  expect or desire, this side the grave."
               She urged him, therefore, to abandon his wandering way of life; to tempt no more
                  the hazards of the sea, and the uncertainties of fortune; but to content himself
                  with the humble home and the simple life which awaited them there; and he promised
                  that if he were moderately successful in this voyage, it should be his last, and
                  he would then settle down and remain at home.
               The voyage was successful,—that is to say, it was not, as too many of his previous
                  ventures had been,—unfortunate; it brought sufficient returns to enable him to pay
                  for the cottage, and the little garden which belonged to it, and to secure a small
                  annuity. It was in returning from this voyage that the boy Edward, whom they had
                  afterwards called their own, and nurtured as such, was cast upon his care. While
                  at Jamaica, and just before he was ready to sail, on his return to England, Mr.
                  Stedman received, through an old negro who called on him at his lodgings, a letter
                  requesting him to take charge of a boy, some two years old, who would be sent to
                  his ship the next day, and to deliver
                  liver him to his friends, who would call for him, at a certain place in London.
                  The name was given of the person who would await his arrival in London, and the
                  letter contained an enclosure of a considerable sum of money, to pay the expenses
                  of his passage, and for the trouble and loss of time which would be incurred. The
                  writer added no particulars in regard to the child, except that he was the son of
                  an English gentleman—that his mother was dead, and that his name was Edward.
               Mr. Stedman, supposing that all was right,—although the singular way in which the
                  business was done,—by a letter and not by a personal interview—looked as if there
                  were some mystery attached to the boy's history,—consented reluctantly to
                  undertake the charge. He found the child,—a bright and happy looking boy, on board
                  the vessel, as the letter had indicated; he placed him in the charge of an infirm
                  old sailor, who acted in the capacity of steward and cabin-boy in the ship, and
                  once more spread his canvass for his home, looking forward ward with interest and
                  anxiety, to the quiet cottage-life on the coast.
               As they approached England, running along on the coast, Willie Stedman gave over
                  the charge of the vessel to the mate, and taking the boy with him, went ashore in
                  a boat, landing at the hamlet of Rainsford, and thus giving rise to the report
                  already alluded to, that he and his son were set on shore from a privateer. After
                  a few days spent at the cottage, he went up to town, carrying Edward with him, for
                  the purpose of giving him over to his friends, and attending to the settlement of
                  his affairs with Mr. Wray. But great was his surprise and anxiety, in calling at
                  the place indicated in the letter he had received in Jamaica, to find that no
                  inquiries had been made there for the child,—that the person to whom he was
                  directed, knew nothing of him, or of the Mr. Hackfield who was to call for him;
                  and that he could give no clue or information whatever which would serve to clear
                  up the mystery. He then inserted an advertisement in the papers, requesting Mr.
                  Hackfield to communicate cate with him
                  through his friend Wray. And when he found that this procured no response, he
                  published a brief account of the whole transaction, and requested the friends of
                  the child,—if there were friends in England—to come forward and take charge of
                  him. But no Hackfield, and no other friends appeared to claim the charge.
               In the meantime, he had returned to his sea-side home, taking the child with him,
                  to await there tidings which he daily expected from the friends of the boy, who
                  would undoubtedly claim him, as soon as they heard of his arrival in England. He
                  found busy employment in his new home, and all the delightful enjoyments which
                  rural occupations and a free life upon the sea could afford. In this way years
                  rolled on in calm and equal flow. Willie Stedman and his wife became much attached
                  to Edward, and he, on his part, looked up to them with an affectionate reverence,
                  as his parents, for he remembered no other home, or father and mother, than those
                  he had found by the sea-side.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               JULIENNE GOES UP TO LONDON—WALBURY CASTLE—THE SCHOOLS—SIR THOMAS
                  SYDENHAM—UNFORESEEN OBSTACLES.
               THE soul of Julienne was like the fertile soil. When once a thought of heaven had
                  fallen upon it, as the seed falls upon the furrowed field, it grew, and
                  flourished, and brought forth good fruit. Strengthened in mind and body, after the
                  perils and sufferings of the shipwreck, and with a new principle and impulse
                  infused into her heart, when once she had looked into its depths and dared to
                  confess to herself that she loved, she had gone up to town, resolved to disclose
                  to her friend, Sir Thomas Sydenham, the state of her feelings and affections, and
                  to take counsel with him on the subject. From London she would go to Walbury bury, and remain there during the
                  period of her mourning, and until such time as she felt that it would be proper
                  for the marriage to take place. Meanwhile, she would carry into effect the plans
                  long since formed and matured, for the education of the children of the
                  neighborhood of the castle, and for provision for the care of the aged and
                  destitute of her own sex.
               She did not anticipate, on the part of the baronet, or any of the family of her
                  late friend, Amelia Mountclare, any objection or opposition to her marriage with
                  Edward Stedman. He was, in her estimation at least, all that was gentle, and
                  noble, and intelligent; formed by nature to excel in whatever position he should
                  occupy, and gifted with a depth and constancy and warmth of affection which would
                  make home blessed and its inmates happy. This was her estimate of his character,
                  nor was she deceived. Noble, generous, and high-minded, he would sacrifice himself
                  for duty or affection. Nor was he destitute of ambition,—an honorable and
                  well-regulated ambition, governed by principle and chastened by the consciousness
                  of responsibility. With an independence of character and a fearlessness of soul
                  which would prompt him to aspire to any honorable distinction, there was united a
                  conscientiousness and a religious firmness of principle which made all his
                  aspirations pure and noble.
               Julienne, with that intuitive sense and knowledge of character with which women
                  are often gifted, had known and understood Edward from the beginning. Apart from
                  the circumstances in which they first met, and the obligations which she incurred
                  by his saving her life in that night of peril, she would have felt that his was no
                  ordinary or common-place character.
               A probationary intercourse of months and years is not, in every instance,
                  necessary to open the heart to esteem and the warmest admiration. We may sometimes
                  love at a glance, and be unconsciously subdued by the magic of a look. Were it
                  otherwise, were our hearts to be triple-barred, and open only to the few whom for
                  a lifetime we have tried and found
                  faithful, how tenantless would they be! Little of the sunshine of existence would
                  visit us, if its beams were thus sifted and chosen. The chambers of the heart
                  would be cold and in-hospitable, the fit dwelling of envy, malevolence, and
                  distrust. The cheerful gleams of light, through the clouds of dull life, would be
                  excluded,—gleams that might warm into being some virtue, or leave behind a
                  lingering, an imprisoned ray, which, like the diamond in the cave, would sparkle
                  and glow long after the parent beam had passed away into darkness. He who keeps
                  his heart so jealously guarded, will be in no danger, it is true, of having his
                  happiness destroyed, for he will have none to lose. Malignant passions will be
                  most likely to enter and lurk in such a heart, for they will find it empty, swept
                  and garnished.
               Julienne and her companion Pepita were welcomed to London with warm-hearted
                  affection, and a cordial sympathy was manifested for them in the bereavements
                  which they had sustained. Poor Pepita grieved much for the loss of Joachimo. Her
                  affectionate and impassioned nature had clung to him always and faithfully, from
                  her very childhood. Brave and fearless, but kind and gentle in his affection, his
                  qualities—good and bad—were such as to attract and secure the admiration, and it
                  is not to be wondered at that she should grieve deeply when the blow fell so
                  suddenly upon her head. "My heart is broken, dear lady," she said to Julienne—"he
                  was so kind, and so dear to me, and now I shall see him no more."
               "But he died nobly, Pepita, endeavoring to assist others, and to save their lives.
                  It pleased Heaven that it should be so, and you must not allow your grief for the
                  dead to make you forget the duty you owe to the living. We are alone now, without
                  many earthly ties left to us. I am an orphan, with no brother's arm to lean upon,
                  and with no sister's smile to cheer and bless me. Pedro remains to you. We must
                  cheer and comfort one another, and learn to love the poor, the destitute, the
                  homeless, and the ignorant, and to instruct them and do them good. I shall go down
                  to Walbury bury Castle, and there we
                  must find enough employment for our minds and hands, so that we may forget our own
                  private griefs."
               "Ah," replied Pepita, "it is easy for you, dear mistress, to feel so, for there is
                  everything to make you forget your sorrows, but for me, alas, in losing Joachimo,
                  I have lost all."
               "Say not so," said Julienne; "you are ungrateful and distrusting of God's
                  goodness. It is hard to feel so, I know, but yet it is most true, that these
                  bereavements are meant for our good."
               Sir Thomas Sydenham was absent from town when Julienne arrived; and as business
                  would detain him for several weeks, he wrote to her that he would join her at
                  Walbury Castle. During her stay in town, Edward passed as much of his time with
                  her as could be spared from his business, and here they renewed the charming and
                  delightful intercourse which had been began at the sea-side. With an earnest
                  enthusiasm, he entered into the plans that Julienne had formed for the occupation
                  of her time, and for her intellectual lectual improvement. He procured for her
                  such books as she would need, and which she was not likely to find in the library
                  at Walbury, and consulted, in her behalf, with several persons of judgment and
                  benevolence, in regard to the arrangements and management of the institutions
                  which it was her purpose to found on her estate. He had executed the business
                  which had been entrusted to him in the settlement of the Jamaica property with
                  such judgment and tact, that he had gained the confidence of his employer to the
                  utmost, and a fair career in his profession was now opened to him. Advantageous
                  proposals had been made to him, and he looked forward to the future with the most
                  animating hopes. The very dreams of his youth were about to be realized,—a career
                  of usefulness and distinction, and a home of wedded joy, with the fair being whom
                  he could honor and love.
               It was proper that Julienne should not protract her stay in town, though—if she
                  had confessed the truth—she found it hard to tear herself away from the society of Edward. With the death of Amelia,
                  she had felt that she had buried all earthly affections, save those that clung so
                  dutifully around her aged parents, and the few friends to whom her childhood was
                  indebted for nurture and blessings. But now life began to wear a new aspect,
                  brighter and dearer than ever before. Love and hope once more surrounded her with
                  their enchantments, and crowned her with their flowery wreaths. She had found in
                  Edward the object which her heart had long been seeking, without knowing, indeed,
                  its wants, or the cause of its restlessness, and upon him she had poured the
                  wealth of her pure young heart. O thrice happy days, when first we learn the
                  happiness of love and trust, and can turn from the hollow world to one fond heart,
                  with the certainty that we shall find there the sympathy and affection which make
                  the light of our life!
               Julienne, in company with her faithful Pepita, reached Walbury Castle, where they
                  had long been looked for with anxiety, and immediately she set about the work of
                  gathering in the children of the poor for the purpose of
                  instructing them. In the clergyman of the parish she found an earnest and
                  judicious friend, always ready to aid in any good work, and especially where the
                  laboring classes were concerned. He was a man of large observation, and in the
                  best sense of the term, a practical man. Devoted to his vocation, simple in his
                  habits, zealous for religion, humble, pious, and active, he had long desired to be
                  able to provide for the thorough instruction and training of the children of his
                  cure whose parents had not the means for such provision, or were too indifferent
                  or ignorant to secure and appreciate such advantages. With a large family of sons
                  and daughters of his own to provide for out of his narrow living, he had not
                  hitherto been able to effect the objects which lay so near his heart. One may
                  readily conceive how much he rejoiced when Julienne explained her plans, and asked
                  for his counsel and co-operation, and how promptly he responded to her wishes.
               "It has been my earnest desire," said he, "to collect together the younger children, as soon as
                  they are able to acquire the simplest elements of instruction, and to have them
                  taught under my own supervision. By the time they are old enough to attend such
                  schools as we have, their services at home are of value, and the instruction they
                  obtain is consequently limited and imperfect. Besides, it is in their tender years
                  that they acquire habits and principles which determine their character for life.
                  If their parents are rude, and ignorant, and irreligious, the children are certain
                  to grow up in the same way, and hence it is that the mass of our rural population
                  exhibit so little regard for the church, and so little interest in anything beyond
                  the most common and sensual enjoyments of life. They are ignorant, and because
                  they are ignorant, they are brutal and irreligious."
               "And how shall we meet this evil," asked Julienne, "and apply the remedy? The
                  parents are not conscious of their wants, and it may be difficult, at least, to
                  excite so much interest in our plans as to secure such attendance and control as
                  will enable us to accomplish anything effectually."
               "This lack of interest will doubtless be the great obstacle in the way of success.
                  But we must persevere. My plan would be to begin with such children as might be
                  sent to us—to provide comfortable rooms for instruction, and grounds for their
                  recreation, and by offering rewards for punctual attendance at first, and until we
                  can excite an interest among the parents and children in our enterprise, we might
                  hope for success. At all events, the object is a noble one, and as it deserves to
                  be prospered, I am sure we may expect that God will bless our efforts."
               Julienne readily undertook to provide suitable accommodations for an infant
                  school—for with this only would they begin their work—and besides, she and Pepita
                  would devote several hours of each week to the business of instruction. The two
                  eldest daughters of the clergyman entered earnestly into the undertaking, and
                  having secured the services of a matron to whom the constant care of the children was committed, the humble work
                  of benevolence was begun. The first success of the experiment was small, and
                  Julienne had much to discourage her. But it was not in her nature to yield to
                  discouragement, when she felt that she was doing her duty, and she persevered in
                  the hope of success. And before the end of the first year, she was happy in
                  knowing that her efforts were appreciated, and her school permanently established.
                  A school-room near the church had been built, and provided with every requisite
                  for the comfort, instruction, and enjoyment of the children. She had, by her
                  gentle and winning manners, attached herself to all—old and young—and was looked
                  up to with the greatest reverence and affection, while Pepita had proved to be a
                  most efficient and invaluable assistant, relieving her of many cares, and engaging
                  in the work with a hearty good will.
               It was now determined to enlarge their plans by providing a school for girls,
                  where they would be instructed in domestic duties, in addition to the usual
                  routine of schools. This department, and the asylum for aged and destitute women
                  Julienne determined to connect together in the same building, in order that the
                  services of the latter, if any of them were competent, might be employed in the
                  care and instruction of the girls.
               The moral and religious training of these children was, of course, a primary
                  object of regard and attention. The two establishments were placed, therefore,
                  near the church, so that their inmates could attend the daily services. Julienne's
                  taste and fondness for music, as might be expected, had led her to provide
                  instruction in this branch of education, and much more than ordinary attention was
                  given to it. She desired that the music in the church, on Sundays as well as week
                  days, should be led by the children, and they were instructed and trained for that
                  purpose. This not only served to interest them in their school duties, and in the
                  services of God's house, but it gave also to the music a peculiar charm, which can
                  be secured by none but children's voices. There is nothing more touching and beautiful to a simple and uncultivated
                  taste, certainly, than such music. It seems to lift the soul above the earth—out
                  of itself—and to open paradise, where we may hear harpings and voices which are
                  forever swelling the anthems of praise.
               But while Julienne was thus employed in her chosen and favorite work, and
                  surmounting the difficulties which beset its inception and first progress, there
                  were other trials which she was called to endure which grieved her very deeply.
                  Sir Thomas Sydenham came to Walbury, as he had promised, and approved her plans
                  for the instruction and elevation of her tenantry most cordially. As she had
                  determined to do, she sought an early opportunity to tell him of her attachment to
                  the young barrister, and to ask his approval of her choice, and consent to the
                  union which, it was agreed, should take place at the end of the year. Frankly, and
                  without reserve, but with that maidenly modesty which belonged to her character,
                  Julienne spoke of his intelligence, his principles, and his fine manly bearing,
                  and acknowledged the affection which he had inspired. She felt towards the baronet
                  as a daughter might feel towards her father. He was the near relative of her
                  dearest friend, now no more, and he had manifested great kindness and affection
                  for herself. Moreover, instead of offering obstacles or delays to her inheritance
                  of the large estate which Amelia had left to her, he, by his own prompt and
                  voluntary act, had confirmed the will of Amelia, and put her in possession at once
                  of the property. The relation in which he stood to her was virtually that of
                  guardian, and very willingly and gratefully did she acknowledge that relation. To
                  enter into a matrimonial engagement without consulting him and obtaining his
                  consent, was entirely contrary to her feelings, as well as her sense of
                  obligation, and she had been on the point of writing to him immediately after her
                  arrival in London, but hoping soon to see him, when she could explain to him
                  every-thing in relation to Edward's social position, she had foreborne to
                  communicate to him her secret until
                  they should meet. Great was her surprise and grief, then, to find that he was
                  firmly and positively opposed to the marriage, and refused to yield consent.
               "You tell me," said the baronet, "that you have given encouragement to this young
                  man."
               "I have promised to be his wife, with your consent."
               "But why," asked he, "did you not first consult with me before you made a rash
                  promise, which I plainly foresee must be broken? I know very well that it will
                  give you pain to violate your promise, even were you convinced that he is unworthy
                  of you. I am aware of your scrupulous regard for your plighted word, and I
                  respect, above all things, such conscientiousness. But I fear, at the same time,
                  that he is a mere adventurer—at all events, the alliance is beneath you, and must
                  not take place."
               Perhaps it was not strange that Sir Thomas, with all his family pride, and his
                  regard for the opinion of society, should feel repugnance at the idea of an
                  alliance between one so nearly connected with his family, and the son of a poor
                  fisherman—a man who was first a bankrupt, and then a wanderer, and an unsuccessful
                  adventurer. It would naturally occur to him, also, that he sought her fortune
                  alone, and that one in his position could hardly presume upon such an alliance
                  unless he were actuated by mercenary motives. Little did he know the true nobility
                  of soul, and the exalted sentiments of honor, which belonged to that young man.
                  Little was he aware how indignantly Edward Stedman would scorn and repel the
                  implication of such base motives. And as little did he know the sort of character
                  which he had to deal with in the gentle girl who now sat opposite him in the
                  library at Walbury, listening to his harsh insinuations and remonstrances.
               "I feel too deeply," said Julienne, "the obligations which your kindness has laid
                  me under, to have a wish or thought which you do not approve. My heart was knit to
                  that of Amelia—your Amelia and mine—with tenderer ties than any I can ever know again, save for this man whom
                  you refuse to me. And when she was taken away from us, and laid in yonder tomb, my
                  heart went with her. I thought it would never come back to me again. But I
                  confess, dear sir, that it has known again the touch of love. Its depths have been
                  moved by one to whom I owe my life. He is no adventurer. He is noble, and
                  generous, and brave. He is worthy of my love, and of your respect and admiration.
                  You must see him, and know him, before you refuse to sanction the promise my
                  heart, as well as lips, have spoken."
               "It cannot be, Julienne. You must break off this rash engagement. You know too
                  little of the world to judge whether he is worthy of you. And if he were—grant
                  that he is all you believe, noble, and generous, and high-minded,—yet I say that
                  the alliance is beneath you, and there are, or will be, other suitors for your
                  hand, who may be wor thy of you."
               "What honorable alliance," said Julienne proudly, "can be beneath the low-born
                  daughter of the hamlet! My father was a peasant; my mother was a peasant's
                  daughter; my childhood was nurtured in poverty, and it is only by the goodness of
                  Heaven that I am not a peasant still, watching the flocks in my distant native
                  valley, or gleaning the harvest-field with the peasant girls at home. Edward, too,
                  is lowly-born, but he has the true nobility of soul and of mind. His social
                  position, like my own, is now above that to which his birth entitles him, and his
                  talents and character will win him a name of which even the high-born might be
                  proud."
               The opposition of the baronet was determined. He would listen to no reasoning on
                  the subject, and while Julienne doubted not his kindness of intention and honesty
                  of purpose, she could not respect the prejudices which influenced him to decide
                  against them without waiting to see him and judge of him by a personal knowledge
                  of his character. It was about this time that Edward had written her that he would
                  see her at Walbury Castle. But she feared that his appearance here, while the baronet was still her guest, would
                  only complicate the difficulty, and make him still more averse to the marriage.
                  Accordingly, she despatched a letter to him, begging him not to come, and
                  detailing the chief objections which Sir Thomas urged against the engagement, but
                  keeping back the insinuations he had thrown out, by which Edward's motives in
                  seeking her hand were implicated. She added, frankly, her assurance of unalterable
                  attachment, and that she would keep her faith to him, come what would. She hoped,
                  however, that events would so shape themselves that they would yet have the free
                  consent and approval of her guardian. She was even confident that it would be
                  so.
               The grief and chagrin which Edward felt at this unexpected opposition to his
                  happiness, rendered him so unfit for business, that he determined to leave town,
                  and make a visit to Rainsford. Before setting out on his journey, he wrote to
                  Julienne a long letter, which disclosed his sensitive and unselfish feelings, as
                  well as the fervency of his affection for her. He told her that he could not stand
                  in the way of her happiness, or be the means of thwarting her interests, and that
                  he would resign all claim or hope of her hand, if such sacrifice would promote her
                  peace of mind and ultimate welfare. He recalled the days they had spent together,
                  and the happiness they had known in each other's society, even before he had dared
                  to breathe to her the secret of his love. That affection was no idle passion which
                  would come or go at the bidding of his reason or his will, but if needful, he
                  would tear it from his heart, and give her back the troth she had plighted him,
                  though she could not restore to him the peace and calmness which he had known in
                  former days. How ennobling and elevating in all its impulses, is a deep-rooted
                  passion! Edward could not transfer to any other being, however lovely and
                  beautiful, the allegiance of his heart, since she had taught that heart to beat
                  high and proudly. Julienne, lost to him forever, was still, and ever would be,
                  more than any other woman. All the past clung to her memory—all the future,
                  without her, would be dark and desolate!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               EDWARD TO JULIENNE—HIS HISTORY AND HIS FATHER'S NARRATIVE—THE
                  END.
               "I CAME down to this lovely cottage, dear Julienne, where my early years were
                  spent, and where but recently I had enjoyed such unmingled happiness in your
                  society, with feelings of loneliness and desolation which it were impossible for
                  me to describe. Your image alone haunted me, and every path and dell,—the waves
                  that rolled gently upon the beach, and the boat that swung lazily upon their
                  bosom,—all reminded me of you, and recalled the bright vision of your grace and
                  beauty. It is now past, I thought to myself. The dream that made the future all
                  light and gladness, is dispelled; the cold reality of life is before me, and my
                  path is, henceforth, a lonely and solitary one. It would be ungrateful and wrong
                  in me to insist upon the fulfilment of those vows of love and fidelity which were
                  here plighted, and I must yield the prize of which I am all unworthy, and devote
                  my solitary life to the duties I owe to my friends and to society. I would have
                  striven, with all the energy of affection, to make the life happy and the path
                  pleasant and smooth, if we could have travelled it side by side; but it would be
                  unkind to cloud that life by alienating from her the affection and confidence of
                  those to whose kindness and disinterestedness she owes so much. They will learn,
                  too, that I am not the unworthy and selfish being they have thought me; they will
                  know me better. Yes, I thought, when they see how my life has been blighted and
                  darkened, and yet how I have struggled on, and borne up under the crushing sorrow,
                  they and she will know me better, and appreciate the sacrifice I have made.
                  Henceforth, toil and duty are all to me; ambition alone presents a prospect which
                  may fill up the aching void that
                  disappointed and ruined hopes have left behind them. God forgive me, Julienne, for
                  indulging such wild and distracting thoughts!
               "In the midst of such mental agitations, your letter came, in which you assure me
                  that nothing shall shake your purpose, and that you will be true to your own
                  heart, though your fidelity shall alienate all hearts but mine. The objection
                  which Sir Thomas urges is chiefly my lowly birth. To this, even, you hope he may
                  become reconciled, when he shall see that I am able, notwithstanding these
                  disadvantages, to take a position at once honorable and useful. You encourage me,
                  therefore, to wait with the hope that all will yet be well, and you give me the
                  sweetest assurance that my heart could covet, that you love me.
               "But, dear Julienne, we need not wait if this is all that stands between us and
                  happiness. I have learned, since I have been here, that William Stedman is not my
                  father, but that I was born—
               "But let me give you the narrative as it was given to me. My heart is full of
                  joy—not that it would disown the honest parentage of such excellent and
                  right-minded people as the Stedmans, but that all obstacles to our union are now
                  removed. Soon after my arrival my father—for so I must call one who has been to me
                  ever, in devoted affection and care, a tender parent—my father observing how moody
                  and restless I was, questioned me as to the cause of my disquiet. I freely told
                  him all,—how that your high-born and proud friends rejected me because I was the
                  son of a poor and humble fisherman.
               "'But you are not my son, Edward,' he said, interrupting me. He then told me the
                  history of my life, as far as known to him;—that I was placed in his care, as he
                  was returning from his last voyage, and that certain directions were given him by
                  which he would find friends who would claim me; that he had sought in vain for my
                  relatives, and that only within a few weeks had he been able to gain any clue to
                  the mystery which involved me. Only a few days before he had received ceived from London a package which
                  contained, among certain legal documents which were necessary to prove my
                  identity, and to substantiate my claims, the history of my parentage and birth.
                  This history was written by my father's hand. I shall give you its chief outlines,
                  and when we meet I will explain to you how it happened never before to reach my
                  adopted father. To-morrow I go up to town to take such legal measures as may be
                  necessary, and thence I shall hasten, at the earliest moment, to Walbury
                  Castle.
               
                  The Father's Narrative.
                  "Oh, thrice happy days of my childhood! the memory of thy joyous hours comes
                     upon me now like the music of birds from yonder orange groves! How vividly is
                     pictured on my mind all that my youth's home once was; the old mansion
                     embosomed in the silent dell, the laughing stream dancing by in the pride of
                     its silver ripples, the old oak trees which shaded the lawn, and in whose
                     branches I loved to sit and rock lazily in every breeze that stirred their
                     leaves, and, above all, my venerable and well-beloved father, whom I remember
                     as if it were but yesterday that I saw him for the last time. My mother died
                     when I was yet in my early childhood.
                  "These were, indeed, happy hours, but they are past, and the desolating hand of
                     time has been upon the abode of my fathers. The mansion has fallen into decay,
                     and the broad lands which we once called our own have passed into other hands.
                     The associations around that place were too painful, and it was suffered to
                     pass away from the possession of the family, and for many years strangers have
                     dwelt there. My good old father, too, has gone to his rest. The burden of
                     sorrow which was laid upon him was too heavy for him to bear, and it pleased
                     God, at length, to take it off.
                  "I have always looked back upon my youthful days with peculiar and sacred
                     emotions, and even the deepening shadows of by-gone years but slightly dim
                     their hallowed light. A voice from that desolate home, from my father's grave,
                     from those other resting-places of
                     the dead, has been caught on the wings of the wind and wafted to my ear, many a
                     time when I seemed to be listening to present voices, and absorbed in the
                     present scene. The sweet and hallowed remembrances of the joyous spring-time of
                     life, like the volcano in the sea, burst their way through the waves of guilt
                     and crime, which long have hidden them in their depths, and cast light upon the
                     troubled waters of my soul. Then I was free and wild as the mountain air, at
                     liberty to roam wherever I pleased. Then I loved to stand on the verge of the
                     roaring cataract, and watch it leap from crag to crag, seeming as eager to seek
                     its quiet bed among the grassy banks beneath, as the weary pilgrim, through the
                     dust and heat of life's journey, covets his haven of rest. Then, too, I loved
                     to climb the craggy steep, and fright the proud eagle from his lonely eyrie on
                     its summit, and think that, as he, undazzled, dared to lift his eye to the full
                     blaze of the meridian sun, so would I meet and withstand the gaze of the great
                     and mighty of the land.
                  "My father, Lord Sydenham, had several children, three of whom were sons;
                     Thomas, the eldest, and Edward, younger than myself. Few would have supposed us
                     children of the same parents. While to me was given the appearance of one born
                     under the sunny skies of the south, with all the darker and more imaginative
                     characteristics of that clime, on my brothers were bestowed the fairer
                     complexion and the milder natures of children of the northern clime. And yet,
                     though different in our disposition and character, we cling to each other with
                     a deep and ardent love. This was displayed in our boyhood in all our sports and
                     enjoyments, and in our maturer years when separated from home, we were pursuing
                     our studies at school and college. The closest intimacy existed between Edward
                     and myself. My brother Thomas was five years my senior, and five years at that
                     period of life make a wide separation between children.
                  "Edward, my fair-haired, bright-eyed brother! he stands before me now as when
                     in the glorious days of youth we talked enthusiastically of the happiness we would see in after years, and how
                     pleasantly we would live on together through the bright career of manhood! But
                     his career ended while the dew of youth was on him—mine has been protracted and
                     accursed.
                  "Woman came, and with her, love. It entered both our hearts and severed the
                     bond which fastened them together.
                  "The young girl who enthralled us both was passing the season on a visit with
                     my sisters, and we were at home in our vacation. Bright and beautiful, with a
                     mind rich and penetrating, she read the heart with the same glance that won its
                     affections. But why speak of her deep blue eye, her graceful form? why dwell on
                     those attractions that were fraught with woe for us all? It was enough for me
                     to know that she was surpassingly lovely, and her beauty swept over my
                     impassioned nature like the breeze over the chords of the Æolian harp—it called
                     forth the deep wild music of my soul. The strong tide of love had long been
                     pent up, and only awaited some hand to put aside the barrier. Hers was the
                     hand, and the barrier was torn away, and the full, mighty current of my
                     affections rushed forth, with the accumulated strength of years, and in its
                     resistless flood overwhelmed the fair girl herself, who, all innocent as she
                     was, had first opened an outlet to the impetuous tide. And my brother, too,
                     loved the Lady Mary Neville. She touched his heart as the prophet smote the
                     rock, and the rich well-spring sent forth its flow of gushing love, and then
                     she loved him. Was it not spoken in the heaving bosom, in the glance of her
                     eye, in the milder, lower tones of her voice, whenever they met?
                  "I knew that my impetuous nature was as opposite to hers as it was to Edward's;
                     that her every feeling and every thought was in unison with his. Yet still
                     knowing and believing all this, I wished her to cast him off, and accept my
                     love. I was angry with her, and with Edward, and yet more with myself. I was
                     carried away, and beside myself with the wildness of my passion. I strove with
                     all the energy with which I was endowed to win her from him. I offered her all those little
                     attentions which women love, and called out all my store of information and
                     laid it at her feet. But in vain. I who loved the gloomy retreat and the rocky
                     glen, wandered with her through mead and plain; I glowed in her smile; I bowed
                     my proud heart and wept at the tale of sorrow as the tear gathered in her eye;
                     I was completely fascinated by the spell she had woven about me, and I employed
                     every art to please and win her to me. I had a meaning in every word, a praise
                     in every sentence, and all to gain her love, but still in vain. And she was
                     right. One smile, rich from Edward's heart, was worth all the hoarded love, the
                     deep, impetuous feelings of mine! And yet, I knew not that she was right. I
                     worshipped her very shadow, and could have kissed the foot-prints she left on
                     the dewy grass. I would have given my life for her love, my very heart's blood
                     for a single glance and smile such as she lavished every day upon my brother.
                     Had she loved me, I would have devoted my life to her happiness without one
                     selfish thought, one wish, or feeling, which did not embrace her welfare.
                  "Time flew on—the leaf had fallen—winter had bound up the fountains, and
                     covered the green sward with his snowy mantle; spring had called her minstrels
                     forth to chant the songs of her glorious beauty, and had then breathed away her
                     life on the breast of summer, and summer was kissing the faded cheek of autumn,
                     and yet there was no change in our relations, save that I knew now that Edward
                     had told his feelings, and that they were reciprocated. I knew this by their
                     manner, by the very tones of the voice when they spoke to each other. Oh, the
                     grief, the agony, that this knowledge brought me! I confess that I then hated
                     my brother; I hated him for loving her, but more deeply for gaining her. I
                     believed, and perhaps truly, that had he not been there that girl's love, with
                     all the warm, deep, pure feelings of her nature, would have been lavished upon
                     me.
                  "Down from its high throne—down in its strength—down upon my heart, to check
                     the flowing tide of love, did I
                     force my pride. It was agony; but I was free. Then up from the depths of my
                     dark spirit came, as I thought, hate. It was agony still—I was not free—I was a
                     slave to my over-mastering passion.
                  "A short distance from the old mansion is a lake. Away—far away, into the bosom
                     of the hills, wrapped up and sheltered in their dusky mantle, glad and glorious
                     in their beauty, stretched its waters. Bounded on every side by mountains, clad
                     in the fresh green drapery of forest trees, it lies smiling sweetly and
                     serenely, save when the winds come whispering through the trees, and breathing
                     sweet music to its waves, and enticing them to leap up in their gladness to the
                     embrace of the whisperer. At one end a stream enters it with a joyous bound, as
                     if eager to reach a spot where it may rest after its long and rugged journey
                     through the mountain glen; while at the opposite shore it passes out, murmuring
                     at being compelled to leave its calm repose. After a few short turns, it runs
                     on smoothly and noiselessly, for the wild flowers shed upon its bosom their
                     fragrant blossoms, to cheer its way towards the broader stream which sweeps
                     onward evermore to the ocean. Here and there from the surface of the lake, like
                     the queen of Beauty starting from the depths of the Ægean, rises an islet
                     blooming with flowers, and verdant with trees laden with festoons of the wild
                     grape. Ah, how vividly is the scene pictured upon my memory, though many
                     intervening years and weary leagues divide me from it.
                  "Upon this sheet of water we had our boats, and often in company with Edward
                     and my sisters, and the Lady Mary, had I whiled away hour after hour in sailing
                     over its merry waves, stopping at times to bring up from its crystal depths the
                     fish with which it was well stocked, and then again gliding rapidly away, we
                     would make the air resound with our songs and shouts.
                  "It was one of the last days of summer, and towards evening we were wandering
                     along the winding shore of that sweet lake. Lady Mary and Edward were walking
                     together, while I stalked gloomily
                     apart from them, wrapped up in my own wild thoughts. It would have been wiser
                     if I had avoided her, and kept myself aloof from her companionship. But there
                     was a spell in her presence I could not shake off. She drew me to her as the
                     magnet attracts the steel, and I could not resist, though I felt that it was
                     madness.
                  "At length we reached the boat-house, and she proposed that we should cross
                     over to one of the islands, and gather some of the flowers which grew there in
                     profusion. My brother took his seat next to her in the stern of the boat, and
                     adjusting the oars, I began to row. We had nearly reached the landing, when we
                     passed under a tree which overhung the water, and was covered with the
                     beautiful blossoms of some parasitical plant, looking most tempting. Edward
                     begged me to stop the boat, that he might gather some of them. The flowers were
                     beyond his reach, and in his eagerness to pluck them he leaned too far, the
                     boat was propelled forward by his 'weight, and he fell into the water. Oh, how
                     fearfully then did a fiery train of dark and fiendish thoughts flash through my
                     brain! I knew that he could not swim. If I failed to rescue him, he must
                     die—die in the spring time of his years—die with the world untried, and with
                     every prospect bright and cheering—die with the warmth of love, of reciprocal
                     love, still glowing in his heart. When he was gone, might I not gain the love
                     that he had gained? Fierce, deadly, was the conflict between my mad passions
                     and my conscience. I confess that the thought was uppermost for one moment,
                     that he must die.
                  "'Robert, brother, save me!' came up from the waters. 'Oh, help, or I am
                     lost.'
                  "The memory of our happy childhood—of the days of youthful joyousness came
                     back. All my love for the gentle boy—the affectionate brother, returned once
                     more. I forgot that he was my rival. He must be saved.
                  "'Save him! Rescue your brother!' shrieked the bright creature by my side, and
                     she attempted to leap after him. But my hand was on her, with a firm grasp. I
                     seated her in the bottom of the
                     boat, and begged her to be quiet, and I would save him. Again came up the wild,
                     despairing cry. He rose, threw out his arms in bitter agony, and, before I
                     could loose myself from the grasp with which Lady Mary in her terror had seized
                     my arm, he began again to sink.
                  "Oh Heaven! I see him now. How slowly he sinks down through the waters, while I
                     plunged in after him. As soon as I reached him, he seized me with a drowning
                     man's grasp, which impeded my efforts, hampered my limbs, and dragged me down
                     to the bottom with him. I endeavored to rise and bring him to the surface, but
                     I could not. I attempted to loosen his grasp, but he clung to me still. A
                     terrible struggle then ensued. I felt my strength departing, and I knew that
                     even in death he would cling to me still. My sight and consciousness were
                     failing me rapidly, and it seemed as if my head would burst apart, while my
                     lungs and chest were filling with water. What a moment was that, when I felt
                     that death was nigh—that we two were dying together, and by a strange effort
                     and power of memory, my whole past life, with all its checkered history of joy
                     and sorrow, of passion and sin, of enjoyment and disappointment, was drawn out
                     and arrayed before my mind. In that one moment I seemed to have lived
                     years,—long, and busy, and suffering years. By some effort—how I know not—by
                     some desperate, but successful struggle, I freed my limbs, rose to the surface,
                     and reached the shore. It was several minutes, doubtless—perhaps many—before I
                     regained my consciousness. When I recovered and raised myself from the ground,
                     I saw the boat drifting at a short distance from the shore, with Lady Mary
                     stretched insensible on the bottom, and there, down deep in the clear water,
                     lying upon the golden sands, with his hair clustered thickly around his brow,
                     was Edward, my brother. He was at rest; his loving heart was still forever.
                  "My first care was to bring his body to the shore, and endeavor to recall him
                     to life. It was in vain. I then swam off to the boat and brought it to land. Without difficulty I was able to
                     revive the fair young girl who had been so suddenly be reaved of her lover, and
                     her heart and hopes so completely crushed. Would God that she had died then,
                     before she had come back to the consciousness of her loss. As she came to
                     herself, and to the knowledge that he was dead, she uttered a sharp cry of
                     agony, whose thrilling wail I even now often hear in my dreams. It was the cry
                     and the curse of the broken-hearted.
                  "'Slayer of the holy and pure—destroyer of the beautiful and innocent—murderer!
                     murderer of thy brother! The deep and eternal curse of heaven shall fall upon
                     thy head.'
                  "She thought that I had murdered him: that while I could have saved him, and
                     given him back to her love, I had allowed him to perish in his helplessness. I
                     tried to calm her madness, and to persuade her, but her ear was closed against
                     all my protestations. The shock had been too terrible for her reason; she was a
                     maniac. Poor girl! But she is dead now, and they sleep together beneath the
                     walls of the church where my fathers worshipped for many generations.
                  
                  "I went from home. For many years I was a wanderer in distant lands, and among
                     strange tribes. I endeavored to blot out the bitter memories of those days. I
                     knew that I was innocent of the great crime she had charged me with—that I
                     would have saved Edward, but I could not. And yet I was haunted with the
                     recollection of the dark thoughts which struggled in my bosom, and for the
                     moment, had the mastery over my reason and my conscience. I was not the
                     murderer of my brother, and yet had I not wished him dead—had not my heart
                     consented? I have but little recollection of those years of wandering and
                     suffering. I think I was not quite sane; that my diseased mind had lost its
                     balance. I can recall faint traces of those years, but they are like the dim
                     memories of a dream—there is nothing real, nothing connected and
                     consistent.
                  
                  
                  "Yes, I loved again, and again the earth looked bright and beautiful. We were
                     married, and that one year of bliss was like paradise to a soul that had
                     escaped from the torments of the lost. You, my child, were born. You had the
                     features of your father, softened and beautified by those of your sweet mother,
                     and I hoped and prayed that you might not be cursed with the wild and
                     impassioned dispositions which had been, hitherto, the bane of my existence,
                     but that you might resemble your uncle. I gave you his name. I called you
                     Edward, and when she died,—your beautiful and peerless mother,—when to all my
                     cup of suffering, this too was added by the hand of God, then I determined to
                     send you home to England, and to place you in the care of your family relations
                     there, that you might grow up under gentler nurture, and with holier and more
                     genial influences around you, than I can provide. To-morrow you will leave me,
                     my sweet child. I shall rejoin you in England, as soon as I can order my
                     affairs here, if it shall please heaven to give me life. But as life is
                     uncertain, and I feel mine to be so, I have written this memorial, and placed
                     it in the hands of a friend, from whom you will receive it, when you come to be
                     of age to understand it, should it be the will of God that I am to see you no
                     more."
                  
                  We shall now draw rapidly together the threads of our story. As the reader has
                     already divined, Edward was the son of Robert Sydenham, the brother of Sir
                     Thomas and of Lady Mountclare. He had been consigned, by the hands of William
                     Stedman, to a man who had acted for several years as the agent of Edward's
                     father in England, but who had, some months previously, been detected in a
                     fraudulent transaction with the bank, had made his escape to the continent, and
                     died there. Edward's father had never returned to England, nor had there been
                     any correspondence between him and his family, after the first year of his
                     absence, and consequently he was supposed to be dead until within the last
                     year, when Sir Thomas Sydenham had heard from Jamaica that his broth er had recently died on his estate in that
                     island, leaving a considerable property which he had acquired by his
                     marriage.
                  It was for the settlement of this very estate, that Edward had been sent out to
                     Jamaica, and thus by a singular and providential combination of circumstances,
                     he had been employed, without knowing it, in arranging his own business and
                     securing his own inheritance. Sir Thomas received his nephew with joy, and, as
                     we may readily suppose, interposed no further obstacles to his union with
                     Julienne. The legal proofs of his identity were easily procured, and he entered
                     upon possession of his property. A few months afterwards the marriage was
                     solemnized in London, and Edward and Julienne took up their abode at Walbury
                     Castle, happy in the calm and deep affection which bound their hearts in one;
                     and happy in doing good in the state of life to which it had pleased God to
                     call them.
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
