
    ----CITATION----
        Hope, Cecil.. Seabury Castle .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6798
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Seabury Castle
             
                SEABURY CASTLE. BY CECIL HOPE.  PHLADELPHA: J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. 1869.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.   SEABURY CASTLE. CHAPTER I. HE was miserable,-a miserable, disappointed man; --his hopes all blasted; his happiness blighted, by the baseness of a woman.-- And now what had he to look forward to but a life without aim or object, as she. who for several years had been the guiding star of his existence, to whom he had long been engaged, had ab- ruptly dismissed him when a more powerful rival appeared, his superior in rank and wealth? As these bitter reflections rushed through his mind, Edward Desmond threw himself on a sofa, and, covering his face with his hands, gave way to heartfelt anguish. A long fit of illness had been the consequence of his disappointment, from which he had just recovered, and which had left him nervous and debilitated to a degree which caused his friends to fear for his reason. The result of his reflections was to leave London and retire to his small paternal estate in a distant r                      ( 3(3) 980998     4       SEABURY CASTLE. county, there to pass the remainder of his days in strict seclusion, the world forgetting, by the world forgot. These resolutions were speedily carried into effect, and in a short time he found himself in the home of his ancestors, where he had everything but a contented mind to make him happy. But that was denied him, or, rather, he sought not for it, but weakly nursed his grief, and became a perfect recluse, never mixing in society, and rarely seeing any one, except on business. He had lived in this manner for several years, when the successive deaths of distant relatives made him Earl of Seabury and possessor of large estates. But, although he changed his residence, and removed to S6abury Castle, he still maintained his secluded style of living, and passed almost all his time in the library, becoming each day more and more disinclined for the society of his fellow-creatures. His life was a dream, without an object. In the morning he would say, "Would it were evening!" in the evening, "Would it were morningl" From this unnatural state he was at last aroused by the receipt of a letter from his only sister, who, since her marriage, had resided in India. Her husband, General Denbigh, had died of fever, and his widow, with her daughters, intended embarking for England, and were probably on their way before the letter could reach Lord Seabury.   SEABURY CASTLE.        5 He had long believed himself dead to natural affec- tion; but his feelings, when he perused this letter from his beloved Matilda, told him that this was not the case. His first impulse was to go himself to London to receive his sister and her children; but no, that could not be; so he wrote immediately to his agent to receive and procure apartments for them, and, as soon as possible, provide every facility for their journey to Seabury Castle. He inclosed a few lines to Mrs. Den- bigh, requesting it to be handed to her as soon as the ship arrived, urging her to come to him immediately, and to reside with him henceforth, adding,-"that is, dear Matilda, if you can be happy with only the so- ciety of a confirmed misanthrope,-a poor, sensitive, nervous invalid, -your once gay brother Edward. But come, come to him, and, if possible, endure his society and make allowances for his infirmities." Mrs. Denbigh and family in due time arrived in London, where this affectionate letter met with a ready response, and she, with her little girls and their attendants, were soon on their way to the mansion of her brother, which they reached late in the evening. Every preparation had been made for their reception, and they were met at the door by the respectable housekeeper, who conducted them to an apartment where a substantial supper was ready for the tired travelers. "Where is my brother? where is Lord Seabury?" 1*     6       SEABURY CAASTLE. inquired Mrs. Denbigh, glancing disappointedly around the room. "My'lord wishes you to refresh yourself, madam, and then he will see you in his dressing-room; he re- grets he is unable to see you." "Is his lordship ill?" asked Mrs. Denbigh, much alarmed. "No, madam, not more than usual. Perhaps he has been rather more nervous to-day. But please take some coffee; you and the young ladies must be much fa- tigued. " Surprised and saddened by this reception, so differ- ent from the warm, affectionate welcome she had anti- cipated, Mrs. Denbigh mechanically partook of some slight refreshment, while her little, hungry girls made a plentiful meal, casting their eyes in surprise on all around them, so different from their Indian home. They were about four and six years old, and were pale, delicate-looking children. Mrs. Denbigh soon rose to go to the apartment of her brother; and her little girls were about to follow, when the servant respectfully begged them to remain, as Lord Seabury had expressly said "he wished to see only Mrs. Denbigh." Surprised and hurt, Mrs. Denbigh followed the attendant through a splendid marble hall, up a stair- case covered with the softest carpet, into which the foot sunk, through several apartments, where every   SEABURY CASTLE.         7 precaution had been taken to exclude all noise from the -outer world, through an ante-chamber, and then into the presence of the earl. But how was she shocked when, she saw her loved brother, he whom she had left so vigorous in youth and manly strength, now a poor, emaciated, prematurely-old man, with hair perfectly white, the wreck of his former self! Any- where else she would not have known him. She had heard of his disappointment, but knew not to what an extent it had affected him. They affectionately embraced. He, though trem- bling in every limb, held her long in his arms, and expressed his pleasure at having his Matilda with him. But he was much excited, and was soon obliged to dismiss her, saying she must need repose. "We will meet at breakfast, dear Edward," she said; "I want you to see Honora and Evelyn." "I feaf I cannot at present see them, dear sister," replied the earl, rather embarrassed, and with a sickly smile. "I am too nervous to bear the noise of children. I hope they will be happy here; and at some future time we will talk of their education. And as for break- fast," he added, "I always take my meals in the library, and prefer them alone, as my hours are irreg- ular.'" Fondly he embraced, and theni motioned her to leave him, and, with a heavy heart, she obeyed. It was nearly a week before Lord Seabury would     8       SEAB URY CASTLE. see his little nieces, and then only to please their mo- ther he consented. She, after giving them particular directions about their deportment, accompanied them o the library, where their uncle was seated. The windows were darkened, and the room had the most gloomy appearance. Involuntarily the trembling, frightened children clung to their mother, as, after much persuasion, she induced them to approach their formidable relative, who, in a weak voice, welcomed them with extended hand. He was dressed ina velvet gown, with a cap of the same material, which added to his somber appearance. He spoke kindly to each, and remarked on their growth, etc., and shortly after, to their evident, joy, dismissed them. After this interview, every .day they were obliged to go through the same ceremony, as their mother hoped they would in time get over the fear of their uncle, and become a source of pleasure and amuse- ment to the poor invalid, who dreaded these visits as much as they did themselves. But no; their dread still continued. Mrs. Denbigh thought it-would be best for them to see him when she was not by. So, one morning she selected the finest of the fruit which the gardener had just brought from the hot-house, and, placing them. on two china plates, gave one to each child, with a re- quest to take them to Lord Seabury. t'i   SEABURY CASTLE.        9 "Go, my dears, take these peaches and grapes to your uncle, and ask him how he feels to-day." "Mamma will go too?" said Evelyn, hesitatingly. "No, not now, love; I am engaged. But go, my little ones, and be very quiet." Tremblingly they obeyed, but lingered on the way. At last, Honora, summoning all her courage, said, "How foolish I he will not eat us. I'm the oldest; I'll go first. And you, Eva, be close behind me. We'll put them on his table, and won't speak." "Yes; but, Nora, mamma says we must ask him how he is; so we'll have to speak." "No matter," said Nora, resolutely. "We can ask him that after we get to the door, while he's looking. at the fruit. Come; don't be afraid." With an assumption of courage she was far from feeling, she boldly advanced and knocked at the door. It was so low, however, it was not heard; and after awhile she was obliged to repeat it, when a feeble voice bade her enter. Poor Honora, in her fright, rushed, rather than walked, to the table, and was about placing her burden there, when she slipped over Lord Seabury's foot, and nearly fell into his arms, the peaches scattering in all directions. "Child, what is the matter?" he exclaimed. "Have you hurt yourself?" (tenderly raising her.) "Oh, uncle, have I hurt you?" gasped the trembling child, reassured, however, by his kind manner.     10       SEABURY CASTLE. Gently placing her on a chair by himself, "But what is all this, dear children?" as Evelyn timidly ad- vanced with her offering of grapes, which she hastily put on the table, and then busied herself gathering the scattered peaches. "Thank you, my dears," said the earl, kindly. "Where is your mother? and how does it happen that you have come to visit me alone this morning?" "Mamma is busy, and couldn't come. She told us to ask how you feel to-day," answered Nora, shyly. "But, Nora, we were to ask that at the door,' said Evelyn, withdrawing. "And why there?" inquired the earl, much sur- prised. "Well, uncle," said Nora, fixing her honest eyes upon him, "we were afraid of you, and didn't wish to come; but mamma told us to." "So you obeyed your mother, although so dis- agreeable to see your old uncle?" "No, no," said Evelyn, with tears in her eyes; "but we think-we thought -' (confusedly.) "What did you think, my children?" "We thought-that--" hanging their heads, "that you don't like us." From this time a change came over Lord Seabury. He exerted himself to amuse his nieces and gain their affections. And in a short time he succeeded. Their fears gradually wore off; and it was no longer   SEABURY CASTLE.        " a dread, but a pleasure, for them to pay him daily visits. Mrs. Denbigh delighted in the change.  She wished to rouse her brother from the melancholy state in which he had so long been plunged; and in some measure she succeeded. The artless prattle of his nieces soothed the poor invalid, and drew his mind from his own gloomy thoughts. And they were perfectly happy; their sickly appearance had vanished, and left them rosy and healthy-looking. Their mother gave them  daily lessons, and they rapidly improved under her instructions. Her mind was highly cultivated, and she determined to teach them herself as long as she could, as she dreaded giving them up to a governess, as she supposed at some future time she would be obliged to. But she put far off the evil day, and gave herself to the task of love she had imposed upon herself. She also cultivated the hearts of her loved ones, and was rewarded by seeing their increased advancement in all that was right and good.     CHAPTER    II. TWO years had rapidly passed. Honora, a spark- ling, lively child, was sometimes a little heed- less, but always kind, frank, and affectionate. Evelyn, two years her junior, was gentle and retiring. Lord Seabury was fond of both. Honora he liked best with him when he felt well; her playful sallies en- livened him, and brought many a smile to his wan cheeks. Evelyn he never tired of having around him; she was so gentle in all her movements, her voice so low and dulcet, she gave him a feeling of repose. They were both equally dear; he could not tell which he preferred. One afternoon, the children and their mother were with him in the library, occupied with a book of pressed flowers which they had themselves prepared, and which they exhibited to their uncle, who exam- ined them with interest. "This is my favorite flower," said he, looking at a water-lily; "but I seldom meet with any now." "Your favorite flower, uncle dearl" exclaimed Honora, starting from  her seat: "how shameful that you never have them any morel"And imme- (12)   SEAB URY CASTLE.        13 diately, without another word, she left the apart- ment. The afternoon passed; the book was closed; but still ITonora was absent. "Where can the child be?" said her mother, after vainly expecting her to return. "Evelyn, love, find your sister." In vain she searched.  The servants were dis- patched in various directions, but no Honora ap- peared. Darkness was beginning to overspread the earth, and they were becoming seriously alarmed, when her gay voice was heard, as she appeared on the lawn with a basketful of her uncle's favorite flowers, which, with much trouble, she had herself procured. They were gratefully received; but, at the same time, she was enjoined not to go on the lake alone, particularly at that hour. "I knew you liked them; and I could not wait until to-morrow, uncle dear," said the sweet child, with sparkling eyes and cheeks glowing with animation. "I think we must soon have a governess for our little girls," Lord Seabury said, one morning, as, reclining on his couch, he watched their gambols around the apartment. "Not at present, nor for some time to come, I hope," replied their mother. "I shall continue to teach them myself several years yet, I trust." 2     "      SEABURY CASTLE. But "man proposes, God disposes." That very night Mrs. Denbigh was taken suddenly and danger- ously ill. The best medical advice from the neighbor- ing town, and then from London, was summoned; but all their skill was of no avail. The alarming symptoms rapidly increased; and in less than a week she died, and left her children orphans. The earl's too sensitive nature sunk under this shock. All his morbid feelings returned, and he shut himself in his apartments.  The poor little girls, after the first burst of grief, wandered hand in hand through the house and about the grounds, neglected and nearly forgotten by all but their faithful nurse, who never lost sight of them. About a month after the death of Mrs. Denbigh, the orphan children were seated on the lawn under a large tree. They were not playing, as most children of their age would be, but, nestling close to each other, were weeping bitterly. "I want my mamma, my dear mamma," sobbed little Evelyn. "Dear mamma, come to usl" cried Honora; "we are all alone.", A deep sigh answered their cries. The frightened children, looking up, saw their uncle standing before them, pale, cadaverous, and ema- ciated.   SEABURY CASTLE.        15 Tenderly regarding them for a moment, he opened his arms and pressed them alternately to his heart. "Dear ones," he exclaimed, "you are not alone; you still have me, your uncle, although I have shame- fully neglected you. My darlings, I will endeavor to atone for my error, and be a father to you, my poor forsaken ones." His kindness and caresses cheered the little ones; and in a short time they were conversing in their childish way with their uncle. A pang shot through his heart when he looked at them, all that remained of his lost Matilda; and he determined to rouse himself from his supineness and live for the helpless ones of whom he was now the only protector. A veil seemed removed from before his eyes; he saw his conduct in its true light, and blushed for his weakness and selfishness. "I will devote myself to your welfare, my chil- dren," he said, "and your happiness shall be my chief care, so help me God!" And he nobly kept his vow. They were henceforth constantly with him; he was their companion in their walks and drives; he assisted in and superintended their studies, and, in ministering to their necessities, became a more cheerful and a better man--although it required time to work such a change. Sometimes the dull, morbid feelings would return, and he would retire to     16       SEABURY CASTLE. his apartments for days together. But these spells became more and more rare; and by the time his nieces had grown, they had almost entirely dis- appeared. But still there was always a sadness about his general manner, which never entirely left him. He engaged a highly respectable governess, a widow of middle age, capable, religious, lady-like, and accomplished; and under her judicious care they soon became all he could wish. There were but few persons who visited at Sea- bury Castle. One of the favored few was Mrs. War- renton, whose residence was some miles distant, but who passed much of her time in London or on the continent; therefore she was seldom at Warrenton Manor, of which she was the mistress during the minority of her only son, a youth at school. But, whenever there, she always called at the castle, as she and Mrs. Denbigh in their youthful days had been most intimate friends; and she took a great in- terest in the orphan children. She pitied them, living with their recluse relative, and wrote to him, offering to take them under her care most gladly, as with her they would probably have more advantages in the way of education, certainly in society. This kind offer was, of course, refused; but Lord Seabury oc- casionally consulted the friend of their mother about their accomplishments, etc.; and she it was who pro-   SEABUR Y CASTLE.       17 cured for them their good and talented governess, Mrs. Clifton. Mrs. Warrenton was a fashionable, rich widow, fond of the world and of its pleasures; her house was always the resort of the gay, and at the same time of the tal- ented. Poets, artists, authors, and politicians (pro- vided the latter were on her side of the question) found a welcome at her hospitable mansion, and the gay, bright, and intellectual Mrs. Warrenton was followed and sought after by all. Under a lively and worldly manner she concealed a warm, unselfish heart; and many a poor and destitute one was clothed and fed from her ample means. What a pity that, with all these fine qualities, she should have been destitute of the only true source of happiness I Mrs. Warrenton occasionally attended church, occasionally read a chap- ter in her Bible, or a sermon, because she had been brought up to think it right to do so; but there her religion ended. She was truly a woman of the world. There was one other family where our children visited, and but one; and there they were loved and cherished,-their worthy rector and his wife, now both well advanced in years, and both bright examples of the Christian religion,-"Israelites indeed, in whom there was no guile." They were ever welcome at the rectory, and there sat at the feet of their loved friends and learned lessons of wisdom from their lips. The worthy Dr. Manners instructed them in their religious 2*     18      SEABURY CASTLE. duties, which, combined with the teachings of their gentle governess and the early instructions' of their departed mother, " was like good seed sown in good ground." They were watched over and guarded by their kind rector; and, oh, how fervently did he pray that they might be the instruments of spiritual good to their uncle! Lord Seabury (although kind and good in every re- spect but one) was not a Christian. In his hours of grief he had not sought consolation where alone it can be found. He seldom opened his Bible, and of course his mind was left in darkness. But he respected true religion, although he was not himself a recipient of its sovereign power and had never experienced its healing balm. One day he sought his nieces. They were not. in the school-room; but in the library he found them, ensconced in a bay-window, where Honora was read- ing aloud from a large book, and Evelyn, with clasped hands, was listening with the deepest attention. He entered unobserved. Honora read slowly and impress- ively the words of eternal life, and, when she had finished, returned the book to the shelf from whence she had taken it. "Dear Bible!" she said. "Oh, let me kiss it too, Nora dear," said Evelyn. "You once belonged to mamma, dear Bible, and I love you; but"-after a pause -"I love you more for telling me of Jesus."   SEABURY CASTLE.  Unobserved Lord Seabury had entered; unob- served he left the library, and retired to his private room. He searched for a copy of the Scriptures, and, after some difficulty, found one, covered with dust. He perused the portion just read by Honora, and pon- dered its contents. And this volume became his daily study, and soon he felt its blessed influences stealing into his heart, and Lord Seabury became a new man. He established schools; he visited the poor and sick; he assisted his pastor in his labors of love, and became (no longer a weak, selfish misanthrope) the friend of the helpless,-the encourager of honest industry,-the benefactor of his people. But this was not all done in a day, but was the work  of years. With his mind thus occupied, his energies thus employed, he regained, in a great measure, his health and cheerfulness, and, although never gay, was the refined, intellectual, gentle companion.     CHAPTER    III. TIME sped on. Our little girls had now arrived at early womanhood. They had improved in ap- pearance, and the once sickly-looking Indian children had now become blooming, healthy Englishwomen. Honora, bright, gay and sparkling, with blue eyes and brilliant complexion, her form finely developing, in- clining rather to embonpoint; Evelyn, slighter, darker, with large, brown, expressive eyes. They were both attractive, but totally different. They were very happy in their solitude, with their recluse uncle,-their days passing in innocent amusements and useful pursuits. One bright afternoon, the sisters, accompanied by Mrs. Clifton, proceeded to the beach, where they occu- pied themselves gathering sea-weed to dry, while their governess reclined on a rustic seat. Honora playfully cast a flower into the water, and amused herself watch- ing its progress as it rose, then sunk on the briny wave. "There I go, sweet flower, to other climes, and then come back and tell us of all the beautiful places you have seen. Do you know, Eva," turning to her sister, "I am perfectly happy here? but sometimes-nay, look not so grave, my child: I am not going to say anything (20)   SEABURY CASTLE.        21 so very horrible-sometimes I have an irrepressible longing to see that bright world of which we have heard,-to be a participant in those gay scenes which Mrs. Warrenton so often describes,-to attend one ball, only one; then I shall be satisfied." "Do you think one would satisfy you, Honora?" inquired Mrs. Clifton, who had overheard her remarks. "I think it would, but cannot tell, dear Mrs. Clifton," answered the lively girl, dancing up to her. "Oh, I should like to join in the mazy dance to the sound of exciting music! Come, Eva I now for a waltz"-whirling her sister around, Mrs. Clifton sing- ing the tune, and beating time with her foot. They were both exhilarated with the exercise, but, after awhile, were, obliged to rest by their governess. Honora, throwing herself on the sand, was soon en- grossed with her employment,-that of heaping it in fantastic shapes. "And you, Evelyn," said Mrs. Clifton, resuming the conversation which the waltz had interrupted; "would you also like to enter the gay world and taste of its pleasures?" Evelyn reflected. "I think I would like to dance," she said; "but of all amusements I should prefer the opera. Oh, when we go to London, that will be my dissipation. Let Nora attend balls; give n'e music." And she sweetly warbled an air from the opera of Lucia. She had not a powerful, but a clear voice, full     22       SEABURY CASTLE. of expression, which gave a peculiar charm to every note. MrS. Clifton and Honora remained silent while she sang, and then, rising, the governess said it was time to return to the castle. Turning to collect their spoils, what was their astonishment to see two young men at a very short distance behind them, partly hid- den by a projecting rock, who probably had heard their every word and noted their every action. Ob- serving that they were detected, they passed on, politely bowing, and casting many "longing, linger- ing looks behind." Much confused, and coloring deeply, the sisters followed their governess, after awhile the silence being broken by Honora saying, in a merry voice, "How very unfortunate that we should have been seen in such a plight!" laughingly showing her dress, wet with the' surf, and covered with sand, to the inspection of her sister. But they did not know how lovely they had looked in their unstudied at- titudes, with their beautiful hair floating in wild dis- order. "Who can they be?" said they. These young girls lived so secluded, it was an event meeting these stran- gers. "Probably visitors at the manor," replied Mrs. Clif- ton. "Mrs. Manners mentioned yesterday that Mrs. Warrenton had arrived with company and intended remaining some time."   SEA BUR Y CASTLE.       23 "Who can they be?" repeated Honora to her sister, as they sought their couch. Evelyn laughed. "I suppose you will dream of them, Nora. I scarcely noticed them, and would not know them again." "I should," said Honora'. Who can they be?"     CHAPTER IV. -MRS. WARRENTON," exclaimed Sir Harry Drayton, almost rushing into the morning room at the manor, where that lady was seated at her embroidery-frame, "excuse me for my abruptness, but, please tell me, have you fairies in this neighbor- hood? for Clare and I have just met with the two most beautiful creatures in the world; or rather they must be sea-nymphs, for we saw them dancing and sporting, not on, but near, the briny deep." 'Really, Sir Harry, you are incomprehensible," laughed his hostess. "I must ask Mr. Clare where you have been, and who you have seen. Perhaps he will be able to give me a more correct description of these enchanting beings. Mr. Clare, where are these fairies to be found? If come-at-able, I will certainly have them here." "Do, d&ar Mrs. Warrenton; you are so good i"And the young baronet fairly danced in his excitement, and then, in a more sober strain, gave his fairhearer an account of their adventure by the sea-shore, repeating the conversation they had overheard, describing the (24) %i   SEAB UR Y CASTLE.       25 waltz, and dwelling on the heavenlyvoice of the beau- tiful songstress. ' Hush, Sir Harry! Stop I you have said enough. That sweet voice, that lovely countenance, can never be described," said Mr. Clare. He spoke with feeling. Sir Harry laughed. "Well, I am enchanted with both, but cannot tell which I prefer. Well, Clare, since you admire St. Cecilia the most, I shall be contented with the beau- tiful sea-nymph. But, dear Mrs. Warrenton, you have not answered my question. Can you tell us who they are? or have they dropped from   the sky?" Mrs. Warrenton thought-then smiled. An idea had just occurred to her. "I think I know them. If I am right, you will prob- ably see them here. If you are very good, you shall both be introduced. But, "-interrupting them, as they were about to speak, "but ask me no questions. You must be obedient if you wish to be rewarded So, Sir Harry, I must make you acquainted to-day with poor Miss Bellinger, who knows no one here, and to whom you must make the agreeable.'" Sir Harry made a wry face, but promised obedience, and she left them, to meet Lady Fitzhugh, the mother of Mr. Clare, who just then entered. He approached, and tenderly inquired after her health. 3     SEABURY CASTLE.   "Oh, Arthur, I have had the most delightful ram- ble! If you had only been with me, my pleasure would have been much increased. What perfect views, dear Mrs. Warrenton! what a paradise this part of the country is!" "Indeed, I really begin to think so too," Mrs. War- renton said, significantly glancing at the young men, and archly smiling. "But now, Sir Harry, you must look and behave your best to-day, to make an impres- sion on a fair lady's heart. - I aim determined upon it. So go, and make yourself irresistible." After some more laughing conversation, the party separated to dress for dinner. They were a lively assemblage of the young and middle-aged, the sensible and the witty; but the thoughts of the two young men wandered from the bright, perfumed apartments, with their many lights, their exhilarating music, and gay laughter, to the afternoon's scene on the lonely shore, where they had seen the artless children of nature, so different from the artificial women by whom they were surrounded. Sir Harry was very silent, and was rallied on his abstraction. He did not confess the cause. An un- accountable feeling prompted both Mr. Clare and him- self to be silent on the subject which engrossed their minds, and which they had only mentioned to Mrs. Warrenton hoping to receive the information they de-   i   I   SEABURY CASTLE.        2 sired from her. But in this they were disappointed, as she would no longer converse with them on the subject, but turned the conversation to some'other topic. They were, therefore, obliged, though rather impatiently, to wait for the time when their curiosity, or, more prop- erly, their deep interest, would be satisfied by an intro- duction to the fair incognitas. ,       CHAPTER V.   "ORD SEABURY declined accompanying his nieces the next day, when they departed with their gov- erness for their daily walk. He had letters to write, and also expected his steward on business. So he said that, if released in time, he would join them on the rocks. "WTe will walk in a different direction this after- noon, my lord," said Mrs. Clifton; "we will take the south road; and there you will find us, on the cliff." Honora looked archly at her governess. "You dear, suspicious Mrs. Clifton! H know why you in- tend taking us a different path from that of yesterday. You cannot deceive me. You are fearing we will meet the strangers we saw in the afternoon. Any- how," she added, laughing, and looking very mischiev- ous, "anyhow, I think we shall see them; for I have no doubt but we have made a great impression on them, with our dancing and our singing and our con- versation, which they must certainly have overheard." But, if she really expected to meet them, she must have been disappointed; for the young men did not make their appearance. But in their stead, when they (28)   SEABURY CASTLE.      29   reached the cliff, they saw a lady seated on a rock, with a book in her hand; but her eyes were fixed upon the sparkling ocean. Her attitude was picturesque, as she seemed absorbed watching the waves, which broke at the base of the rock on which she was seated. They were about to retire, when suddenly she turned her head and saw the sisters. With a smile, she beck- oned them to come nearer. "Is not this scene sublime?" she said, in low, sil- very accents. "Here I feel I could never tire gazing on this magnificent ocean!" Her face kindled with enthusiasm as she spoke. "But I have intruded, and usurped your place," she added, observing the sketch- ing-materials in their hands. "Not at all," replied Mrs. Clifton, politely, to whom the last observation had been addressed. "There is sufficient room on this rock for us all." "Oh, do not go," exclaimed the sisters, impul- sively, seating themselves at a short distance from their new friend. "I have been here some little time, I believe,7 she said; "itseems short to me,-I have been so much interested. Mrs. Warrenton left me here, and prom- ised to come for me after calling at the rectory. I am staying with her at the manor. You are acquainted with her, I presume?" "Oh, yes,-very well," they both answered. The lady then continued the conversation, which 3*    30       SEAB URY CASTLE. was not confined to. Mrs. Warrenton. She spoke of the continent, of Italy particularly, where she said she had passed many years, and had but very lately returned to her' native country. But, in every place where she had been, she had never witnessed a more beautiful scene than the one now before her. "This magnificent sunset, those rich, golden clouds, this splendid ocean, and the accompaniments of this lovely scene!" giving an admiring glance to the fair girls, who blushed when their eyes met hers. Mrs. Clifton joined in the conversation with ease. She knew that with any guest of Mrs. Warrenton she could safely permit her young charges to become acquainted, as her friends were unexceptionable. She was pleased with the stranger, who was evidently' a person of distinction. Honora and Evelyn were completely fascinated. They said but little; but their glowing cheeks and vary- ing expression told how much they were interested. She, the stranger lady, was apparently about thirty- eight, but in reality much older. She was dressed with exquisite taste, combined with elegant simplicity. Nature had done much for her, perhaps assisted by art, whose work, however, was not perceptible, par- ticularly to the artless eyes of her unsophisticated companions. To them she looked perfectly beautiful. Her manners won their hearts,---soft, gentle, and refined. She possessed that "most excellent thing   SEABUR Y CASTLE.        31 in woman,"--a sweet, low voice, of which every accent penetrated to the heart. They were all startled when they saw Mrs. War- renton close behind them, accompanied by another lady. She was delighted to meet Mrs. Clifton and her young friends. "How is your uncle? If I had had time, I would have called to-day, but thought my first visit should be to Mrs. Manners. I hope to come, however, very soon; and you must both prepare for some gayety. It is time you should see a little of the world-particularly Honora, who looks, with those bright eyes, as if she would not despise a few of its pleasures. I do indeed wish to see and consult with your uncle about both o f you. So, adieu, my dears,'; aafectionately embracing them. "It is time for us to return for dinner, and our gen- tlemen will be impatient, and nearly starved. Are you ready, my lady? I regret to have detained you so long. " "Make no apologies, dear Mrs. Warrenton," said the lady, reluctantly rising. "I have been most agreea- bly entertained, and feel loth to leave this charming spot. But I fancy it is time for us to go, as Arthur will wonder what has become of us. We will meet again, I trust," extending her hand to Mrs. Clifton, and then to the sisters. The soft, clinging pressure of that velvety hand thrilled through them. With a     32       SEAB URY CASTLE. graceful adieu she departed, and left an indelible impres- sion on their hearts. They-had never been so attracted toward any one before. Honora was full of her grace and sweetness, and described her to Lord Seabury, whom they met near the castle gates. "Uncle, the most lovely woman!-the  sweetest creature!-a friend of Mrs. Warrenton 1" "Oh!" he said, smiling at her enthusiasm: "where is she to be found?" And then both sisters told him of their meeting with the stranger lady, in which they were joined by Mrs. Clifton, who, in no measured terms, described her appearance and manners as those of the most elegant and fascinating being she had ever seen. "You are all enchanted," said the earl. Then he repeated, musingly, "A friend of Mrs. Warrenton." Then, in a lighter tone, "Oh! then it is an adventuress you have become acquainted with," mischievously smiling. "How can you talk so, uncle? You should see her yourself!" they both indignantly exclaimed.  "And by what appellation is this wonderful creature known, who has won not only your hearts, but Mrs. Clifton's also?" They looked inquiringly at each other. "Mrs. Somers, I believe," replied Mrs. Clifton: "did not Mrs. Warrenton address her by that name?" "No," said Honora: "the person who was with her   SEABURY CASTLE.        33 she called by that name; but now I recollect she only said 'my lady.'  The next morning Mrs. Warrenton came alone, and had a long conversation with Lord Seabury, who was pleased to see his old friend. She invited them all to pass a week at the manor; but this he positively re- fused, until he met the beseeching eyes of his nieces, par- ticularly Honora's; his resolve wavered, and he partly, and at last entirely, promised for them. Of course he could not accept; but his nieces-well, they might, he supposed,-with Mrs. Clifton, if they would promise to be good little girls, and obey her and their kind friend. H-e gave her a "carte blanche" to procure everything she thought necessary from London for the Misses Denbigh; and she delightedly promised to give a prompt order for their handsome wardrobe, such as the Earl of Seabury's nieces should have. The ball would take place in a week, and then the sisters would make their first appearance, and remain at the manor with their governess some time longer, Lord Seabury sighed, then smiled. "I suppose I must give lmy daulghters up some day; so I must try to accustom myself to their absence." "No, uncle, we will never leave you," cried Honora, putting her arms around him, while Evelyn nestled more closely to his side. "Oh, yes, you will, loves; but we will not antici- pate," fondly patting Honora's rosy cheek, while his arm encircled the more timid Evelyn.     CASTLE. ton, after a private confab with Mrs. Clif- parture, delighted that she had so easily )r wishes, but without having mentioned beautiful stranger. Honora and Evelyn t; but Mrs. Warrenton had so much to .le and governess that they had not the n the subject, and- the earl seemed to   I   CHAPTER       VI. AND now all was bustle and preparation at the cas- tle, and the week soon passed, bringing around the eventful morning. Luncheon was over, the carriage at the door,-all ready, but to bid adieu to their kind uncle. And now the sisters seemed to realize how lonely he would be without them. "Uncle, I will not leave you," said Evelyn. "Let me remain. Nora can go; she is the oldest. I shall. stay with you." " No, Eva: I will stay. I will not leave my darling uncle so desolate." "How little we have thought of him I How thought- less we have been !" "Nonsense, children  you must both go. I shall scarcely miss you, as I have much to attend to. Mr. Marston, my agent from London, I expect this even- ing; and he will keep me busy. So go, my darlings, without any regrets, and enjoy yourselves all the time. You can stay ten days, and must take turis writing to me every day." He pressed them alternately to his heart, then assisted them into the carriage. (35)    36       SEAB URY CASTLE. With tears they parted; but the novelty of their situa- tion soon dispelled their sad reflections. Evelyn felt a little nervous when she thought of her debut at War- renton Manor, Honora excited, and Mrs. Clifton (if the truh must be told) a little exhilarated at'the idea of the change. Long before the reverse in her circum- stances, she had been an intimate friend of Mrs. Warrenton; and this intimacy still continued. Mrs. Warrenton respected and loved her, and always treated her with marked deference and attention. She was not one to neglect a friend, however changed her situation. In gay, rather incoherent, conversation, the time flew, and they were soon at the park-gates of Warren- ton Manor. Their hostess had given express directions that they should alight at the private entrance, as she did not wish her young friends to be seen until the evening, when they were to burst upon her guests as bright luminaries. They were conducted to their apartments by Mrs. Warrenton's maid, and were soon visited by that lady, who expressed much gratification at seeing them. The sisters occupied the same room, and Mrs. Clifton's communicated with theirs. "I shall keep you close prisoners up-stairs until this evening. Your dinner will be brought to you in my morning-rrom, if you like, where you will not meet any one. Do rest yourselves, and be sure to look your best this evening. But let me see your dresses," (which their maid was busy unpacking.)  Expressing her   SEABURY CASTLE.        37 satisfaction that her orders had been so well carried out, she soon withdrew. Some time after, they were summoned to dinner. On their way they passed a lighted apartment, the door of which was partly open. They did not see any one, but they heard the sweet tones of that voice never to be forgotten,--that voice, which thrilled to their very hearts, of their unknown friend of the cliff. "We shall see her again," whispered Evelyn, as they partly paused, and glanced at the door. "Will she recognize us,--that lovely woman?" The rooms were brilliantly illuminated, when, at the appointed hour, Honora and Evelyn, with their governess, descended to the saloon where Mrs. War-. renton had requested them to meet her. She ap- peared very handsome, in lace and diamonds. The sisters looked beautiful in white, with pearls for their only ornaments, the gift of their uncle. No one had as yet arrived; and while their kind hostess expressed her. admiration at their appearance in low tones to Mrs. Clifton, they gazed with delight at the fairy scene around them. Honora's eyes sparkled with excitement, while the more timid Evelyn, after the first moment of delight, scarcely raised hers from the ground. Soon the sound of carriage-wheels was heard on the gravel, and laughing and gaey talking resounded through the house, and the guests began to assemble. 4     38      SEABURY CASTLE. All the neighboring gentry, and many strangers from the watering-place some few miles distant, had been invited. The house was also filled with friends and gay acquaintances staying at the manor, none of whom  had as yet made their appearance. Mrs. Warrenton kindly stationed our two novices very near her, and, when she received her company, intro- duced them to those whom she thought their uncle would approve. Some were entire strangers, others old friends of Lord Seabury and Mrs. Denbigh, who gladly recognized them. "Lady Stanley, these young ladies are Honora and Evelyn Denbigh, the' daughters of your old friend," said Mrs. Warrenton to a middle-aged, prepossessing- looking lady, who warmly expressed her pleasure at meeting the children of her once most intimate friend. "How much you resemble your mother!" (to Eve- lyn ;) "you are just as she was at your age. Oh, how I loved her! Many happy hours we have passed to- gether. But she married and went to India, and I lost sight of her.' And you, dear,"' (to Honora,) "you are like your father's family. I must introduce my son to you; he will be so delighted to see you. He has been much in the world, and is a little blase, and declares he will never marry, as he is disgusted with the fashionable young ladies of the present day. I fancy that now, however, he will change his mind." She beckoned to a handsome, intelligent-looking \      .     SEABURY CASTLE.        39 young man, whose gaze had been riveted on the sisters since he had entered the room; and he eagerly obeyed his mother's summons. "My son, Mr. Stanley, the Misses Denbigh. Augus- tus, you have often heard me speak of their mother." "Yes," he replied; "and I have wished for an op- portunity to make their acquaintance. But hark! Miss Denbigh, do you hear the music? May I have the honor of your hand for this quadrille?" in an easy but respectful manner offering his arm to Evelyn; but she, trembling and shrinking, begged to be ex- cused. * "What a singular young lady,!" he gayly said, "not to be fond of dancing! but perhaps you would prefer to waltz?" "Oh, no, excuse me; I have no intention of dan- cing, and would prefer remaining here." "Astonishinog!" he said, laughing. Then, turning to Honora, "May I presume to ask you to accept me, Miss Denbigh, after your sister's unkind refusal?" "Certainly," answered Honora, joy and excitement sparkling in her eyes. They soon took their places; and 'she, in the ex- hilaration of the dance, soon forgot all her fears. She was passionately fond of the amusement, and ac- quitted herself with ease and grace, although in a whirl of delight. In the pauses of the dance, she was amused with the conversation of her partner, which     4 O      SEAB URY CASTLE. was agreeable and entertaining, although slightly in- clined to sarcasm. "Miss Denbigh, do you see that would-be young lady on the sofa? She is anxiously waiting for Mr. Clare, whom she has long been trying to captivate, but he has as yet remained invulnerable to her charms. She is an heir , and his mother is anxious for the match. But I  now Arthur Clare too well to sup- pose that he will ever marry for base lucre," he added. Ionora's grace and beauty excited general admira- tion. Many were introduced to her, and she was soon the belle of the ball-room. Mrs. Warrenton at last approached, leaning on the arm of a remarkably handsome young man. "Sir Harry Drayton, my love, wishes the pleasure of your acquaintance." Honora raised her eyes. What was her confusion when she met those of one of the strangers she had seen on the beach so short a time before I He smiled his own peculiarly bright smile. "We have seen each other before, I think, Miss Denbigh?" She colored deeply, when the remembrance of the ludicrousness of the scene, and the prominent part she had played in it, excited her risible faculties, and she burst into a musical laugh, as she archly said:. "I hope you and your friend were amused."   SEAABURY CASTLE.        41 "Amused!" he exclaimed; "amused, Miss Denbigh! We were enchanted. But I know you are fond of waltzing. Will you honor me?" 'I am engaged for the next, and the one after," consulting her tablets. "Then let it be the third." Sir Harry remained near her during these dances, and, when they were over, claimed her promise, and at its close led her in to supper. During the remainder of this pleasant evening he was her constant attend- ant. Mrs. Warrenton, observing his devotion, playfully shook her finger at him; but he only laughed in re- turn. He was completely fascinated with the beauty and artlessness of his companion; and before the evening closed he was irretrievably in love. And where was our little Evelyn all this time? How had she passed this evening which her sister so much enjoyed?  She had refused numberless invita- tions tocdance, and, seated by Mrs. Clifton, was a quiet spectator of the gay scene, unconscious that she herself was the object of much attention, as her pure and classic beauty attracted the admiration of many, Some compared her to a beautiful statue; others; when she spoke or smiled, to an angelic being. But of the two H-onora was perhaps the most admired, as Evelyn was too retiring to suit the general taste. She was conversing with her governess, when she 4*     42       SEABURY CASTLE. suddenly stopped-a slight bustle behind her-then the silvery tones of that voice, never to be forgotten, stole upon her ear. She hastily turned, and there, seated upon a couch, was the graceful form of the lady of the cliff. How very lovely she looked, as her brilliant star-like eyes were fixed with a look of glad surprise upon Evelyn, as she arose and involuntarily approached her! "How happy I am to see you again, my love!" she sweetly said, extending her hands. "I have thought constantly of you and your sweet sister." Then, observing Mrs. Clifton, she immediately re- cognized and spoke some words of kind greeting to her. The charm of her manner restored the timid, shrinking girl to ease; and in the fascinating society of her new friend she was soon lost to all else. "And where is your beautiful sister?" the lady said, after the first pause. "Oh, Honoral She is enjoying herself in the ball- room." "And why are you not with her? Why are you not also partaking of that amusement?" Evelyn smiled, and blushed. "I am afraid you will think me very foolish, but I scarcely have courage to stand up before so many people."  "Sweet child of nature!" said her companion, press- ing the hand which she had retained in hers. "But    SEAB UR Y CASTLE.       43 how long will this last?" she added, in a musing tone. She softly sighed. "I have thought inces- santly of you and your sister since meeting you on the cliff; you, particularly, remind me much of some one I have known in early life. I inquired of Mrs. Warrenton, who only gave me your name, with the information that you reside with your uncle, Lord Seabury." "Yes, we have lived with our dear uncle ever since mamnma left us. 'He is like a father to us," (tears of grateful affection filling her eyes.) "Our own father died when we were little things." "You love him very much, I suppose. But there is Arthur at last. How glad I am that he has made his appearance, although such a laggard! I was almost afraid he would disappoint me to-night." Evelyn followed, with her eyes, the glances of her companion to a distant door, where, standing near it, in an abstracted attitude, was a distinguished-looking young man, tall, with wavy light hair. His mother signed him to approach, and at last, seeing her, he with some difficulty threaded his way through the groups around him. His whole expression changed, and his listless manner left him, and his dark-gray eyes lighted with pleasure when he saw Evelyn and recognized her as the songstress who had so capti- vated his fancy on the sea-shore. But he was not permitted as yet to approach; for there, immediately     "      SEABURY CASTLE. by his side, was Miss Sidney, who addressed him, and by every art in her power endeavored to keep him near her. His mother smiled and looked pleased. "Oh, he has met Miss Sidney; and now I need not expect him, as he never knows when to leave her." Evelyn, with surprise, gazed on Miss Sidney, who was remarkably unprepossessing in her appearance; her manners, as well as she could judge at the dis- tance, were flippant, her laugh loud, and her dress in the extreme of the mode. She appeared past thirty, oF more. "It must be her conversation which is so attractive," she thought. But no; Arthur Clare listened in an absent manner to her long tirade. His thoughts seemed not with her. At last, abruptly, and rather impatiently, he bowed, with a brief " excuse me," and drew near to the couch where his mother and Evelyn were seated. "Arthur, how could you be so rude to Miss Sidney? How could you leave her?" "Mother, I am tired of her, and her affectation, and her purse-proud superiority." "Hush, my soul you forget yourself," in a gentle, reproving manner. Evelyn, appearing not to hear this dialogue, was rising to join Mrs. ClifonL, when the lady placed her soft hand on hers to detain her.   SEABURY CASTLE.        45 "No, love, you must not go. I wish, Miss Den- bigh, to introduce my son, Arthur Clare, to you. But I must leave you for a short time, while I go to my friend Miss Sidney." She arose. "You need not accompany me, Arthur, as her society is so distaste fil to you," rather sadly. "Why, my dear Laldy Fitzligh, how delighted to meet you! When did you arrive-?" was the greeting of a stately old gentleman. "Oblige me," offering his arm. Hle led her to Miss Sidney, and she left her son and Evelyn together; and by her side he stayed the remainder of the evening,. t     C IAPTER    VI I. DEN days passed, nay, flew rapidly away.  The sisters received unbounded attention. Evelyn's reserve and diffidence in a measure wore .off, while ton ora was the, life of the party. Lady Fitzhugh made a great deal of them, and they became more and more fascinated with her. A veil was cast over the defects of her character by the grace and charm of her manners. Her son, Arthur Clare, adored her, and she was equally devoted to him. On one subject alone they differed. She earnestly wished him to pay atten- tion to the rich heiress, Miss Sidney. Lord Fitzhugh, for many years minister at one of the European courts, had, inherited a large property, which a ruinous law- suit and extravagant living had much reduced. And now they both desired their only son to repair the fallen fortunes of the family by a wealthy alliance. But here, submissive in all else, here he was rebel- lious. In vain Lady Fitzhugh, by blandishments and caresses, endeavored .to make him change his mind, and wed for money.  Here he was invulnerable. "No, mother mine, I cannot gratify you in this respect. 'I cannot woo Miss Sidneyv. I have never (46)   SEAB URY CASTLE.       47 until now---" he blushed, and averted his face from the intense gaze of his mother. "Indeed, I have no idea of marrying at present; why should I, when I have you, my own lovely mother? Why need I any other friend?"  "You must marry, Arthur; and you must marry wealthy. Your father and I both wish it; as you must be well aware that our estate is much reduced. What think you of Evelyn Denbigh?" He started. "Mother, as you ask me, I would say that she comes up to all my ideas of what a woman should be,-pure, refined, lovely in mind and person." " You speak with enthusiasm, Arthur,' she said, giving him a penetrating look; "but I should like to know more about her family. Her father, I under- stand, was of a noble family, and an officer of high rank in India. He died years ago, and she and hp- sister were. brought up by her uncle, Lord Sea- bury. Will they inherit property from him, or is it all entailed? General Denbigh, I am told, was not wealthy. It is really necessary for you to know this before paying particular attention and raising hopes you may not be able to fulfill-for I again repeat, most emphatically, when you marry, it must be an heiress. If you love lier, so much t-he better. Evelyn is indeed . very attractive. They both are. It almost seems I must have known them before. They resemble 'some     48       SEABURY CASTLE. one I have known in my youth. What was their: mother's family name?' "Desmond, I have heard Mrs. Warrenton say," answered her son. "Lord Seabury, while Edward Desmond, was engaged to a beautiful but heartless girl in obscure life,--the daughter of his tutor, I believe. They were soon to be married, without the approbation of his family. But a titled and wealthier suitor appeared during his temporary absence at the death-bed of his father, and she basely eloped with his rival. Lord Seabury has never recovered from the effects of this disappointment, Mrs. Warrenton says; although since his nieces have been under his care and occupied his attention he has much changed for the better. He became Earl of Seabury a few years after the marriage of his faithless mistress. He has for many years resided in this neighborhood, where he is much beloved by his tenantry." He raised his eyes, which, during this long speech, had been cast upon the ground. Those of Lady Fitz- hugh were fixed upon him with a horrified expression; her face was ghastly pale, and she sank fainting into his arms. "My mother!" he cried, then gently laid her on the couch, and rang the bell furiously for assistance. By the aid of restoratives she soon revived, but she trem- bled in every limb. "Only a sudden faintness, Arthur," she faltered.   SEABURY CASTLE. '49 "I am better now. Pauline, open the window. I still feel oppressed, sick, sick at heart," she murmured. Arthur raised the sash, and the cool, fresh air blew in upon her. He bathed her face and hands, assisted by her maid, and in a short time she became better, although still deathly pale. She said, with a faint smile, she would try to rest, and, she had no doubt, would soon be entirely restored. "Pauline will remain in the next room, and you must leave me, Arthur. I wish to be quiet. Do not men- tion this indisposition, as it has now passed, and I do not wish; to be the subject of remark. You are engaged to ride with-with Evelyn Denbigh, I believe," faintly smiling. "Go, mny son; do not detain her." After many entreaties to leave her, and promising not to speak of her illness, he left her to join the riding- party, his mind occupied with thoughts of his mother. Could he have said anything to have caused this sud- den indisposition? He could not tell. When he met Honora and Evelyn, he endeavored to banish these unpleasant reflections, although a shade of anxiety was on his mind. In his increasing and engrossing attachment to Evelyn, all else was gener- ally forgotten while with her. But he could not at this time entirely overcome the sadness he felt, and his manner was abstracted and depressed. At last, Eve- lyn inquired the cause of his gloom, if he was ill, etc. This roused him; with an effort he threw all sadness 5     50      SEABURY CASTLE. far away, and became once more the intelligent and interesting companion he had heretofore been. Honora was attended by Sir Harry Drayton, and they were completely engrossed with each other. It was late when they returned to the mansion; the dressing-bell had long since rung. Arthur hurried to his mother's apartments. What was his delight and astonishment to find her dressed and looking very beau- tiful! Her cheeks were flushed, and her eyes had an unnatural brightness. He stooped, and fondly kissed her. "I am quite well now, Arthur," in answer to his inquiring look. "How have you enjoyed your ride? Was Evelyn as charming as ever?" "She was, mother mine; but I have been thinking of you and your illness." "Foolish boy! but say no more about it, if you love me, Arthur," with sudden energy. "I am quite well now, and shall be displeased if you recur to that un- pleasant subject. Do not speak of illness. I have no idea of dying yet, I assure you. But go, or you will not be ready for dinner. I will meet you in the drawing-room." That day, Lady Fitzhugh was the enlivening spirit of the party. Wit and repartee broke from her lips, which only opened to smile or to utter some lively bon- mot. She was universally admired, and surrounded by young and old. But, closely as Arthur watched, he   SEABURY CASTLE.  occasionally observed an expression of weariness come over her lovely countenance, perhaps just after uttering a lively remark. And when they were separating, and he took her hand to say "good-night," he was shocked with its feverish heat. "Mother, you are not well," he impulsively said. "Nonsense, Arthur! I was never better in my life. Bon repos to all," gracefully waving her hand, and avoiding his anxious gaze. t)!"J o llc ji     CHAPTER VIII. ARTHUBR CLARE was about leaving his apart- ment the following morning, when his servant pre- sented him with a letter. "From my lady, sir," said Johnson, " who has gone to London." "My mother! Why, what could have caused her sud- den departure?" "She left quite early this morning, sir," replied the man, " and gave orders last night for an early start." Dismissing his servant, Arthur Clare opened the letter, which contained an inclosure addressed to Mrs. Warrenton, apologizing for her abrupt departure. To her son she wrote: "MY BELOVED ARTHUR,-YOU will, no doubt, be sur- prised when you find I have left you so unexpectedly. But I can stay here no longer. I go to your father, who is awaiting me in London. I did not inform you of my intention of leaving, because I was fearful you would insist on accompanying me, which would be altogether unnecessary. I wish you to remain here as long as we promised Mrs. Warrenton, which is yet several weeks. I wish you to stay and enjoy yourself, (52)   SEABURY CASTLE.       53 dear Arthur; but let me impress it upon your mind not to commit yourself to Evelyn Denbigh. I think if you do you will be repulsed; for Lord Seabury will never consent to your union with his niece. So I have reason to suppose. But perhaps, Arthur, perhaps, when he becomes acquainted with you and your noble quali- ties, perhaps, when he finds you do not inherit the base disposition of your parents - But enough. At all events, say not one word of love to Evelyn at present. Wait at least one year; and then, if you still love her, you have my consent to act as your heart dictates. "Your ever fond mother." This letter, blotted and in some places obliterated with tears, Arthur read over and over again with renewed astonishment. .Was it possible?--as the thought rushed upon his mind,-was she the one to whom Lord Seabury had been so much attached,-the one who had forsaken him for more worldly advan- tages? Her conduct was now explained,-her agita- tion the previous day, her unnatural excitement in the evening, and her sudden departure this morning. All, all was now accounted for; she could not meet the one she had so deeply wronged, who was expected this day to take his nieces home. He sighed when he thought he must give up all hopes of Evelyn; for Lord Seabury, it was not probable, would look with favor upon the son of Lady Fitzhugh.  5*     54       SEABURY CASTLE. And his mother!-his adored mother, whom he had always regarded as a model for her sex! How he had been deceived in her character I how she had fallen in his estimation I From these miserable thoughts he was roused by the sounding of the breakfast-bell, and with a heavy heart he descended to the apartment where that meal was served. Few of the party were as yet assembled; but Honora and Evelyn were there, bright and joyous as ever. Many were the expressions of regret after Mrs. War- renton had read Lady Fitzhugh's note, addressed to her, which announced her departure and her adieux to her friends at the manor. Evelyn's eyes filled with tears. "Dear Lady Fitzhugh," she exclaimed: "how I re- gret not seeing her before she left!" She turned to Arthur Clare, who looked depressed and restless. He was near her, although he had not taken his usual place by her side. He smiled, a sad, cheerless smile, as his eyes met hers ; then, endeavoring to rally, "i How delighted she would be if she thought you regretted her!"Evelyn lowered her eyes under his ardent gaze, when Mrs. Warrenton, observing her confusion, kindly changed the conversation, which soon became general. But every one who entered, when they heard of the departure of the fascinating Lady Fitzhugh, uttered sentiments of regret, and a feeling   SEABUR Y CASTLE.        55 of sadness pervaded the whole company. "But you will stay, Mr. Clare? you will not cheat me, as your naughty mere has done? vou will not desert the manor, but will, with Sir Harry, remain, and escort me to London when I leave, as you promised me, you know?" "I hope to stay and fulfill my compact with my charming hostess," gallantly replied Arthur, brighten- ing up, and endeavoring to drive away all sad thoughts; and, in the fascinations of Evelyn's society, they soon partially left him. They adjourned to the music-room, where she sung for him the song he had heard on the sea-shore. There, in delightful conversation, they -passed several hours, with Honora and Sir Harry,- the latter sad, with spirits much subdued, when he thought of the approaching departure of the bright girl who had gained his whole heart. He sighed. Honora laughed. "Why that deep sigh, Sir Harry, and that mourn- ful expression? I shall dub you the knight of the rueful countenance." "Oh, Miss Denbigh!" lie exclaimed, suddenly seiz- ing her hand, and as suddenly relinquishing it,--" oh, Miss Denbigh, you leave us to-day, and I am misera- ble!"He turned to a window to hide his emotion,'and soon the s ound of carriage-wheels on the gravel drew the sisters, with Arthur Clare, to his side. "It is our uncle," they both ciried, as Lord Seabury alighted and entered the house, joined in the hall by Mrs. , .     56      -SEABURY CASTLE. Warrenton, and met at the door by his impatient nieces, who rushed into his arms. Aftera few mutual inquiries and expressions of pleasure, Mrs. Warrenton intro- duced the two young men (who were about to retire) to the earl. Arthur Clare regarded him with much interest, as the former lover of his mother, and was surprised that the pale and emaciated but interesting and refined-looking person before him could ever have been the object of her youthful choice. But when he listened to his intellectual conversation his astonish- ment decreased, and he was only amazed how she could have rejected him for his father; a man many years older than herself,-a coarse bon vivant. "I have come to take my nieces home, dear Mrs. Warrenton," said Lord Seabury, in a low, sweet voice. "I trust they have behaved well and been good little girls?" "Oh, we have been the best of girls," said Honora, playfully, not givingr her hostess time to answer. "We have obeyed her in all respects. When we have been out riding or driving, we have always returned at the expected hour, and have not given her one moment's uneasiness. Have we, chere amie?" "You have both been pretty good. I will not say how much you have flirted, or how many hearts you have broken."' Then, in a very low tone, "You know who left in despair yes terday." Honora blushed, and averted her face from the   SEABURY CASTLE.        57 inquiring gaze of her uncle. Mr. Stanley had been rejected by her; and her kind heart was pained when she thought of his disappointment. Lord Seabury looked inquiringly at her, but, feeling this was not a proper time to converse on such a subject, asked for Mrs. Clifton, who soon appeared. As the young men were about to leave the saloon, he entered into conver- sation with them, as he wished to become acquainted with those who he perceived admired his nieces. Sir Harry was easy and agreeable; but Arthur Clare could not avoid a feeling of embarrassment in his presence. He, therefore, relapsed into silence, from which he was aroused by the inquiries of the earl about the German university where he had been educated. "I understand from Sir Harry Drayton, Mr. Clare, that you have spent many years at --- University, in P. I have a young ward, whose father, lately deceased, was an early friend of mine. He left his boy to me, with a request to have him educated in Germany. I feel bound to do as he wished,- although, if I had a choice, I should have preferred England, perhaps; but will you favor me with some account of that university, which is so much thought of as a place of education?" Arthur Clare was able to give him a graphic and interesting description, and they soon became much interested in each other, as the quiet and refinement of Lord Seabury's manner soon put him at ease.     58      SEABURY CASTLE. The earl had a short private conference with Mrs. Warrenton, who deplored the departure of her dear young friends; and after luncheon they rose to leave, but not before he had given Mrs. Warrenton and all her guests, including Sir Harry Drayton and Arthur Clare, a cordial invitation to the castle. k   CHAPTER    IX. OIR HARRY and his friend soon became constant / isitors at the castle; scarcely a day passed without bringing them there, where they were always received with hospitality by the earl, and with art- less pleasure by Honora and Evelyn. One evening, toward the close of September, as the young people were walking in the park, they were joined by Lord Seabury, who, taking the arm of Arthur Clare, drew him apart from the others, who were on their way to a rustic summer-house. "Mr. Clare, I wish to ask you one question," in a faltering voice. "I cannot rest easy until I know; you remind me- so much of one whom I knew and loved--loved? adored, rather-in the days of my youth,-of one whom I can never forget. It is pos- sible, nay, probable, she may be your mother. It is not idle curiosity, but the deepest interest, I feel in the answer. May I ask what washer family name?" "My father is Lord Fitzhugh, and my mother's name was Trelawney." He paused, shocked at the appearance of his companion, who, pale and gasping for breath, leaned against a tree for support. (59)     60       SEABURY CASTLE. "I might have known it," he murmured; "the same smile, the eyes; none other could be the son of Mary Trelawhey. Mr. Clare," he at last said, in faltering accents, "I once knew your mother intimately. You cannot be surprised that, knowing you to be her son, "- he paused,-" that I should be overcome; but I will soon recover from it. Do not," (smiling faintly,) "do not mention this scene to my nieces: it would only dis- tress them. I feel unnerved, and will accept your arm to assist me to the castle." He leaned heavily on Arthur Clare, and after awhile, with slow and faltering steps, reached a private door which led to his apartments, where he was about to dismiss him with a faint smile and slight pressure of the hand. But, before taking leave, Arthur Clare said: "Perhaps, Lord Seabury, it may be unpleasant for you to see me. Perhaps," (with a heavy sigh,) "you will not allow me to continue my visits at the castle." "No, no, Arthur; your presence adds to my happi- ness; it is only too pleasant to see you. Come always: you are ever welcome." He pressed his hand with emotion, and the door closed upon Lord Seabury, who did not appear again that evening. Poor Arthur! how his heart was pained when he reflected upon the wreck his mother, by her   SEABURY CASTLE.        61 vanity and worldliness, had made of the once gay and happy Edward Desmond-now an invalid, with a crushed and broken heart! He tried to drive all these derogatory thoughts of his once idolized parent from his mlind, and, in his absorbing passion for Evelyn, partially succeeded. To her he had, how- ever, never breathed a word of love: his implied promise to his mother would not allow of it. Be- sides, if he should, he was fearful her uncle would not approve of it. Two weeks had passed since the disclosures of that day; but no allusion had been made to the agitating suthject. The earl always received him with urbanity and an expression of subdued interest. Sir Haifry was equally attached to the bright Honora. He had avowed his affection, which had been favorably received by the blushing girl. She timidly referred him to her uncle. Inquiries were made about his character, and every answer was satisfactory. Sir Harry owned a large property in a neighboring county, Where his family mansion was situated, and where Lord Seabury also owned an estate. Among- others, he wrote to his agent there, whose answer was full of the praises of the young baronet, who was much beloved by his tenantry and whose moral character stood very high. How could the earl hesitate, when he witnessed the devoted attachment of Honora and her lover? He had 6     62       SEA BURY CASTLE. been too great a sufferer himself willingly to mar the happiness of others. So he gave his consent con- ditionally-that if at the expiration of a year they remained constant, he would not oppose their wishes. "Honora," he said, "was a mere child; she had seen nothing of the world; she might change;" but when he looked into her truthful eyes he felt-"no; she will never change; she will ever be constant." Sir Harry, although occasionally he murmured at the delay, was obliged to be satisfied. Lord Seabury allowed themn to correspond, but preferred their not meeting during the year of probation,-" if he could exist so long absent from her," he laughingly added; "but he wished to test their constancy, as they were both so young." Mrs. Warrenton was delighted when she was in- formed of the bright prospects of her favorite young friend. She was told of it in confidence, as the earl wished the engagement to be kept a profound secret until the expiration of the year. And Arthur Clare, -how did he feel when his friend, in rapturous de- light told him of his happiness? He rejoiced with him, E 1 gave him his heart-felt congratulations. "At  r, you must also propose for sweet Evelyn. I should ioice to have you for a brother." He shoe . his head. "I fear that will never be." "Why so?" inquired Sir Harry, in much surprise.   SEABURJY CASTLE.       63 "Do you suppose she would refuse? I trow not. Then why so despondent? Remember, faint heart never won fair lady." "I am not vain enough to imagine she could fancy me; and, even if she could, I am comparatively poor, and her uncle, it is not probable, would consent." "He would; I am confident he would," exclaimed his friend, warmly; "for, I can tell you, I have ob- served his manner, and you are his favorite." Mrs. Warrenton and her young friends soon left the neighborhood. We will not attempt to describe the parting scene. And Arthur Clare departed without a word of the feelings of his heart to Evelyn; but his every expression showed his deep attachment.     CHA?TER   X. HE winter at last passed away; spring and sum- mer quickly succeeded. During all that time Honora and her lover had not met, but had con- stantly corresponded. Honora's character had rapidly developed; the gay, apparently volatile girl had be- come the quiet, thoughtful woman, although still animated, and at times sparkling. Since her acquaint- ance with Sir Harry Drayton, new emotions had been awakened in her heart, which love, the great magi- cian, had called forth. Her gay, exuberant manner had changed for a more gentle, subdued expression, which perhaps only those most intimate with her would have noticed. But she Was, if possible, more lovely and bewitching than ever. And now the expectation of soon seeing her lover gave an added brightness to her eyes, and elasticity to her step. "He is coming, Eva; in a week he will be here." "And then you will soon leave us, darling Nora," exclaimed Evelyn, bursting into tears. "Oh, no, dear Eva," said her sister, fondly em- bracing her, while her own eyes were full of tears; "our separation will be but short, even if you do not (64)   SEABURY CASTLE.       65 accompany us on our tour, which you persist in say- ing you will not. But perhaps you may yet be in- duced to change your mind. Harry will urge you, and you cannot resist his eloquence. You cannot say 'No ' to him.  "Why, Nora dear," said Evelyn, laughing, "do you suppose I would be de trop? No, indeed, I assure you I cannot be that, as I am certain I should be if I was the third in your party. So I must e'en refuse your kind invitation, and remain with uncle and Mrs. Clifton at the castle, which will indeed be desolate without you, dearest Nora." "But suppose," said Honora, with brightening face, "an idea has just entered my prolific brain 1-suppose, Eva, you are not the third of our party. We can easily add another to our number, which no doubt," she added, mischievously, "will be agreeable to you. Shall we invite Mr. Clare to accompany us?" A vivid blush crimsoned the brow and cheek of the young girl, as her sister looked meaningly in her face. "No, Nora! even then--" hesitatingly, "I mean,- that is, if Mr. Clare--- No, I cannot go." They were interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Clif- ton, with a request from Lord Seabury to accompany him in a drive, and the subject was dropped. Evelyn had not seen Arthur Clare since their parting the pre- vious autumn; but she had often heard of him from Sir Harry, who frequently mentioned his friend in his 6*     "      SEAB URY CASTLE. letters to Honora. And now he would soon be at the castle with Sir Harry. Lord Seabury had given his consent that the marriage of his eldest niece should take place in October, and preparations had already commenced for that event. The drawing-rooms, dining- room, and some of the chambers, particularly a suite for Honora, were modernized and newly furnished. But the earl preferred leaving most of the apartments, with their antique furniture, as he had found them, only renovating and adding some improvements. The old- fashioned hanging and cumbrous furniture pleased his eyes, and, in his opinion, accorded with the style of the castle, which was built in the Middle Ages, although many additions and improvements had from time to time been made by its different occupants. And now we will speak of Arthur Clare. As was said before, bound in honor to Lady Fitzhugh, he had never mentioned love in his intercourse with Evelyn, although his speaking countenance must often have betrayed the emotions of his heart. He loved her, deeply, fondly, trustingly, and he thought his attach- ment was returned. As the time had now expired that he had promised to wait, he determined he would now take the first opportunity to reveal his love. Lady Fitzhugh had not renewed the subject: whenever he reverted to the events of the last autumn, her agitation became extreme. All she could say would be, "Wait, Arthur; wait one year, I beg of you."   SEAB URY CASTLE.       67 And now he determined that before he left town, as she would not allow him to converse, he would write, and explain his intentions, which were to ask the con- sent of Lord Seabury to his suit. But would he approve? Noble and unselfish as he was, would he allow his darling niece, who was as the apple of his eye, to wed the son of the woman who had been the cause of his life's unhappiness? Perplexed with thoughts like these, Arthur Clare lost his cheerfulness, and by his sad demeanor excited the apprehensions of his mother, who perfectly adored him. By her request, to oblige her, he frequented gay assemblies; but his heart was not there,-his manner abstracted, his thoughts far away. His distinguished appearance and polished manners attracted universal admiration from the fair sex, who designated-him as the " elegant exclusive." Although not wealthy, if he had wished he could have been the accepted lover of almost any of the handsome titled creatures who admired him,-the more, perhaps, for his exclusiveness. But he was too honorable to excite hopes which he could not fulfill. Arthur Clare, however, was not a perfect character. High-toned and honorable in every feeling, moral, unselfish, generous, and noble, he had one great defect. He leaned too much to his own opinions; he was proud of the morality of his unstained character. In one word, he was not a Christian. Educated at a German university, he had there imbibed some of the crude     68      SEAtJURY CASTLE. philosophy of the times. He was not an infidel; nou exactly an unbeliever. He did not believe in the neces- sity of a Saviour, but thought (alas! how common the belief!) that man could by his own merits be fitted for heaven. Morality was with him  all-sufficient. This defect in his religious opinions was not apparent on the surface, and was not suspected by those most intimate-with him. Evelyn had not discovered it. If she had known his sentiments when they first met, perhaps 1-but she was but human.   CHAPTER XI. A BEAUTIFUL bright day in September,-a fete- -day at the castle. Sir Harry Drayton, accom- panied by Arthur Clare, had arrived the previous even- ing. And a week from that day Honora and Sir Harry were to be united, and proceed immediately to the con- tinent, to remain a few months. And then they were to go to Drayton Hall, where Lord Seabury, with Evelyn and Mrs. Clifton, were to join them. The park and the grounds, on this day, were crowded with guests. As it was so beautiful, the open air was generally pre- ferred to the castle, and few, except some infirm old dowagers, ere w ithin its walls. Music sounded on all sides,-laughing, talking, dancing, feasting, every one gay, brigrht, apparently happy. Honora, radiantly beautiful, leaning on the arm of the happy Sir Harry, was the star of the festival. She looked indeed mag- nificent and queenly. Evelyn gazed upon her splendid sister with admiration, while a feeling of sadness stole over her as she thought of their approaching separa- tion. But Arthur Clare approached her, and with him she partially forgot her sorrow. He had not before had an opportunity for private conversation ; and, draw- (69)     70       SEABURY CASTLE. ing her gently from the crowd, he led her into a se- cluded grove far removed from curious eyes, and there, in an agitated manner, told her of the love which had become a part of himself. And how did she reply? She could only refer him to her uncle; and after awhile he left her, to seek Lord Seabury. In the long conver- sation which then ensued, how was the earl shocked when the religious sentiments of Arthur Clare were fully disclosed! He, too honorable to conceal them, had not denied them when questioned on the subject by Lord Seabury. And he had been near giving his darling Evelyn to an infidel! For he loved his young friend, and would not have withheld his consent to his marriage with his favorite niece, much as it would have renewed his early anguish to have met again with Lady Fitzhugh. But when, in answer to his questions, he found that the religious opinions of Arthur Clare were so defective, how could he hope for the happiness of Evelyn if she married him,? But perhaps she might be the instrument of good to Arthur Clare; a husband had often been won by the endeavors of a wife. He covered his face with his hands, and, after a silent prayer, decided he would leave it to her. And so he told the impatient lover, who immediately, and full of hope, left the library to seek Evelyn. Lord Seabury, meanwhile, miserable, and fearing he had done wrong in allowing his addresses, remained alone, engaged in prayer. After an hour spent in this manner, while the   SEAB UY CASTLE.        71 sounds of music and mirth resounded on every side, unheeded by him, he was startled from his reverie by a knock at the door, and his butler handed him a letter, which he said had been given him by the servant of Mr. Clare. Tremblingly he opened, and read these few words written hurriedly: "MY DEAR LORD SEABURY: "I have conversed with your niece, and she has re- jected me. She will not marry one with whose religious opinions her own are at variance. I leave the castle immediately, but cannot go without thanking you for all your kindness, and assuring you of the gratitude and veneration of one who will never forget the many happy hours he has passed under your roof. With sentiments of the highest respect, believe me, my lord, your devoted friend, "ARTHUR CLARE."7 He had parted from Evelyn in anger; but, just as he was stepping into his carriage to leave her forever, a small package, with a note written in pencil, was put into his hands: "Will you read and accept this volume for the sake of "EVELYN?" It was a pocket-Bible, with some marked passages.     CHAPTER    XII. ARTHUR CLARE also left a few lines for Sir Harry, apologizing for not keeping his promiseto be one of the attendants at his marriage, and saying he would explain all when he could compose his mind to write. Sir Harry deplored his absence, and in his heart felt angry with Evelyn as its cause; but when he saw her sad countenance and heavy eyes he pitied and exonerated her, and accused Lord Seabury of having withheld his consent to the engagement of his friend and Evelyn. But all these thoughts he kept to him- self, and when with Honora (perhaps selfishly) thought only of her, and drove all else from his mind, but Honora, his beloved Honora, who was so soon to become his wife. "My own, my love," he exclaimed, two days before their expected union, "my dear Honora, it shall be the study of my life to minister to your happiness, to make each day more blissful than the preceding one." "But, Harry," said Honora, blushing under his ar- dent gaze, " we must not selfishly think only of our- selves; we must seek to do good; the poor on your estate must be the objects of our care." (72)   SEABURY CASTLE.        73 "Yes, love," he answered; " you shall visit the sick. Of the poor when you are there, there will be none left. You shall superintend the schools. In fact, you will be the Lady Bountiful of the parish," he laughingly added. Then, more seriously, taking her hand, "Dear Honora, we will endeavor to serve our Creator and to do good to our fellow-creatures, and you shall mould me to your will." "I am very, very happy, dear Harry," said the sweet girl. "Only one thing afflicts me: I cannot bear to see Evelyn so melancholy." "And my dear friend Clare, too. I know not the cause of his rejection, but supposed it was his want of fortune that induced Lord Seabury to refuse his con- sent. Perhaps by to-morrow I may receive a letter explaining all. And now, love, is it not time to pre- pare for our drive'? The horses will be at the door in a quarter- of an hour. So allons! your last drive as Honora Denbigh." Evelyn had not had any private conversation with her uncle, except a few words when they first met after the departure of her lover. Then he pressed her to his heart, and said, in a low, plaintive voice, "You did quite right, my darling, and you will not lose your reward." And these few words were all that passed. Evelyn shrank from the subject when Honora affec- tionately tried to draw from her the cause of her unhap- piness. She did not wish to make Arthur Clare the 7     74       SEABURY CASTLE. object of censure, neither did she wish to mar the hap- piness of her unselfish sister by recurring to her own blighted prospects. No, she would forget the lover of her youth, and devote herself to the declining years of her indulgent uncle, her more than parent. The sweet peace of an approving conscience com- posed her mind and enabled her to perform her duty. Henceforth she and Arthur Clare would be as strangers, although she would ever feel the greatest interest in his welfare.' She prayed for herself for grace to for- get him, but she prayed more fervently for poor Arthur Clare, that he might be changed by the peru- sal of the holy volume she had given him, that the proud man of the world might become the meek and lowly Christiail. "Good-by, sweet sister," said Honora. "I am going to take my last drive as Honora Denbigh. Heigho! I am very happy, and yet an indescribable sadness comes over me at the same time. Why do I feel so? What is it that oppresses me?  It must be the thoughts of leaving you, sister mine, and my happy home," casting a glance of fondness around the apart- ment. A summons from her impatient lover informing her that all was ready, Evelyn accompanied her to the portico, where Sir Harry's magnificent steeds were pawing the ground, scarcely restrained by the strong hand of the groom. One more sisterly embrace, and   SEABURY CASTLE.        75 then Honora lightly stepped into the photon, assisted by Sir Iarry, who, taki ngo the reins from the attend- ant, gayly nodded to Evelyn. Honora turned and waved her handkerchief, and they were soon lost to the moistened eyes of poor Evelyn. "Dearest sister!" she ex claimed; "how can I live without you? how can I bear to be separated from you, my other self? why will you leave me? But no," checking her flowing tears; "no, I will not be self- ish. You will be happy with the one you love, while I---"She paused. "I will devote myself to my uncle, and try to. supply your place; but how desolate we will be without you, dear, dear Nora!" Weeping bitterly, she sought the retirement of her chamber, where everything reminded her of Honora. She sank upon her knees, and it was not until a long time spent in prayer that she arose composed and strengthened. She approached a window, and was astonished at the change in the weather. When Sir Harry and her sister had started for their drive, the sun was shining beautiful and clear. Now dark clouds had arisen; a heavy pall overspread the earth; a fearful stillness reigned throughout, and soon a vivid flash of lightning, followed by a loud peal of thunder, shook the castle. The sea, before so sullenly calm, now maddened with fury, roared, and lashed its bil- lows in wild confusion. All the elements appeared in     16       SEABURY CASTLE. motion. Affrighted, Evelyn rushed from the apart- ment, and was met in the corridor by Mrs. Clifton, who caught her in her arms. "Horrible, my dear, is it not? Ain't you alarmed? I was just coming to you." "Honora!" gasped the trembling girl; " has she re- turned?" "No, no," said Mrs. Clifton; "but she must be under shelter; she cannot he out, exposed to this furious storm." The tempest continued all night; but Sir Harry and Honora did not appear. Mrs. Clifton, much alarmed herself, tried to comfort the weeping Evelyn by assuring her that her sister must be safe. It would be madness to remain out in such weather. In the morning they would return, and then there would be a good laugh. They were, no doubt, luxuriously sheltered at Warrenton Manor. Partly reassured, Evelyn, became more composed, although she could not be induced to seek her couch. "She could not sleep," she said, "in this state of ap- prehension." Lord Seabury too, somewhat uneasy, although be- lieving them safe, remained up, and Mrs. Clifton also, who could not avoid feeling anxious. She hid her fears, however, as well as she could, from her com- panions. Evelyn was restless, starting at every sound, or paced the floor with her hands clasped in prayer., Y   SEABURY CA4STLE.       7 In this manner the night slowly passed. The storm had spent its fury; all nature was calmed and peaceful. The sun appeared, casting his glorious beams over earth and ocean. 'The little birds sang their morning hymns of praise. All seemed renovated, beautiful, and joyous. Lord Seabury threw open the window, and looked upon the ravages of the storm. Superb trees were leveled to the ground, their branches scat- tered in every direction. But, long before the rising of the sun, at the first peep of dawn, the earl had dis- patched messengers in various directions,-the first, mounted on the fleetest horse, to Warrenton Manor, who soon returned with the intelligence that Sir Harry and Miss Denbigh had not been there. Some moments of agonized suspense passed, al- though his lordship would not allow that there was cause for fear, and was preparing to go in quest of them himself, when Sir Harry's groom appeared, sup- ported by two men, pale, bruised, his garments in tat- ters. He had been thrown from his horse at the first flash of lightning, and, being much injured, had passed the night in a cottage. Of his master he could give no account, save of the road they were going in the direction of Langton. The storm had arisen so suds denly he could not keep up with Sir Harry's spirited horses, and was soon thrown from his own, and was picked up in a state of insensibility by the laborer in whose habitation he had passed the remainder of that 7*     7 8      SEABURY CASTLE. fearful night. His right arm was broken, and, in addition, he was internally injured. Lord Seabury, with a number of the servants, im- mediately hurried in the direction of Langton, and a few miles from that place, at the foot of a precipice, were found the mangled bodies of Sir Harry Drayton and the once beautiful Honora. The carriage was completely demolished, and the horses were lying dead at the feet of their master. We will draw a veil over the scenes that followed. It    CHAPTER    XIII. ]gORE than three years after the melancholy events related in the last chapter, a gentleman and lady alighted from a traveling-carriage, at an inn on one of the beautiful lakes in Switzerland The gentleman was past middle age, tall, interesting, and dignified; the lady about twenty, beautiful and distinguished in appearance. They were both habited in deep mourn- ing. Lord Seabury and Evelyn, unable to remain in England after the sad death of their beloved Honora, where everything reminded them of their affliction, had passed nearly four years in traveling through Europe and the Holy Land, and now, on their way home, whither business called the earl, had stopped for a few days at the retired village of A--. Time and religion had moderated and soothed their deep anguish, although they felt in their heart of hearts that they could never forget her they had so much loved. Time had also matured the beauty and expanded the mind of the lovely Evelyn; the timid girl of seventeen had become the intelligent, self-possessed woman, although she still retained the ingenuous artlessness which was ('9)     80      SEABURY CASTLE. the great charm of her character. She was devoted to her uncle, who lived but for her. During all this time they had only heard inci- dentally of Arthur Clare, now Lord Fitzhugh, by the death of his father, which was soon followed by that of his mother, the once charming and fascinating Lady Fitzhugh. Evelyn burst into tears when she read the account of her death in an English paper. Her thoughts reverted to Arthur Clare. How would the death of his parents affect him? -Would he be- come more hardened in his boasted philosophy, or would the loss of those he had so fondly loved, par- ticularly his adored mother, exert a softening influence over his character, and induce him to seek peace where it only can be found? They were then at Cairo; and when her uncle approached and inquired the cause of her tears, she could only place the paper in his hand and point to the paragraph containing the notice of her friend's death. Lord Seabury was much overcome. Scenes long passed, and almost faded from his mind, returned to his memory, when Mary Trelawney was the idol of his affections, the day-star of his life. But she had long been another's, and lost to him forever. Lord Seabury was much depressed, and it was long before he recovered from this shock. Now, two years later, he was comparatively cheerful. "Do you feel fatigued, dear uncle," said Evelyn, "after our rough journey?" N .   SEABURY CASTLE.        81 "No, my love, not much; although I think I shall not be sorry to retire early to my apartment." "How beautiful!" exclaimed Evelyn, as their ser- vant threw open the window in their little parlor. The rays of the setting sun shone on the waters of the lake, which were smooth as a mirror. Evelyn gazed in rapture, and quitted the beautiful scene with regret to partake of their evening repast; soon after which Lord Seabury retired to his room, accompanied by his niece, who remained with him until the entrance of his servant, when she went to her own apartment, which adjoined his. The windows opened on a bal- cony, and, throwing a shawl, around her, she seated herself, and was soon lost in admiration of the beauti- ful view, which was fully revealed by the light of the moon, which had risen- and flooded every object with her pure beams. From gazing on this scene, Evelyn's thoughts reverted to other days. She thought of Honora, of her sad death, and tears of grief paced down her cheeks. From tlese melancholy reflections she was roused by the sound of voices, singing a favorite boat-song. The tones of one of the voices, a clear, manly tenor, sounded familiar to Evelyn, and awakened the memory of one she could never forget. The noise of oars told her they were ap- proaching the shore. The music had ceased, replaced by gay laughter and talking; and a boat was soon seen very near. Involuntarily, Evelyn retired into the     82      SEABURY CASTLE. shade, and with breathless anxiety watched the party as they stepped upon the land. The lady, small and slight, jumped lightly, refusing the assistance of her companions, who laughingly remonstrated with her. One voice in particular struck upon the heart of Evelyn,--the clear, harmonious voice of Arthur Clare. He tenderly wrapped a cloak around his com- panion, and drew her arm in a protecting manner within his own. The moon shone full upon the face of the female, who looked' young and beautiful, with a profusion of bright, golden hair. They were now near the house. Evelyn trembled in every limb; she would have left the balcony, but felt powerless to move. And now the voice of Arthur Clare, in tender accents, broke upon her ear. I fear you are fatigued, Rosa, love?" "Oh, no, dear Arthur, very little. I shall be quite refreshed by morning, and ready for another day of pleasure. How exquisite it has been i" His answer was lost to Evelyn as they entered the house; but the sweet, bird-like tones were still audible. A pang shot Through the heart of the listener, and a faint sickness came over her; and it was not until a flood of tears came-to her relief that she was enabled to leave her seat and return to her apartment.- Here she threw herself on her couch and wept bitter tears of anguish. Arthur Clare was near her, but a stranger; he had forgotten her, and was probably the   SEABURY CASTLE.        83 husband or lover of the sweet creature she had seen fondly leaning on his. arm. She might have been his wife. Did she regret she had refused him? With her religious principles, could she have been happy as his wife? Oh, no, no. She would have been miserable. But it was sad to be so soon forgotten. He must love this beautiful girl who clung to him so confidently. His every action showed it; even the tones of his voice were more tender when he addressed her. "Oh, let me not be so selfish " ex- claimed Evelyn; "let me rejoice in his happiness, if it is even at the expense of my own!" She sank upon her knees by the side of her couch, and prayed for submission. She prayed for Arthur Clare, that he might be happy and be brought to the knowledge of the truth. She prayed for his lovely companion, that she might be the instrument of good to him; and she arose subdued and resigned. A tap at her door, and her uncle's favorite old ser- vant appeared, with many apologies for disturbing her, but his lord could not sleep, and wished her to read to him. As she left the room to attend to the request of Lord Seabury, the fair girl she had seen with Arthur Clare passed her in the corridor. A pause, a sweet smile, a graceful bow, returned by Evelyn, and they passed on; Evelyn to her uncle, who affectionately greeted her. "I could not sleep, my love, and thought. I would     84      SEABURY CASTLE. like you to read to me one Psalm-and then I will try to compose myself, and get to sleep. The soothing influence of your voice will, perhaps, induce 'the sweet restorer' to visit me." She adjusted his pillow, and soon, after reading a portion of Scripture, had the satisfaction of seeing him fall into a gentle slumber; but not before he had urged her to leave him and seek the repose she must require herself. "Parish will attend to me and supply all my wants, dear; so I will bid you good-night. Do not remain up moon-gazing this beautiful night, but try to rest. To-morrow, you know, we will have much to do." Fondly he embraced her, and when he slept she left him. She had scarcely entered her own room, and closed the door, when a manly step resounded through the passage; it stopped at the next door, which was immediately opened. A few low, tender words, and then, "Good-night, dearest Arthur." "Good-night, my own love, my Rosa." A parting caress, it seemed, and they separated. Sweet carols of song, in that bird-like voice, the name of Arthur heard through the thin partitions, the voice of an old attendant, were heard by the occupant of the next room. At last all was quiet. It was long before Evelyn could sleep. Toward morning she sunk into a disturbed slumber, from   SEABURY CASTLE.        85 which she was awakened by the sound of voices. She hastily sprang from her bed, and, behind her lattice, saw Arthur Clare, accompanied by the gen- tleman who had been with him the preceding even- ing, assisting Rosa into a boat, and followed by a servant carrying a covered basket. Arthur Clare took the helm, his companion seated himself by the side of Rosa, the boatmen took the oars, and a curve in the shore soon hid them from the straining eyes of Evelyn. 8     CHAPTER    XIV. "T HEAR from Parish there is an English family staying here," said the earl, at breakfast. "He says they have been here nearly a week, and are out every day, boating, picnicking, etc. You must be lonely, with only your old. uncle for company, Evelyn dear, and I think it will be a good plan to join the party, that you may sometimes accompany them on their excursions. There is a beautiful young lady belong- ing to the party. They are titled, I believe, or one of them is an English milord; but Parish did not under- stand their names." Evelyn trembled, and became so confused as to ex- cite the attention of her generally unobservant uncle. Should she tell him who were their neighbors? It would perhaps be best. "Uncle,' she said, hesitatingly, "it is Arthur Clare, or rather Lord Fitzhugh, who is here. I saw him last night." "Did you recognize each other?" inquired the earl, much interested. "No, he did not see me; I was on the balcony. (86)   SEABURY CASTLE.        87 But, uncle, cannot we leave this place? I am tired of it. I long for the quiet of home." "If you wish to go, my love, we will leave imme- diately,-this very day." Lord Seabury impetuously rang the bell, and ordered post-horses within an hour. His order was followed by the appearance of the landlord, who, with many apologies, informed the earl it would be impos- sible to promise any until the next morning, when, he assured his lordship, they would certainly be ready. The earl and Evelyn were obliged to content them- selves with this promise, and the latter tried to be cheerful and submit to circumstances. She took a short walk with her uncle, who was also much de- pressed. The name of Lord Fitzhugh revived recol- lections of other days, in which Mary Trelawney bore a conspicuous part. In the after-part of the day he endeavored to dispel his melancholy, and, observing that Evelyn looked sad, persuaded her to accompany him to the shore, far removed from the place where the boat- ing-party always landed, which he took care to be certain of before he chose a seat after a short walk. There, seated on a rude bench, gazing on the glassy lake, listening to the interesting conversation of her beloved uncle, Evelyn, in a measure, forgot her sor- rows, and the events of the last evening seemed almost like a dream,-painful, yet pleasing. At last he     88      SEABURY CASTLE. left her for a few moments to give some orders relating to their early journey the next day. And Evelyn, resting her head upon her hand, absorbed in her own thoughts, was soon lost to all around her. From her reverie she was aroused by the sound of oars, and soon a boat, containing the party she had seen embark in the morning, landed just by her. Evelyn would have left the spot, but her trembling limbs refused to assist her, and she could only draw her veil more closely around her averted face, hoping that in the bustle of landing she would not be observed and recognized by Lord Fitzhugh. He looked not at her, but, engrossed in attending to his fair companion, carried her in his arms from the boat, and then turned to speak to the. attendant, while Rosa took the arm of the other gentleman and walked on in the direction of the house. Their conversation, uttered in low tones, must have interested them; for they did not see Evelyn, although they passed close by her side. At that moment a sudden breeze wafted her veil from her nervous hand to the feet of Lord Fitzhugh, who raised it from the ground, and looked around for its owner. He turned, and saw Evelyn; at the first sight of her, he paused, and then, uttering a joyful ex- clamation, rapidly approached her.  "Evelynl Miss DenbighI is it possible?" he ex- claimed, in broken accents; "do we meet once more, after so long a separation?"   SEAB URY CASTLE.       89 She extended her hand, but could not speak. He pressed it passionately to his lips. "Oh, Evelyn, how rejoiced I am to behold you once morel Believe me, you have never been absent from my thoughts. But tell me, tell me, Evelyn, is it dis- agreeable for you to see me?" "Disagreeable! Oh, Arthur, how can you think so? only-- " "Only what, dear Evelyn? Let me tell you, I have never ceased to love you; that in all my afflictions the thought of you has comforted me. You told me once-and I have never forgotten it, but treasure it among my fondest recollections-that you loved me, that you would be mine, but for the barrier my in- fidel sentiments had raised between us. Oh, Evelyn, my beloved, will you not reward my long attachment by becoming my wife?" He spoke rapidly, and with feeling. Evelyn blushed and trembled. For a moment in doubt, she passed her hand over her flushed brow. For a moment only. Then, raising her dewy eyes to his, she said, in a firm voice: "Arthur, I will not deceive you; my attachment for you has not varied, but I can never be your wife unless your religious sentiments have changed." "They have, beloved," he eagerly exclaimed; "they have; the barrier between us is removed. I am now 8*     90      SEAB UR Y CASTLE. a believer in the holy religion you profess, and, I trust, a humble follower of the blessed Saviour." "Thank Godl" ejaculated Evelyn, her hands raised in thanksgiving; and then she nearly fainted in his arms. Quickly recovering, with an effort, "Tell me, dear Arthur, when did this happy change take place?". Lord Fitzhugh was about to reply, when he was in- terrupted by Lord Seabury, who uttered an exclama- tion of astonishment when he recognized the com- palnon of his niece. He offered his hapd to Arthur, who respectfully pressed it to his lips. "Uncle, dear uncle," said Evelyn, with glistening eyes, "he thinks as we do; he is a Christian." "Yes, Evelyn, the little volume you sent me, joined to the faithful teachings of a friend, have been the means, under God, of bringing me to the knowledge of himself." Some time after, Lord Fitzhugh gave to the earl and Evelyn the substance of the following account of himself. ,    *   CHAPTER XV.  AFTER parting from Evelyn, almost in a state of frenzy, Arthur Clare repaired to London, where he found a letter awaiting him from his mother, writ- ten on the day of her departure with Lord Fitzhugh on a visit to some friends in Dublin. He rejoiced at their absence, as he wished for entire seclusion; and, as the great metropolis was at this time nearly deserted, he determined to remain there, as society in his state of mind was distasteful to him. But peace was unknown to him; he could not drive the remembrance of Evelyn from his heart; her image in all its purity was present to him. After a few days, he suddenly determined to leave London, and gave his servant orders to prepare for an immediate departure,-whither he did not know; he was perfectly indifferent; all places were now alike to him,-when the card of Meredith Pennryth was handed to him. H/e was one of his oldest friends, the nephew and heir of Sir Thomas Pennryth, who had married the sister of Lord Fitzhugh. Meredith was devotedly pious, and had studied for the ministry. He had taken orders a short time, and was curate in the parish of Pennryth, when the sudden death of his (91)     92      SEABURY CASTLE. cousin, the only child of Sir Thomas, made a great change in his prospects, as he was now presumptive heir to a baronetcy and a splendid estate in the prin- cipality of Wales. But this made no change in his religious character: he still remained the curate of Pennryth, and preached, and continued his parochial duties among his people. At Pennryth Castle, also, for many years, had dwelt Rosa, the lovely daughter of Lord Fitzhugh. Im- mersed in dissipation, on the continent, and leading a wandering life, Lady Fitzhugh found or imagined it impossible to bestow on her only daughter the care she required. Although herself devoted to the follies of the world, she knew the value of a religious educa- tion, and therefore at an early age sent her little Rosa to her sister-in-law, Lady Pennryth, to be brought up under her care and made as much like her as possible. Lady Fitzhugh added, "For I am not competent, dear Rosa, to bring her up in the right way: I there- fore resign her to you. She is your namesake and godchild: only make her like yourself, and I shall be more than satisfied." Rosa Clare was but six years old when received at Pennryth Castle, and, under the judicious care of her aunt, had become a lovely character, although a complete child of nature. A warm attachment between herself and Meredith Pennryth had grown with their growth and strengthened with their   SEABURY CASTLE.       93 strength. Sir Thomas and Lady Pennryth observed this attachment with pleasure, although doubtful how Lord and Lady Fitzhugh would approve. But the change in the circumstances of their nephew induced them to believe their consent would not be with- held.     CHAPTER XVI. ARTHUR CLARE, in reply to the anxious in- quiries of Meredith, related to him the cause of his unhappiness, and then said, "I am soon going to leave England, to endeavor in other scenes to forget Evelyn." "And where are you going, dear Arthur?" inquired his friend, in a soothing tone. "You are not fit to travel alone. Come with, me to Pennryth: there we will walk and drive together, or you can be as much alone as you wish. Rosa, your sweet sister, will be delighted to see you. I leave this afternoon; you must not refuse to accompany me." "Oh, no, Meredith; I am too unhappy to enjoy even the society of Rosa, and I would not intrude my sorrow on my sister. It would only mar her happiness to see me in this wretched state." "You must go with me, Arthur, and must not say no; I insist upon it," said his friend, authoritatively. At last Arthur yielded to the entreaties of Mere- dith, and in a short time they reached Pennryth, where they were received with delight by Rosa, and with warm affection by Sir Thomas and Lady Pennryth. (94) t    SEAB URY CASTLE.       95 In their society he became more composed; but a paper containing an account of the sad death of Sir Harry and Honora, which he was listlessly reading, brought from him a sharp cry of agony, and he fell insensible to the floor. A brain-fever was the conse- quence, and it was many months before he entirely recovered; and then his first thought was of Evelyn, his first desire was to go to Seabury Castle. But in this he was prevented by Meredith, who had obtained all the sad particulars from Mrs. Warrenton, and also ascertained that Lord Seabury and Miss Denbigh, unable to bear the desolation of home, had left their native land, hoping that change of scene would as- suage, although it could not cure, their grief, or cause them to forget their dear departed. On recovering his health, in some measure, Arthur Clare commenced the reading of the volume given him by Evelyn. In the solitude of his chamber, or frequently at the foot of some mountain, by a purling stream, he would pass hours, so absorbed in his in- teresting study that he forgot the flight of time. Every difficult passage he carried to his friend for elucidation or advice, which was always given with a prayer that these studies might be blessed. And his prayers were answered. In due time Arthur Clare, the once proud philos- opher, became a true Christian. A new light shone upon his path, which led to heaven. Oh, how he now     96      SEABURY CASTLE. longed to see Evelyn, to converse with her on these interesting themes! But she was far away, and he must await patiently until her return, when he would seek her, and again offer her the heart she had re- jected. He fondly thought the obstacle which had influenced her refusal was now withdrawn. Time, in the society of his friends at Pennryth, par- ticularly his darling Rosa, soon passed, when the suc- cessive 'deaths of Lord and Lady Fitzhugh again plunged them into grief. They had given their con- sent to the engagement of Meredith and Rosa; but their union was not to take place until two years after the death of their parents. That time had nearly arrived; in a few months the young curate would- become the husband of the lovely Rosa; but a cold which he took, while visiting. a sick parishioner on a stormy night, induced inflammation of the lungs, from which he had just recovered, but which left him languid and dispirited. A journey was recommended by his physician, Dr. Owen. He was now on his return from Italy, accompanied by Arthur and Rosa, and her old nurse, when at the little village of A-. they met with Lord Seabury and Evelyn. And now it only remains to mention the happy marriages of Lord Fitzhugh and Evelyn, of Meredith Pennryth and R1a, and our tale is told. THE END.   I     
         
      
   
