
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. A Home Scene, or, Mr. Aston's First Evening with Grover & Baker's Celebrated Family Sewing Machine .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6793
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            A Home scene, or, Mr. Aston's first evening with Grover & Baker's celebrated family sewing machine 
            
               &amp;

I)  rid.  L.  .   .il t
0~[

7U   4    f ~  .. r

4
.1                                                                                                                                    .


Nx Ton, August 18 1i86 .
MRsRas. QRovga&amp;BLK:--On page "13" of your little pamphlet
entitled "A Iome Scene,t' the question Is'asked 'k Whether ladies
could -manage ,asewing machine?" I though ,that a little ifact
which jhadjus com' c ome: y  knowledge concerningne of yu m
chines, miightlinterest and confirmn any on~e _who desires to obtain -so'
valuable and essential an article; indeAdI ightsyseh a sinegua
non in every family.  a   l' a
Ini a etter redeived~doine mointhslneromii' minalOry(4alored)
residing- in Lagos, Africa, he asys: "Send me oneof Grover &amp; Ba
ker's Sewing Machines, which;I see advertised ir your papers.'
he teachine was sent, but -y some mistake the ,tfeeoots were
orgottren) But with morethyi Yankee unnlity and periererance,
e went to work examined  umachine,nd in a letter received from,
hlApril17thle writes:
S"We- are much-pleased with our goods,:and ea  e a rewe de-
Zi ihted'ttuh-yourselection Qf the sewing machine. I putt together
without the least frou&amp;Ie,:and ve can now stitehwaylikelnOfeo
lut unfortunately for us, there were no direction: how touse
machine put up with it, and as w~e neuer saw one before, we can't do
anything but stitch! Please send the directions for useh mails,
soon as possible, and if there is any thing-extra'belongig;to the
machine to make it Hem, Fell,and 'Glther, please buy sndsend It
Surely, if a poor colored man inAfrica can work your 1mchine
without aid or directions,who should despairwithbothear atbaud?
An American ladyone of our Sothern  issionris6who has been
for someyears residing at Abbeokuta, Central Africa, arrived.here r
this present month. Shetells u:ethat when she reached Lagos, "she
found-S r. harden busily enigiaged withhis  machine, and to her"grfit
wonder and admiration, he mad~e for her children the clothing needed
-for their long voyage, and without which they would .have gratly.
suffered..'He had alsomade dresses for-his aw,and-was highly do.
lighted with his machine."
I would add to this, that I have used one of your machines for a-
year past, and c+n fully endorse the above..
Respectfully,               E. P. SMIT,
Sr.NWHOLas [Io    , N NWTniMay13,1 858:
Giuoyna &amp;Irn SM. Go.
_      tBx SIfCo.4;Q4_-               "-   '8        -   {" ;Gentlemen :--Ilving purchased your ceeredse n  . nvhlne ,
to take with me on amy return~ to Constantinople, 1lam pleased to bear
-         testimony totheir superior excellence.   =
Previous topachasing them,tIexamined others but found yours
possessing theadvantages ofisimplicity 'fconstrucion,strength, and.
ticityof seani;and-ease in learning to workthem,which st  l-
'end' them for use Inforeir countries, as well as the nited
Sta                            0APTAIN HASAN ;B        ,
Tom.  -  ,         =  - '     --- x  -  O f  Consta,_,tib  Y t4

A HOME SCENE.
IN a coSily furnished room of a neat house in  st - Street, were
a family group, consisting of father, mother, and ""hree children,,the
latter reading from'a book in a low tone,- but an occasional comment
in a loud one, would startle their nervous mother,who, at last rising
from her seat, exclaimed with impatience : "I c.tn stand this no long-
er ; I must have the children sent to bed." Ringing'the bell, she
summoned' Jane to take them away, that she "  might have a chance
to breathe," as she expressed-herself.
Mrs. Aston was not what would be called an impatient mother ; but
at the close of the day, wearied and worn, her work still unfinished,
she felt that of the cares of this life she possessed a large share. Her
husband sat with-his newspaper reading ; but the nervous manner of
his wife arrested his attention, and he thought of the time when her
brow was as serene as the Summer, sky, and her step buoyant and
light. "It is plain," he soliloquized, "' that Mary needs more compa-
ny, more exercise in the open air, to restore her wonted calmness. I
will give up my paper this evening and take her out."  He addressed
her, saying "I see there is i concert given at Niblo's to-night, Mary,
suppos wehttend. It will do yl go.
Nlary glanced at the iy ork piled on the table, 'which at that par-
ticular moment seemed to rise mountain high, and sighed as she re-
plied,
"I would enjoy the music very much, but am so much in arrears
with my sewing, that I cannot afford the time. I must devote every
moment to work, for the children must have new clothes. I find it
difficult to get a seamstress in the house ; besides, it is harder to give
directions and make one understand what my wishes are, than to per-
-form those duties myself."
A shade of disappointment passed -over Mr. Aston's face, as his
eyes followed the direction in which his wife's were fixed. To his dis-
may he saw the pile of- unfinished garments she had spoken of., He
hitched about uneasily in his chair, and finally resumed his paper,.
having arrived at the conclusion that sewing was a troublesome thing.
How to get rid of it he could not tell. After attempting to read in-
tently for some minutes, haunted al the while, however, by the work
on'the table at his elbow, the bright colors and cheerful patterns of
which seemed changed into so many mischievous elves, who were try-
ing to destroy his happiness and render him uncomfortable, a change

-  -., ,

1

_         __   _va ..e.  _.   __                                                                 j3


I

atlfat passed over his countenance, as his eye rested on an adveatise-
ment, and lie exclaimed halt aloud,I' hbye it now.  .le read
-'T uT:aonvr &amp; Inat asit   Mo eMnxr Copsaiy, having greatly mci eased
tieir facilities for manufacturing their Celebrated Family Machines, with all
the recent improvements, otfer for sale a New Style Machine of beautiful
And in a louder tone, so as to be certain of attracting his wife's at-
tention, he continued to real..,
"It is no longer questioned that these Machines are the best in use for
family seeing..
"But," interposed Mrs. A., " I don't think they will do my sewing
well enough. Iam very particular, as you know.'
Mr. A., without answering, read further,
'"They hem, fell, gather, and stit i 1ii most superior manner."
And then inquired, "What n-e c .a you have, Mary ?"'
Mrs. A. answered, "I am afraid I have not'niechanical skill enough
to manage a macliine. It would be a failure in my hands."
" Well, listen again," said Mr. A , "to what I will read : "
"And are the only Machines in the market that are so well and simply
made, that they may be sen into families with no other instructions than
are contained in a-circular which accompanies each Machine, and from which_
a child of ten years may readily learn how to use them, and keep them in
oiler."
Mrs. A..paused awhile, lnt at length said interrogatively,. "I won-
der how fast they will sew? I feel that I am getting interested." .
In answer Mr. A. read,
"They make upwards of fifteen hundred stitches a minute."
"But it is so much money to give just for sewing,' said Mrs. A.
"Not at all, Mary. I am told they last a lifetime," replied the hus-
band, reading again,         -
"And will do the sewing of a family cheaper than a seamstress can do it,
even if she wor ks at the rate of one cent an hour."
After pausing a minute, as if in deep thought, Mr. A. resumed his
reading :
"Is there a husband, father, or brother in the United Stptes, who will per-
nt the drudgery of hand-sewing in his family, when a Grover &amp; Baker Ma.
cihine will do it better, more expeditiously, and cheaper than it can possibly be
done by hand."-        -
Throwing aside the paper, he started to his feet and said, " I can-
not withstand that appeal! I must go and see these Machines! I
must have one ! Mary, you shall have your evenings, aye, and your
afternoons too, for relaxation and mental culture ! I'must have been
asleep not to have seen through all this before !"
On a fine S ring morning, a few days thereafter, a lady and gentle-
ma:.'were tot e seen leaving a house n East - Street, whose purpose
might have been discovered if one had accompanied them a short

way. But there was no mystery about it; they were going to select
the best sewing machine that could be 'found, with a view to pur-
chase ; and after calling at the different depots for the sale of ma-
chines, and niakimg examinations of the sewing and mechanism of all
the various kinds on sale, they decided that the GRovER &amp; BAKER
Machine was the one which would best suit'their purpose. They found it
simple, its use easily learned, and required no keeping in order-that
it would always be ready for work-that it niade a very beautiful and
durable seam, that would not rip, if thg thread broke-that (unlike
all other machines) it required no rewinding of thread;but sewed
from the two spools, as obtained in the stores-that it was adapted to
all kinds of thread and material, by a mere change of spools, and
sewed an elastic seam, that would permit it to stretch in washing and
ironing, without breaking the thread. Mrs. Aston was especiallysle-
lighted, that while the machine would sew a.seam that was s dura-
ble as the fabric in wear, it could easily be removed by-untieng three
stitches of that part of the seam that had last been 'ewed. She was
also gratified to find that she would not be obliged to have recourse
to the hand-needle in finishing the garments-that the machine itself
did it.
It was purchased, and Mrs. Aston sat down to receive instructions
for the use thereof. An hour sufficed' to accomplish this; thud with a
gratified smile, she returned honie in time to welcome her little assist-
ant, wj ich was to do so much for her relief. The elderichildren were
silent with curiosity ; baby was so muach amused by the gentle mur-
. mnripg sound, that he fell into a sweet slumber.' The mother glanced
triumphantly at the pile of work on the table, which had been cut out
and prepared for the next month's sewing; she seated herself and took
the first garment, which was dress for Miss Mary, the eldest datgh-
ter, the seams of which were finished in the next twenty minutes.
Then a jacket-for Master Fred was fiuihhed-all but the button-holes.
Theta baby'sturn cam~tnext, and the skirt of a'little dress was tucked
and Ornamented in a style that Mrs. AXston would have thought impos-
sible, if she had been obliged 'to do it by hand. Then a Summer
cloak-was embroidered for the little fellow, and when the tee-bell rang,
and Mr. Aston rose to go to the dining-room, a more smiling, gratified
face he had not seen his wife wear for a long time. At table, the only
subject of conversation worthy of attention was the new machine.
Mr. A., aftdr tea, jocosely remarked : "I think I will make a good
;    operator, Mary ;" and seating himself at the msachive, said," See me ;
I take hold of the lower part of the wheel with  y right hand, and
pull it in a downward direction.  What now? it does not run in the
same manner in which I started it?
" Well," answered Mrs. Aston, "you do not keep up a regular
motion on the treadle with your foot. While interested in watching
the needle,the motion of your foot is arrested, and the wheel runs the
contrary'way before you are amvare. To avoid this, keep as good time
as if you were playing a melodeon : press first on the heel, then on-
the forepart of the foot, wjthout raiing the toes'

,.


f                             4
"Very true," responded Mr. A.,"the motion, as well as the needle,
requires some thought at first. I did not think of that.  ,ow I have
gained.that point, and placed my work under the needle, it does not
feed through."
Mrs. A. cathe to the rescue, saying, "Perhapsye ithave carelessly
placed the work on the feed, in a miannerthatpermits it to be caught
between the edlenlateand theafeed, which can be avoided if care
hoetaeen the pttinethe wok under. The real cause now is, that
ye hve forgotten to lower the little cloth-presser, which keeps the
work hinlace. Raise it by means of this little handle above it, to put
the work in, and lower it by the same means, before you commence
sewing."
"Mary, you see I am not as apt a scholar das yourself."
Mis. A. with a quiet smile replied, "You are doing very well ; but
the thread is broken! "
"What is the cause ? " asked Mr. A.
"Perhaps your tension is too tight. You can remedy that by
turning to the left the thumb-screw on therpost which holds the upper
spindle in place-taking care to loosen the on the under lile. If
loosened too much, a jagged or fringeam th e u  e will
be the result. If the under thread break, the cause will be the same,
Loosen it by turning the brass thumb-screw at the under spindle-post,
from 5ou.
r"   l, Mary, you have told me all this, but the thread breaks in
spite of tension." Mr. Aston loked as if about to discontinue his
lesson, but his wife playfully insisted that e must be proficient, as she'
expected to hire him to operate.
"There are several causes of the thread breaking, which I may as
well state now : Too tight a tension-the absence of a cloth waser
en the upper spindle---the crowding of the thread against the needle-
hole-the thread too large to lie in the groove of the needle-
holethe hrea  toolarg  alloccasioned by the 'vertical
and a rough circular needle, generally isot  by se ve-
ndcial care should be taken that the circular needle does not get injured.
The cause of the broken thread now," continued Mrs. A., "is that
you have pushed the needle to one side, and, in its descent, it crowds
the thread against the sharp edge of the plate aid cuts it off."
4~"A! I see," answered Mr. A., "I suppose I must spring the
"needle to make it go in the centre of the hole ; which can easily be
done with the fingers. Well, if I am to be employed by you, I must
nknow the manner in which you set the vertical needle.'"
"Take it between the thumb and finger of the left hand, the eye
being directly in front of you ; the outside of the curve of the needle,
to the left. Pass it into the little groove in the n lower part of ew
needle-arm, about a quarter of an inch under the n    crew;
fasten it in by means oT the screw-driver, and then test the accuracy
of its position by opening the plate through which the needle passes ;
then see if the loopenhich the per thread throws out after it has  .
passed through the fabric, and just as it commences to rise, is situat

5

so that the point of the circular needle passes into the centre of the loop
mentioned. Care should be taken to   have 'the needle' just right,
as occasionally a long stitch will be the result, if the circular needle
does not pass into the centre of-the loop."
"Now, I understand all that. I can sew nicely ; but if I want to
change the thread? I have been sewing with cotton ; suppose I want
to sew with silk,.or any other sized thread, how shall I proceed?"
Take the spindle out-of the post ; unscrew the nut which holds
the spool iml place ; take the cotton spool off; place the other spool
on, so that the thread runs off from the upper side, and  fasten it-with
the nut tight on the spindle. The spindle must turn, with the spool
, .   fastened tightly upon it. The under thread need not be changed, as
the under or binding thread is never.seen 'on the upper side, and its
whole office is to tie the upper thread after it has passed through;
bat if silk be preferred, change in the. same way as the upper;
pass it through the little brass spring, then intl the circular needle."
I understand it all, Mary ; but show me how to thread the circular -
needle?. I must be an adept."
"This little instrument conveys'the under thread through the loop
of the tipper thread in a very ingenious manner. It is to be threaded
in two places, called the heel and point ;- a groove lies between these
two places, in which the thread must lie in passing from one to the
other. Now see me: First thread the heel, then turn the wheel so
as to bring the point in front ; pass the readd from the outside to
-    the,inside of the eye in the po-it; pick it up -and guide it into the
groove, before drawing it tight. A large pin or needle will best ac-
complish this. Nowlet me show you how to thread the upper or
vertical needle : Pass , the thread through the slit in this little post.
In order to get.at it, you will have to press the coil spring down with
the finger ; thread it into the needle fromnfront to back;- cause it to
lie in the jaw just above the needle ; draw it through the eye-of the
needle till there is an end about three inches long. After you have
sewed four or five stitches, pass this end under the left side of the
cloth-presser, where it will-be carried out of the way. The end of the
under thread need only be brought to the upper side of the plate, and
there left. You will soon learn."
" Perhaps I will, if you continue to have-patience with my dullness.
Willtyou show me how to take the work out of the-machinie -Mary ? ".
"Slacken the upper thread ; cut -it off close to the work ; raise the
cloth-presser; lift the work carefully, so as to bring the under thread
up one o- two iches, and cut it off close to the work, so as to leave
the circular needle threaded. With care, this needle need not be
, nthreadeid till the spool is used ill.'
.pOn taking the work out in the nianner described, Mrs. Aston ena-
ned it carefully, and after the lapse of a minute,.laughingly said t -
her huisbanld, "'You have sewed this eseum on the wrong-side ; a
. mistake which will sometimes occur with the most experienced-seam-
stiesses. I -ill show you lio v to take it out : Begin from the end
where  -oiileit otf sewing ; pick up thr-ee stitches ons the upper


I

'6
side ; this will leave a thread on the under side ; take both of these
threads up, and putt them at the same time, in opposite directions.
The seam will ravel as easy as one could wish, but if I do not wish to
rip it all the way, I can stop just here. Cut the threads off, and the
work will be as strong as ever. . While this peculiarity does not'afect
the strength of the seam, every samstress can at once realize the:
benefit of this convenience."
Ah! yes, I see it is a seam that will rip if necessary ; but will
not rip when not desired. how convenient that is ; it must be one of
the chief merits of the machine."
"But as you are going to be an operator, ,you must learn to take
care of the machine. Now, as you are going to leave it, we will wipe
out all the oil ; then-to-morrow morning before using it, it will have
to be oiled afresh with the best cnoca or pure metalic oil, wherever
two parts of the machine come together, so as to create friction.
The " nipper-spring," which grasps the thread, should be oiled twice
or three times during the day. The lifter of the cloth-presser and pivots
which hold the needle-arm, need only be oiled once a week ; also the
running geer, wheel, treadle, etc., need to be oiled once a week ; one
drop of oil applied with a small camels' hair brush to the different
parts is sufficient."
"Thank you, Mary. I am glad you prove so.patient a teacher. I
must confess I was incredulous that you had so good a knowledge of
the machine, and to test it, felt desirous of seeing how far you could
help me out of any difficulty.I could get into. I am more than con-
vinced of its simplicity, and think, with a large majority of people,
that the Grover &amp; Baker is the best made, and most easily managed
machine for family use, that can be purchased. I feel that I have
made a capital investment for saving time and labor, anddgained with
the Sewing Machine, an assortment of sweet smiles, pleased and con-
tented looks ; and many nesant evenings we will have on account -
of the freedom which thebonig Machime will give you, Mary."
And there the Machine stouxX, an implement wholly domestic in its
character ; but its influence ex- nded itself into the drawing-room, on
the promenade, at the church, or other public places, and in the
elegant and stylish wardrobe of the family. Mrs. Aston no longer
thought that she could not sjare tine for accomplishments. Her
music was looked over, and some of the delightful songs of old were
practiced and sung in her former excellent style ; and in the merry
pastimes of the winter evenings, Mr. Aston's thoughts reverted back
to the time when there was " no tine to spare," and he felt that the
Sewing Machine had done more than he had expected from it, and
Mrs. A's assertion, two years a fer; proved that they were not mis-
taken, "for," said she, " if I could not purchase another, a fortune
could not buy my Sewing Machine."

DjIJR E0CTIONS        FOR      USING
THE FAMILY SEWING MACHINE.
PLACE THE UPPER SPOOL
Upon the spindle at the right hand of the machine-screwing the nut
down upon .it sufficiently hard to prevent its turning, and placing the
cone part so as to enter the end of the spool.
- THlE UNDER. SPOOL
Must be placed upon the spindle under the platform, in the same
manner as the upper, and the spindle-frame may be raised out of the
machine for this purpose.
In placing the spindles in their places, care should be taken to hgfs
the cloth on the large ends, and the pointed ends puts into the holes
made for them.
THE VERTICAL NEEDLE MUST 33E SET,
So'that, in rising, the point of the circular needle will pass through
the loopsof the thread of the vertical needle in crossing it.. Care
must be taken to have the point of the needle go directly down
through the centre of the hole in the needle-plate, and, if necessary,
the needle can be sprung with the lingers ; otherwise the'needle
will crowd the work to one side, thereby making a crooked seam.
The vertical needle;should never be used, if measuring less than
one-quarter of an inch from eye to poiat.
TO ThREAD TIHE VERTICAL NEEDLE.
- Pass the thread from the upper spool through the slotted post
abore the spiral spring coiled around it, then down between} the pro-
jection on the needle-arm and the spring, and through the eye of the
needle, from you, pulling it through about two and a half inches.
The thread used upon-the under spool should NEVER be more than
one-half as large as ,'that used upon the upper, as the thread is
doubled in forming the stitch. An ornamental stitch may be made,
if desired, by using, as large thread on the under-as on the upper
spool. Much care should be taken to adapt the size of the thread to
the vertical-needle, so'that, as it passes through the fabric, the thread
will lie in the groove without crowding.

t
i
a
,
t
i
,
i
,i i
.    i
}
'
+F
)i
j+J
{Sd
'1
i
4


8

TO THREAD THE. CIRCULAR NEEDLE.
Pass the thread up from the under.spool through the eye of the
spring ; from thence through the eyelet in the heel of the circular
needle, and then through the eye in the point, letting the thread lie
in the gioove-leaving about two inches lying upon the platform.
TO COMMENCE SEWING.
Place the fabric under the vertical needle, with the end resting upon
the feeder ; let the cloth-presser down upon it, then turn the wheel
{under the table, in the direction indicated by ,the arrow ; to turn a
corner, allow the vertical needle to rise about'half an inchfromn its
lowest position, then raise the cloth-presser and turn the fabric, the
needle acting as a pivot.
TO REGULATE THE LENGTH OF TIIE STITCH.
Open the plate at the left hand of the macline, and move the
lever against which the feed strikes towardsayou, for a longer, and
from you, for a shorter stitch.
TIIE TENSION UPON THE THREADS
Should nearly all be obtained from the upper spool ; that upon the
under should be merely sutlicient to operate the spring, through which'
the thread passes.
TIE TENSION IS REGULATED              '
By turning the thumb-nit which presses against the spring which
holds the pointed end of the spool-spindle above, and the brass nnt by
the aide of the thread-spring below.
TO DF TtCII TIE CLOTH.
Slacken the upper thread and cut it off close to the cloth, and'then
after raising and fastening the cloth-presser, slacken the under thread
so as to allow it to be drawn upon the platform as at first ; after
which, cut it near the cloth.

WHEN TUE MACHINE IS MUCH USED,
The oil should be cleaned from the working parts every day (cotton
waste is the best for this purpose), then reoil with the best CLOCK oil,
wherever there is friction.
THE BELT OF TIL EIALANCE WHEEL
Somethpes stretches, and the whee will then fail to move the work-
ing part of the machinery. It may be tighten d by first unscrewing
the thmub-screw under the cross-bar, shoving the wheel to the right,
and thin screwing tight again. Some of the machines have the
wheel placed within a frame, fastened to the side of the cross-bar
with screws, which may be treated in the same manner.

110W   TO PREPARE FOR WORK,
DIRE CTIONS FOIR SEWING.
THREADS OR SILK.
The BEST thread should invariably be used on the sewing machine,
as the strain required is greater than that which the hand gives, in
drawing up the thread in hand sewing. Patent or glazed thread is
not so good, as it does not sink into'the cloth readily, leaving more
thread on the surface than is deemed necessary, and is very liable to
snarl. A poor or indifferent thread WILL ALWAYS GIVE MORE OR
LESS TROUBLE. Silk can be purchased on spools, and this will be found
the best way to use the silk, as the winding being done by machinery,
will give a more even strain than winding by hand. For shirting
muslin the thread need not be coarser than 60 or 70 for the UPPER
spool, and NEVER COARSER than 110 or 120 for the UNDER spool. No
fear need be entertained that THESE SIZES WILL BE TOO FINE, when
we take into consideration that the thread is crossed several times ;
that it takes BETTER material to make a FINE thread of first quality,
and when this is doubled, as is the case with the Grover &amp; Baker, stitch,
the seam will be found to be quite strong erougli. The best sized silk
to be used for ordinary family purposes, will be 0 silk. The spools are
numbered, 0, 00, 000, A, B, C, and so on, 000 being the finest,
and F the coarsest. Care should be taken that the thread for the
vertical needle he in proportion to the needle.  If TOO COARSE TO
LIE IN THE GROOVE OF THE NEEDLE, in its descent through the
fabric, it will break. Cotton may be used on the under spool, as
the under thread is never seen on the upper side
TENSION.
The tension of the UPPER thread is regulated by the thumb-screw
on the post which holds the spindle in place. Turn the screw RIGHT
to tighten, and LEFT to slacken the tension. When the tension is
once regulated, there is no need of altering it-for a new spool of
'thread of the same size may be put on by simply SPRINGING the
post which holds the spindle in place. This is a merit that no other
machine in market possesses. Care should be taken not to have
the UPI'ER thread TOO LOOSE, as a fringed or rough seam will be the
result; but if TOO TIGHT, the thread is apt to break. If the UNDER
thread break, the tension is generally rOo TIGHT. When working
with silk, a much greater tension can be obtained than with.'cotton.
For woolen goods the tension needs to be tight. For materials that
are to be washed often, the tension should be rather loose. If in
working on Swiss or Nainsook, the work has a drawn appearance,
the fault will be with the UNDER thread, whicjill be found too tight.

I'
I.

,


10
NEEDLES.    -
The needles are numbered 0; 00, ai 1, 2; the 00 being finest, and
good for Swiss or other line material; ;the 0 is good for shirt work or
under-garments ; No.,1 is good for heavier muslins, quiltings, etc., or
cloth ; No. 2 is good where the material is very thick. The upper
needle should always be proportioned to the thread-LARGE ENOLGH
TO -ADMIT OF THiE riTmEcAD PASSING INTO THE GROOVE OF THE NEEDLE
in going through the fabric. When sending for needles, the CLASS
of the machine should he specified The family machines are classed
or numbered 15, 20, to 30 inclusive, on the circulars for the family
machine.* Tlse attendant will readily know what needles to give on
designating the number of the Machine.
TO.REGUL.T1I THE LENGThI OF THIE STITCH.
Open the plate at the left hand of the machine, where will be
found a lever, stretching across the aperture, which strikes the feed.
Move that lever' TowAn you to make a long stitch, and FROM you for
it short one. In making a short stitch, do not press the lever too far
back, or the feeder will not act.  A very little way will be enoughto
alter the stitch. It is best, before commencing to sew, to try the
length of the stitch on a small piece of muslin.
TO COMMENCE SEwING.
Place the edges of the material together. If a long seam is to he
sewed; pins placed a few inches apart will answer the place of hast-
ing ; and place the work in the machine so that the bulk of the sew-
ing will pass to the left hand. This will be better than to pass the
most of the material under the needle arm. A little care should be ex-
ercised in laying the work on the feed, so that it cannot press between
the feed and needle-plate, and that the cloth-presser be brought down
Upon it before turning the wheel.
SEIVEDGES OhR OVERHiAND SEAMS.
Instead of sewing the seam over and over, in the manner taught us
by our good grandmotlhers, before he advent of sewing machines, a.
better plan is to lap the selvedges, and stitch one or two rows of
stitching. In making garments, the seams should lie finished asmuch
as possible on the RIGIT side, which will be very ornamental.
TO HEM WrTItocT THE hIEMMER.
Torn the FIhiST edge down a little more than is done in preparing
a hem for hand sewing, creasing it by the nail AS NEAR ON TIE
THREAD AS POssiBLE ; then stitch directly of' THE EDGE. Hems
turned on the RmuT side, are much more ornamental than the old
It is well to observe that these numbers have no reference to the manu-
facturers''numerical numbers on the silhered plate of the machine ; but refer
solely to the numbers as found with illustrations on subsequent pages of this
little bs k.

11
way. To do this, it is necessary to turn the seams for a little way
on the right side. To make' them turn nseatiy, clip the edge of the
seam, as mumcI as is necessary, to make it tarn well in the opposite
direction. If the hem is found to he looser than the material, do not
plait it, or hold it in bastring, as is dne by haud ; but TAKE UP A
LAiut EI SEAM, sufficient to make it conme even. This is necessary, as
the machine keeps the edges even, amd never takes up any fullness.
TO HEM WITH THE Hr:MMER.

PL ACE THE SLOT that is cut in the Ilemnier,ilder the guage, fast-
en firmly with the thumb-screw, taking care that the outer edge of
the tube shall be on a direct line with the needle ; take the cloth.t
be hemmed and fold up about an inch, as if for basting, place time
first fold inside the tube, drawing it. through until the Feed has
canglt the goods, after which it is only required to keep the tubes
full of the goods.
TO FELL WITH 'THE IIEMIIER.
{  II I                  FIRsT SEAM. - Adjust the
hemmer on the machine as for
ordinary bemusing, then place
the two layers of cloth which
{ , ,m  l l ,    .      are to lie felled togethiceT, one
that the edge of te upper lay-
ill             poss   a oertime zothIerlso
11   'er shall be about one eighth of
an inch within the edge, of the
under layer, at the side where
the felled seam is to be made, as seen
in. the annexed cut.  Pass both layers
through the hemmer in the manner shown
i       in the cut, taking care that the edges are
kept osie within ti e other, as first placed,
.-11     and the first seam on the fell will be
..L Ithus complete.

I-

+*  as=a..-..--_---       =.-.+ssr, +esck..ss.,"                         'Wiail Fi  ir'to+'+.as"'°


12
SECOND SAM.-To make the second seam of tie fell, open or
spread apart the two layers or thicknesses of the cloth, and stitch
dowi the fell at the edge, as will be readily understood by the
following cut. This second seam is made without the aid of the

hemmer. Select the width of the hemmer to be rused for felling ac-
cording to the width of fell desired.
TO FILL WITHOUT THE HEMMER.
First, baste the upper edge down over the under ; then"stitcha
seam the ordinary width for a fell ; open the seam and stitch again
directly on the edge. A little practice will enable one to do this in,
a most beautiful manner.
TO GAThER.,
Place COARSE cotton on the UPPER spool; tighten the tension ;
make a longer stitch than usual ; UNSCREW TIlE CO-NE whieh fasten
the UNDER pool a little, so as to give it full play, without'allowing
it to go out of place, and stitch slowly with the machine, as. usual.
After having finished the seam, draw the UPPER thread.
TO TUCK.
Measnre the tucks as in ordinary hand-sewing; place the gauge
as far from the needle as you wish, the width of the tucks to be-
taking care in stitching, that the needle is right in the (entre, and
that the work does not ride or ush over the gauge, as this will
make a great diherence in the width of the tucks. If you ind- you
have done so, stop hnilediately ; take the part out and sew it over
again. It will pay yU for the pains, i the neat and regular ap-
pearance of the tucks.-
TO QUILT.
Tack the silk on the wadding, and mark the pattern in the usual
way for quilting by hand. It is not necessary to interline the work,
as the cottoncan rest on the"feed withouttinjury to it. ' Use good
silk en the upper spool-cotton on the under spool. Quilting done

13
by hand bears no comparison to that dote by the Grover &amp; Baker
Mo-bl~ite.Bed-quilts may be quilted in strips, and seamed up
after ards.'
TO EMBROIDER.
The UNDER'side sho*s the ornamental stitch. Place COAhSE SILK
OR COTTON ON THE UNDER SPOOL; use No. 1 or 2 needle; make the
stitch LONGER ; have the pattern marked on the WRONo side of the
material, and stitch it the WRONG SIDE UI', leaving the UNDER seam
on the RIGHT side of the garment. Two colors which form a co i-
trast, such as blue and orange, or pink and white, may be used.
Flannels can be tucked and ornamented with silk in this way, and
chambres 'or brilliants, with boar's head cotton, may be ornamented
so as to look better than-the finest braiding'or chain-work.
TO CROsS A EA31.               -
When sewing cotton goods with much dressing, it may require
some care in crossing seams, when there are a number of thick-
nesses-where hemis and fells co e together, for instance--the
crossing will be facilitated by pressing the seam flat, and rubbing a
little WHITE soap on the ThICK part. A small piece of soap kept in
the work-basket will be found useful for softening the tough places
which often occur in sewing. Many ladies follow this practice in
hand-sewing, where the goods are hard to sew.
'     TO TURN A CORNER.
Stop the wheel without raising the needle more than half way out
of the work; raise the little cloth-presser, and turn the work in the
manner desired, using the vertical needle as a pivot.
TO TAKE TiHE WORK OUT.
Slacken the PPI'ER thread,; cut it off close to the work; raise the
cloth-presser ; lift the work carefully, so as to bring tie UNmim
thread up one or two inches, and cut it oil' close to the wOrk. - The
needles will then remain threaded. and the machine be ready for
the iext garment. Many ladieshave a small strip of 'muslin con-
.veniently by them, which thely run uder the cloth-presser, wire-
ot-r RtIkSING, at tlh end of straight seams. it serves the purpose
of fastening the threads, and when a new seam is to be commenced
the strip may be displaced by feeding the garment under the-clothL
presser in the same manner.


RELATIVE       MERITS
OF THE
SEWING MACHINE STITCHES.
THE GaoV-ER &amp; BAKTER SEWINGi MAcHI E, although of more recent
invention than either of its legitimate rivals, has achieved an unpre-
cedented popularity, and merrily hums ,its success to the satisfac-
. tion of upwards of 30,000 families in almost every part of the
civilized world. Where the merits of its peculiar atitch are fully
understood, precedence has always been given to the Grover &amp; Baker
Machine for Family Sewing. This stitch his the merit of greater
. beauty, strength, and elasticity than any other stitch made by ma-
chine-resembling the well known " back-stitch" by hand, in every
essential particular, except that it is more beautiful and regular. It
Fig. 1.
is made of two threads, sewed direct from two spools, just as pur-
chased in the stores, and without any rewinding. The upper thread
is passed through the fabric, where a loop is thrown out, as the needle
rises, and a 1001) of the under thread is passed through the loop of
the upper thread, This loop of the under thread, in its turn, has a
loop of the upper thread passed through it, and there is thus a series
of interloopings of the two threads (Fig. 1),, each stitch being firmly
tied by the operation of the machine, requiring no fastening of ends
of seams, with a hand-needle, in finishing garments. The GuovERi &amp;
BAKER 'stitch differs very materially from the other two stitches made
by sewing machines, viz., the "single-thread," "loop." "chain,"
"tambour," "crochet," or "knitting-stitch," and the "shuttle-stitch,"
sometimes for effect called the "lock-stitch."
The "single-thread," or " tambour" stitch has never been found
I~2.-
of much practical utility for family sewing; because of its want of
strength. Figure 2 illustrates that it is a mere series of loopings on
the single thread, after it has passed through the fabric. It is formed
by thrusting the thread through the fabric, where a loop is held open

15
until the thread is a second time thrust through the fabric dnd first
loop. This'process is repeated until the seam is formed, making the
series of loopings on the single thread referred to. This stitch has
been much used for ornamental sewing, and there are numerous fain-
ilies in almost every part of the United States who relate sad expe-
riences of their efforts to apply it to the wants of the household.
Figure 3 shows that it has the same defect of the stitch made by our
Pg.3.
dear old grandmothers with knitting needles. Whenever a stitch is
"dropped" or " skipped," the seam may be raveled like an old stock-
ing from that stitch. The same raveling will take place, if the thread
break, and there be any strain upon the seam laterally.
The perfect " shuttle" or "lock-stitch," is formed of two threads,
one upon the upper, and the other upoi the under side of the fabric,
crossing each other in the centre. The upper thread isthrust through
i.4.
the fabric, where a loop is thrown out and held open, and a straight
thread thrust through that loop, with either a reciprocating shuttle,
or a bobbin and a rotating hook. On thick fabrics, that are not to be
washed and ironed the looping points of the threads may be drawn
into the centre of the fabric, as 'shown in Figure 4, and the seam will
then have a very considerable degree of elasticity. Great care must
be taken to have the machine run with an equgl degree of speed, to
form a perfect seam, as'a faster or slower motion of the foot is. inva-
riably certain of, altering the tension ; when the seam, instead of
showin  "the s'titch alike on both sides," will, present the appear-
ance shpwn by Figure 5, with a straight thread on the under


surface of the fabric, which ritay easily be drawn out, leaving the
upper thread raveled. Thin fabrics show this imperfection in a
greater degree than heavier good, because they have not_ body
enough to prevent the crossing point of the threads to 1e drawn into
the centre, and the lower thread must, of necessity, he straight, for
the two threads are of themselves as thick as many fabrics, and
when an attempt is made to have "the seam alike on both sides,"
the under thread is seen between the stitches on te ighte ide, and
the up per thread is seen in the same manner on the under side, so
that to be able to make a fair stitch on the right side, itis absolutely
necessary to let the under thread lie straight, which can be drawn out
at will. Great care must be had in washing acid ironing garments
that have this straight thread, that all unnecessary stretching and'
straining be avoided, lest the straight thread break and the seam rip.
---               Pig. 6.

There.is also a constant danger of this in wearing a garment, especi-
ally wherever there is what ladies call a " bias seam," where elas-
licitt of stitch is absolutely essential. Even when the "shuttle" or
"lock-stitch." seam is perfectly sewed, with the threads crossing in
the centre, there is continual friction at the point of crossing,and this
friction must wear the threads enough to make one of them break
with a moderate strain, when the seam will rip several inches, or as
far as the ends of the thread will permit them, as shown in Figure 6.
Every "shuttle" or " lock-stitch " seam requires to have the ended
of the seam either tied with the ends of the threads of which it is
formed, or fattened with a hand-needle, to prevent it from ripping in
the manner above illustrated._
Prior t the invention of the Grover - Baker stitch, the'two stitches
just described were the only stitches m de by machinery, but neither
Fig. 7.
of them met all the requirements of family sewing. The "single
thread" stitch was somewhat elastic, but lacked strength, and the
" shuttle " or " lock-stitch," while it had more strength, had little or
no elasticity. The Grover &amp; Baker stitch has both these qualities in
a very great degree, as a careful examination of Figure 7 must show.

The under thread is wound through and around the loop of the upper
thread, tieing; each stitch twice, so that every one is securely fastened,
and wholly independent of all the other stitches for strength, and if
the seam be cut or broken at every quarter inch, the sewing must hold
good while the fabric will wear. It gains its strength and elasticity
rom the under thread which divides the straintbetween the several
threads, and permits the upper thread to compress the material be-
tween the stitches, while each loop gives or yields to the force which
the other stitches feel, instead of concentrating the strain upon a single
point of the thread, as is the case with both the "single thread"
and the "shuttle" or "lock-stitch." When the Grover &amp; Baker
stitch is finished, with the loop drawn up, as exhibited in Figure 8,
the under thread lies flat atid close to the fabric, and after being
washed and ironed, has the appearance of being inwrought in the
substance of thc material, and when the proper thread and tension
have been used, making no rougher surface than the under side of the
" lock-stitch."
,  The G  over &amp; Baker stitch is formed by carrying the upper-thread
through the fabric b means of a vertical eye-pointed needle, where a
loop is thrown out as the needle rises, which loop is entered by a cir-
cular needle, carrying the under thread, and this under thread, in its
turn, throws out a loop, which is caught by the vertical needle, as it
comes down again. This seriessof interloopings continues until the
seam is formed, which gives great strength and elasticity. The ma-
chinery which makes this stitch is a marvel of simplicity anl
ingenuity, requiring no mechanical skill to manage. Nor does it re-
quire other adjustment than a mere change of threads and needles, to
adapt it to the character of the work to be sewed-coarse or fine,-as
the case may be. One of the lightest family machines will sew
gauze laces, and all the varieties and kinds o fabrics, between and
including beaver-cloth, without changing either needle, thread, or
tensions ; will sew each equally well, and return to either variety of
work with perfect satisfaction,. No other machine ever offered to the
public -will do as much.
A perfect Sewing Machine--one answering all the requirements of
the family-sewing coarse or fine work'equally well-was the great
desideratiim of the home circle, previous to the invention of this
stitch, which, as we have already shown, is beautiful, elastic,
strong ; will, not rip in wear, or in accidentally breaking a thread, and
has a peculiar merit that commends it to the especial favor of ladies.

ii
S
tI

_

1


18

The peculiarity re erred to is this: that whenever it is required to
remove a seam,  either because it has not been sewcd in the right
place, or because it is desirable to refit a garment to a change in style
or fashion, it may be done withoutmneh loss of time, after receiving
instruction in the proper and only method of doing it. The operator
must carefully pick up three stitches on the upper or right side of
the seam, and then take both upper and under threads, and pull
th  in opposite lirectior, when it will ravel (not rip), as far asade-
sired. Whenever the threads arc cut off, the seium, becomes tight and
fast from that point, and three more stitches will have to be taken up
and untied as before. if the two pieces/of cloth be pulled apart, TIIE
sEAM WILL NoT Rir. N    straining or stretchmig will make it rip,
under any circumstances, except in the manner named, via., untieing
three stitches of that part of the seam that last passed through the
machine, and then the threads--not the fabric-niust be pulled. It
will be found to be tight and strong whenever the fabric is pulled.
This is the trIte test of wear.
The Grover &amp; Baker stitch is found to be more economicaithan the
" shuttle" or "lock-stitch."  It is here admitted that, in a given
length of seam, the Grover &amp; Baker stitch uses one-third more
thread on the uldCr spool, than the " lock-stitch," but there is no
-waste, and there is no time lost in winding thread :from the spools into
the bobbins. Figures 9 and 10 show two spools-the larger one for
Fig. 9. (

the upper and the smaller one for the under spindle-which may be
put on the machine and used up without unthreading either needle.
As each stitch is firmly tied by the machine, it is not necessary to
leave any ends  f thread at the ends of seams, to fasten them. Con-
sequently, there is no waste. In sewing straight seams, one seam
may be sewed immledtiaely at the end of theother-the threads being -
the only connecting link between them. This bay he do1n with an
indefinite number of seams, and they can be cut apart afterwards,
without interfering with their strength. It is found that 500 yards
of thread-200 on the upper and 300 on the under spool--will stitch
107 yards of material, allowing a waste of about one yard by acci-
dental breaking of thread.. When a thread breaks, it requires about

19'
two inches of the end to be drawn on the bed plate to commence
sewing again. An actual trial with 200, yards of thread-80 yards
on the upperY, and 120 on the under'spindle-gave a result of &amp;7
yards of sewing, with no waste.
Figure 11 shows the reciprocating shuttle, containing a bobbin
filled to its utmost capacity with thread. The machines which have
this style of shuttle are preferred by tailors and others on account of
the mechanical construction af the bobbin, permitting acompara-
tively perfect regulation of the tension oi the under thread. The

distance from the circumference to the diameter of the bobbin is so
small, that the strain upon the thread is somewhat regular. fnd needs
only to be passed through a greater or lesser number of holes, on the
upper side of the shuttle, to make a tighter or a looser stitch.
Figure 12 exhibits two views of the bobbin, which accompanies
the rotating-hook. One exhibits a side view, and the other a view
of the edge--each being exact
transcripts as to size and ap-           Pig. 12.'
pearance, By actual measure-
ment, it isascertained that this
bobbin will contain 29 yards
of No. 70 cotton, and that it
will require to be filled seven'
times to take 200 yards from a
spool. -The distance from the
. circumference to the centre of
this bobbin equals half an              .   7
ich, and  hien, filled with
thread, works with some de-
gree of regularity; but, as the
under thread becomes shoei,
and it approaches the centre
of the bobbin, there is less fr dom of movement, and the bobbin
rotates irregulary-the thread drawing tighter and tighter around
the axis. Te loop of the upper -thread must necessarily be large, to
permit tis bobbin with thQ hook to pass, through, and, in conse-
quence, the first stitch is never finished until the th ird one is com-
menced, and whenever a seam is commenced with the " lock-stitch"
machine, it is found necessary to have six inches of eud from

fii^
r'

"
_                                                                                 -   -                                                                                                                                                         lwll pl

s

N


20
the upper'spool, and the same number from the bobbin- -making
twelve inches waste at the beginning ; while at the end of each
seam, there must be left four inches of each thread--equal to
eight inches. Thus we have 12 inches at the beginning, and 8
at the end of every seam for finishing off-or 20 inches of waste.
In family sewing,. where most seams are less than a yard ki
length, it can readily be seen that the waste from ends, for fastening
the seams, will be great. Manufacturers who usd this style of ma-
chine estimate that 500 yards of thread will sew 166 yards of straigM
seam ; but where there are seams of less than a yard in length, the
waste almost equals the number of yards actually used in the seam.
If we estimate the time lost in winding from the spool, and fastening
the ends of seams, together with the waste of thread in the beginning
and esdhig of seams, and the ends that remain in the bobbin-that
are not long enough to give a proper tension--there will be found a
waste of thread and time that will moe than equal the value of the
extra one-fifth. of thread used by the Grover &amp; IBaker stitch. An
actual days sewing on a lock-stitch machine, with 200 yards of
thread, where there were short seams, gave a result of 35 yards of
seam and 34 yards of ends wasted.

No. 15.

CLOSED.
A silver.plated machine-can be aced by hand or foot, and
is very convenient for traveling. When closed, presents the
game appearance as a lady's work-boa, and when open is a
work-box indeed.                       Price, $60.

-
i
pit
Y
?
h"
fa
S
i
F-

No. 2o.

larger than No. 15.
Priec,  T.-
No.2-

Ii

Lamle size as No. 20-is silver-plaed and double Peeded
Price, $80.

, C7
®-sO
.'1Q
rd --+
O "O

a
Cl
"-5
CD
a'
CJ
0

r

,
_ ,
.°
: .
!
!

f

;;
.
.
_
%'
£
k
- '   ¢ .
e°
K'


No. 23.
No. 22.
,-1Price,                                                                                                       $  0.
SNo.2
CLOSED
0c
This machine is silver-plated, and the table has a cover.
Runs very fast and still.                                                        Larger than No. 23--samne finish.
'rice,  i00.Price, $5Q.
________________________________________________________  i

-


No. 25.

ttC
OPEN.'
orF:  .o.    .
--!A
CLOSED.
Larger than No. 22-siame finish.
Price,  7..

No. 26.

OPEN. .

(2)
t
r
i".
c
'w
U
i"
w
r
c: a
.                  as
c3
N
1
r
J:
4
w
'          r=Z
x!
. M
i-
r
r
a
L7_ _f

F'

CLOSED.
A silver latedogd lacl  alnt

p 1   ue anm pearie macbines in mahogany or black walnut
case, which can be completely closed and locked.
Price, $80.

_.. , ....   _  r  ...          T           -_.        ,        --_     , ..e._.._. ....., .,. _  _.  _._        ..e._-.         .,,,,.e.,,,,,.n,--- ._ Pm
.'aY w


No. 2 7.

I
K
a

Larger than No. 26-extra silver-plated and pearled--of sr
finish. Can be closed like No.. 20.
Price, $90.
No. 28.

Larg Ek macine panfished, for plantation and ft
Sews the finest or coarsest work with equal facility. Tab
corer.
Price, with    Curved    Necdic=-$0.
Price, with Straight Needie-$65.

O
t0
C)
C)
C)
c:
apenrs r      v
U U
.0wU
C)CU
r CC
SC-
0)
C).
C)
0
atolly use.   t
)le has noa

Same size as No. 28. silver-plafed, and of better finish.
Table ha- a cover.
Price, With     Curved    Needle-. $8w.
Price, with Straight heedle-_.$85. 
o.C)30.
An elegantraachine, finished. in -tho finest manner, extra silver-
plated and pearled-is capable of the widest rangeof sewing, and can
.e closed and lced like No 26.
Price, with Curvet1 Needle-$100.

E'
i
S      .
VyYill
E°at
l
r          b
I

,f
r-
,;
" T

Wo. 29..

Price, vviik   tsai ;ht 1'trd1     1(J5.

F
I


A FEW NAMES OF              1      SERLS
IN DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF TIIE COUN RY,O WIOI WE REFER :
NEW YORK AND VICINITY.
Rev. II. Ward Beecher,  Messrs. ITarper Brothers, Mrs. Auguste Belmont,
Josh. I. Leavitt, D.D. "cBowen, Holmes &amp; Co oWbert Loorna,
Dr. Step. A. Tyng, N. P. Willis, Esq.,         V. L.C IRhoin,
I)Dr. J. Floy,    Capt. J. J. Comstock,   - Silas C. Iieruing,
SPeter Stryker, Genio C. Scott, Esq., "Peter Stuyvesant,
W. P. Strickland,  Gen. Wm. Cook, U.N.A.,    Lester Walack ,
".F. S. Wilev', Capt. Geo. Thomo, U.S.A.      Eli Hoppoc ,
aJohn Be \Vitt,     Orange Judd, Esq.,        13. V . Jones, .
" H. Belden,        Mdissrs. Fowler &amp; Wells,  ceo. 1P. Moiris
cJ. Ii. Partridge,   Mrs. Dr. Delalield,       William Jagger,
cI. F. Pennington,     H. Keenland,           .D . hiC.,
J. Pillsbury,     4  Samuel McLean          W   . Lane
"  J. Wile                . L. Ncols            - .CBgat
c.. 1. Willis,        Win. Outout,         F  .Rstn
Geo. Whipple,      "  W- G. Gilmore,      R. A. Tooker,
"  S. M. Haskins,     " John F. Johnson,      Win. Aynor,
acC. Clapp,           cJ. l. Graham,         -T. Edd,
J. E. lisei,     cN. B. Graham,           J. - llmi
" S. Hlaines,         c 'Peter Naylor,        O. CharliclD
cv. Iiornblower,      c Henry Young,          Thos. F. McDowell,
I. G. Giles,       " Walter Carter,         Win.    r.aegget,
-; IW. IL Ten Eyck,   ccSarah F. Livingstot    B- -I. XV. Merrn,.
c  Calvin Yale,       c  T. R. Strong,         Irving Van Xok,
cc J. R. Pinney,    .c   Tho uas Raning,  --.ic.HPliayor,
.Ste.phen Pprter,     J. M. Herrick,    FcI, Palen,
Dr. Benjamin Brandreth,    J. W. Miller,        Co. -     ey,
.c J.W.i.Ctndlit      c  j. W. Lyman,       co ose     .,     .
II. R. White,'      "  S. E..Howard,     cJames irancig,
cJames T. Minor,   "   erriman,            -A. (Jaey ,hall
Filueras, Sands &amp; Co.,  4  A. G. Crowell,      I - Chapman,
Wmin. Gale &amp; Son,      aCharles Peters,         Dlr. Ptti,
Fellows t. Co.,        "  J. A. Morris,, ,      Dr.    erker
Fuller Brothers, '        3. Stuyvesant,       RTiobersUon,.
P. &amp; II. Lewis Brothers,  Wm. C. Francis,      1. 0. onor.,
A. &amp; W.W.. Shumway,   "  D. A. Woodworth,    c. W. Dickinson,
Palmer &amp; Enalante,     " G. .- Cladwick       htaes Rowland,
Whitcomb, Prentice &amp; Co. "  B. Lorillard,       N White,
Mora &amp; Navarro,        " Edwin Underhil,     EPF. I. Tremain,
Wi. Partridge &amp; Son,   " T. B. Traphagen,       B. Johnson,
AtWater &amp;Mulford,      "  H. Knickeabocker,  c"  Graham,i
J.11. Brown &amp; Co.,     4  J. R.  tuyvesant,     T. W.Whitmore,
FiseLr, Ricnds &amp; Co.,  a  Edward Corning,.  ,J. S. Van Ness,
Williams &amp; Patterson,  "  A. R. Whipple,  "Valentine Aldridge,
lHammel Brothers,     Miss Carrie May,      ic B. S. Gregory,
Mrs. GCeo. V. Southwick, Miss Johnson,  .       J. S. Ogden,
ccJ F. Brown,        Mrs. A. S. Pennington,    Tlomas Freeman,
c  WX'm. 0. Mumford,  " 'JJ. Conant,      " S. .'Iackwood,
F. B. Spooner, -      ccJames Pishop,       cc Thomas Dunham,
Isaac C. Ogden,   "c  Rufus Reed,        "  Edward ilsworth,
R. T. Stebeigh,       FEdwin Graves,      "   R. MH, Livingston.

. NAMES OF -PURCHASERS.
ALBANY, AND VICITY.           -
'on. Lorenzo Burrows, Ex-Comptroller Wmr.Sprague, D. D., Past. Second
Hon. Stpph: B. Cushing, Att'y Gen.   Presbt. Church,
T. W. Olcott, Pres. Mech. &amp; Farm. h'nk James L. Mitchell, Congress Hall
B. P. Learned"  Union Bank,       T. E. Roeselle, Delavan House,
Jno. Tweedle, 4  Merchants, Bank,  Samuel Wilkinson, Ex-Editor Albany
H. H. Martin, Cashier City Bank,     Evening Journal
John Sill, Cashier Merchants' Bank,  lion. Calvert Comstock, Editor Atlas
Adams Van Allen, Cash. Union Bank.   and Argus
S. H. Van Antwerp, N. Y. State Bank, II. J. Hastings, Editor Albany Knick-
Ion. Alex. S. Johnson, Judge of Court  erbocker  A1
"    of Appeals,  -                   Albany Orphan Asylum,
Hon. Amasa J. Parker, Ex-Judge,    St. Joseph Orphan Asylum,
J. N. Campbell, D. D., Pastor of First Alfred Wilde, Esq.,
Presbyterian Church,    '       John S. Putnam, Esq.,
Chase. Van Benthuysen, Messrs. Steele &amp; Hobbs,  Robert Dunlap
-   John Randall,     .(eo. A. Snell,           Wm. H. Bloomingdale
Benjamin Marsh,        Mrs. Hunter,           Mattiew McMahon,
Wm. H. Williams,       Miss Traver,           Mrs. IMcKnight,
A. L. Winne,          Miss Louisa Johnson,   P. S. Gilbert,
S. W. Gibbs,           Chas. A. Goodyear,     Mrs. Morey,
11..). hawk-ns,       Miss Elizabeth Wright,  Miss Wilson,
E. Y. Hawley,          Mrs.'Lewis,            Wm.I. II. Bogart
Jared Horton,          Miss Mary Gallon,    .Mrs. James A. Burt,
 R. H. Pease,         Walter Dickson,  .     Mrs. Elizabeth Van Zant
Mrs. Gen. Worth,       L. S. Parsons,         Lewis Rathbpne,
V. P. Dow,             Mrs. Gough,            John F. Rathbone
I. A. IHarris,         Charles G. Worth,      George B. Hoyt
(iantine Tremper,      Joseph L. Snow,        Miss Elizabeth O'Brien
Le Grand Bancroft,     Peter Monteath,        Mrs. Hart.
Samuel Schuyler,       D. L. Wing,            Wi. H. Rice,
E. Corning, Jr., Miss Elizabeth Clait, -     Mrs. Uri Burt,
Mrs. Miller,           Rev. George Wier,      Mrs. S. A. Van Dyck,
W. I. )ickson,        Mrs. John N.-Wilder    Mrs. A. Scattergood,
John G. White,         Mrs. Kirkland,         Wn. Campbell,
Win. J. Iadley,       Wm. B. Sprague, Jr.,   Jabez Pardon,
James Burton,         Mrs. C. May,           Amos James,
Thomas P. Crook,       Mrs. Sink,             George Van Order
J ho Van Gaasbeeck  J. W. Scott,           James Myers,
Ben Briare,              m. Barnes.           Thomas Schuyler,
Theodore Van Heusen,   3 's. Joseph Cook,     James B. Emerso
Ogden N. Chapin,       Mrs. hilip Van Allen,  Chas. E. Gifford,
A. Crawford,           F. P. urns,            Sweet &amp; Tingley,
.J. G.Root,          E. Gran                Mrs. Marie Chas
Peter Rowe,            Theodore  wnsend,      M., L.rittenden
Messrs. Robbins &amp; WalkerJames Edwa  s,       lon. Franklin To osen,
Mrs. C. B. Dkrker,     Dr. George Do glas,    Miss Jane J. Boyd,
Miss Illen 0. Callaghan, John Hasti  ,       Chas. Van Zant,
I  . . Charles,       Da '    arria, Jr.,    W. C. Durant,
J. I. Werner,          Mrs. Matthew McCracken, Thomas J. Strong
Lawson Annesley,       Mrs. Geo. Jones,       James Weldon,
o X ait,         Thomas McCready,        Mrs. Bussey,
S. V. Clark,           John C. Van Schoonhoven John C. Bull,

1

a
r{
t
x=
,9
3
D
4'
S
F
i
i
}

J

i.                          C

r

y

i
l
r
t


NAMES OF PURCHASERS.
ALBANY AND VICINITY, CONTINUED.
Mrs. Relyea,         Win. B. Conant,      Wm iG(
Edwin Wilbur,        Grand Lord,          Win. Ri
I. C. IHogeboom,     Geo. W.'Luther,      T. B. A
I. s. Thrp,          C. A. Crounse,       Joseph
Gen. Juln F. Townsend, JohnuI)g Serviss,  George
Matthew Wing,       .Augustus Hians,      Joseph

Arch. A. Dunlap,
James P. Jermain,
thev.Mr. Judkins,
T. E. Lockley,
Smith, Gregory &amp; Co.,
J. G. Hoot &amp; Co.,
Chas. P. Barber &amp; Co.

wEsrT -(oY.
Miss Susan Dunlap,
James Roy,
Tor.

Col. Ha
James.

ray,
ector,
lanon,
LLordT
C. Treadwell &amp; Co.
Care.
milton,
.R. Dumont.

P. 1I. Corbin,        A. S. Ash,
IH. F. Hansen,        F. W  Faruliam.
Troy Ilosiery Co.
ConoES.
Cons e. Adams &amp; Co.,  Mohawk Riv rMills,
Akn, Friule &amp;.Bingham, L. W. Manstiell,
Biley Manulhturng Co. H. Brockaray.
ROCIIESTER AND VICINITY.

F. Van Doorn,          A. E. Carr,
Jo. C. Moore,          C. W.. Iebard,
Mrs. W. Barren Williams,L. D. Mitchell,
Joel Hinds, B.. Nevin,
Gen. Jacob Gould,      A. B. Wiborn,
Benj. Butler,          M. A. Smith,
b            Jno. Chapman,          J. 1, lowland,
0. ). Grosvenor      Il- 11111,
IH C. Fein,           Ianiel Washburn,
tr. W. W. Ely,         F. Pesioe Smith;
l. A. Garland,         Judge tarrar,
Mis Julia Kapplyn,     Jas. A. Actor,
.hv. B. Watson,      Ald. Budget,
A. G. hall,       Rev. George Cheney,
ccJ. Ashworth      1I1. J. Egglestone.
.. 0. Locke,          Miss II. N. Alden,.
Mrs. E. Vanderhrof,   'A. (l. Bristol, -
a  Jno. N. Wilder,    J. W. McKiddley,
Miss Mason,           hIre. M. C. Smith,
S. A. Millman,         S..K. Williams,
Winm. H. Illis,        Mrs. M. Brown,
M    F. A. Wright,    Wilson Rider,
.. G. Ramdell,   -    . Godfrey,
Mrs. II. I. McQuivey,  0. Sackett,
C, II. Boorman,       .. C. Bills

Roam
IC. S.Sholly,
CA. I:. . Savery,
C. Conisoclo,

C. McAlpine,
Dr. N. tllen,
Jno. (reenwood,
Geo, P. Wolcott,
Rev. Jas. II. lill,
E. II. Barnard,
I'. tV. Garfield,
A. S. Budge,
Pr. 'D. V. Shiinan,
Mrs. Cauley,
C. A. Purr,
J. B. Ward,
Mrs J. Taylor,
Miss II. Dumond,
Jas. C. Van'et,
Geo. W. Tate,
J. D. Iusba'nds,
fl v. A. M. Stowe,
Dr. Kelsey,
Chase. l'owis,
S. V. Ailing,
JeapliIHaris,
Mrs Robert Ilunter,
Miss M. Robinson,
U. C. Care,
M1. etish.
His- Beach.

INDIVIDUAL     TESTIMONIALS.
".' aving had one of Grover &amp; Baker's Machines in my family for
nearly a year and a half, I take pleasure in commending it as every
way reliable for thz purpose-for which it is designed-Family Sev-
ing.'-Mrs. Joshua Leavitt, wife of Rei. Dr. Leavitt, Editor gf
N. YIndependent.
"I confess myself delighted with yourSewing Machine, which has
been in my family for many mouths. It has -alwhys been ready for
duty, requiring no.adjustment, and is easily adapted to every variety
of family sewing, by simply changing the spools of thread."---Mrr.
Elizabeth Strickland, wife of Rev. Dr. Strickland, Editor of N -Y
Ghristian Advocate.
"I have used a GRovER &amp; BAcrt Sewing Machine for two y;r',
and have found it adapted to all kinds of family sewing,'Trom Cam-
brie to Broadcloth.  Garments have been worn out without the
giving way of a stitch. The Mfaehine is easily kept in order, and
easily used."-Mrs. A. B. W 'hipple,, cife of p/ev. George Vi pple
Neo York.
"Your Sewing Machine has been ;n use in my family the past two
years, apd the ladies request me to give you their testimonials'to its
perfect adaptedness, as well as their labor-saving qualifies in the
performance of family and household sewing."-Robert Boorman,
)tcT York.
' For several months we have used Grover &amp; Laker's Sewing Ma-
chine, and have come to the conclusion that every lady who desire;
her sewing beautifully and-quickly done, would be mo't fortunat.
in possessing one of these reliable and indefatigable 'iron needle-
women,r whose combined qualities of beauty, strength, and simplic-
itp!, are invaluable."-J. W.V Morris, daughter of Gen. George. P.,
Morris, Editor of the home Journal.
After trying several different good machines, I preferred, yours,
on account of its simplicity, and the perfect ease with which it is
managed, as well as the strength and durability of the seam. Alter
long experience, I feel competent to speak in this manner, anT to
conidently recommend it for every variety of family sewing."-Xrs,
. B.-Spooncr, wife of the Editor of Brooklyn Star.
"My Grover'&amp; Baker machine works admirably; and I am satisfied
that no family that has ever tried it, would do without one. The
machine works so beautifully that I discover that.I have- been doing
all the sewing for a couple of families, when I had leisure in the
evenings, and at the same time anusiu myself by watching its oper-
ation."-E. B. Brady, Editor of Jcfersonian, Brookzille, Pca.
"On the 'recommendation of a friend, I procured, some months
since, one of your family sewing machines.  My family has been
most successful in its use, from the start, without any trouble or dif-
ficulty whatever in its management.  My wife says it is a" family
blessing," and could not be induced to dispense with its use-in all of
which I most heartily concur.--James Pollock, Ex-Governor of

S. Wcurdwell,
James liosil1,
A. IEthridge,

[e.


I,                                    .

.._ _________                                              5-..-a~ *nA"7 'tAI                                                 R

INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONIALS.
"Three years ago I purchased one of Grover &amp; Baker's Sewing
Machines, and have had it in constant use since that time, and it has
given perfect satisfaction. The stitch is strong and'ornamental, and
it performs the work in an admirable manner."-John L. Iladall,
Albany, N. Y.
" We have had in our family one of Grover &amp; Baker's Sewing Ma-
chines for many months. It has operated in every respect to the
entire satisfaction of my wife. She is more or less familiar with the
different kinds in use, and her preference for Grover &amp; Baker's ma-
chine is decided and expressive, without hesitationa"-2heo. V. Van
Heusen, Albany, N. 14
"After a careful examination of the various Sewing Machines on
sale in this city, I prefer decidedly that of Grover &amp; Baker, as the
best.  That in use in my family has given entire satisfaction."-Rev.
J. N. Campbell, Albany, N. Y.
'Having purchased one of Grover &amp; Baker's Family Sewing Ma-
chines about four years ago, I most cheerfully state that without it
my wife would hardly know what to do. I have no. difficulty in
keeping it in order, and would not change it for any other-being
perfectly satisfied with it."-Isaac L. Welsh, Albany, N. Y.
"Some two years since, I purch ssed one of Grover &amp; Baker's Sew-
ing Machines ; my wife has used it for all the ordinary sewing of the
family, and it has never been out of order. Its facility for doing the
various kinds of work, and the strength and beauty of stitch, make
it just the machine required."-S. G. Bancroft, Albany N. .
"I have had in use for the past three years, one of the Grover &amp;
Baker Sewing Machines, and consider it admirably adapted to all
kinds of family sewing."-James L. Mitchell, Albany,-N. '.
"I have had in constant use in my family the sewing machine of
Graver &amp; Baker, and find it a most useful and labor-saving machine,
the work being well done ; and I have no hesitation in recommend-
ing it to others, being perfectly satisfied with its merits in all
respects."-I. I. Martin, Albany, N. .'
"The Grover &amp; Baker Sewing Machine whichI purchased a year
and a-half 'ago, has been used in my family ever since, with the most
satisfactory' results. Before purchasing, I had examined, machines
of different manufacturers, and had satisfied myself that the Grover
&amp; Baker was the best, and have had no reason to change that opin.
ion)'- Woe. L. Learned, Albany, N. I.
" About eighteen months ago, I purchased a Grover &amp; Baker Sew.
ing Machine for family use. It has been in constant operation
during that time, without costing a single cent for repairs. I have
no hesitation in saying I consider it one of the best manufactured-.
being almost noiseless, easily managed, and no trouble, with no
winding of thread. We think it a perfect gem."-E. James, Albany,
New York.

INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONIALS.
The Grover &amp; Baker Sewing' Machine purchased of you has been
in successful operation in my family for several months, doing its
work well and' rapidly, and giving entire satisfaction."-Thomas P.
Crook, Albany, N. V.
"I purchased some years since one of Grover &amp; Baker's Sewing
Machines. Since then it has been used constantly, and gives satis,
faction in every respect as to the permanence of the work doneby
it, and of operation, and other qualifications which go to make a
good sewing machine."-=John I. Van Antwerp, Albany, N. V.
"For the past five years, I have been employed in the hosierycs-
4      tablhshment of Cohoes, where Grover &amp; Baker's machines are used.
There are in, usq now two hundred, running by water power, and
are the only reliable machines for this class of work. They will do
a greater variety of work, and recommend themselves to the great
wants of famines, more, than any other machine hi market, because
they are simple, easily managed, and produce not'only beautiful,
but durable and elastic work."-Joh H. Teeling, Cohoes, N. Y
"The machine which I bought for my family, has been- used'for
nearly three years, and so familiar and useful a companion has it be-
come, that $1000 would not tempt me to part with it, providing we
could not get another. It is always in order, and the work that it
turns out, is not only beautiful, but has never been known to fail."-
. Vm. Rector, AT any, N. Y.
" I purchased a Grover &amp; Baker Sewing Machine over three years
ago, and it has been in almost constant use, doing every kind of
work, without requiring any repairing, and is now in perfect order.
I have examined many other machines, and there is none that I would
lr er to the Grover &amp; Baker for family use."-JohnS £Putnam,
Alany, N. Y.
"The Grover &amp; Baker Sewing Machine purchased for the use of
our house, over two years ago, has been kept in constant use on the
most trying and difficult work, viz., in hemming and making-sheets,
towels, and napkins, &amp;c., on all kinds that is required in a large
hotel. The strength an(i beauty of the stitch, the simplicity, dura-
bility, and ease of working, recommend the Grover &amp; Baker machine
to all households, as a family friend."-Mrs. Maria Roessel, .Del-
aan IlJuse, Albany, N. Y.
"Some eighteen months'since, I purchased one of the Grover &amp;
Baker Sewing Machines, and we 'have had it in constant use in our
family during the whole of that period. I made the selection from
the many ditlerent kinds in market, and regard it the best in the sim-
. plicity of construction, ease of operation, and variety, quality, and
beauty of work which it performs,"--Adam  Yan Allen, Albany,
lNew York.

S
-  .
x
"
i ,
} _
+ ,
_


INDIVIDUAL TESTIMONIALS.
"I hve used the Grover &amp; Baker Sewing Machine which I pur-
chased six months since. I does allkinds of family aewing, and I cheer-
fully certify it meets my expectations, and recommend it for its
simlicity, durability, and easy adaptation to all kinds of cloth sew-
ing."-Miss Mary E. Cline, cor. E. Water and Brown streets, New
ilacen.
-                    "I aln delighted with the Grover &amp; Baker Sewing Machine which I
purchased of you about one year since. Having used the Boudoir and
Wheeler and Wilson in our family, and having examined others, L
would state yours gives us every satisfaction, and I'would recommend
it to others in preference."-Mrs. Daniel Bacon, 51 College street,
New Haven.
"I have used one of Grover &amp; Baker's Sewing) Machines in my
family for the last year, and find it to answer the purpose fully as rep-
resented, and prefer it to any other machine I have ever seen."-Mitr.
R. Chapman; 38 igh street, New Haven.
"The Grover &amp; Baker Sewing Machine I purchased four months
since, meets our expectations. It has been put to general ue, and
works to a charm, and we consider it one of the indispensable things
of the family."-Rev. E.IL Frisbie, 30 Cherry street, New haven.
"My wife has not yet found anything in the way of family sewing
which she has not been'able to accomplish with her Grover &amp; Baker
machine, and in the most perfect-manngr. After testing it, I am sat-
isfied that the requisite qualities of simplicity, durability, ease of man-
agement, and noiseless operation, commend it to public favor."-E.
Lives, 25 George street, New Haven. -
"Having used one of Groves  &amp; Baker's Sewing Machines for the
last six months, and during that time sewed on all kinds of materials,
heavy and fine, I can state the machine has always worked to my en-
tire satisfaction."-John .I; Coley, 277 Chapel street, New Haven.
"I purchased four years since one of Grover &amp; Baker's Sewing Ma-
chines, which has been in constant use in my establishment, doing
every variety of sewing, and in the _most perfect manner. It is with
pleasure that I certify its merits over all other machines, considering
its simplicity, elasticity of seam, economy of thread, its almost noise-
less movements ; and lastly, the great variety'of work which it will
accomplish, and with what ease it is understood-and kept in order.
prompts me to give it my undivided approlation."-Mrs. N. H. al-
lou, dressmaker, 95 Chapel street, New haven.
"My Grover &amp; Baker SewinglMachine, has far surpassed my er
pectations. I do not believe your machine, for the general sewing of
a family, is equaled."-Rev. E. M. Jerome, 66 Grove street, News
-haven.

V
K'-
Iu

- -'
- S

11
.1
'I


                    
             
         
       
   
