
    ----CITATION----
        Dupuy, Eliza A. (1814-1881). Ashleigh .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6337
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               ASHLEIGH: 
               A TALE OF THE OLDEN TIME. 
             
            BY MISS E. A. DUPUY, Author of "EMMA WALTON," "FLORENCE," "CELESTE, THE PIRATE'S DAUGHTER, &c. &c. 
             
               
                   
                     "Oh Liberty! the prisoner's pleasing dream, 
                     The Poet's muse, his passion and his theme." 
                  
                
             
            
               CINCINNATI: 
               H. B. PEARSON, 10 EAST FOURTH STREET.
             
            1854. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1854. By ELIZA A. DUPUY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Ohio. 
          
       
      
         
            Ashleigh 
             
            ASHLEIGH. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               A stormy day was drawing to its close, which was only a type of the dark hour approaching the fair land in which the scene of my story is laid. It was the month of April, seventeen hundred and seventy five, and the voice of discontent was gradually becoming louder in the colonies. 
               Traveling alone in those disturbed times was by no means agreeable, yet for the sake of gain, regular journeys were hazarded by an itinerant trader, who found ready customers among the independent farmers living in the valley of the Connecticut. The road was rendered disagreeable by the quantity of rain which had fallen, and the lowering appearance of the clouds portended an increase of the torm. Amid the gathering gloom, the wretchedly mounted traveler proceeded at a slow pace over the windings of the road, and he turned his eyes in every direction as if fearful that each tree might become an enemy to despoil him of the hardly-earned gains he carried about his person. 
               He might have been mistaken for an Indian, but a second, would have undeceived the beholder; his light gray eyes, and sharp features, did not belong to that oppressed race. The expression of his countenance was keen and knavish, and his restless eyes, as they rolled from side to side, betrayed that he was not entirely easy as to his personal safety in such troubled times as those which preceded the outburst of the Revolution. 
               A quantity of long, lank red hair fell in straight lines over his face, and a portion of it was gathered into a queu behind. He was clad in a hunting shirt of coarse home-made cloth, below which appeared a pair of long gaiters of dressed leather, laced on by strips of the same material. This personage was mounted on ahorse that looked ill able to bear the ponderous weight of his person; added to which was a pack, considerably diminished in size by his recent excursion, fastened to his back by a strap which reached around his burly frame, and was secured by a substantial buckle. In this, was thrust a large hunting knife, which he eyed from time to time with an expression of satisfaction, mingled with a little nervousness at the idea of being called on to use so formidable a weapon. He proceeded at a slow pace, whistling a low tune to keep up his own courage, and occasionally interrupting himself to address his jaded Rosinante. 
               "Hold up now; be careful, Bona;" said he, in a harsh tone of remonstrance, as the horse stumbled, "you are not wont to flounder so. My old beast is conspiring with every thing else to vex me." 
               He again resumed whistling, and proceeded at the same lazy pace as before. Indeed, the exhausted condition of the poor animal precluded a quicker movement. The drooping head and labored breathing, showed that the wretched creature would soon be incapable of sustaining the weight, which was so ruthlessly laid upon her. 
               Throughout the day, the sun had been obscured by heavy masses of vapor, which fell at intervals in that slow measured plash'. plash, which destroys all hope of speedy cessation sation. As twilight approached, our traveler examined the horizon with earnest gaze, to see if no fragment of blue sky could be detected, as a herald of hope for the morrow. In the west, the white wreaths of mist were curling upward-the clouds seemed to break, and a dim gleam of watery blue was seen for a brief moment-then came a low wailing sound among the branches of the forest, as the awakening wind swept through its lonely arcades. It seized the white vapor, whirled it away, and then careering aloft, rolled aside the sullen clouds with a breath, and the gleaming red of sunset flashed briefly over the deluged landscape. A moment of dazzling splendor, and then the envious clouds again interpose, borrowing from the eclipsed luminary a brilliant coloring of purple crimson and gold, which lay as a regal mantle over the track of the god of day. 
               Had our traveler been gifted with a perception of the beauties of nature, a most picturesque scene was before him: but alas! a web of silver gauze, or a brilliantly tinted silk, were far more to his taste than all the glories of the visible creation. 
               The golden reflection of the clouds fell upon the tall tree just bursting into verdure, and the lucid drops which yet hung upon the eaves, glittered like globules of polished amber. In the perspective, extended a ridge of hills bounding the green valley in which he journeyed. It was a scene a painter or poet might have gained inspiration from, but just now our equestrian would have been much better pleased with the aspect of the homeliest hut which could have afforded him a welcome to its humble roof. In a few brief moments, the delusive brightness faded from the horizon, and a drizzling rain began to fall. 
               "No place of shelter, and this confounded rain again commencing!" he muttered. "May the fiend take me if I travel this road again! This comes of minding the wants of women-they always were, and always will be, the beginning of all mischief and evil to the luckless race of man. Miss Ruth Ashleigh must have a particular kind of silk for herself, and that Indian they've tried to make a Christian of, to little purpose in my opinion, before the young gentleman comes home, and I must e'en trudge here with it to please her. Not but Miss Ruth pays me well for my trouble, and squire Ashleigh's is no bad place to quarter in. I wish I was there this blessed night." 
               "What is that you were saying about squire Ashleigh?" asked a clear and rather sharp voice, close behind him. The peddler instinctively laid his hand on the handle of his knife, as this startling inquiry met his ear; but when he obtained a view of the speaker, he instantly withdrew it. He intuitively felt that peace had better be maintained on his side, for in the event of a struggle, it was very certain he would prove no match for the young, agile, and determined-looking person, who had thus abruptly accosted him. 
               The stranger seemed about twenty-five years of age, of a tall, athletic and well-proportioned frame. His complexion was dark, as were his eyes and hair, and his regular features might have been considered handsome, but for an air of almost reckless ferocity which disfigured them. He was evidently one who had given the reign to passion and impulse, until they had gained complete mastery over him. His dress was of finer material than was in those days commonly worn by even the better classes in that land of careful economy; an expensive rifle rested upon his shoulder, while a highly ornamented game bag and shot pouch, hung at his side. 
               He withstood the searching gaze of the peddler for several moments, without any appearance of concern; then his scornful lip curved' as he haughtily asked, "When will your scrutiny be ended, friend?" 
               True to his father land, the peddler answered the question by putting another, 
               "Whence came you? and whither are you bound?" 
               "That is a question easier asked than answered; but as no great enlightenment will follow my reply, I will for once be civil. I came from home, and am bound to seek my fortune." 
               "Seeking your fortune in the woods?" said the baffled interrogator. "A fine road you select to your Eldorado truly!" 
               "A fine road, indeed, Master Peddler; for I should not fail to gain a trifle, if I were to unbuckle yonder belt you wear." 
               "Not much-not much, young man. These are perilous times in which to carry money on one's person, and I am far too prudent for that. Let the worst come, however, and I am prepared to defend my small earnings, as you may see," replied the peddler, touching as he spoke, the handle of his knife. 
               "So I perceive, friend, but leather belts are easily cut in twain, and I am persuaded that more is to be found beneath that one than you confess to." 
               "Not enough to pay for violence to the owner, my young master. Neither could my belt be severed by a rifle ball very easily," 
               "But with something made after the fashion of that knife, it could be done," and as he spoke, he opened his vest, and showed the handle of a poignard richly wrought, which was secured by a gold chain. 
               "Ay-ay, so it could," replied the peddler, whose alarm increased every moment at what he considered the strange audacity of his companion. He continued with a conciliatory chuckle, 
               "So it would, but it's too fine for use, as I say of my silk and gauze stuffs." 
               "Say you so?" asked the other, drawing the weapon from its sheath, "I will try it." 
               Before the peddler was aware of his intention, he struck the glittering blade to its hilt into a vital part of the sorry animal he bestrode. The creature gave one wild plunge, which threw his rider into the mud, and fell dead in the road. 
               The perpetrator of the deed leaned against a tree, and laughed long and loud at the efforts of the peddler to extricate himself from the deep slough into which he had fallen. His dark eyes danced with mirth as he beheld the grim features of the trader, now rendered hideous by the clay with which they were disfigured. 
               "How like you the temper of my steel? or rather the service it has performed for that miserable drudge, which I have put out of its long agony?" he asked, so soon as he regained sufficient composure to speak. 
               "Villain!" exclaimed the exasperated man, rising from his mud bath, and violently shaking his clothes, "Inhuman wretch! how dare you treat a gentleman thus?" 
               "Your language smacks of presumtion, friend," rejoined the other haughtily. "Unless knavery and impudence constitute a claim to the title of gentleman, I know of none that you possess." 
               "Gentleman or no gentleman," retorted the incensed trader, "A Yankee peddler is as good as a Southern cut-throat any day, I guess." 
               "Make another such guess," said the fiery young man, "and I will cleave your lantern jaws in twain." As he spoke, he flourished his poignard so threateningly before the eyes of the other, that he began to think discretion would, in this case, be the better part of valor. He made no reply, but stood mournfully regarding his fallen steed, which lay stiff and lifeless before him. "My poor Bona," be muttered-"You have been a faithful servant, and little deserved the inhuman treatment you have received at the hands of a thoughtless youth." 
               "Bony you may well call it, for by Heavens I never saw such a skeleton bestrode by the meannest negro in Carolina. I thought, Master Peddler, that you had better trust to your own exertions to find shelter for the night, than to that sorry beast. Come-let us be moving, for the thunder begins to growl, and the rain will soon come down in a torrent. You need have no fear of me, for I sought you to benefit, not to injure you. We will henceforth be friends, if it be not your own fault. I have business to intrust to you; so hasten, and let us gain a shelter which I wot of, as soon as may be." 
               "You are well acquainted with these parts then?" inquired the peddler, in a hesitating voice. 
               "Not better than you should be. I can not think you stand in need of a guide through any portion of your native State." 
               "I-I only asked for information!" stammered the peddler, shrinking from the scrutinizing glance of the vivid black eyes which were bent full on him. Then suddenly assuming an appearanc of courage, he said, 
               "It is customary, young gentleman, to know with whom one travels, especially in such times as these. May I inquire your name?" 
                
               O, yes, Ben Gartly, I am quite willing to reveal it. You're an honest fellow, Ben, and a jolly one to boot I well know. My name I am not ashamed of, for better men than I am, have borne it before me." 
               "You may well say that," muttered th peddler. 
               "Don't mutter, Ben, it's bad manners; what you have to say, yon can speak out like a man. But my name you wanted; Well, it's at your service. "Everard Walters is not afraid to proclaim either his baptismal or patronymic appellatiou. Now you know it Ben, I will further-more inform you that I am just now in want of a good friend, and I intend that you shall be the man." 
               "I am a poor man, it is true; but my friendship is not to be bought, as you seem to insinuate, young gentleman," replied the peddler, with a rough assumption of honesty. 
               "Hark ye, Mr. Gartly, your services are to be bought, and that is more to the purpose. The character of honest Ben Gartly is not unknown to me; therefore I have sought him, confident in the success of the business I would intrust to him." 
               "Of what nature is the business?" 
               "Only a precious little bit of rascality, I cannot perpetrate conveniently myself-Your reward shall be in proportion to the service Ben, so be of good cheer; the cupidity of your grasping soul shall be amply considered in its amount." 
               "That is speaking sensibly," said Gartly, drawing down the corners of his capacious mouth in a grim smile. "Secure me my reward, and I will do your bidding." 
               "But suppose it is an ugly little affair that if detected, might lead to an acquaintance with prison walls, and hard labor, eh?" 
               "Ah well, something must be risked for money always; and these are times in which a man is not likely to be held accountable for all he may chance to do. I'm your man, if the pay is good." 
               "Here is an earnest of your future reward, then," replied Walters throwing a well filled purse at his head, "Ah ha; well done! hit the mark that time! Why, Ben, your head rings like an empty cask. Come, let us be moving, man-I will reveal my purpose to you, when we get under cover. I know a rendezvous not very far from here-in fact, I've been domiciled in an old hovel near this spot for two days, awaiting your appearance." 
               As he thus spoke, he struck into the forest by a narrow, but distinctly marked pathway; before they had proceeded many yards, the storm renewed its violence-the wind bent the trees before them, while the rain came down in a torrent, accompanied by incessant thunder, which was deeply reverberated by the distant hills. 
               In a few moments, Walters joyfully announced that they were near their resting place, and by the dim and uncertain light. Gartly saw a small brown hut built of hewed logs, standing in a narrow circle of deadened trees, which arose like pale giants around it. 
               Walters unclosed the door, and the two entered a room about twelve feet square, lighted by the ruby glow of a bed of embers, which lay in the huge fireplace. A pile of wood was in one corner, and the host threw on a few faggots, which blazed up almost instantly, and illuminated the rude apartment. A kind of wide shelf occupied one side of the room, on which a bear skin was thrown, and a few wisps of hay. That was evidently the couch of the occupant-and a few rough chairs completed the furniture. 
               Walters drew a basket from beneath the rude bedstead, which the peddler joyfuly ascertained was the receptacle of several substantial viands, and a bottle of wine. The worthy pair seated themselves before the fire, and made an excellent repast: during the progress of this, it was noticeable that the younger man partook but sparingly of the wine, but plied his companion with it until his cold, gray eyes glistened with unusual light. 
               "Now, Gartly, you have been warmed and fed, and your soul made glad by the juice of the grape; 'tis time we proceed to business." 
               "Aye-aye-full time; and I am impatient to know how I am to win the guerdon of much cash, which was promised me erewhile." 
               "First, a trifling preliminary is necessary. You must take an oath to do my bidding." 
               "Pooh, that is a trfle," said Gartly, snapping his fingers. Half a dozen oaths are at your service if you want them." 
                
               "One will suffice, most noble Captain: so let's to business. You spoke of Squire Ashleigh this evening. You are familiar with his house, and go there occasionally with your goods!" 
               "Yes-oh yes-every time I come this way. But I hope it's nothing against the old man, that you wish to put me up to?" 
               "By no means-it is simply to kidnap a child of whose existence he is scarcely aware. To be brief, his son has clandestinely married a cousin of my own, to whom I was once betrothed. An estate of value comes to me if I can get their child out of my way. Your work is to get possession of that boy, and place him in my hands. Your reward shall be ample, when I once have him in my power." 
               "This is indeed a serious undertaking," said the peddler, gravely.-"Besides, this Mr, Ashleigh I have known from a boy, and a very clever one he always was to me," 
               "So have I known him from his youth, and I hated him even before he stepped between me and prosperity. You dare not recede from your promise, Gartly; for I warn you 'tis more dangerous to trifle with me, than to do evil to one who has only patronized you in the way of your trade. Recoil, and by the heaven above us, you shall never leave this hut a living man." 
               Walters understood the character of the man he had to deal with, and he knew that his cowardly soul was easily subdued by threats. Gartly buried his face in his hands, and remained silent some moments-when he looked up, and met the keen eyes of his companion fixed on him, he smiled grimly, and said-"I need not care about doing your bidding, for Edward Ashleigh is nothing to me. Pay me as you promised, and I will undertake the service." 
               Walters smiled scornfully, and after giving him minute directions concerning the proposed abduction, he threw himself upon his couch of straw, wrapped the bearskin over him, and listened to the strife of the elements without; the wild music of crashing boughs and reverberating thunder, touched an an swering cord in his unquiet soul, and he would have shouted in unison with them, but for the presence of the peddler, who stretched himself in front of the fire, and attempted to sleep. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               While Walters thus lay absorbed in unpleasant thought, the trampling of horses was heard without, and the next moment, the door was assailed by violent blows, and demands for admission. Starting from his recumbent position, he asked- 
               "Who is there?" 
               "Would you stand parleying with a man in such a storm as this? Open your door; none but friends will enter," was the response. 
               "Pray open your door, and give shelter to a lady and chiid" said a different voice, in a more courteous tone. "We have been beuighted, and lost our way." During this parley, Gartly arose, and threw more wood on the fire, which blazed cheerfully by the time Walters was prepared to admit the party without. Before unclosing the door, he replaced his fur cap, and pulled it far down over his brows-the high collar of his coat concealed the lower portion of his face, and this addtional precaution, would have completely baffled the curiosity of one disposed to scan his features. 
               The unsettled state of the country rendered Walters slightly excusable for his dilatoriness iu admitting the travelers, for our scene is laid in that olden time, when the voice of discontent was heard in ominous mutterings, soou to break forth in the thuuders of Bunker Hill. The temporary occupaut of the hut stood beside the door, and reconnoitered the persons that entered. 
               First came a tall man, wrapped in a heavy overcoat, carrying a child in his arms. He was closely followed by two females, and a man servant brought up the rear. As the fire-light fell on the foremost of the party, Walters started, and sunk his head yet lower in the friendly coat collar. It was quite evident that he knew him, and wished to escape recognition himself. 
               Gartly busied himself in doing the honors; he drew the rough seats toward the fire, threw on more wood, and endeavored to render the lady and her attendant as comfortable as circumstances would permit. 
               Resigning the child to his nurse, the gentleman laid aside his dripping overcoat, and hat, and stood before his host in his ordinary garb. He was a young man of pleasing exterior, and gracelul bearing. He was not strikingly handsome, but his features expressed clear intelligence, and enthusiasm of temper, mingled with strong determination. 
               It was the face of one who might become a martyr to a cause he believed holy and just. His nose was slightly aquiline, the well cut lips closed evenly and firmly, and the dark gray eyes were full of earnest purpose, and intense feeling. What such a man undertook he would accomplish, was read in every line of his expressive lineaments. 
               With tender care he assisted his wife to remove the cloak which enveloped a figure of delicate and symmetrical proportions, appareled in a dark traveling dress. On taking off her bonnet, a fair face was revealed, with the hair rolled back from the low, broad brow, as was the fashion of that day; and its brown hue was slightly disguised by powder. In the expression of the serenely beautiful blue eyes, as they were lifted to her husband's face, could be read the soul of a true-hearted and affectionate woman, who would cling even unto death, to one she loved with all the strength of her heart. 
               After adjusting her dress, the mother turned to the still sleeping child, and in a voice of tender interest, inquired, 
               "How fares my darling, Faith?" 
               The rosy-cheeked damsel who answered to this Puritan appellation, cheerfully replied, 
               "O, he sleeps like a rose in the sunshine, ma'am. I dont think the rain has done him much harm." 
               "How should it?" asked the gentleman with a smile, as he looked down on the fair face of the young sleeper, who seemed to be about a year old. I am sure he was as comfortably sheltered as if he had been in his own cradle bed at home." 
               "Thanks to your strong protecting arms," said his wife, in a low voice, as she raised her beaming eyes to his. "At last, O, my husband, can we claim their loved shelter; that we never again may be deprived of it, is my earnest hope." 
               "Not while life lasts, dear Mary," he replied in a tone of earnest assurance, which thrilled her heart. "All is now revealed, and henceforth you are mine alone. For my sake, you have endured much, and now I trust your reward is before you." 
               While the new-comers were thus engaged, Walters leaned against the wall in the darkest corner of the hut, and scanned them with bitter and humiliating feelings. He might have been turned from his fell purpose as he looked upon the lovely young mother bending over her sleeping child, had not memories of bitterness and strife between himself and the father, arisen in his dark mind. 
               "Ah," thought he, were I not the wretch I have made myself, I might have aspired to rival Ashleigh with yonder exquisite woman. As it is, my unbridled passions have rendered me an alien to my family, and an exile from my native home. Why was that strange will made, but to tempt me to destroy the happiness of yonder fair being? Disowned by my relatives, without this money, I am a vagrant; for labor I never will to obtain a livelihood. And revenge is sweet too; yes, proud Ashleigh, you have triumphed over me hitherto, but now my turn has come; you have not recognized me yet, hated foe, nor would I have you do so could it be avoided." 
               His reverie was interrupted by the approach of its object. From his dress, Ashleigh supposed Walters to be the superior of the two, for by the glimmering light of the fire, he had not recognized his boyhood's acquaintance in the peddler. To Walters he therefore turned to express his thanks for the shelter which had been afforded him. In reply to his courteous words, the host briefly responded- 
               "You are welcome-let that suffice." 
               Something in the tone of the voice struck Ashleigh as familiar, and after vainly endeavoring to obtain a better view of the other's face, he said- 
               "I think we must have met before, sir. Your voice seems very familiar. Am I indebted to a former friend for shelter from the storm that rages without?" 
                
               Some new impulse seemed to move Walters, for he suddenly lifted his hat, and replied with bitter emphasis, 
               "Had I known who demanded shelter, I would have suffered the pitiless floodgates of heaven to drown even life from all you love, sooner than open yonder door to receive them." 
               This burst of passion seemed involuntary; for the vicinity of one he so intensely hated, deprived Walters of all self-control. Ashleigh listened with surprise, his brows slightly knit, and his flexible mouth assumed its least pleasing expression; but he conquered the momentary flash of anger that blazed in his eye, and quietly said- 
               "I now know you, Everard Walters; of there is but one man on earth who would thus have addressed me. Does the memory of our youthful rivalry, still bear with it so severe a sting? With me, our many hard fought struggles had almost passed into oblivion; why should it not be thus with you?" 
               "The victor easily forgets; the conquered, never. But is your conscience silent as to the latest and deepest wrong you have inflicted upon me?" 
               "It is-I know nothing of which you can complain, since our college days." 
               "No!" and he pointed toward the wife, who listened with blanching cheek and throbbing heart, "say you that, when yonder fair woman was once my betrothed bride? and she is now your clandestinely wedded wife." 
               "He who had slain her brother in a moment of passion, could never hope to claim the sister for his bride," replied Ashleigh, sternly-"therefore, on that score, ill blood need not exist." 
               "Hatred such as mine to you, is a law unto itself," was the bitter retort. "It is deadly as the serpent's coil, and relentless as death itself. I throw down the gauntlet, and warn you that at every turn I will circumvent you, if I can do so. I did not mean to tell you this, but the evil demon withiu me impels me to speak, or stifle with the passion that thrills every nerve of my frame as you approach me." 
               Losing all caution in his anger, his bitter words were distinctly heard by Mrs Ashleigh, and she drew near the two. 
               "Who is this man dear Edward? and why are you engaged in strife with him?" 
               "Who am I?" repeated Walters, throwing aside his hat, and revealing his features, pallid with anger. "Behold, me, Mary Lennard, and recognize in me the deadly foe of him who claims you as his wife." 
               She veiled her eyes, and shrank away as she exclaimed; "My Cousin Evrrard! evil to me is the hour in which I find you upon my path, oh ruthless destroyer of my brother! Let us leave this place, my husband. The wildest wrath of nature is less to be dreaded, than contact with this bold, bad man." 
               Walters laughed scornfully, but Ashleigh soothingly replied, "fear nothing for me, my love. Return to our child, and sit beside him. This feeble life, is, just now, of more importance to Mr. Walters, I fancy, than even his detestation of the father." 
               The guilty man started, to find his thoughts so readily fathomed. He more camly said- 
               "This is no time nor place to bandy words, but be assured that my threats are not vain. Time may roll away before the fitting hour arrives, but come it will, and once in my power, you escape not scatheless." 
               Ashleigh's serenity seemed scarcely ruffled by these threats, he said with pecularly measured and ringing intonation, "The hand which has baffled you hitherto, will have lost its power, and the stong soul which never yet has quailed before mortal, be debased beneath manhood, when it shrinks from such as you. I fear you not Walters, and I defy you. But let us cease this; we but frighten those who look to me for protection." 
               Walters, without reply, turned toward Gartly, and making a sign to him to follow, he left the hut. The two confederates met beneath a rude shelter for horses, which was in the rear of the house. The rain by this time had partialty ceased, and a ghostly gleam of moonlight came through the drifting clouds. 
               "I shall not remain here a moment longer," said Walters; to breathe the same atmosphere with that man stifles me. You already know that this is the family I spoke of-that child the one you must find means to gain possession of. Their suspicions are alread aroused, so it will not answer to attempt anything against the boy just now. I was a fool to betray myself thus, but it cannot now be helped. Keep the money I gave you as a retaining fee, and hold yourself in readiness to do my bidding when the proper time arrives." 
               The knave chuckled inwardly at gaining so considerable a sum thus easily: he replied- 
               "I am yours to command, Mr. Walters. Give me due and sufficient warning, and I shall not be wanting in the performance of my part of the bargain." 
               "See that you are true to me, when I demand action," was the stern rejoinder, or it may be worse for you than you think. I now leave you to seek another place of rendezvous known to me, but be assured my eye will be upon you, and evil will be the hour in which you attempt to play a false game with me." 
               He strode away in the dim light, and Gartly slowly returned to the group he had left, with a most sanctimonious expression on his acute features. Several years had elapsed since Ashleigh and the pedlar last met, and hitherto the young man had failed to recognize him as one he had known in boyhood; but as Gartly returned, a bright ray from the fire glanced upon his features, and he at once pronounced his name. 
               "Ben Gartly, I should have known you before, but you have changed much since I saw you last." 
               "Hard times will change any man, Mr. Ashleigh, and a matter of six years is no tifle either." 
               "How is it that I find you in such company, Mr. Gartly?" asked Ashleigh, fixing his pearcing glance upon the pedlar. 
               "I am anxious to speak to you about that sir, for the meeting was none of my seeking, I can tell you." 
               "Perhaps not, but whither has your companion gone? I should be sorry to drive him from his own shelter by my presence." 
               "I guhss it's as much yours as his, sir. Mr. Walters happened to find the old hovel empty, and took possession of it. He could not have the heart to turn women and child out in the rain, so he's gone himself; and a good riddance we have of him, in my opinion." 
               "You don't seem to cherish a very favorable one of him, Ben. If your acquaintance with him is of brief standing, why are you so willing to be rid of him?" 
               "Because he's a black hearted villain, and puts temptaiion in the way of honest men. I would like to make a communication to you sir, but unless you have a Bible about you, I don't think I can manage it." 
               "Of what service can a Bible be?" asked the young man, quite maystified. 
               "Just to make one oath balance another; that is all sir, and if you don't get the requied article, I shall not lay my information before you," said Gartly, with an air of extreme conceit. 
               "Is your communication of real importance?" asked Ashleigh, while his dark eyes danced with mirth at the demand of the pedlar. 
               "You may say that sir, when you have heard it. Get the Bible, that's all sir, or I wont speak." 
               Thinking it best to humor him, Ashleigh produced a small pocket Bible, as he said. 
               "I cannot imagine of what use this can be." 
               "You will see sir," and Gartly opened it with an appearance of great devoutness. "Now sir, on this sacred page, make me swear to tell you all I know about this chap that's just gone." 
               Though in some doubt as to the pedlar's perfect sanity, Ashleigh administered the oath, and then Gartly went on- 
               "You see, Mr. Ashleigh, I have saved my conscience by this proceeding. Last night I was waylaid by that horrid villain; Walters he inhumanly destroyed the life of as faithful an animal as ever a man bestrode, and for no other reason that I can see, but to obtain my company, which he might have obtained at less cost to me Well, we came to this place and he told me what he wanted of me, and I'm sure my blood chills at the thought." 
               "What could this terible service have been?" said Ashleigh, with a serio-comic air. 
               "Ah sir, you need'nt laugh, for it concerns you very nearly. Do you see that precious infant lying yonder in the arms of his nurse? Walters made me swear to snatch that innocent babe from the love of his tender mother and hand him over to his mercy. I know what that is, sir, and I refused; but he threatened my life. You know what a desperado he is, so I was compelled to consent; but I would'nt harm a hair of the child's head for the world, and you know that is God's truth sir." 
               The pedlar had prudently drawn the young man to one side, and this revelation was not heard by the rest of the party. Ashleigh listened with incredulity. The hatred of his enemy to himself he understood, but that he would injure a being innocent of wrong to him, appeared impossible. 
               "Did he explain why he wanted this nefarious deed accomplished?" he enquired. 
               "Oh yes-the boy is in the way about some property." 
               "I now comprehend it all," said the indignant father, "and the taunt I felt sorry for having uttered just now, was indeed a home thrust. I shall take such measures as will baffle him, and insure my child's safety. But pray, Gartly, how do you escape perjury in this matter; for I am sure Walters exacted an oath of fidelity to him?" 
               "Why you see, sir, as there are two oaths, one on each side, I thought one would balance the other, and that would be about the same as if there was none at all. Thus my conscience gets clear." 
               "An accomodating conscience you must have, to be satisfied with such logic, Walters has doubtless paid you well to commit this deed." 
               Gartly seemed inclined to be deaf to this enquiry. It was not until the question was repeated, that he replied, "Why y-e-s, he killed my poor horse, as I told you, and he gave me a small sum in consideration of the loss. But anything you may choose to bestow on a poor devil like me for such information as I have given you, will be thankfully received." 
               "I will not fail to remember your claims, when I reach the end of my journey. In the meantime, I would advise you to return to Walters whatever he may have given you, or you will sooner or later feel the weight of his vengeance." 
               "To tell you the truth, Mr. Ashleigh, I should like to be under the protection of some gentleman while I am in these parts, for that villian has threatened me heavily if I am not faithful to him. The country is becoming so unsettled, that I am tired of this wandering life. Couldn't you find me something to do about the old homestead, that would make me a living?" 
               "All good men and true, will speedily be needed in a holy cause, Gartley, and I shall soon be able to afford you a service no man need be ashamed of. 'Till that time, I will see what can be done for you." 
               "Thank you sir," said the miscreant, "I will be as true to you as the needle to the pole." 
               While this conversation proceeded in subdued tones, the rest of the party had made such arrangements for the night as the limited accomodations permitted. Mrs. Ashleigh, with her child, laid down on the rude couch, and Faith stretched herself at her feet. The three men drew their chairs around the hearth, replenished the fire, and pursued the tenor of their own thoughts in silence. Ashleigh ruminated on what he had heard, and resolved to watch so carefully over his infant son, that his enemy should have no opportunity to put his nefarious scheme in execution. 
               Gartly pretended to sleep, but for several hours, his mind was full of schemes for the success of his own projects. No feeling of humanity caused him to recoil from the proposed abduction, and once consmumated, he believed he should have established a hold on his employer, which would lay the foundation of his future prosperity. By his revelation he had now the confidence of Ashleigh, and thus secured ready access to the house at all hours. In some unregarded moment, he could seize the child, and place him in the hands of Walters without suspicion alighting on himself. 
               Thus the night passed away, and with the first gleam of daylight, the party were astir. A thin white haze hung over the sky, which was soon dissipated by the bright sun, as it glanced through the purified atmosphere. The asr was fresh and exhilarating, and with brightened spirits they mounted their horses, and prepared to reach Fairfield in time for breakfast. 
               The servant of Ashleigh and Gartly took turns in riding the horse of the former, over the fifteen miles that lay between the hut and the Oakwood farm, to which they were journeying. 
               By the time they gained the open road, the sun had dissipated the vapors of early morning, and not a vestige of the wild storm of the previous night was seen upon the radient blue of the eternal Heavens. The budding woodland looked fresh and bright from the recent baptism it had received, and with light hearts the little group cantered through the forest glades, on their way to receive a warm welcome from those they knew to be impatient to greet them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               About a mile from the village of Fairfield stood an old-fashioned dwelling, built in a rambling style, and without much attention to the graces of architecture. It was large, airy, and convenient; and those who dwelt within it, were quite satisfied that comfort and peace were found beneath the picturesque old roof; and gave little thought to its outward appearance. Ivy had overgrown the walls, and the rustic portico in front was completely overrun by wild creepers transplanted from the forest, and taught to wind their tendrils around the columns that supported its roof. An extensive lawn spread around the dwelling, and the shadows of oaks, which for more than a centary had fallen on the same spot, were thrown broadly upon the grassy turf beneath. 
               The world-wearied heart might have been tempted to linger here and wish for shelter within its walls; for about the whole place there was a home-like aspect-an expression of peaceful quiet, which rendered it peculiarly attractive to the storm-tossed navigator on the restless sea of life. There was not in any of its surroundings, the slightest appearance of ostentation: every thing was plain and substantial, and seemed to give the assurance that the old homestead was the abode of contentment, simplicity, and piety. 
               On passing beneath the rustic porch, a wide hall was entered, with three doors on either hand, opening into the different apartments. An oaken stair-case, quaintly carved, led to the upper rooms, which were lighted by dormer windows, with deep recesses in front of them, offering so many charming nooks to those who like to isolate themselves from others. 
               On this morning, a girl stood in one of these, looking earnestly out toward the road which wound away in the distance. Her attitude expressed intense interest, and the varying color on her cheek seemed to reveal deep emotion, though it was evidently of a joyful nature. Her dark eyes were brilliant with animation, and her red lips at intervals parted in a glad smile, as she murmured, 
               "He comes! he comes! O, joy! O, hope! My heart will almost leap from my bosom to welcome him to the home he has so long forsaken." 
               She who thus spoke, was very young; certainly not more than eighteen years of age and those who looked upon her, could not for a moment doubt her origin. That she was a full-blooded Indian, was as evident as that she was uncommonly beautiful. Her tall figure was blithe and graceful as that of any forest maiden; but her complexion was many shades fairer than that of her sisters who are exposed to the variations of the open air. She was only a deep-toned brunette, with black eyes of surpassing beauty, and a heavy suit of raven hair; in the arrangement of which the love of ornament inherent in her race was seen. She wore it twisted in several large coils, amid which was entwined a bright crimson ribbon, forming a fantastic, but extremely becoming head-dress. Where the hair was rolled away from the temples, it lay in its own shining beauty, undisfigured by powder. Her dress was of gayly colored materials, fitted to her form with taste and skill; a lace neckkerchief, and a few knots of ribbon, disposed with the tact of one who intuitively understands all the arts of the toilette, completed her costume. 
               While she thus keeps her eager watch, we will enter another room in the same mansion, and introduce the father and daughter, who are holding earnest consultation with each other, in which this young girl is deeply interested. 
               Mr. Ashleigh, a pale, delicate man, nearly sixty years of age, sits where he also commands from a lower window a view of the same road the Indian girl so intensely scans; and amid the serene joy diffused over his mind by the expected arrival of his only son, is mingled a fear for another he also loves. 
               A long letter lies before him, which he has just read over the third time, and yet he can scarcely credit the news it contains. It was from his son, and ran thus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           MY DEAR FATHER,-I send this letter to prepare you to receive the lady who will accompany me to Oakwood, as my honored and beloved wife. Were you less forgiving, dear sir, I should fear the effect of this unlooked-for announcement; especially when I tell you that it is now nearly two years since this tie has clandestinely existed. Until yesterday it was never avowed, and I seize the first moment of leisure to announce it to you, my honored and beloved parent, and to inform you of the circumstances which led to this secret alliance. 
                           You are already aware that while at Cambridge, I formed an intimate friendship with Charles Lennard, the son of a wealthy merchant in Boston. There was also in college a oousin of Lennard's, from South Carolina; a fiery and unprincipled youth, between whom and myself a constant rivalry existed. 
                           Walters, unknown to the Faculty, carried arms on his person, and one day, in a fit of passion, stabbed his cousin mortally. 
                           I was with Lennard in his 
                                 lsst
                                 last
                               moments, and was the bearer of his dying words to his bereaved family. It was then, I first met his sister; a young girl whose attractions I will not describe, for you will soon behold her in the person of my wife. 
                           From this time, I was welcomed to the house of Mr. Lennard as the friend of his lost son; and I had many opportunities to know, and become deeply enamored of his daughter. When this was discovered, her father frankly informed me that he had other views for Mary, and must henceforth decline receiving me at his house. 
                           Mr. Lennard was a strong royalist, and knew that like most of my young countrymen, my opinions leaned toward republicanism. His daughter was the only heir to his large fortune, and it was his firm intention to unite her to an English officer of rank, attached to that portion of the army stationed in Boston. 
                           My dear father, what followed was wrong, perhaps, but it was most natural. He loved with the fervor of a young and ardent feeling; we found this enforced separation intolerable, and through an old woman who had once lived as housekeeper in Mr. Lennard's family, we obtained the means of meeting clandestinely. 
                           I dreaded above all things that my adored Mary might be forced, or persuaded into an entanglement with another; and I proposed a secret marriage. You know the native impetuosity of my temper, dear sir; the iron will which even in boyhood enabled me to surmount every difficulty that lay in the path I had once undertaken to tread; and you will comprehend that in this dearest interest of my life, I would not be baffled. 
                           Mary long resisted my entreaties; but when her father unequivocally betrayed his determination to give her hand to Colonel Stanton' she with fear and trembling consented to my proposal. I obtained the services of a classmate who had taken orders, and we were married in the humble abode of Mrs. Tompkins. 
                           I took such measures as I felt assured would preserve our secret, until the time for my removal from college should arrive. 
                           The consciousness that she was no longer free to bestow her hand as her father wished. gave Mary firmness to withstand his commauds, and the proposed alliance was at last relinquished. Mrs. Lennard had been dead several years, and Mary occupied the position of mistress in her father's mansion. Thus she enjoyed a greater degree of liberty than is usually accorded to girls of her age. Our interviews continued over a space of nearly two years, without suspicions arising as to the actual state of affairs. 
                           The birth of our son was concealed through the agency of Mrs. Tompkins, and under her care he remained where we could both see him without dfficulty. Still the position of Mary was painful in the extreme: a wedded wife and a mother, she was constantly exposed to solicitations to bestow her hand upon another. 
                           A new lover, who was not to be repulsed, appeared on the scene. Major Marton was a man of mature years, but still youthful enongh to feel and inspire the passion of love. He was of high birth, and independent fortune: in spite of Mary's discouragement, he persevered in his suit, and dazzled by the brilliance of such an alliance, Mr. Lennard refused to listen to the entreaties of his daughter. His positive commands were laid on her to accept Marston, and my poor Mary resorted to the only weapon of the weak against the strong-dissimulation. 
                           She feared eliciting your displeasure against me should our union be avowed before the college course marked out for me by you had been completed; and she concealed from me the persecutions she was enduring on my account. Had I known them, I should at once have claimed her openly, and defied the authority of Mr. Lennard. 
                           Mary permitted Marston to believe that she would ultimately ratify the contract made for her by her father, if he would prove his devotion by awaiting her own time to complete the union. Marston yielded, for he was contented to bask in the sunshine of her beauty, while he thought himself ultimately secure of gaining the prize. 
                           Yesterday a crisis arrived. A gossip who had observed the frequent visits of Mary to Mrs. Tompkins, and her fondness for an infant there, which passed as the orphan grandchild of the good woman, spoke of it to another person in the same sphere of life, who happened to be aware that Mrs. Tompkins had no children that arrived at maturity. This last person was a woman who would have undertaken to regulate the affairs of the whole world, had the power been hers. She at once resolved to ascertain how matters were really situated; her first move was to call on Mrs. Tompkins, and charge her with deceiving the world by a falsehood; the next, was to see Mr. Lennard and inform him of the surmises that were afloat concerning his daughter's visits to the mysterious infant. 
                           So soon as her visitor left her, Mrs. Tompkins sent a messenger for me, and revealed to me all that had passed between them. I felt that the time for concealment was over; our union must be avowed at once, and I hurried to the house of Mr. Lennard. I arrived just in time to shield my wife from the violence of his anger. Enraged at the communication of the woman, he had hastened home to see his daughter; alarmed, overwhelmed by his reproaches; uncertain of the effect the sudden announcement of her marriage might produce, I found my Mary in a state of mind bordering on distraction. 
                           I entered the house without being announced, and as I approached, and sustained her sinking form, the fury of her father was turned on me. In reply to his denunciations, I avowed our union, and dispassionately informed him of our reasons for its concealment. I pass over the scene that followed. It was one of anger, and bitter recrimination. Suffice it, that my wife was refused forgiveness, and declared a disinherited and disowned child. 
                           I bore her away from the storm of anger and reproach, and took her to the house of her old friend; where in the endearments of the child, now openly proclaimed her own, and the assurances of my devoted affection, she has been soothed into calmness. 
                           I have promised her a parent in yourself, dear sir, who will endeavor to atone to her for the unkindness of him who casts her off, and tender sisters I am sure she will find in Ruth and Etura. In three weeks from this time I shall be with you, accompanied by my beloved Mary, and our beautiful boy. You will be proud of the noble little fellow, for he is a promising scion of our old family tree. My heart throbs joyfully at the near prospect of sitting once more beneath the beloved roof which sheltered my happy boyhood. 
                           
                              Your affectionet son, 
                              EDWARD ASHLEIGH.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               "This letter has been long delayed on its route," said the old gentleman gravely. "I shall look for Edward momentarily until he arrives." 
               This was addressed to his daughter, a young girl of twenty, who sat near him. The face of Ruth Ashleigh was an interesting, though not a striking one: it had the soft outlines and the gentle expression we would instinctively look for in that of her Scriptural namesake. Her dress was as simple and neat as that of the most precise Quaker; and her dark hair lay in smooth folds upon her head, simply knotted behind in imitation of an antique cast which her intuitive sense of the beautiful taught her was more becoming to her style than the prevailing fashion of the day. From her deep blue eyes beamed much of the intensity of soul which characterized her brother and there was that in the expression, which revealed that in a moment of danger, this fair being would prove herself worthy of the old Puritan blood, which flowed in her veins. 
               Mr. Ashleigh after a brief pause, continued 
               "We should have heard this news at least a week ago. My daughter, this will be a grievous blow to our poor Etura, and there is scarcely time to prepare her for it, before they may arrive." 
               Miss Ashleigh grew slightly pale, and her frame seemed to thrill with the strong sympathy she felt for her who was thus alluded to. She said- 
               "My father, could Edward never have dreamed of the devotions of that passionate heart, that he thus calmly speaks of Etura being as a sister to his wife? And there is no time to permit the vail of pride to be thrown over her crushed, and bleeding heart: Edward may be here within the hour. Ah! I shudder when I remember the temperament of Etura, and see the ordeal through which she must pass." 
               "But, my love, your brother has never given her cause to believe that he regarded her as other than a sister. I am sure he has no reason for self-condemnation, and Etura must see it herself." 
               "If Etura were a reasonable being, father, we might apply ordinary rules to her; but she is not. Her wild blood rebels against the restrictions civilized life imposes upon us. She adores my brother; the passion has grown with her growth, and it is my belief that it will be the guiding motive of her life. I tremble at the effect of this revelation." 
               "It must not be deferred," replied Mr. Ashleigh, with a deep sigh. "Poor child! I love her-I feel for her-for she will suffer keenly. Go to her at once, my dear; soften it as best you can, but tell her that Edward comes accompanied by his wife and son." 
               Miss Ashleigh arose, and left the room with a lingering step. She carried with her the letter which had produced such unwonted commotion in the quiet household, and she paused several times as she ascended the staircase on her way to the Indian girl's apartment. 
               At length it was gained, and she remained at the open door several moments, looking down the long room directly into the niche in which stood that young figure, so full of buoyant life, of trusting hope, of bounding affections, which she felt commissioned to crush at one fell blow. 
               Absorbed in her own emotions, Etura was not aware of the approach of Ruth, until she stood beside her, and looked out on the peaceful landscape bathed in the beams of the morning sun. All its vernal brightness was reflected in the glowing face of the young girl at one instant; in the next she caught the expression of Miss Ashleigh's features, and the light faded from her own, as if some magnetic sympathy revealed to her the depth of desolation about to fall on her. She caught the hand of her friend, and grasped it with a force that seemed too great for her slender fingers to possess, as she breathlessly asked, 
               "What has happened, Ruth? Your face has a strange expression. Is there news of evil import from him? Ah, you have another letter; may I see it, dear Ruth?" and she put forth her hand to grasp it. 
               Miss Ashleigh withheld it, as she said- 
               "This letter has been detained on the road, Etura. It should have reached us before the few lines we received yesterday, in which Edward simply aunounced that he would be here to-day. Do you remember our comments on the plural pronoun he used, and our conjecture as to who 'we' might mean, beside himself?" 
               "I do," she hurriedly replied. "And that letter informs us who is his companion?" 
               "It does." 
               Etura gazed into the compassionate eyes bent upon her, as if she would have read the soul of their owner; and the color retreated slowly from her face, as she understood the sympathy they expressed. With a violent gesture, she snatched the letter, and tearing it open, read the contents with dilating eyes, and a heart from which hope itself seemed crushed out by the violence of the blow. She did not faint, for persons of her vivid and passionate temperament do not lose consciousness when sudden sorrow is hurled upon them: they rise against it, to struggle, to resist-sometimes to conquer. 
               Miss Ashleigh looked for some violent outburst of temper, nor was she disappointed. Etura threw the letter upon the floor, and trampled upon it with bitter disdain, as she said, 
               "And for the two years that Edward has been the husband of another, he has constantly written to me; he hae expressed warm attachment for me, which I blindly construed as I wished. You are his sister, Ruth, but you are also a just, God-fearing woman, and therefore you will speak the truth. Was not this concealment wrong? Was it not dishonorable?" 
               "My dear Etura, it seems to have been necessary," replied her companion, gravely. "Believe me Edward was quite unconscious of the nature of your attachment to him. Exert self-control, and your feminine pride can be saved; he need never know--" 
               "Know? What?" interrupted Etura, almost fiercely. "That I love him a thousand times more truly than this pale face he has given me as a rival? Let him know it; I care not. Let him comprehend what might have been his lot, and contrast it with what it now is; for his wife can never be to him what I would have been. I grew into girlhood beneath his eyes, and he must have known that not a hope of my soul was severed from him: that there was no joy, no light, no future for me but in his love! Yet he has wedded another! Let the ban of a desolate heart go with him, for mine is broken." 
               She bowed her face upon her hands, and tears deluged her pallid features. 
               "Etura," said Miss Ashleigh almost sternly. "Do you dare to invoke a curse upon the head of my mother's son? Do you forget what she was to you?" 
               "God forbid that I should forget it, for that is all that gives me power in this bitter moment to struggle against the evil promptings of my soul," replied she, in broken accents. "Leave me, Ruth; let me think, if the power is left me; and endeavor to bend this stubborn spirit before the blow that has fallen on me." The young lady lifted the letter from the floor, and laying her hand tenderly on the arm of the wretched girl, said, 
               "Pray fervently, Etura, and the ear of mercy will be open to your petitions. I implore you, endeavor to regain calmness, that my brother's wife may not have cause to suspect this unhappy passion, the first day she spends beneath our roof. It would be a sad revelation to them both." 
               Etura turned impatiently away, and Ruth left the room, uncertain of the reception the expected travelers might meet from the way-ward and disappointed girl. 
               When she was alone, the Indian raised her pale face and looked forth upon the same scene which but few moments before had appeared so lovely. A dark shadow seemed to have fallen on it, though in the far distant several equestrians were distinctly seen, winding down the road that led to Oakwood. She intuitively knew them to be the expected travelers, and as they drew nearer, and she could trace the outline of the two foremost figures, her heart steeped itself in the very bitterness of despair, and revengeful feeling. True to the instinct of her race, the thought of retribution came with the first conviction of the wrong she believed had been inflicted on herself. 
               Motionless; almost breathless she stood, until the travelers entered the yard, and approached the door. Mr. Ashleigh and his daughter went forth to receive them, and as she witnessed the feeling manifested toward the new claimants on their affections, Etura felt that a wide gulf had suddenly severed her from all she had ever loved: she compared herself to the solitary tenant of a desert island, in a sea of surging waves which momentarily threaten to engulf it; and she felt that the struggle would not be long. 
               At length a voice which made every pulse in her frame quiver, ascended to the ivy-covered casement against which she leaned. 
               "Where is Etura? Why does she not come forth to welcome us also?" asked Ashleigh. 
               Again the tide of passionate emotion, of bitter regret, swept over her undisciplined soul. She did not hear the reply, but in another moment a step ascended the stairs, and before she could dart from her nook, and evade him, as was her first impulse, Edward Ashleigh was beside her, with his strong arms sustaining her fainting form. No longer able to endure the cruel conflict of feeling, her senses reeled as she sunk upon his breast, and the reproachful glance of those dark orbs as they closed apparently in death, revealed what he would have given worlds to disbelieve. 
               Some vague misgivings had assailed Ashleigh before, but now as Etura lay stricken into lifelessness by his sudden appearance, he could doubt her fatal attachment no longer. With a cold shiver he laid her on the bed, and sprinkled water over her features. 
               She presently revived, and with the first return of consciousness, the memory of what she had so recently learned, did not seem to come back to her. Her eyes flashed with joy, and she murmured, as she stretched forth her hands to him- 
               "Come, come at last! O, Edward; best loved Edward, this hour of reunion has been the beacon hight of my existence for many weary months." 
               "You are better Etura-I will send my sister to you," replied the young man, gravely. 
               She arrested him as he was leaving the room for that purpose. 
               "I do not need Ruth. Is your wife so exacting that you dare not give a moment to the friend of your childhood, though she lies almost dying before you?" 
               "I would do all that lies in my power to render you happy and comfortable, believe me, Etura." 
               "Hear the cold pale face!" she mockingly rejoined. "While my blood pours in a seething torrent through my veins, he speaks of comfort! comfort to such as I am, when he knows despair is knocking at my heart." 
               "Etura, are you mad?" asked Ashleigh, as he gazed upon her excited features, unwilling to comprehend the whole meaning of the strange scene. 
               "Mad! yes; if it is madness for an outraged creature to lay bare the wounds of her bleeding heart. Go-Edward Ashleigh; seek the woman you have preferred before me, but I repudiate her claim to love you best. I will cling to you, as though she lived not; and you dare not deny me a little corner in your heart, for mine it all was, before she threw her spells around you." 
               "Etura, hear me," said Ashleigh, deeply excited, "I ever loved you only as a sister, and dreamed not that your affection had psssed the bounds of fraternal feeling. Mary is my chosen wife-as such, she has claims superior to yours; respect yourself, my dear girl; let me believe that the ravings of delirium have prompted the words you uttered but now." 
               "They have, dear brother" said the calm voice of Ruth. "Etura is ill-she has an attack of fever, which prompted her to speak thus. Leave her to my care, and I promise she will soon be better." 
               Ashleigh retired, and Ruth remained beside the excited girl. All that the tenderest sister conld have done to soothe and sustain, was resorted to in vain. The wayward spirit would not hearken to the voice of reason; the aching heart repelled the hope of future calm. To cease to love was impossible she believed, and she had neither the wish, nor the strength to struggle for freedom. 
               The assertion of Miss Ashleigh soon prove true, for the violence of the shock threw the Indian girl into a severe fever, in which she lay for days vibrating between life and death-Happy had it been for her, if she had perished then, but she had her alloted destiny to fulfill, and it was not so decreed. 
               Health once more came back to her wasted frame, but with it came not resignation to her fate. The presence of Mr. Ashleigh seemed a constant incubus to her soul, and after a few painful days of convalescence, she requested permission of Mr. Ashleigh to leave Oakwood for a short time, and for the benefit of change of air, go to Mrs. Barton, the lady by whom herself and Ruth had been principally educated. 
               The cottage of Mrs. Barton was about ten miles from Oakwood, in a healthy and picturesque country; and thither the old gentleman gladly consented that Etura should go for a season. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               The grandfather of Mr. Ashleigh was not of the band of religionists who left England during the persecutions of the Puritans, and made a settlement on the wild shores of Massachusetts. His son emigrated to Connecticut, and by purchase from the aboriginal possessors, became the proprietor of an extensive tract of land. He built the old manor house at Oakwood, and died in middle life, leaving an only child the present proprietor, to inherit it. 
               In early life, Mr. Ashleigh traveled in Europe, and saw all that was best worth examining in the mother country. He found there no rival to the fair daughters of his native land, and on his return, selected the companion of his future life, from the family of a neighboring gentleman. Mrs. Ashleigh possessed little beside beauty, and an education that fitted her to fill the station of a man of independent fortune, and liberal habits. 
               Of five children, but two survived their early infancy, a son and daughter, to whom the parents devoted themselves. Mrs. Ashleigh was a woman of great benevolence of character, and an appeal to her true womanly feeling was never made in vain. 
               One evening she was walking towards the neighboring town, accompanied by her daughter, then a small child; as she passed a cabin that stood about half way between Oakwood and the village, she heard the voice of wailing issuing from it, with some surprise; for she knew the spot had been long untenanted. The natural compassion of her heart induced her to approach, endeavor to ascertain the cause of affliction, and offer such assistance as the inmates might need. 
               As she reached the entrance, she paused in mute surprise. The hovel contained four Indian warriors, a feeble remnant of the once powerful tribe that had claimed the widespread lands around as their hunting grounds. In the center of the floor, was the dead body of their chief, laid out on a rude bier, with the insignia of his rank carefully placed around him, and the last of his followers were chanting their death song above his remains. They had brought him back to the land of his fathers, to give him burial in a neighboring mound, which contained all his kindred. 
               In a birch cradle, swinging from the rafters lay a young child, whose piteous cries blended mournfully with the wild requiem that arose on the evening air; but the warriors, absorbed in the more serious business before them, heeded not those accents of impatient suffering. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh had no fear of these children of the forest; for their frequent presence was, familiar to her. She entered the hut without hesitation, and approached the neglected child. The warriors ceased their singing when they beheld her, and as she laid her hand upon the brow of the infant, one of them asked- 
               "What would the pale face do with the Sachem's daughter?" 
               "I would render her such attention as she seems to need," replied the lady, with a glance of compassion at the pinched features before her. "Poor child! she seems to have suffered much. Where is her mother?" 
               "Dead-murdered by a drunken white man, not three days since. She was avenged on the spot, but the child must follow her to the Great Spirit. There is no one to keep life in her little frame." 
               "Why did you not ask from the villagers euch food as was necessary for the child?" said Mrs. Ashleigh, timidly. 
               A dark frown gathered on the brow of him who had hitherto spoken. 
                
               "What! shall the red men beg! They who were once masters of the soil on which we tread, ask alms of those who have invaded our hunting grounds, and by violence wrested them from us? No-no-Sooner would our Chief have buried his tomahawk in 
                     thd
                     the
                   head of his offspring, than stoop to ask food for it from the accursed pale face." 
               He approached the open door, and stretching forth his arm in an attitude of wild majesty, continued-"The forest that spread-away further than the eagle can fly without seeking his perch, once owned the sway of our Chief: his people were numerous as the leave that rustled in the summer breeze; but where are they now? Where our warriors? where our weekwams? Go, and ask the blood-thirsty white men, who have brought desolation and destruction upon us. The children of the great Spirit, are driven before them like wild beasts! The warrior who lies there with sealed eyes, and darkened spirit, was once the boast of his tribe: the terror of his enemies. He was first in war, and first in council; of the seven sons who fought beside him in battle, all have fallen; and a little lad, with yonder perishing infant, are all that now remain of his descendants." 
               While he thus spoke, Mrs. Ashleigh had taken the child in her arms, and was endeavoring to hush its cries. The little creature ceased her wailing, and put forth her hands to touch the sweet face that bent over her, as if conscious that her caresses would not be repulsed by its owner. Touched by the mute appeal, in the impulse of the moment, she said- 
               "If you keep this helpless infant, she must perish for want of the care her age demands. Give her to me; I will rear her as becomes the daughter of an Indian sachem." 
               "Lady, you will make her a slave to your own daughter, and think the station good enough for one of our dispersed and degraded tribe." 
               "No," replied she, with energy. "I will rear her as my own. Equally shall she share my attention with my own daughter. By, my kindness to this hapless child, I will endeavor in some slight measure, to atone for the injustice of my countrymen to all of her race. Speak,-shall she not go with me to my home?" 
               The Indian bowed his head upon his breast and remained some moments in deep communion with himself. He then addressed his companions in their own language, and after an animated discussion, they seemed to acquiesce in his proposal. He then turned to Mrs. Ashleigh, and said. 
               "The Great Spirit has doubtless sent you to be the preserver of this helpless squaw We commit her to your care, and as you discharge the trust, will the Manitou bless you and yours, or lay his blighting hand upon you. The Indian wishes you well." 
               The lady pressed the child to her bosom, and prepared to depart. As she reached the entrance, she paused and asked- 
               "The young brother of the little girl still lives. In years to come, should she wish to see him, how can a meeting be effected?" 
               "Wenona has already departed to the great Westen 
                     lskes,
                     lakes
                   in company with a few braves who are yet left of his tribe. When he visits the burial places of his fathers, he will seek the young squaw, should the Master of Life still permit her to dwell amid the pale faces as their child. Etura will know her brother when she sees him, for their features are cast in the same mold, and the resemblance between them is wonderful." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh than offered them money, but it was proudly refused. 
               "We want no coin of gold or silver; with the labor of our hands, we will lay our sachem in the grave, and then follow the footsteps of our bretheren to the far West," was the reply. 
               Finding further offers of service vain, Mrs. Ashleigh departed with a feeling of thankfulness in her pious heart, that she had been made the means of preserving the helpless being she held in her arms. On reaching Oakwood, she lost no time in thoroughly bathing her young charge, and dressing her in the baby robes which had once adorned her own daughter. Suitable nourishment stilled the cries of the young Etura, and when Mr. Ashleigh came in from the duties of the day, he was surprised to find his wife with a bright-eyed infant on her lap, looking around with newly awakened curiosity at the novel scene before her. His compassion for the orlorn being was easily enlisted, and his consent readily given to adopt her in place of the little one which had last been taken from them by death. 
               On the following Sabbath the child was presented for baptism at the altar of the church on which they worshiped, and thenceforth was regarded as a daughter of the family. 
               As the young Etura advanced in years, she displayed traits of character entirely at variance with the apathy usually attributed to her race. A passionate enthusiasm, a reckless disregard of conventionalities, distinguished her. She attached herself to few; but to those she clung with a fervor of love; an intensity of devotion which forbade all thought of change. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh vainly endeavored to moderate this excessive sensibility; had she been longer spared, she possibly might have taught Etura to put a curb upon her wild nature; but when the young Indian was in her tenth year her beloved protectress passed away from the earth, leaving her once happy home desolate. 
               The grief of Mr. Ashleigh for his irreparable loss was such as to undermine his health; and his physician prescribed change of scene as the best restorative. He succeeded in obtaining a lady of such acquirements as fitted her to take charge of his household, and superintend the education of the young people. Under the care of Mrs. Barton, the family at Oakwood was left during the disconsolate wanderings of its master. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh's death was a terrible blow to her protege. She mourned her with that sorrow which refuses to be comforted, and months passed away before she could hearken to any attempt at consolation, without an outburst of grief that was almost appaling: Touched by her sufferings, Edward Ashleigh sought by every means in his power to bring back cheerfulness to her young heart. He was at that time a youth of sixteen, with sufficient resemblance to his lost mother to bring her image vividly before the fancy of the bereaved girl; and as sorrow yielded gradually to the influence of time, Etura unconsciously set up another idol in the place of her who had been removed. 
               Mrs. Barton was a woman who had devoted her life to books, and she possessed little perception of the different shades of character. Her pupils performed their tasks correctly-they were too well trained to commit any outrage against propriety, and she was consequently contented. The natural talents of the young Indian were of a superior order, and it afforded Edward pleasure to assist her in the pursuit of all the studies in which he was himself engaged. Their difficulty did not deter her a moment, for she learned them beside him, and his voice made plain the portions that puzzled her. 
               Ashleigh dreamed not of inspiring an affection deeper or truer than was cherished for him by his sister; but it was not thus with Etura. She was ever the companion of his walks, the sharer of his studies, and while sitting with her books before her, her dark eyes would often wander from the page, to rest upon the face which was to her the embodiment of all beauty, nobility, and truth. 
               During these studies, and rambles, Ruth would be quietly seated with George Allen, a young nephew of Mrs. Barton's, who had accompanied her to Oakwood, and now formed one of the family, and if the whole truth must be told, these young devotees of romance were becoming as deeply attached to each other, as the hapless Etura was to the unconscious Edward. 
               But the time at length arrived when these pleasures, so dear to youth, were to be relinquished. Mr. Ashleigh returned to his long deserted home, and his first step was to despatch his son to Cambridge, to go through a full college course. Allen accompanied him, and the two girls were left to complete their education together. Etura at once abandoned the Latin and Mathematics, in which she had made considerable progress and no persuasions could induce her to resume them. The first days of Ashleigh's absence were those of darkness and careless disregard of the rules laid down by her indulgent preceptress. It seemed to her, that without his daily presence, life had lost all value, and nothing remained to stimulate her to exertion. Her very features lost their animated sprightliness of expression, and appeared to sink into apathetic dullness, as some flowers close themselves when the light of the sun is withdrawn. 
               Her first letter from the young collegian aroused her from this dreamy indifference; she replied to it with an eloquence, a power of expression, which surprised Mrs. Barton, through whese hands it passed before being despatched. Perhaps a feeling slightly deeper than fraternal affection, had touched the heart of Ashleigh when in daily association with the young Etura; but absence and newer interests, soon brought it down to the sober level of friendship. He corresponded, regularly with her, but preoccupied by other thoughts, he did not rightly interpret many passages in her replies. During his brief visit to his early home, he saw nothing which impressed him with the belief that the attachment of Etura was stronger for him, than that of his sister, and he believed himself at liberty to form other ties. 
               He loved another, and then the remembrance of the Indian girl's devotion came back to him, but he repelled it. He listened alone to the promptings of the strong passion he felt for Mary Lennard, and with the tenacious purpose which was his most striking trait, he made her his own in spite of parental authority. 
               The family at Oakwood had long been aware of the feelings of Etura; she made no effort to conceal them, for with the independence that was natural to her, she cared not who understood the nature of her attachment to Ashleigh. To love him was her pride; to render herself worthy to share his future life, the aim of her existence. It gradually came to be considered in the household a thing of course that the young heir should return to claim the Indian maiden as his bride. 
               Mr. Ashleigh would have been well pleased had such been the result, for Etura was dear to him as either of his own children; when the sudden announcement of his son's marriage came, his first thought was for that forsaken being, and deep was his sympathy for her crushed affections; her blighted youth. He understood her temperament, and he felt that for her no second love would bloom. 
               Comprehending the torture which the presence of her rival inflicted, Mr. Ashleigh gladly wrote to Mrs. Barton, and requested her to receive her former pupil for a few months. A favorable answer speedily arrived, and accompanied by Ruth, on a bright morning, she set out for Glen Cottage, with feelings little attuned to the quiet and secluded scene she was about to visit. In a few days, Ruth returned to Oakwood, leaving the wounded heart to the ministrations of Mrs. Barton. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               Like all his countrymen at that exciting period, Mr. Ashleigh watched the portentous signs of the times with intense interest, and he fully believed that an outbreak must soon accur. 
               The Stamp Act had passed, and the letter of Dr. Franklin had been published to his countrymen, in which he said, "The sun of Liberty is set; the Americans must light the lamps of industry and economy;" and the significant reply of Thompson had thrilled a sympathetic chord from one end of the colonies to the other. "Be assured we shall light torches of quite another sort." A prediction which was rapidly hastening to its fulfillment. 
               Edward Ashleigh with the enthusiasm of his temperament, was ready to throw himself into the struggle which was about to commence; and with the feelings of the true patriot, Mr. Ashleigh was willing to make any sacrifice to enable him to offer more than the more assistance of his single arm, to the cause of his country. A small band of volunteers Edward Ashleigh had already privately enrolled under his command, and in the seclusion of his father's woodlands, he daily drilled them for the service they would soon have to perform; that when the tocsin sounded, they might repair at once to that point at which their services would be most useful. 
               He wished to include Gartly among them, but that personage preferred the more peaceful employment of sawing wood, and working in the garden at the homestead. The much-desired desired opportunity of kidnapping the infant, he feared would never occur, for the little fellow was such a pet, that he was never for an instant absent from his mother, aunt or grandfather. Walters lingered in the neighborhood, keeping up a strict incognita, and no one but his unprincipled emissary was aware of his vicinity. At length even he believed that other measures must be taken, or he would be foiled in his object. 
               In the town of Fairfield a small detatchment of British soldiers were stationed, commanded by Colonel Lacy, a former acquaintance of Mrs. Ashleigh; and on the morning of his departure for Boston, he called to bid her farewell. He was also influenced by a desire to see once more the fair daughter of the house, for whom he had long professed an ardent admiration. He had, however, long since relinquished all hope of success in that quarter, for it had come to be well understood among the village gossips, that George Allen was likely to become the favored suitor of the young lady of Oakwood. 
               Col. Lacy was a fine looking man of thirty five, who had seen service before he was sent to America. Mrs. Ashleigh gladly welcomed him as a friend she had known beneath her father's roof. The conversation of the little group turned on the disturbed condition of the country, and Ashleigh freely expressed his opinion as to the course of events. 
               Lacy turned to his wife, and said- 
               "You are a royalist, I believe, Mrs. Ashleigh. Can you not exert your influence to induce your husband to join the right cause, should a struggle unfortunately ensue?" 
               "With my husband, I am one is thought and feeling on this subject. His place is beneath the banner of his country, Col Lacy, and to me her cause is not less dear than to any of her daughters. I do not forget that I am a native of the soil which was won at the price of blood, by our pilgrim ancestors. The sons must prove themselves worthy of the sires, nor yield their fair heritage as the prey of the spoiler." 
               "Could you bear to behold your husband arrayed against the countrymen of your father? Mr. Lennard, if I mistake not, is an Englishman?" asked Lacy. 
               "And my husband an American. Let each perform what conscience tells him is his duty for in a struggle like that we see approaching; the ties of blood must be forgotten. My own private griefs and anxieties, I can confine within my own soul; nor suffer them to throw a doubt on the ultimate success of our cause." Her cheek grew pale at the images her fancy conjured up, and tears trembled in her eyes. 
               "You are an enthusiast, Madam," said Lacy as he saw these evidences of emotion. "You have never beheld the horrors of the battlefield, or you would be even more deeply moved when speaking of the approach of mortal strife. In the buoyancy of hope and inexperience, you look forward with sanguine certainty, to a fortunate termination to the struggle which seems approaching; but many tears must flow from the widow and the orphan, ere victory is won by either party. How will it be with you, when your husband is in the midst of the strife?" 
               "Ah, God alone can tell," she sadly answered, "But I would not ask him to remain inactive, when his presence is demanded in the field." 
               The visitor now arose to take his leave. He took the fair hand of Mrs. Ashleigh in his own, and said, 
               "In a few days I leave for Boston, Mrs. Ashleigh. Gen. Gage has ordered the various detachments of troops scattered throughout the country, to concentrate there as soon as possible. We may meet again, when your courage has undergone the terrible ordeal surely preparing for it: I shall then learn how it has borne the trial. Should you ever need a friend in the British army, and you are wethin reach of Charles Lacy, apply to him with the certainty that his influence, however small, will be cheerfully exerted in your service." 
               "Thank you; I will remember your promise, as it is not unlikely the chances of war may render it of importance to me at some future day." 
               Col. Lacy then turned to Miss Ashleigh, and pressing her hand to his lips with the gallantry of the day, he spoke in a low tone, 
               "Adieu, fair Ruth. I was presumptuous, perhaps, in seeking to gain the love of one so far removed from me in years. May he who wins you, prove the same kind protector I would have been, had I been the fortunate wooer, is the fervent wish of my heart." 
               Ashleigh walked with his guest some distance on his homeward way, engaged in an animated discussion of the all absorbing topic of the day. When they parted, he slowly retraced his steps, as he mused on all that loomed darkly on the horizon of his beloved country. He felt that forbearance could no longer accomplish anything-it had long since ceased to be a virtue, and the outraged spirit of the nation must soon burst forth in the cry of freedom or death. 
               Suddenly the tramp of a horse, ridden at full speed, came thundering down the road. He looked up, and the next instant the rider suddenly checked his steed close beside him, and throwing himself from his back, warmly grasped the hand of Ashleigh, while his own fine face glowed with excitement. 
               "Allen! dear friend," exclaimed Ashleigh, "Whence come you in such hot haste? 
               "Whence do I come?" repeated Allen, almost with a shout. "From the birthplace of freedom; the cradle of liberty-from Concord, which henceforth should be called Discord, for there the first blow has been struck." 
               "What-what has happened?" was the breathless inquiry that followed. 
               "What every true man has long foreseen. The baptism of blood has consecrated the sod to freedom, and never more will the sword be sheathed until the victory is to the cause of justice. A collusion has at last taken place between the people and that incubus, the British soldiery-At Lexington, a fight ensued, and I hastened hither to see those I best love, before joining the defenders of my country. How fares all at Oakwood?" 
               "All well, George. But this is good news indeed. We are now but doing what should have been attempted several years ago." 
               Allen again vaulted in his saddle- 
               "I must go on to the village and scatter wide the glorious tidings. Already are the people arming for the leaguer of Boston, and thither we too will hasten. I shall be at Oakwood before night falls." 
               He waved his hand, and dashed away like the wind on his exciting errand. Ashleigh quickened his pace, that he might reach home, and announce the important news to his father before joining his friend in town. 
               As he turned to open the gate, he saw Ben Gartly coming up the road so rapidly, as to exhibit quite as fine a specimen of "tall walking," as the peddler of poetic fame. He paused, and hailed him- 
               "Hillo Ben, whither so fast?" 
               "Anywhere Mr Ashleigh, to escape from the honorable clerk and select men of yonder town I am not desirous of cultivating a more intimate acquaintance with them just now." 
               "Pray have you been doing anything that renders yon liable to receive too many pressing civilities from those exalted personages?" 
               "Well, I guess you know pretty well, that I'm not over and above popular where I have dealt much; I've kept myself out of sight, until to-day I thought I would venture in town to see the Britishers off-the fact is, I unfortunately happened to sell some wares he wasn't pleased with to that Deacon Peabody, and he no sooner clapped eyes on me, than he got out a warrant against me, for knowingly selling counterfeit articles. He's after me now, but I outwalked him." 
               "Well, Gartly, perhaps this difficulty may enable you to make up your mind to join my recruits-and I can promise you speedy service. In that case, I can protect you from the deacon's wrath." 
               "I'll not deny, squire, that it is a temptation, but then them Britishers shoot mighty straight, and they make a hole in a fellow's pody it is hard to mend up again. I have my doubts after all, if it will not be best to stay here, and let the Deacon do his worst. 
               "If cowardice prevents you from enlisting, Ben, I have no more to say. I will have no poltroons under my command. I shall pay my followers liberally, and I expect every man to do his duty." 
               At the mention of pay, the acute features of the quondam peddler brightened-He asked- 
               "Would you, or the Congress pay the wages? I have heard those who knew something of such things, say that if a war does break out, the colonies will have no money to pay their troops with." 
               "When I take a man into my company, I guarantee his pay; and if the country is unable to liquidate the debt, I assume it to those 
                     uuder
                     under
                   my command." 
               Gartly reflected a moment, but the sudden appearance of a stout ruddy faced man, who came puffing along the road as if nearly out of breath, seemed to hurry his decision. 
               "It's a bargain, Captain Ashleigh," he said, as the persevering magistrate reached the spot. 
               After greeting Ashleigh, the Deacon took out a paper and commenced reading in a voluble manner the process by which the law empowered him to seize the person of Ben Gartly, peddler, and bring him to condign punishment for knowingly selling counterfeit wares to the good citizens of Fairfield. By the time he finished, the beadle came up ready to seize the prisoner, and bear him away. 
               Gartly put on an important air, and asked 
               "Would you insult and imprison a man who is about to take on himself the sacred character of defender of his country?" 
               "What do you mean?" fiercely demanded the magistrate. 
               "That the dogs of war are loosed!" replied Gartly, pompously, "and I am a particular vessel set aside to help the right cause in the strife. Yes-the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, hath appointed me to the honorable office which Leonidas and Epaminondas once held." 
               At this tirade, the Deacon's face grew redder than ever; and he was about to say something that would have been highly indecorous in one in his honorable position in the Church, when Ashleigh explained. 
               "You have not yet heard, Deacon, that hostilities between the people and the Royalists have actually commenced. Allen carries the news but now to Windsor; in anticipation of such an event, I have induced Mr. Gartly to join a party of volunteers, to aid the right cause." 
               The worthy man listened with staring eyes, and open mouth. He presently said- 
               "Do you really mean, Mr. Edward, to take this creature with you to fight the battles of your country? Be assured, he will run off at the first fire, and disgrace you." 
               As if to disprove the assertion of cowardice on the spot, Gartly made a plunge at the speaker, which was evaded by the Deacon; he darted behind Ashleigh, as he exclaimed. 
               "I warn you as a magistrate to keep the peace, or it will be the worse for you. Volunteer or not, after this outrage, Mr. Edward, I shall take him into custody. If you choose to go bail for him, you can do so." 
               "I shall not interfere with you in the exercise of your authority, Deacon," said Ashleigh; "but I will see that such measures are taken, as will result in the release of my new recruit." 
               In spite of his earnest remonstrances, Gartly was dragged away by the magistrate and his sattellite, in the direction of the town; and Ashleigh proceeded to the house to announce the thrilling tidings of which he was the bearer. 
               It produced various effects on the different members of the family. The old gentleman grew animated as in youth, at the near approach of the struggle. His daughter trembled and grew pale; and the young wife wept bitterly. On that morning, when she spoke of her willingness to devote her husband to the cause of his country, she little dreamed that the trial was so near. To her, the strife was peculiarly painful; because those who were nearest to her must inevitably be arrayed on opposite sides, and her heart quailed at the dire possibilities which arose before her fancy. 
               Ashleigh returned immediately to Fairfield to commune with the fiery spirits that were eager for the strife, in the hope that he would be able to give direction and consistency to their plans. Late in the afternoon they returned, accompanied by Allen, who was walcomed with sincere joy by the whole family. 
               Allen was full of animation, and detailed the scenes in which he had lately mingled, with graphic distinctness, that caused the blood of even the man of sixty winters to thrill with ardor for the approaching strife. 
               Supper was over, and the clear moonlight streamed in a flood of glory upon the dewy lawn, and vine-clad portico. Allen tended Ruth toward the latter, and together they stood some moments in silence, both hearts filled with regret that so soon they must part for an indefinite period, perhaps forever On the morrow, Allen must leave the spot so dear to him, and he felt that a few words from the lips of her he loved, must be uttered before he could go in peace. 
               "Dear Ruth," he at length said, "I feel that this is no time for wooing; but we have loved each other from childhood: We have understood each other well, but now that does not satisfy me. Send me forth as the defender of a future home over which you are to preside, and the battles of my country shall have no stronger arm, no more faithful heart than mine." 
               "Could your patriotism depend on such a contingency, dear George? Methinks in such an hour as this, the heart should be free, the fancy unfettered by any less noble tie than love of one's native land. I bid you stand forth among the defenders of our oppresed country, without sending a regret to that lonely home in which earnest prayers for your safety will be offered hourly, by one heart at least." 
               "That will be much: but your petitions will also arise for your brother. I ask a different love; dearest Ruth, withhold not your consent to be mine, so soon as this strife is ended. When peace once more smiles on this fair land, let me hope to return to the quiet of domestic life, with the precious consciousness that the one I have loved with the ardor of childish affection, and also with the maturity of my judgment, will be the bright spirit of my home. I go forth to a life of toil, hardship, and strife: only say that I may bear with me this beacon light, and I am nerved for all I must encounter." 
               "Go forth, then, as my hero and my love," said the noble girl, placing her hands in his. "If this assurance will give you one gleam of happiness when your tired frame is thrown beside your camp fire, I will not withhold it. To you alone shall my hand be given, and should a dark fate decree that you shall perish in the defense of your native land, I will forever retain the right to mourn my first, and only love. Yes, George; take with you this assurance; nor think me unmaidenly in giving it in such an hour as this. Under other circumstances, I might have been more tardy in making this acknowledgment, but now it seems to me 'tis due to you." 
               The rapturous thanks of Allen were responded to in a vein of quiet simplicity, which distinguished the New England maiden; and this was her greatest charm in the eyes of her enthusiastic admirer, 
               At length Ruth said- 
               "Let us go in, and ask my father's blessing upon our betrothal; I cannot feel as if it has the sanction of Heaven, until he ratifies it." 
               Allen yielded, and the pair walked into the room in which sat Mr. Ashleigh, with his son and his wife. The young people approached and knelt before him. Allen said- 
               "You have hitherto received me beneath your roof as a son, dear sir; and now I come with her I love, to ask you to bless the tie we have this night formed, and recognize my right really to hold that relation to you." 
               "This is a sad time in which to ask a blessing on such a thing as marriage; but it is yours, my children," and with patriarchal simplicity, he placed his hands upon the heads of the two who bowed before him, and prayed fervently for their happiness, and usefulness in their future life. Then came a torrent of elequence to the God of battles, in behalf of the young country that was arming in the strength of a just cause, to contend against the giant power of mighty England. 
               All listened in deep sympathy, and earnest were the responses which silently ascended from the hearts around that family altar. 
               The betrothed arose, and the future bride received the kiss of paternal and fraternal affection. Then her lover was permitted to fold her to his manly heart, and impress a salute upon her lips. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh was deeply impressed by this simple scene, and she wept as she recalled her own unblessed marriage, though she regretted not the step which had given her to the husband she adored. As she now gazed on him with the thought that he must soon go forth to fight the battles of his country, perchance to lose his life in the struggle, her heart grew cold within her. She was a woman gifted with all the strength-all the tenderness of her sex, and in that moment she made a silent vow that from his side she would never again be severed, save by death. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               The residence of Mrs. Barton was a secluded cottage, situated in a deep glen, through which brawled a narrow stream over ledges of rock, and other picturesqe obstructions. High hills girdled in this romantic dell, which was now bright with the vernal glories of spring. 
               Here, surrounded by her books, her pets, and her flowers, this accomplished woman lived in quiet contentment. An occasional visit to Oakwood was the only event that varied the monotony of her existence; but to her this uneventful routine was agreeable. It afforded her leisure to cultivate the strong intellect which enabled her to suffice unto herself in the circumscribed sphere allotted to her on earth. 
               Mrs. Barton possessed a good; though limited library, but in it few books were found suited to the taste of the majority of her sex. The classics in their original strength, undiluted by translation: abstruse treatises on astronomy and mathematics, and voluminous histories that caused a less eager devourer of books to turn away in dismay at the thought of attacking them, loaded the rustic shelves. A volume of Pope, and an antiquated edition of Shakspeare, lay side by side with the Bible. 
               Mrs. Barton herself was a tall, strongly-formed woman, with little superfluous flesh, and a sharpness of features which at a first glance did not promise much that was amiable; but on closer inspection, the pale blue eyes seemed to light up with kindly emotions, and certainly the thin lips never unclosed to utter sharp or bitter words. The daughter of a Presbyterian clergyman, Mrs. Barton's youth had been passed in study beside her father, and her brief married life as the wife of a minister of the same denomination, had been similarly occupied; since the death of her husband, many years of her life had been devoted to instructing others, and on the independence accumulated by her own toil, she had retired to her present humble, but contented sphere. 
               Etura could scarcely have been sent to one who possessed fewer points of congeniality with herself, or who could have comprehended her less: the seething spirit of rebellion against her fate; the wild dreams of vengeance, which should make him who had slighted her repent the wrong; the burning sense of hatred toward her who claimed his love, careered through her bosom, while her hostess sat calmly beside her, absorbed in the history of some nation which had flourished and decayed ages before. Buried in the past, she was blind to what was passing beside her in the deeply tried heart of this child of impulse and passion. 
               The season permitted Etura to indulge her natural love of rambling in the forest, without eliciting remark; and day after day she betook herself to a nook upon the hill side, just above a curve in the stream, where it struggled and foamed fiercely against the obstructions that impeded its way. It was the only portion of the peaceful scene, that harmonized with her own turbulent spirit, and she instinctively sought its wordless sympathy. 
               One day she thus sat, and unconsciously her thoughts found utterance aloud. 
               "Ah! if I could only reach him through the one he prefers to me." 
               "Or better still, crush both hearts through the child they are devoted to," said a voice close beside her. 
               Etura started, and turned quickly toward the quarter from which it proceeded. A young man, dark as herself, with keen falcon-like glance, stood within a few feet of her. He wore the dress of a hunter, and a string of birds lay at his feet. The bright eyes of the stranger seemed to fathom the very depths of her soul, as she asked. 
               "Who are you, and what do you mean by so startling a response to words I scarcely knew were spoken audibly?" 
               "I am one who has followed your steps many days, and watched your expressive features, until language is scarcely necessary to reveal to me what is passing in your mind. Through others, I know the history of your life, Etura; that of your heart has been laid bare to me by my own observations." 
               "This is singular language from a stranger" she haughtly replied. "By what right have you watched me, and what purpose do you expect to gain by so doing?" 
               "What is dear alike to both; vengeance for wrong. Hearken to me, daughter of a race which knows not forgiveness nor relenting, and I will show you how to aim a blow that shall be fatal to the fair wife. Then the husband will be free to seek her who loves him as he knows you love." 
               The varying color of the girl betrayed all that Walters wished, and he ventured to draw nearer to her. Etura asked- 
               "Why should you do this? If you are an enemy, why do you not strike openly? I am but a feeble girl, and cannot follow the promptings of my will." 
               "I have struck openly, and been foiled more than once. I am interested in you, and would aid you to break the heart of your rival, while at the same time, I put out of my own way an obstacle to fortune. I will be quite frank with you. I am the cousin of Mrs. Ashleigh, and was once regarded as her future husband but circumstances of a painful nature, broke off the engagement. Except on one score, I cared not, for I never loved her. An eccentric uncle, who died in England when Mary and I were children, made an extraordinary will: an estate of considerable value was bequeathed jointly to us, on the condition that we were united by the time I completed my twenty-fourth year. In failure of this arrangement, the estate passed to the first born son of either party. If that child was Mary's, in case of its death before maturity, the estate comes to me. I do not know what influenced the old fellow to make such a will, but thus it stands. Until a few weeks since, I believed myself the possessor of wealth; the sudden revelation of Mary Lennard's marriage, and the existence of her child, set aside my claims. Mary adores her child." 
               Etura had listened to these details with absorbing interest-she now eagerly asked- 
               "And if she does, what then?" 
               "Do you not see? Wrest him from her; place him in my power, and our ends are both gained. The mother in all probability, dies of a broken heart; and the father turns for consolation where he knows it will not be refused I have in my possession, the claimant to my fortune, and can easily place him where he will never interfere with my interests." 
               "In the grave!" she said, as her kindling eye met his. Walters quailed before that searching glance, but he promptly answered. 
               "No-not thus would I rid myself of him. I will send him among your own people, to that wild country which stretches away toward the great lakes. Reared among the aboriginal inhabitants, and imbibing their tastes in early infancy, he will never care to return among the civilized, to contest his right to a fortune which long before that, will have been spent; for I care only for money for the gratifications it can purchase." 
               Etura mused upon his words, and there was something in this tangible scheme of vengeance, which was attractive to her. She had little love for children, and the helpless innocence of the proposed victim did not appeal to her sensibilities. She thought only of the anguish to be inflicted on those who had caused her to suffer so deeply, and the fate of the infant was scarcely dwelt on. In fancy she beheld her rival heart-broken at the loss of her child; Ashleigh once more without a tie that could stand between them, and then in his bereavement, turning to her whose wealth of love should console him for all. She at length said, 
               "If there was any certainty as to the result Our calculations may fail, and then my portion of the crime be of no avail to me." 
               "I know my cousin well," replied Walters, with an appearance of decision that had great weight with Etura. "She had a tenderness of feeling, which is rare even in her sex. The fate of the boy, would be as an arrow to her sensibility; she would pine away, and die." 
               "Then let her die," said the Indian fiercely. 
               "Give me the power to strike the blow home, and I am your slave. I know you, Everard Walters, for the letters of Edward Ashleigh to his family, have long since described that murder from the punishment of which you were with sneh difficulty rescued. We are now congenial spirits, for the few past weeks have made a very demon of me." 
               "Thank you," replied the young man, with half a smile "I must say that we have not stood on ceremony with each other, Miss Ashleigh." 
               "Call me not by that name!" she exclaimed. "I abjure it, until the hour arrives in which it may be legally bestowed upon me by the man I love. I am now only Etura." 
               "Well, it is a pretty name, and by no means a common one. Now, Etura, let us mature our plans." 
               He seated himself near her, and there on that light spring day, with the smiling sunshine showered on hill and hollow, the glad song of birds, sending their chorus thro' the wood land; the ceaseless anthem that ascends to Heaven from the rushing waters, rustling leaves and the soft melody of the zephyrs as they wing their viewless way over the high and low places of the earth, a compact was entered into, which was little in unison with the influences around. 
               The dark spirit that wrestled in the soul of the unhappy girl, had met the tempter face to face, and she delivered herself over to the evil promptings he breathed into her ear. Day after day they met, and she listened to his subtle reasoning, until the wretched creature forgot the principles in which she had been nurtured, and the kindness conferred on her by that family amid which she was ready to bring desolation. 
               Her mind was at first filled with one insane idea-to sweep the mother and child from her path, that the privilege of consoling the mourner might be hers. Once more free; conscious of her absorbing love for him, Ashleigh could not resist the influences she would bring to bear upon him. 
               Remorse she thought not of-that was the fate of the weak in mind, or the feeble-hearted; to her, it was a word without meaning. Triumphantly she believed she could walk upon the path she would open for herself, nor give a feeling of pity to those she believed herself ready to thrust aside; but a few days of reflection changed her opinions. Pride re-asserted its dominion, and she no longer wished to fill the place which had been given to her rival. She would strike a blow that would be felt so long as life lasted, and then conceal herself forever, from those who had once loved and cherished her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               On the fourth morning after their first meeting, Walters came to the usual rendezvous in a state of great elation. He informed Etura that he had put every thing in train for the accomplishment of their nefarious scheme, and then suddenly asked, 
               "How many years is it, Etura, since you last beheld your brother, the young sachem?" 
               "We have never met but once since I could remember; then I was a child of nine years. Wenona visited the burial places of our tribe, and then he came for a single day to Oakwood. He had no sympathy with the sister who had been reared amid the whites, and since his departure, I have never even heard from him. Methinks, if I had his love to sustain me now, I would leave the treacherous race, and go with him to his forest home. In the depths of nature's solitude, perchance the spirit of peace would come once more to my soul." 
               "If you wish it, it may be even thus, 'Etura," said a low musical voice, with that peculiar intonation which is the characteristic of the Indian. 
               Etura started up, and confronted a youth of twenty, who leaned, in an attitude of indolent ease, against a projecting shelf of rock that overhung the pathway only a few feet from her. She gazed a moment in silent surprise at the wonderful resemblance to herself she beheld. In size and features, her brother and herself were identical. 
               The young chief wore a scarlet blanket of fine cloth, embroidered at the edges, hanging in graceful folds around his person; much after the fashion of a Roman toga. His moccasins and leggins of deerskin, were highly ornamented, and a silver band surrounded his forehead, confining a circlet of brilliantly colored feathers. 
               The elaborately wrought wampun belt, which girdled his waist, sustained his tomahawk, and the sheath of a long knife of European manufacture. 
               With the native impetuosity of her temperament, Etura cast herself into his arms, and wept upon his bosom. The young sachem sustained her form with a look of surprised endurance, which might have become a city exquisite. That he was entirely unaccustomed to exhibitions of the kind, was sufficiently evident, and he seemed rather annoyed at this display of sensibility on the part of his unknown sister. 
               At length Etura raised her head, and said- 
               "Pardon me, Wenona, but your sudden appearance overcame me." 
               "The maidens of my tribe, do not show their feelings thus," replied the chief, gravely. If they sorrow, the secret of their sufferings is only breathed to the Great Spirit of nature; not to man, who often makes a mock of them." 
               The girl drew herself suddenly from the breast of her young censor, and a crimson flush stained her dark cheek, as she bitterly asked- 
               "Is it well to speak thus in the first moment of our reunion? Must the heart that has been slighted, thrown back upon itself, find repulsion where nature herself bids me seek for sympathy?" 
               "My sister, the pale face hearkens to your words. Has the Indian maiden lost even the pride which gives us self-control." 
               "Pride, alas, mine has been abased indeed,' she sadly replied. "But from its ruins, has sprung that which makes me worthy to claim kindred with my race, the deadly purpose of revenge. This man knows my wrongs; he will assist me to redress them, therefore I speak before him without restraint." 
               The chief uttered a low expression of approbation, and made a gesture toward Walters as he said, 
               "The white brother has already told me that the daughter of the Great Eagle has been slighted by the pale face with whom she was reared, and another woman lives in his wigwam. I first sought you at your former home, and the young squaw who once called you sister, sent me thither. What is it your purpose now to-do? Will you come with me to the lodges of my people, or live among those who have injured you?" 
               "Let me first strike a blow which shall be felt in the depths of the souls that have wronged me, and I will follow you to your home in the far West," was the fierce response. 
               "It is well," replied Wenona, with a gesture of dignified approval. "The aid I may render you, is already known to me through the white brother here. I am quite ready to perform the part allotted to me." 
               Walters here spoke. 
               "We must not tarry then, in consummating the deed, for Ashleigh will in a few more days, be on the wing to join the madmen who hurry to their own destruction in besieging the strong-hold of British power, the city of Boston. The blow must be struck before he leaves." 
               "I am ready," said Etura, composedly. 'The parents must believe the boy has perished, while we bear him to the wilderness to be adopted in our tribe." 
               "It is good, Wenona will take charge of him," said the chief sententiously. 
               Again Walters went over the plan agreed on between himself and Etura, and the sachem listened attentively. 
               Then the brother and sister parted from him, and bent their steps toward the cottage of Mrs. Barton. 
               The brother of Etura was kindly received by the good lady, and such efforts made to entertain him as were consistent with her ideas of hospitality. Wenona evinced his appreciation of them, by devouring the various good things set before him with a degree of gusto that was surprising, but his conversational ability was little displayed. 
               Mrs. Barton had no ideas beyond that of her books, and of these, Wenona had but trifling knowledge, although he had been educated at a Catholic mission, established by the French on the borders of Lake Superior. Etura announced to her hostess her intention to return for a brief visitto the home of her childhood before bidding it an eternal farewell for the wild tents of her Indian kindred. Mrs. Barton listened with deep sorrow, and used every argument she could think of to turn her from her purpose. All was in vain, and she bade a tender adieu to her former pupil, assuring her that her house was always open to her, and should the free life of the forest maiden prove distasteful to her, she would find an asylum beneath her roof whenever she wished to return to it. 
               Mrs. Barton shed many tears over the way-wayward girl, but Etura parted from her with a calm stoicism, of which her brother himself might have been proud; and went on her way toward the house she had so recently left. 
               Night had fallen; and the family at Oakwood were assembled around the supper table when Etura, unannounced, walked into the room. She was perfectly self-composed, though slightly pale, as she received the greetings of welcome which ware eagerly offered. 
               As Ashleigh took her hand in his, a painful convulsion contracted her heart; but she controlled the outward expression of her suffering so successfully, that he fancied she was reconciled to her lot. He said- 
               "I trust you have returned to remain with your best friends, Etura. We have all sadly missed you." 
               "My place has been more than filled," she replied, with a glance toward his wife. "Where yonder beautiful and beloved woman is found, there can be little room for regret for the poor Indian maiden." 
               "Are our hearts so narrow, that they can afford room for but one?" he reprochfully asked. 
               "One only can be best loved," replied she proudly, "and I ask not for the second place in the affections of my friends." Ruth drew her to a seat beside herself, and inquired after the quiet inmate of the Glen Cottage. Etura answered her with apparent cheerfulness, and the whole party was deceived by the hope that she had returned to her home to remain permanently. 
               The hour for retiring at Oakwood was ten o'clock, and as it struck from the ebony time piece on the mantel, the family bade each other good night, and proceded to their respective apartments; Etura shared that of Ruth, as had always been their custom, but on that night she found the young Indian a most unsocial companion. 
               Her mind seemed too intensely occupied to listen with apparent interest, even when her friend informed her of her formal betrothal to the object of her attachment. It is true, she expressed her congratulations; but there was a dreamy air of intense thought about her, which seemed to indicate that her mind was too fully pre-occupied with some topic of absorbing interest to herself, to permit her to give much thought to the joys or sorrows of another. Ruth remembered her recent suffering, and excused her apparent indifference to what was of such moment to herself. She almost condemned herself for revealing her happy love to one so bitterly disappointed in her own hopes. 
               They at length retired, and soon the sound sleep of innocence and youth sealed the eyelids of Miss Ashleigh. Etura leaned over her, and ascertained that she was not likley to be easily aroused; then she stepped lightly from the bed, resumed her garments, and by the bright moonlight that gleamed through the white window curtains, found her way silently from the room. 
               A narrow passage lay between the appartment she had just left, and the one in which the child she was resolute to sieze, lay sleeping in his cradle bed, a few feet from his mother's couch. Already had Etura penetrated to that room on her first arrival at Oakwood, and from a vial of laudanum she carried about her person, poured a considerable portion in the food the nurse had prepared for her charge. 
               The door was now slightly ajar, and a faint line of light from the taper burning within the room, fell on the floor. She cautiously pushed it open, and stood halfway within the chamber. All was deeply quiet, and with stealthy tread, she drew near the cradle and looked down upon the child. He was a fair, beautiful boy, and his golden curls were scattered on the pillow around his waxen features as he lay wrapped in so deep a slumber as to seem almost breathless. 
                
               With light touch, Etura wrapped the bed-clothing around him and sped like a phantom from the room. As she closed the door after her, the mother raised her head, looked dreamily around, and seeing all quiet near her infant's cradle, she again surrendered herself to the drowsy influence of sleep, unconscious that the darling of her heart was torn from her. 
               Etura sprang fleetly down the staircase, and as she placed her hand upon the lock of the outer door, it yielded to her touch. We-nona stood on the portico, awaiting her: he took the child from her arms, and without a backward glance, they left the house. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               About half way between Oakwood and the village, stood the ruins of the old cottage in which Mrs. Ashleigh first beheld the Indian child she had taken to her heart as her own. It was now surrounded by a thick growth of underwood, which had sprung up around the unfrequented spot; and it was difficult to force a passage to the dilapidated tenement. 
               Into this old ruin, Walters caused Gartly to convey such combustible materials as the neighboring woodland afforded in abundance. Ignorant of the use to be made of them, Gartly labored in secret to fulfill the injunctions of his employer, from the time of his deliverance from durance, effected by the exertions of Ashleigh in his behalf. 
               A broken stairway, which communicated with a garret, had been built on the outside of the hovel; this was carefully propped by the directions of Walters, and a few rough steps were added, by which the roof could be easily gained. On the side next to this staircase, the thick forest approached closely to the house, and under its shelter it would be easy to escape from the confused crowd which would naturally collect in front of the building, when it was discovered to be on fire. 
               It was a clear night, and the moon was shining brightly over the quiet landscape. Suddenly a red gleam of light shot upward from the haunted house, as it was called in that vicinity; another and another followed, and it was seen to be on fire. The room occupied by the bereaved mother, was on the side of the house next to the cabin; the red glare fell through the white curtains, and cast its lurid reflection upon the walls. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh started up, and in the first alarm, the appalling cry of "fire" burst in thrilling accents from her lips. Her husband sprang up, and hurriedly dressed himself, while his wife wild with fear, snatched up the bundle Etura had placed in her child's cradle, and ran from room to room crying out fire, and as yet uncertain that it was not the house they were in which was in flames. 
               A frightened group soon collected in the lower hall, and by the brilliant light, now shed on every object, the startling discovery was made that Etura was not among them. At that moment, a wild shriek so full of anguish as to thrill the hearts that heard it, rang through the house- 
               "My! child my child-O Heaven, where is my darling babe?" exclaimed Mrs. Ashleigh, as she threw from her the bundle she had hitherto grasped with such tenacious care. "He is not here-he is gone-stolen by that wretch. She darted from the door, and fled wildly toward the scene of the conflagration, with a rapidity that mocked pursuit. There was no definite idea in her mind at the moment-only a vague, instinctive feeling, that in the scene of danger she should find her idolized boy. Horror-struck, bewildered, the remainder of the group followed her as rapidly as possible. In vain did her husband endeavor to overtake her flying footsteps, winged by fear, anguish, and despair, they scarcely seemed to touch the earth, and she was deaf to the voice that entreated her to pause in her career. 
               Followed within a few yards by her husband, the young mother reached the burning building. By this time the sides were enveloped in flames, and they were rapidly circling around the roof. She looked up, and an appalling sight met her view. Surrounded by a halo of fire, stood the young Indian upon the roof of the building, with the child clasped firmly in her arms; and above the roaring of the flames, arose the wild death chant o her tribe. Even as the frantic mother stretched forth her arms, and shrieked out her adjuration to descend and save her darling boy, the forms of both seemed to be swallowed up in the devouring flames. 
               Ashleigh reached the spot in time to see them disappear, and recieve into his arms the senseless form of his wife. By this time a terrified group began to collect from the village; but it was too late to render any assistance. The house was now a solid mass of flame, and the victims must have perished as they disappeared. 
               The senseless mother was borne back to Oakwood by the horror-stricken group. For hours she remained in such a condition of utter prostration, that it was doubtful if she would ever recover from the shock she had sustained. All that the tenderest care could accomplish toward sustaining and consoling her, was done; but when perfect consciousness returned, her agony was terrible to witness. 
               The voice of bitter sorrow, and self-upbraiding in the heart of the husband, was stifled to enable him to offer such sympathy as she so much needed; and this consciousness first aroused the wife from the depths of her despair. Mrs. Ashleigh fully understood the motive which prompted Etura to this terrible revenge; and when the first horror passed away, she endeavored to arouse herself from the indulgence of grief, that her husband's double burden should not be thus increased. 
               Etura, the companion of his childhood, the friend of his youth, had thus avenged the fancied slight she had recieved; and amid his horror of her crime, some lingering feeling of regret for her tragic fate, must mingle with the sorrow he felt for the fiery doom of his noble-his beautiful boy. 
               At length his troops was regularly organzed, and he repaired to rendezvous at Hartford, where a larger detachment was to join them before they departed to the scene of strife. In constant employment, Ashleigh could alone hope to stifle the gnawing regrets that filled his heart. He wished to leave his wife in the seclusion of his father's mansion, where she would be protected from the chances and hardships of a soldier's wife, yet he feared that the terrible associations connected with the spot, might in his absence prey upon her mind, and destroy her health. 
               He witnessed the struggle she made to conquer the grief that consumed her, but he also saw that in spite of all her efforts, she had faded to the wan shadow of her former self. When he finally ventured to propose to her to remain with his father and sister, she so vehemently-so eloquently insisted on her right to follow him through every hardship, and every peril, that he had not courage to deny her impassioned prayer. 
               "With thee! with thee, Oh my husband, I must remain, or this sorrow will destroy me," she tenderly said. "Take me where the turmoil and bustle of perpetual change will drive the memory of that night of horror far, far from me." 
               "Be it so, then, my Mary," replied Ashleigh mournfully, "I would have shielded you from the scenes you must inevitably witness as my companion, but even they may be useful in driving from your heart the bitterness of grief that consumes it." 
               "Ah, that may never-never be!" she exclaimed, with a burst of tears. "My own darling, my innocent, tender babe, torn from me so ruthlessly, and given over to that cruel torture! I see him now, surrounded by that circle of flame, and my flesh shrinks at the thought of the suffering he must have borne. Ah! the pang to my heart is as keen as when I saw him held aloft to meet his fiery doom. Dear Edward, take me from this spot, if you would have me retain my reason. Let me follow you to the arena of strife, and in assisting those who may need my services, I may in time be enabled to look back with calmness; though never with resignation." 
               "My beloved Mary, you shall go with me, and the devotion of my life shall be given you to fill up the void in your heart, made by this terrible calamity; calm your emotion, my beloved, and look confidently to the future for consolation. 'Time shall bring healing on its wings,' we are assured from a source which never errs." 
               "I will endeavor to have such faith, for I well know it is wrong to cherish sorrow The brief span of existence should be more usefully employed." And thus it was settled. 
               The scene of the conflagration had been thoroughly searched, aud a few blackened remnants found, which were supposed to be the remains of the Indian girl and her young victem. They were carefully collected, and placed in a casket, and deposited in the burial vault of the family. Gartly was extremely careful to say nothing of his agency in preparing the hovel for destruction, and he only remained with Ashleigh until a favorable opportunity offered to desert his colors, and join Walters, who intended to take service under the English commander. 
               The fortress of Ticonderoga fell into their hands, without a blow being struck. Crown Point was next taken, and the nation at large was animated by the most sanguine hopes of success in their efforts to establish their freedom. 
               Washington was appointed Commander-in-Chief, and the reputation he had already attained seemed to gurantee success to his endeavors to serve his country. Forces were levying in New Hampshire, and Connecticut, of which Col. Stark was to take command, and all hearts beat high in anticipation of a signal triumph over the English forces stationed in Boston. 
               Ashleigh was cordially received by the rough old soldier he found in command of the detachment he came to join, and Col. Stark conferred the rank of Captain upon him at once in consideration of the valuable aid he afforded in both men and money. They were detained in New Haven a few days, until a detachment from New Hampshire could join them. 
               This trifling delay was agreeable to Ashleigh, for the beautiful little city possessed many attractions for him. Many of his mother's family resided there, and some of the brightest of his youthful hours had been passed among them. His fair wife received a warm welcome, and they made every effort to chase from her brow the deep sadness, which had become its settled expression since the loss of her child. 
               The family of his uncle, Mr. Brenson, were lively, social people, and day after day some new plan of amusement was proposed, to cheer the spirits of the bereaved mother. Generally they were parties in the open air, that the cheerful influences of nature might exert their soothing power upon the depressed mind of Mr. Ashleigh. One day a visit was proposed to the cavern in which two of the judges who condemned Charles II, for a long time concealed themselves. As this was one of the favorite lions of the neighborhood, around which many interesting associations were thrown, a party was soon made up, and on a balmy morning in May, a groups of equestrians gathered before Mr. Brenson's door. 
               Among them, was a young girl of nineteen-a stranger in the place, who irresistibly attracted the sad mother toward her. Perhaps it was because there was sympathy between them, for over the fair loveliness of Jessie Maitland's face was the shadow of grief and ill health thrown. She was a beautiful blonde, with the fair hair and limpid blue eyes of the maidens of her own northern home; for she came from the land of hill and heather, and her father held the rank of Colonel under Sir Gay Carleton in the province of Canada. 
               The declining health of his only child had brought Col. Maitland farther south to spend the winter, and he was now on his way to Quebec to rejoin the English forces. The change had proved slightly beneficial o Miss Maitland, but she still looked exceedingly delicate; and an expression of languid dejection characterized features that were eminently formed to express mirth and playfulness. 
               Her father was beside her on this morning, and in his stately form, and iron visage could be read the unbending soul of the man. His devotion to his daughter was seen in the care he bestowed on her, yet in his heart he knew that from his unyielding temper, proceeded the unhappiness which had made a wreck of her health. 
               In early life, Col. Maitland possessed two treasures which were invaluable to one of his reserved and proud temper; the friendship of one he had known from boyhood; and the love of a beautiful girl to whom he was betrothed. Maitland was poor, and so also was the object of his attachment. His friend, Henry Herbert, possessed wealth, and liberal assistance was placed at his command to enable him to place himself in such a position as to claim the hand of his betrothed. 
               Concealed among the rugged Highlands, was the little hamlet of which the father of Anna Clare was the pastor, and thither in an unfortunate hour, Herbert went on a hunting excursion. He carried letters of introduction to Craighead, and was recieved as a welcome guest in the family of Mr. Clare. The fair daughter of the house was surpassingly lovely, and the young visitor was so dazzled by her charms that he forgot what was due to his friend, and permitted his manner to betray the impression she had made. 
               Events proved that this secluded rural flower was not without ambition. She reflected that years must elapse before her lover could be in a position to claim her hand, and her bright youth might pass away in the obscurity of the humble parsonage, if she failed to avail herself of so brilliant an opportunity to enter that world her fancy painted in such vivid colors. 
               Such encouragement was given as deprived the enamored young man of all power of resistance. In one little month the announcement of their marriage came to the stricken heart of the confiding friend. For years it rendered Maitland a misanthrope, but gradually the persuasion of friends induced him to re-enter society. Again he loved one little less fair than the false Anna, and won her for his bride. 
               The lapse of a few years found him a widowed husband with an only child; Herbert and his wife both dead, leaving their son to the guardianship of him he had so wronged. The first impulse of Maitland was to refuse the trust; but a letter penned by Herbert upon his death bed, touched the heart that had once truly loved him, and the lad was received under his protection. 
               While her former friends believed that all that remained of her mortal frame rested in the calm of the grave, Etura wended her weary way through the mazes of the interminable forest day by day, with a heart that grew heavier with every additional mile that separated her from him she so wildly loved. 
               To be near him, to hear the sound of his voice, was happiness compared with what she now endured. Her heart fainted within her, when she beheld the gloom of thickly-woven leaves above her head-felt their shadow on her soul; for she knew that a shadow lay on her pathway, from which she might never escape. To live severed from Ashleigh, was more than she had courage to endure; and after evolving many plans of escape in her mind, she finally resolved to retrace her steps at all hazards. 
               When this decision was made, they had just reached the confines of the great willderness, and found there the party of Indians with which her brother had journeyed toward the white settlements. They were on their return to their own hunting grounds, and had only waited to be overtaken by the young sachem. 
               Etura was glad to be relieved from the charge of the child by a squaw who had recently lost her own infant, and was delighted to gain this beautiful boy in its place. By the use of laudanum, Etura had kept the little Edward quiet while she had the care of him; but now she threw the narcotic away, and he soon recovered his usual sprightliness, and seemed to flourish under the new guardianship into which had passed. The pleasant weather and the constant motion were agreeable to his awakening perceptions, and he seldom cried or manifested impatience. 
               One night they halted beside the ruins of an old Indian fort, and pitched their tents. Etura felt that if she intended to make her escape, it must be done now, or not at all; for unaccustomed to the wild life of the forest, she could never successfully thread its mazes, and retrace her steps to the country she had left. 
               Wenona also betrayed unequivocaly that he considered her future fate absolutely at his disposal; and already had he spoken to her of the policy of bestowing her hand on a brother chief, who possessed great power and widespread hunting grounds. Her brother seemed to take it for granted that in voluntarily returning to the life to which she was born, she had pledged herself to lay aside the habits of the more effeminate race among whom she had been reared, and in a brief season become as hardy as the daughters of the forest, who were trained to their peculiar modes of living from infancy. 
               Wenona talked to her of the influence her beauty and education would give her over the wild and untutored race she came to dwell among, and endeavored to dazzle her imagination by sketching the power she could acquire over the North Western tribes, when once she held the position of consort to the Gleaming Knife. Etura listened patiently, but her fiery soul caught not a spark from his eloquence: the idea of marriage with any one except the idol of her heart, was infinitely repulsive to her, and the chief who bore the suggestive name of the Gleaming Knife, was not calculated to inspire any other feeling than horror in the breast of one who had been carefully taught the dogmas of Christianity, however widely she might have swerved from them in her recent actions. 
               The resolution of the young Indian was finally taken; and when the whole party was buried in the sleep of weariness, after a long day's journey, she stealthily arose, took from the bough, on which he had hung them, the gaudy blanket, and coronal of feathers belonging to her brother; and in their place, left her own long and abundant tresses, which she severed from her head with a knife. 
               Thus equipped, she sped through the forest on her backward way, and before dawn, reached a white settlement which they had passed late on the previous evening. In the hurry of her departure from Oakwood, she had not forgotten to take a small sum of money with her, and once among those from whom it would purchase shelter and food, she knew her further progress would be easy. 
               No attempt was made to pursue her, and in three weeks from the conflagration, she once more stood on the spot on which it was supposed she had perished and looked wistfully toward the home of her childhood. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               The small company of volunteers Ashleigh had been able to raise, marched to New Haven, where they expected to join a troop which was to have mustered there under the command of that Arnold who performed such deeds of valor in the service of his native land, and then sold himself to endless infamy 
               The spirit of the Americans seemed thoroughly aroused. Many skirmishes had taken place with the British, in which the hardy country people were uniformly successful. 
               Unfortunately the young Henry strikingly resembled his mother, and Col. Maitland soon banished him from his roof, by placing him at a distant school, in which he would receive an education befitting the station he was to fill. Within a year after Mrs. Maitland's death, her husband followed the bent of his early inclination, and entered the army. He was speedily sent out to the colonies, and left his young daughter in Scotland, under the care of a maternal aunt. 
               Miss Janet Cameron was a high principled woman, but a very uncongenial companion for a young child possessing the remarkable vivacity, and buoyant temperament of Jessie Maitland. Her natural sensibility she endeavored to repress as dangerous to her future happiness, and the poor girl received so many lectures on the subject of conducting herself with propriety, that she despaired of ever pleasing her aunt. 
               The only pleasure the young Jessie enjoyed was found in the semi-anual visits made to the mansion of Miss Cameron by the young ward of her father. Henry Herbert was six years her senior, and it was a strange oversight in Col. Maitland to permit such unrestricted intercourse between two young persons whom he had predetermined should never be anything to each other. The image of Herbert was thus associated, in the earliest years of Jessie Maitland, with the brightest hours of her existence; and it was not wonderful that she earned to cling to him with an affection that must be lasting as life itself. She possessed a vivid imagination, and deeply sensitive feelings, and to wander amid the wild scenery of her native hills, accompanied in her rambles by the dreams of her own bright fancy, was her most delighful recreation, when she could escape the vigilance of her aunt. 
               Miss Cameron's residence was situated near the sea coast, and the sublime immensity of the ocean, stretching far, far away to the shores of that land in which her father sojourned, was a source of elevated feeling, and earnest speculation, to her opening mind. Seeking some wild and craggy height, which commanded a wide stretch of mountain cliffs' washed by the surging billows, she would for hours gaze upon the foaming waves, which seperated her from her only parent, and marvel if no thought of his widely severed child ever appealed to his heart, and bade him seek her as the companion of his life. 
               When she ventured to express these thoughts to Herbert, he sympathized with, and consoled her, by predicting all she wished in the future. As a brother, Jessie treated the young man, and inexperienced as she was, she believed that she only regarded him in that light. 
               Jessie attained her eighteenth year, and a few days afterward, unheralded by any previous announcement, Col. Maitland arrived in Scotland. He was enchanted with the grace and beauty of his daughter, and immediately announced his intention to take her with him on his return to Canada. Immediately on learning the arrival of his quondam guardian, Herbert, now a distingue young man of twenty-three, lost no time in paying his respects to him at the residence of Miss Cameron. He was received with a freezing coldness that argued ill for the success of the suit he had so much at heart. 
               Herbert had been too honorable to entangle the young daughter of his guardian in an engagement without his consent, and in the first moment of meeting, the conviction came coldly to his heart, that in himself Col. Maitland beheld not the husband he desired for his daughter. However, he must speak, or die, and on the second day after Col. Maitland's arrival, he made 
                     kkown
                     known
                   his love for Jessie, and was met by a stern and decided refusal. 
               Preparations were immediately commenced for the departure of the father and daughter for America, and in a few weeks, they embarked without a word of farewell being permitted between those who had so long loved and trusted each other. The voyage was made in safety, but alas! the fair flower began visibly to fade in the new atmosphere to which it was transplanted. Her father, wilfully blind, insisted that change of climate was all that caused her failing health; and as the cold winter approached, he removed her to a more southern atmosphere. They had spent the winter in Maryland, and as spring opened, they journeyed north, on their way to their own home. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               The party visited the cave, discussed the merits of him, who, to a portion of them, was Charles the Martyr; to the remainder, the weak and vacillating tyrant who clung to his prerogative at the cost of his life; and then with more unanimity of feeling, they discussed the luxurious lunch in an open glade of the forest, through which the checkerd light fell in a bright pattern on the green turf. Scattered fragments of rock, afforded seats for the ladies, and many were the bright eyes, and smiling lips, which took an earnest and intelligent interest in the conversation of the gentlemen concerning the stormy times so rapidly approaching, as young scions of their own lordly sex could have done. 
               As the sun sunk from his meridian toward his western bourne, Ashleigh, wearied with the sound of voices, strolled toward a neighboring eminence, from which the town they had left could be seen. The horses of the party had been placed in a romantic dell near this hill, under the care of Ben Gartly, and as his patron now drew near, he heard sounds of contention proceeding from the ravine, which surprised him, as he supposed his recruit to be quite alone. By advancing a few steps, Ashleigh looked down on the scene which was enacting in that quiet spot. Gartly was no longer alone. Two stout yeomen, dressed in the homespun manufactured in the country, stood listening to the harangue the quondam pedlar was addressing to them. In their weather beaten faces, was an expression of mingled respect and contempt: respect for the command of language he possessed and contempt for the unpatriotic sentiments he was uttering. Gartly himself seemed to be in his true element; he grimaced, rolled up his eyes, and struck his hard fists together, as he poured forth a torrent of eloquence to his two listeners. 
               But the attention of Ashleigh was immedidiately attracted from the orator, by a figure of deeper interest; and his heart thrilled painfully as his eyes rested upon it. This was the person of a tall slender Indian youth, who leaned against the trunk of a tree, and regarded the scene before him with an expression of mournful disdain. He wore the bright plumes, and ornamented blanket of a chieftain, beneath which, was a loose deerskin garment fastened at the waist by a crimson scarf. Richly wrought leggins completed his costume, and his face was painted in stripes of blue and red. To his side was attached his national weapon, the tomahawk, and in his hand he listlessly held a bow. 
               Ashleigh gazed on this interesting figure with a vague feeling of recognition, while Gartly proceeded with his speech- 
               "Why my frends, I ask why we are going to enlist to fight against our lawfnl sovereign, the blessed King George? He is a beneficent monarch-a wise and good man, and knows what is best for the interests of these colonies. Ah, my friends, sad times are these when a man must fight whether he will or not. They say the King is an interloper." 
               "I have hear'n tell of them ere animals," interrupted one of the men, "but I don't think there be any such in these parts." 
               "You dont," retorted the exasperated orator-"I did not say antelope, but interloper, which means, Ahem! how shall I define it to make the stupid comprehend? Maybe you know what a squatter is mister? well, it means about the same thiug: that the king has edged himself in like upon another man's land." 
               "Ay," replied the conntryman with a knowing nod-"he's like a good many other people in this world who never miss an opportunity to better their own condition." 
               "But I was saying he's not like them," said Gartly angrily, "and I'll maintain it even at the point of the sword." 
               "I won't have anything to do with a sword, Ben Gartly, seeing I'm not used to the thing: but see here; this piece of old iron never yet missed fire in my hands. It has brought down larger varmints than you be, and if you have a mind to eat a little cold lead this morning, jist say the word, and I'm your man." 
               Gartly grew pale at this challenge, for he knew the man who offered it, was one of the best shots in the country side. He stammered, and shifted his position from one foot to the other, as he replied. 
               "Why-ay-ay-I only meant-I-may the foul fiend take me if I know what I meant. Take no offence good Logan, for I meant none." 
               "It's well you did n't. But as I was thinking you'll be a pretty good mark to try my skill on, I believe I'd like to have a chance at you any how." 
               "You are ever kind Mr. Logan, I must say. Over kind to wish so much harm to an old friend. I've traded in these parts many years, and always sold you good bargains, Bob Logan, and this is my reward for it. But tell me this wise Robert, where is the need of poor devils like you and me, standing up to be shot at by the British? The end of it will be, that we will have fifty kings instead of one. I suppose General Washington will be the Warwick of this country, and make a king to suit himself. For the matter of that, there are many who do not hesitate to say that he would be king himself, if he could. Pray, in that case, where will be the difference between George I, and George III? 
               "I'll tell you," said Logan emphatically. "He will be a king of our own making, and that is a great deal. Besides, he'll be in our own hands here, and if he acts the tyrant we can jist uncrown him. But t'other one is across the sea, and he does what he pleases to us, because he knows he can't be got at." 
               Gartly listened to this with an air of supreme contempt. "Humph! a great difference to be sure. The people have all gone mad I believe about the laws, and stamp acts, and they are raving about bursting the shackles of power, to soar into freedom. Stuff! nonsense! I would sooner never drink another cup of tea, or use another sheet of paper than lose my life in such a silly outbreak." 
               The men regarded him contemptuously, and Logan said-"Fine sentiments them, for a man that has 'listed as I know you have, Ben. If all captain Ashleigh's troop are as great fellows as you are, may the hangman get them I say." 
               "Poltroon yourself, Bob Logan. I only wish I had my wife with me, and you should not go unpunished for those words." 
               The other countryman here promptly stepped forward, and offered the weapon he had been leaning on, while listening to the foregoing coloquy. 
               "There's as good a piece of cold iron as any body need want, and I kalkilate to make it talk loud agin the Britishers afore long. You're welcome to it, Gartly, to defend your insulted manhood on braggin', Bob Logan." 
               "I-I'm neither afraid of man nor demon." faltered Gartly, "but my good Jimson, I am not certain that Captain Ashleigh would like me to get myself in a scrimmage, just now." 
               "I give you credit for not fearing the demon much," said Logan, savagely, "but I'll soon prove that you fear me or my rifle.-Come Gartly, we'll take a touch at it, just to keep in practice agin you join the army. Look," he continued, aside, to his comrade "did you ever see any critter so much skeared, I guess he's been more used to the sound of a baby's rattles, than the crack of a rifle.-Here Jim, give me a ball! now measure the ground, and give him his own distance, so it is within a hundred yards, for my gun don't carry up so well of late." 
               Gartly saw no avenue of escape, or he would have taken to flight, while Timson, who volunteered to act as the friend of both parties, deliberately stepped off the ground. At this stage of proceedings, Ashleigh would have interfered, but he saw that the second, in the place of giving Logan a ball, handed him a well chewed wad, with which he loaded his gun. 
               Then the evident terror of his recruit became ludricrous. He cast his eyes around in every direction to see if help was not at hand; seeing none, he seemed to come to some desperate conclusion in his own mind. When the usual preliminaries were arranged, Timson placed the parties back, with instructions to march to certain points, then wheel and fire. 
               When the order was given, Gartly with desperate air moved forward: no sooner had he obtained a fair start, than he bounded away, as if the foul fiend he so often irreverently invoked was at his back. 
               "Hilloa there! come back you cowardly wretch," bauled the second after him, but Gartly was deaf to all such commands. He only moved on with additional celerity, and Timson said- 
               "Bob shoot him as he runs." 
               Logan wheeled, levelled his rifle at the form of the retreating pedlar, and fired. Gartly fell to the earth uttering loud cries, while the two countrymen laughed boisterously. 
               "I'm dead," roared the prostrate man.-"Robert Logan has killed me with a rifle bullet." 
               "Get up you miserable creature," said Logan, going up to him and spurning him with his foot. "You're not hurt, for I did not think your life worth the bullet it would take to kill you. I've half a mind to knock out your brains on the spot, and rid the world of such a coward. You a recruit! I would'nt have you for a shoe black." 
               At this moment, Ashleigh suddenly appeared before them. The countrymen bowed respectfully to him, and Gartly hung his head when he recognized him. He severely said: "How is it sir that I find you brawling here, when I left you in charge of the horses?" 
               "It's not my fault sir, I would have stayed there quietly enough if had not been for that quarrelsome Logan there. He in a manner, compelled me to fight him." 
               "I witnessed what you call a fight sir, and find that I have made a poor acquisition to the cause of freedom, in a man who is both cowardly and disloyal; I warn you to refrain from using such language in future, or you may meet with some one who will really rid the world of such a renegade." 
               "He's a skeary critter anyhow," remarked Logan. "If balls had n't been so scarce, I might ha' used one in his case, but as 'munition's not plenty in the country, I thought I'd better save my bullets for the red coats." 
               "A patrotic determination, Mr. Logan, for which Gartly has cause to be thankful. You will soon find good use for all you can obtain. As to you Ben, return to your duties, and beware of again getting into such a difficulty." 
                
               Gartly moved off in the direction of the horses, but suddenly wheeled about and doggedly said- 
               "Yonder's an Indian lad, that wanted to get speech of you, Captain Ashleigh." 
               Ashleigh turned toward the person who had before so deeply interested him. The youth still leaned against the tree, and there was an expression of haughtiness mingled with deep melancholy upon his features. As the young officer approached him, he abruptly spoke, and the tones of his voice sent a sharp pang to Ashleigh's soul. 
               "Will you receive the last scion of a mighty tribe, among those who go to fight for freedom beneath the banners of your country?" 
               Ashleigh earnestly scanned the painted features, and the name of Etura trembled on his lips, but he remembered her fate, and checked himself. He asked- 
               "Who are you? Had death not set its seal upon her lips, I should say that the voice of one I loved as a sister now speaks to me." 
               "Marvel not that such should be the case, for I am the brother of the Indian girl who shared your childish sports. I am Wenona." 
               Many years before, Ashleigh and the young Sachem had met, during the only visit Wenona had ever made to Oakwood, and he recognised the striking resemblance between the brother and sister, which had caused a thrill to vibrate through his frame. He mournfully asked: 
               "Is Wenona aware of the fearful doom of his sister? Of the incurable wound she has inflicted on me, who never intended either to injure or slight her?" 
               "He is, and moved by a feeling he cannot conquer, the brother offers such atonement as he can make for her crime. Suffer me to be near you, to watch over you in the turmoil of the camp, to shield you in the hour of danger, and I shall feel as if some expiation has been offered." 
               "This may not be, Wenona; your striking resemblance to your sister, would forever recall a would that still bleeds to agony. I constantly endeavor to drive from my mind the memory of that hour of unutterable anguish, in which perished my darling boy and the girl I had ever regarded as a tenderly loved sister." 
               "And do you indeed lament her fate?" asked the Indian mournfully. 
               "I do, I must. In a moment of madness she tore from me my child, and immolated him with herself upon that shrine of fire; but now the first horror has subsided, I must feel regret that one so fair, so gifted, should have perished thus." 
               Wenona seized his hand, carried it to his lips, and then pressing it to his heart, said- 
               "Feel the wild pulsations of the heart into which the love felt for you by my dead sister, has by some mysterious power been transferred. Let me be your brother, son of the pale face; a voice within me whose promptings I cannot disregard, commands me to remain ever near you. You cannot deny me the privilege of enlisting under the banner of your country, even if you refuse me that of being under your especial protection." 
               The dark eyes of the Indian were raised to his with an expression of such imploring earnestness, that Ashleigh scarcely knew how to refuse his prayer, exquisitely painful as it must be to have forever near him one so nearly allied to Etura. Suddenly a new thought struck him and he said- 
               "Your race forgives not. Your sister believed herself wronged by me. How do I know, Wenona, that you do not seek this position near me, to do me deadly injury when I least anticipate it?" 
               He disdainfully replied: 
               "I should not have thus sought revenge, Captain Ashleigh, for I could have struck you openly. Know that I have been instructed at the Catholic mission established among my race, to forgive injuries, and do good for evil. I would redeem the soul of my sister from the flames of purgatory, by expiating the sin she has committed; for such is the creed taught by those self-sacrificing men, who have braved danger and privation, to plant the standard of the cross among the despised Indians." 
               "Yet, Wenona, there is one who clings to my side, to whom your presence would be bitterly painful. For her sake, I must re fuse your prayer to be received among my own followers." 
               "At the mention of his wife, the lips of the Indian were strongly compressed, and his eyes drooped to the ground to conceal the spark of living fire that flashed from them After a pause, he said: 
               "I will hold myself aloof from her; she shall not behold me upon her path. Give me your protection, Captain Ashleigh. I demand it, in the name of her who so loved you, that life itself became a burden when she found another preferred before her. I am young; inexperienced in the ways of your people. I came from my wild home to join your countrymen, and when I reached the spot where I expected to find you, the fearful news of my sister's fate greeted me. I paused not for that, for a holy duty seemed delegated to me, which you will not refuse me the power to fulfil. I wish to fight in the cause of freedom; I claim your assistance to enter the ranks for you see I am too young and too ignorant of the usages of civilized warfare, to do this unprotected." 
               Touched by his earnestness, Ashleigh said: 
               "You take from me all power to deny your request. Come to me this evening, and I will enrol you regularly among my troops. Such protection as I can give, shall be yours." 
               "Thanks, thanks," replied the Indian joyfully, as he again grasped his hand, and carried it to his lips. Rather surprised at this mode of manifesting gratitude, Ashleigh turned away, and proceeded slowly to rejoin his party. 
               Then the bright eyes of the pretended Wenona followed him with a glance of living light and love. Her arms were stretched forth toward him, while the wretched creature murmured in soft tones, filled with the deepest music of the heart: 
               "'Tis done! The power to live in his sight; to drink gladness, hope, my all of happiness, from the loved tones of his voice, the clear beam of his eye. Oh, God! Let me die in his defence, and I shall not have lived in vain!" Such was the passionate prayer of that impulsive heart as she turned to the life of toil and hardships that lay before her She thought not of the privations, the dangers, that must inevitably be her portion, for they would be shared with him. 
               On rejoining the rest of the party, Ashleigh found that the sun was setting, and they were making preparations to return. 
               The horse ridden by Jessie Maitland was a spirited and beautiful creature which she scarcely possessed strength to manage; but of this, her father was not aware; and unconscious of danger to his idolized daughter, he rode carelessly beside her, conversing with a lady whose refined wits and graceful manners, had quite captivated the gallant old cavalier. 
               They were within half a mile of the town, when the gleaming of a scarlet blanket amid the trees which skirted the pathway, was seen by the spirited steed; he reared fearfully and then dashed forward with wild speed, with dilated nostrols, and fiery eyes. 
               Fortunately, Ashleigh rode iu front of Miss Maitland and as her horse darted past him, he caught the bridle rain, and succeeded in keeping beside her in the fearful race which ensued. Together they reached the outskirts of the town, when the unruly animal rushed violently against a brick wall which made a sharp angle in the road, and fell stunned by the shock. 
               In an instant, Ashleigh was on his feet, and hastened to disengage the half fainting girl from her perlious position. Fortunately the horse fell on his right side, and Miss Maitland was uninjured, except from sprained wrist, received in her endeavors to check the speed of the frantic animal. 
               She had perfectly recovered, and stood pale but composed beside her preserver, when her alarmed father reached the spot. He clasped his daughter to his heart, and grasping the hand of Ashleigh, said: 
               "I owe you more than life, Captain Ashleigh. What my daughter is to me no one can know. She is the light of my existence the joy of my old age, and you sir, by your gallantry, have rescued her from the fearful fate that menaced her. We are of alien blood, and soon may meet in deadly strife, but for the sake of what has but now occurred I will in that day, remember that the common mon tie of humanity unites all men in one brotherhood." "I thank you Col. Maitland, for this promise, and in the name of my countrymen, I accept it. Soon the chances of war may render your words important to the destitute and imprisoned, and the preservation of your daughter, be not only a cause of thanksgiving to you, but to those to whom her very name is now unknown," replied the young American, with a dignified simplicity which struck both father and daughter. 
               He warmly pressed the hand that still grasped his own, and Col. Maitland added: "Words cannot express my feelings as my heart dictates them. We shall meet again, when my agitation will be less, and I shall be better able to thank you." 
               "I entreat, dear sir, that you will speak no more on the subject. I did no more than humanity dictated, and am more than repaid by rescuing so fair a being from the danger that menaced her." 
               At at that instant, they were joined by the remainder of the frightened groupe of equestrians, who were heartily rejoiced to find their fair companion had escaped with such slight injury. On examination, the horse was found to be able to walk to his stable, and they soon reached their homes in safety. 
               Ashleigh and his wife walked with Col. Maitland and his daughter, to their temporary home in the principal hotel. Jessie stifled the pain she endured from her injured arm, and conversed with her new friends with an interest that was genuine. Her remarks indicated good sense, and a lively imagination, and both husband and wife were charmed with her. 
               There was a pensive languor in her manner, and in the subdued expression of her refined features, that was extremely prepossessing. It spoke a language intelligible as words to those who have felt the touch stone of suffering themselves. The sensibility that beamed from her soft blue eyes, as she spoke of her escape from so terrible and untimely a fate, rendered her still more interesting. 
               Her new friends remained with her, until their physician, who was summoned, came and bandaged her wrist, after applying a soothing lotion which considerably mitigated the pain. As they parted, Miss Maitland said, with one of her sweetest smiles: 
               "If you do not call and see me to-morrow, Mrs. Ashleigh, I shall defy the commands of Dr. Euston, and venture forth to seek you. Your husband prohibits me from saying anything more to him, on the subject of my rescue; but to you, I may express the gratitude I feel for the service he rendered in saving a life of little value to myself, but inestimably precious to my beloved father." 
               Her voice grew slightly tremulous, as she uttered the last words in a low tone. Unconscious of their import, Col. Maitland added his entreaties, to those of his daughter, that they would be frequent visitors during their brief stay in the same place, and this was readily promised on the part of the guests, for both were greatly interested in their new friends. 
               As they walked away from the house, Ashleigh said: 
               "The mind of this lovely girl is evidently preying on her health. How unfortunate it is, that so charming a creature should fade away from earth, and leave the friends who would so gladly retain her with them." 
               "Ah yes-'tis sad to think that you have rescued her from death to-day; but if her health does not mend very soon, she must pass away to the land of shadows." 
               "I trust that it may not result thus," replied Ashleigh sadly; then wishing to divert the mind of his wife from dwelling on such sombre images, he playfully continued: 
               "If I were only unmarried now, Mary, of what a fine romance I might become the hero. I begin by saving the life of a beautiful girl, who, to render her more interesting, is in ill health, and evidently unhappy. I fall in love with her, of course; and in the new interest imparted to her life, she forgets the concealed sorrow, and rewards me with the precious guerdon of her affections. It is sentimental enough to please the strongest advocate of romance, I am sure." 
               "And not very unlike your own experience You are unreasonable to desire to become the hero of two romantic love marriages. If my woman's tact is not in fault, Miss Maitland loves already, and much as her father seems devoted to her, it is his opposition which is inflicting such suffering upon her." 
               "He seems a man of strong prejudices, and iron will, yet when he sees the signs of suffering in one so much beloved, I do not know how he holds out against her wishes; for so delicate and pure minded a girl as she seems would scarcely love unworthily." 
               While they thus conversed, the father himself painfully mused on the same subject; Col. Maitland had flattered himself that young as Jessie was, new scenes and new pleasures would soon eradicate every feeling of attachment to Henry Herbert: and he watched her fading day by day-saw the struggle she made to appear cheerful for his sake, with a self-reproach he vainly strove to stifle. When beside her father, Jessie was calm, often gay, but in solitude she yielded to the emotions which were often repressed with anguish in the presence of others. 
               Col Maitland believed that he would now willingly have welcomed Herbert, but pride prevented him from making advances to the man whose pretensions he had so cavalierly treated. He endeavored to console himself with the thought that if he could not take one rebuff especially when he knew he possesed the affections of his daughter, he was unworthy of her. But alas! had this even been the case, it could not impart comfort to his aching heart, when he looked upon the fading cheek of his idolized child. 
               Jessie herself had not yet lost all hope that the companion of her childhood would follow her across the ocean; and this it was, which gave her courage to assume that gaiety she was far from feeling. Often when surrounded by a lively circle, who were captivated by the graceful flow of conversation, a doubt of her lover's constancy would cross her mind, and those around be alarmed by pallor that overspread her features; by the quivering and convulsed motion of those lips, so lately smiling with sportive mirth. 
               Daily visits passed between the new friends and the few days of intercourse they enjoyed, cemented a friendship between the two ladies which under ordinary circumstances, months of association would have been necessary to form. The deep sorrow of the bereaved mother's heart, was confided to the young girl, and together they wept over the fate of the fair child. 
               Jessie had often felt that the burden of her own sorrow might be lessened by communicating it to another, and in a moment of acute suffering, the natural reserve of a sensitive mind was laid aside, and she unfolded the grief that was preying on her life. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh endeavored to give her such comfort as hope might suggest; she said- 
               "Hope on my dear Jessie, for he will surely come," such a being as you are, cannot have been loved, for years and then so lightly given up, at the mandate of your father. Believe in the future, my sweet friend, for I feel assured all will yet be well." 
               "If he had ever written to me," said Jessie despondingly-"but he has not, and at times I am depressed beyond expression at this neglect." 
               "He may have written, and the letters have miscarried, such things are so common between the mother country, and this." 
               "You are a dear consoler, "said the young girl, with a faint smile-"It is indeed difficult to believe that he who loved me from my infancy, has so soon become estranged; yet it is a deep humiliation to my pride to be left in such uncertainty by him who knows all the weakness of my heart." 
               "Can you not judge his constancy by your own, my love? Then you will no longer doubt the happiness of your future. Do not indulge in a morbid sensibility, dear Jessie, or it will unfit you for the duties which lie before you, I trust, in a long and useful life." 
               Jessie listened to the soothing voice; looked into the soft eyes which were lifted to hers, and she felt encouraged to hope again. 
               While they thus conversed, Ashleigh came in to bid a final adieu to Col. Maitland and his daughter, as both departed on the following day to their different destinations. In reply to an allusion of his to their widely severed paths, Jessie said: 
               "I cannot bear to think we shall meet no more. Something whispers me that it will not be so. The chances of war may again throw us together; let us make a compact now, that shall give us greater claim than actually exists on mutual service in case of imprisonment to either party. My father, I am sure, will gladly ratify it." 
               "What am I to ratify," asked Col. Maitland, as he came in and cordially greeted his guests. Jessie repeated her proposal, and he replied with earnestness- 
               "Since this unhappy broil seems likely to result in a protracted struggle, in which men speaking the same language, and claiming a common origin, must meet in deadly strife, it becomes us all to act toward each other as Christian men should. To you, Captain Ashleigh, I should endeavor to render back a feeble return for your inestimable service to me." 
               Ashleigh cordially thanked him, and then continued- 
               I regret exceedingly that this unhappy state of affairs should arm us against each other. I trust we shall meet again when no such disagreeable anticipations will darken our social intercourse." 
               "I hope so indeed, but years must intervene before that can come to pass. This struggle is destined to be a long, and severe one. I have well observed the spirit manifested by your countrymen, and I know the indomitable will of mind. Ah! sir, this will be a combat a l'outrance between mother and child. I would to God those in power over the water understood these things as well as we do who are on the spot, a different policy might then have been pursued. But it is too late now, the sword has been drawn and God above knows when it will be sheathed, or what the end will be." 
               "It will be triumph to the cause of justice, liberty, and humanity," said Ashleigh with enthusiasm. Every American who thinks, must see the great destiny that is before these colonies, now so insignificant in comparison with the power they brave. We will conquer; we will go back to those glorious nations of old to seek a model on which to form our republican government. The hardy spirit of enterprise which drove before them so deadly a foe as the Indian, will still pursue its westward course, until the vast forests stretching toward the Pacific, shall be filled with an energetic and prosperous race. In that day the overbearing mother country which would now tramp us in the dust of slavery, may look to her own supremacy." 
               "Those are times we shall never live to see, Captain Ashleigh," said the old Scotchman gravely. 
               "No-but my hands shall at last strike a feeble blow in aid of the cause which shall produce such glorious results. Pardon me sir; in my enthusiasm for my country's cause, I forgot how widely different are our opinions on the subject." 
               He arose to take his leave, and as Jessie pressed her friend to her heart, she whispered, "We shall meet again dear Mr. Ashleigh-and then I hope this unnatural strife will be over. In the meantime, I would not have you forget your chance acquaintance. To keep her features in your mind, I offer you this little image, which was painted by one of the gifted daughters of my native land." 
               As she thus spoke, she placed in her friend's hand a small case containing a beautifully executed miniature of herself. Mrs. Ashleigh joyfully accepted the gift of the lovely and warm hearted girl, and with many expressions of kindly regard, the four parted; two of them to meet again amid the roar of battle, fighting in support of their opposite opinions. 
               On the following morning, Captain Ashleigh set out for Boston at the head of his troops. His wife still remained firm in her desire to be near him, and he made arrangements to place her in Cambridge with the family in which he had boarded during his student life. On the eve of the battle he joined the motley crowd collected behind the bastily erected redoubts, and looked down on the city of Boston, so soon to become the scene of strife and blood-shed 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               The battle of Bunker's hill has been too often described, to render it necessary here. It is sufficient to state that our hero distinguished himself with hundreds of other brave spirits, fighting for all they held dear. If they failed here, at the very outset of their struggle, the cause was lost forever; and it was this consciousness that lent energy to the blows struck for home and liberty. That band of provincial soldiers, imperfectly armed, ignorant of the tactics of war, commanded by men taken from the counting room, and the medical hall, on that day, proved what earnest and determined spirits can accomplish, when they fight for home and freedom. 
               Close beside Ashleigh, in the melee, was a slender form, whose aim ever seemed to be, to shield him from danger; and once the uplifted tomahawk of the young Indian, shivered a sword aimed at his breast, though he made no attempt to bury the weapon in the heart of him who held it. To save, and not to kill, seemed his mission. Etura escaped unscathed, and when Ashleigh returned to his tent he found her lying beside it, wrapped in deep sleep. He paused, and looked down on the hushed face with a new feeling. The brows were firmly knit, and the lips had a round them the compression which indicates both suffering and decision. The Indian persisted in continuing to wear the paint which so much disfigured her appearance, in spite of several attempts on the part of Ashleigh to induce her to appear without it. 
               The pertinacity with which the Indian lingered near him, had heretofore been slightly annoying; but now he felt differently. On this day, but for Etura he would have ended his life on the same field which witnessed the death of the noble Warren, and henceforth a stronger tie must bind him to the young Sachem. 
               Many gloomy reflections came to the young officer, as he sat beside his tent, wearied in body, and oppressed in mind. The excitement of the terrible day was past, and he had leisure to think over all its sickening details. In the thickest of the combat, he had seen faces that were familiar to him: men with whom he had associated in friendly intercourse, he had that day met in deadly opposition. 
               The shadow of night fell around him, and as the pale beams of the moon gleamed over the battle field, Ashleigh could dimly see the flitting figures that walked amid the dead for purposes of 
                     pluuder,
                     plunder
                   or perchance to see if life still lingered in the maimed bodies which encumbered it. The young man felt that he had yet a sacred duty to perform, and he arose, and summoned Gartly to accompany him in his melancholy errand. 
               Among the officers who surrounded General Howe on that day was a young friend of his own, who had been dear to him as a brother. Charles Yates was of English descent, and a royalist in principle, but he was noble, generous and true, and in the hearts of those who knew him he inspired a deep and earnest affection. The command of General Putman to the American sharpshooters had been literally obeyed-"To pick off the red coats, and aim at the waistbands," and many British officers fell before their unerring rifle. Among them was Yates, and even amid the uproar of battle, Ashleigh marked the spot on which he fell, and he now set out to find his body, and bestow christian burial upon it. 
               "Why don't you call the Indian lad?" asked Gartly, as he shouldered the spade he was ordered to bring with no good will for the required service. 
               "Poor fellow! he seems overcome with fatigue," replied Ashleigh, as he looked compassionately on the sleeper. "Let Wenona sleep; I can myself render you all the aid you will need." 
               "Umph!" growled Gartly, "I don't know why my repose was not allowed to continue as well as his. I'm sure I've done as much to-day." 
               "Perhaps so; but you are much better able to endure hardships than this frail looking youth. Come along sir, and let me have no more words." 
               Ashleigh walked slowly through the picturesque scene, afforded by the groups of soldiers bivouacked around their camp fires some sleeping in utter weariness, some singing snatches of song, while others were engaged in preparing their rough supper. The ruins of the beautiful village of Charlestown, yet blazing with lurid light, was a melancholy momento of the ravages of the day that was gone; while the suppressed sound from the distant city, shewed that night had brought no repose to the excited thousands within its bounds. 
               As the young officer drew near the spot on which the strife had been most fearful, his eye wandered over heaps of slain, and his heart grew sick within him as he remembered that this was only the beginning. How many such scenes must be enacted; how man anguished and bereaved hearts must raise their wail of sorrow to the God of battles, ere the strife was ended. 
               Closely followed by his sulky attendant, he trod lightly over the soil saturated with human blood, as if fearful of disturbing the slumbers of those who were now hushed in their last sleep. They at length reached the spot they sought, and after a brief search found Yates lying pale and cold, with the moonlight falling upon his lifeless features. The golden hair of the young man was stained with blood, and his hand was pressed upon his side over the spot where the fatal bullet had entered. The stern impress of pain and strife was yet upon the fixed features, and it was a fearful thought that in the last day they would arise at the command of God, with that terrible stamp upon them. 
               With the assistance of Gartly, the body was lifted and borne to the foot of a gentle eminence, where the green turf was unbroken by the trampling of human strife. Here a grave was hastily dug, and within it was placed the young form which a few hours before was full of life and hope. Ashleigh knelt beside the grave and fervently prayed; he then arose and slowly left the spot. 
               As he passed a groups engaged in the same duty he had himself just performed, he heard one of the men say- 
               "I don't believe that old feller there is dead; for I am almost sure I heard him groan just now." 
               "Nonsense-he's so far gone at any rate, that if we tried to help him, by the time we got to doing somthing for him he'd be dead sure enough. It's no use stoppin, for one in his fix. 
               Ashleigh paused beside them, and spoke. 
               "For shame! would you risk burying a fellow creature alive?" 
               "After all that's been killed to-day, I don't think a man need be so particular," growled the one who had last spoken-"Specially as the old critter would never know anything about it. He moans like, but he haint got no sense left." 
               Ashleigh bent over the form, and turned the face to the light. With a start of horror he recognized the features of Mr. Lennard, the father of his Mary. With tender care the old man was lifted from his bloody couch and conveyed as rapidly as possible to the tent of his son-in-law. A surgeon was then sent for, who examined him, and pronounced his wounds mortal. He assured Ashleigh Mr. Lennard might linger several hours, and would probably revive sufficiently to recognize those around him ere he expired. Under such circumstances, he felt it to be his painful duty to send for his wife, that she might behold for the last time the father who had so unkindly treated her. Allen was despatched to Cambridge with a brief note from Ashleigh, preparing her for the new affliction that awaited her. In a few hours Allen returned bringing the weeping daughter to the solemn bed of death. 
               Mr. Lennard had already betrayed signs of returning animation, and when his once fondly-loved child knelt beside his couch, and besought him to speak to her, his eyes partially unclosed, and the faint quiver of the pale lips shewed that he recognized her. 
               "My father," breathed the subdued voice, "speak to me once more; tell me that you forgive my desertion. It has been bitterly punished, oh dearest father, for Heaven has in my turn, made me childless." 
               "Ah! is it so?" feebly muttered the dying man. "Then you know, you understand the parents agony at the loss of a child; 'tis sharper than the serpents tooth, to have a thankless child. Shakspeare has sounded the height and depth of human emotion. I once thought you Goneril, but now I know you to be the tender and loving Cordelia. See-there is a flooting glory around your head, though your face is pale, pale and changed." 
               "His mind wanders," said the surgeon, who had snatched a moment from his other duties to look on the melancholy groupe, "I think it will gradually clear, as the great Conquerer approaces." 
               His words proved true. After many delirious visions, in which portions of his past life were mingled with the wildest vagaries, he sunk into deep silence and lay with closed eyes, and features so colorless as to seem already those of the dead. Suddenly the heavy lids were raised, the dimming eyes wandered over the anxious faces around him, and settled upon that of his daughter. Feebly pressing the hand which held both his own, he said- 
               "My child, my Mary, how have I deserved the happiness of finding you beside me in this hour? Forgive the harshness that drove you from me, my own-my beloved." 
               "And you, dear father, pardon the waywardness the disobedience that led me to forsake you." 
               "Even for that was I to blame, I now know," he feebly replied; "I would have forced you to become the bride of one for whom you had no preference; forgive the outrage I now know it would have been. And this day, my daughter I indulged a vindictive spirit in coming forth to fight against the cause of freedom, because he who robbed me of my child I knew to be amid its ranks. I am punished in losing my life in this unholy cause, and but for him, whose life I would have striven to take, had we met in the strife, I should have been entombed alive. Captain Ashleigh, that service cancels the past. I knew all that passed, though I could not speak." 
               Ashleigh grasped the cold hand which made a faint effort to meet his, and Mr. Lennard continued, as he placed that of his daughter within it: 
               "I give you my blessing. 'Tis all I now have to bestow. The fortune I once possessed has been devoted to the royal cause; in the event of my death, Gen. Howe has entire control of it." 
               "It matters not, dear, sir," said Ashleigh soothingly-" Your daughter was all I sought-her affection makes my happiness. In the unsettled condition of the country, your fortune would probably have been lost to us, even if you had made no such disposition of it." 
               "All is well then;" was breathed from the pallid lips, and in the next moment they settled in the rigidity of death. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh wept bitterly beside the lifeless form, but it was an inexpressible consolation to have seen him in his last moments, and received his forgiveness. Mr Lennard had never been a very affectionate father; he was proud of his daughter's beauty and accomplishments; but his was not that tender love which wins confidence and enthusiastic affection from the children who is the object of it. The devotion of her husband had more than replaced the father's love, and after the first shock passed away, a regretful and affectionate memory only remained. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               While the Americans held their position around Boston, and cut off all supplies from the army within its narrow precincts, the continental congress was in session, and to the great joy of every American, Washington accepted the appointment which made him commander in chief of the army. No nomination could have been so universally popular among the people; and the feeling of every heart was: "with this man lies the safety or destruction of the country:" a conviction amply responded to, in the subsequent career of him who gave to the world the noblest example of moderation, courage, and beneficence it has yet seen among men. 
               It fortunately happened that the residence of this remarkable man was so centrally situated as to unite both North and South in his favor; but the Old Dominion may well boast that from her soil sprang the hero of heroes-the man before whom all ages will bow in reverential homage, as the brightest embodiment of goodness and greatness ye vouchsafed to mere humanity. England may boast her great in literature; France her dis tinguished in arms; but the young republic can point to its Washington, and say, 
               "Behold him who excelled them all: for he was good as well as great. No stain dims the fair escutcheon of his fame." 
               In two weeks from the time of his appointment, Gen Washington reached the village of Cambridge; where head quarters were then held. Throughout his entire route, he was received with enthusiastic welcome by the people, who were rising in the midst of a just cause, to drive the oppressors from the fair land which God had given them for their heritage. 
               On a bright morning in summer, he reached the picturesque village of Cambridge, which was to be the scene of his first operations. The population turned out to greet him; flowers were scattered upon his path, and acclamations rent the air, and an electric thrill of confidence and sympathy pervaded the throng, as they beheld those strongly marked features; that striking and massive head, as he doffed his chapeau and rode through the principal street, bowing benignly to those he came to save and succor. 
               Great must have been Washington's patriotism-great his confidence in himself when he accepted what seemed almost a for lorn hope; for the command he came to take was that of a few thousand undisciplined men, ignorant of regular warfare, and destitute of nearly everything necessary to the organization of a regular army. 
               The cavalcade of officers, as they slowly defiled through the streets, in the dark blue regimentals adopted by the continentals contrasted with the rudely dressed solders in every variety of costume, who were drawn up in military array to welcome their Chief But those who looked upon this motley and undisciplined crowd, with an eye accustomed to read men's souls, saw in the sun-burned features, flashing eyes, and bold attitudes of the men, that each one there felt the importance of the duties before him, and having once taken rifle in hand he would never recoil until freedom or death bade him lay it aside. 
               Washington was recieved at the house appointed for his abode by General Greene, and after an address from that distinguished patriot, which made a most favorable impression on the Chief, the officers present were presented to him. 
               Among them was our hero, and with the enthusiasm of youth, and strong feeling, he grasped the hand of the man in whose discretion and good fortune, lay the destiny of his beloved country. As Ashleigh gazed upon the benign features, and calm eyes, he felt that the hero would be equal to every position in which he was placed; and he fervently thanked Heaven that a deliverer had been raised up for his struggling country in her hour of greatest need. 
               The confidence which Washington inspired was one of the great elements of his success: he swayed the minds of those around him of ten by a look, and this magnetic power had been bestowed on him for great and wise purposes. Heaven also denied him posterity that his country might become the child of his heart, and no temptation to bequeath honors to his offspring, cause the human spirit to turn from the great path opened before him, which led his countrymen to self-government, and shewed the world that the worn-out garments of royalty might with impunity be trampled under foot, as unworthy to robe the young giant now first beginning to make his power felt. 
               While the provincial army thus beleagured Boston, Congress considered it expedient to send troops into Canada, for the purpose of compelling the Governor, Sir Guy Carleton to act on the defensive; for it became generally known that he was making active preparations to assist the royal troops on the Southern side of the lakes. Generals Wooster and Montgomery were named to the command, and ordered to move toward the North with their respective divisions. 
               Captain Ashleigh found his troop included under the command of Montgomery, while George Allen remained with the southern division of the army, immediately under the command of Washington. Ashleigh gladly prepared for more active service; he would willingly have induced his wife to remain with the kind friends who had recieved her, in Cambridge, but as she was willing to brave the rigors of a more northern climate, and endure the hardships of a winter campaign, rather than be separated from him, he could not refuse her earnest prayer, still to follow his fortunes. 
               As they were to go by the way of Lake Champlain and the St. Lawrence, it was not impossible to take her with him, especially as there were several other officers whose wives insisted on performing the same pilgrimage. A detachment under Arnold was sent across the country to meet Montgomery, and this little band braved the difficulties of a march which has no parallel in the annals of history. Arnold bore up against the discouragements he encountered with a vigor and energy that have never been surpassed. With what delight would succeeding generations have dwelt on his conduct at this critical time, and exult in placing him on a level with Washington, Montgomery, La Fayette, and other chivalrous spirits whose deeds have shed unfading lustre on our Revolutionary heroes, had he not lived to sully the laurels he so bravely won, and blackened his name with a stain which time shall neither efface nor palliate. 
               General Wooster was detained at Albany, and the chief command devolved on Montgomery. He beseiged and captured Montreal, and then effected a junction with Arnold before Quebec. They had hoped to surprise the place; but they found Sir Guy Carlton prepared for their reception. An intercepted letter imprudently sent by Arnold to his colleague, gave him information of their intended movements, and the governor lost no time in preparing to counteract them. A portion of the American troops were stationed at Point Levis, opposite Quebec, and there Ashleigh succeeded in finding a comfortable lodging for his wife. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               Winter with all its freezing horrors had set in before Montgomery reached the scene of his intended operations. The hardships they endured dishearted the soldiers, for they had not that enthusiasm in an enemy's country which had sustained them when defending their own. The Canadians did not offer to join them, but on the contrary, threw every obstruction in their way; and crowds of the homesick began to petition for furloughs or discharges. 
               In many instances, these could not be resisted; for the brave General fully understood that the undisciplined men he commanded were only held together by their enthusiasm for the cause they had embraced. This subsided before the freezing blasts of winter, and Montgomery keenly felt that the expedition which promised so much, was ruined, unless a successful blow could be immediately struck. 
               In a short time, his forces were reduced to only eight hundred soldiers, and nothing could have sustained the courage of such a handful of men, the most of whom were raw undisciplined troops, in a siege against the Gibraltar of America, but the most patriotic primness on the part of the officers, and unlimited confidence in their leader on the part of the men. 
               It was a bright, evening in winter, and the piercing air seemed loaded with sharp icy needles, that penetrated to the very marrow. To bold bluff on which the city of Quebec, is situated, its walls bristling with cannon, loomed darkly amid the snow covered landscape. Upon the heights of Abraham, already consecrated to human glory by the baptism of blood, the tents of the Americans were erected. The renches of the besieging army were made of snow, for the frozen earth was impervious as stone to the blows of the axe. Their walls of defence were snow embarkments cemented together by pouring water upon them, which soon hardened into a solid mass of ice. 
               Here, in want of nearly everything that could conduce to comfort was that little band of indomitable spirits waiting for the watchword of attack. 
               A council of war was summoned in the tent of the Commander, and thither the of ficers repaired, to delibrate on the feasibility of successfully storming the city. At the appointed hour they gathered around the table on which lay a plan of Quebec and its suburbs, on which Motgomery had marked out the details of his intended attack. 
               He sat at the head of the table in his noble beauty, and in his proud features, and flashing glance, the soul of the hero, and the tender heart of the man could be read. He was one of whom it might in truth be said- 
                      
                        "A combination and a form indeed, 
                        Where every God doth seem ta set his seal 
                        To give the world assurance of a man." 
                     
                  
                
               As difficulties accumulated around the hero's path, his thoughts must often have reverted to his last words to his wife- 
               "Dearest, you shall never blush for me." 
               No-to weep his untimely doom-to know that he perished, in the prime of his manhood, in the outset of his glorious career, was her fate. 
               But this was better far than the future of the fiery and impatient man who sits at his right hand. It is that traitor to whom his oountry yet looked as one of her bravest and her best. He whose mercenary soul sullied his fair fame in after years, and buried his memory in an abyss of infamy, lasting as the language in which his dastard deed is recorded. 
               The voice of Montgomery rang out clear and full toned as he addressed the assembly- 
               "Gentlemen' it becoms us to come to a decision in regard to the object we have before us. Our troops are wasting their strength in vain, under the burden of the incredible hardships they bear. With many of them their term of service is about to expire, and having done so much, we cannot ask them to remain longer with us, under the discouraging circumstances by which we are surrounded. Our cannon are too light to make any impression on the fortifications before us and in this extremity, I see no resource but to make a virtue of necessity, and attack those walls within which we shall find all we need." 
               Arnold seconded the proposal in a brief but pointed speech, and then the others were heard. The majority of those present, were against the proposal; it seemed to them impossible that success could follow their efforts; and if defeated and weakened, nothing would be before them but an ignominious surrender, followed perhaps by long and tedious imprisonment. But the earnestness of Montgomery, his impassioned eloquence in support of his own conviction, at length carried all before it, and several of the most distinguished officers present were won over to unite their efforts in support of the measure. Influenced by them the remainder of the council gave an almost unanimous vote in favor of the attack. 
               "Here, gentlemen," said Montgomery, taking up the map of the city, "is the plan I have sketched for our movements. We will devide our small force into four divisions; the first of which I will lead in person, and enter the lower town on one side, while Col Arnold, at the head of the second, will attack it on the opposite side. Two other divisions, under the command of Majors Livingston, and Brown, will make two feints against the upper town, at St. John's gate, and Cape Diamond, to divert the attention of the enemy." 
               After some discussion, this plan was adopted, as the best that could be arranged; and the council separated to prepare their different troops for the coming combat. 
               The last night of the year was appointed for the final struggle, and many looked forward with the gloomy foreboding that it would be to them the last of all things. Yet they were willing to make the attempt the success of which alone could rescue them from their present state of suffering and discouragement. 
               It was not thus with their commander. With the prospect of speedy action all his energies were aroused. He believed that he could rely on the attachment of his little army to his own person, sufficiently to be sure of their following him wherever he chose to lead. The information which reached him through various channels, also indnced him to believe that the troops under Sir Guy Carleton would refuse to fight, and possibly might fraternize with his own followers. 
               The night of the thirty-first of December, was gloomy and lowering. Heavy clouds veiled the sky, and the darkness would have been intense, but for the white mantle which ay upon the earth, and reflected from its surface the few rays of light that struggled through the drifting clouds. An icy wind swept over the plain, whose wailings portended the approach of a storm. Beneath its protection, the Americans hoped to make their advances toward the various points of attack, without beeing detected by the garrison in time to repel them. With his minfilled with the probable events of the approaching day, Montgomery left his quarters and proceded in person to examine the condition of his small army. He found each officer at his post, and every arrangement completed, which could lead to success in the enterprize The men were snatching a few hours of repose before the arduous attempt fo the morning. 
               As the General passed the tent ocupied by Ashleigh, he found him standing in front of it, with folded arms, gazing earnestly toward the city they ware about to assault. Ashleigh held the post on the staff of Montgomery, and had become a favorite with him; and the young officer rejoiced that in the coming struggle, he would be near the person of the hero he so sincerely admired. The chief paused, and a cordial greeting passed between the two. He then said. 
               "Speculating on our chance of lodging in yon city tomorrow night, captain Asheigh?" 
               "We have warm work before us, General, but if our men stand by us, such I confidently hope, will be the result of to-morrow's attempt," replied Ashleigh cheerfully. 
               "God grant it may prove so," said Montgomery earnestly. "If the men are only faithful, I have few fears for the result. I believe the poor fellows will stand by me as long as life is granted me; but should I fall, I cannot answer for them, they will not follow Arnold." He looked thoughtfully around, and after a pause continued- 
               "Methinks this spot should be one of good augury to us, for on it has victory discended in past times. The last moments of the heroic Wolfe were cheered by the knowledge of success, and should a similar fate be mine, I would gladly die with the same conviction On that day yon proud city changed masters; the liles of France were trampled under foot by the lion of England; and to-morrow, I trust the American eagle will transplant the haughty flag now floating over those dark battlements. Ah! this deep stillness will soon be fearfully interrupted." 
               He spoke more as if indulging the train of thought passing through his own mind, than addressing his companion; as he ceased, he walked away with a slow step, and was soon lost to view. 
               Ashleigh soon afterwards entered his tent' where he found the Indian preparing his supper. From the terrible hardships which encompassed them, the young officer had never seen his companion shrink, or heard a murmer from those firmly closed lips. While he, grieved over the privations endured by his wife, in a comparatively injurious position how would he have shrunk from the thought that one as delicately nurtured as she had been, bore the burden of cold, labor, and danger, that she might be ever near him. 
               Though often painfully reminded of the past by the wonderful resemblance between the brother and sister, a suspicion of the truth had never dawned on his mind. How should it indeed, when he was so firmly persuaded that he had seen Etura perish? And of such vital importance was it to the forlorn creature that the secret of her identity should be preserved, that she was continually on her guard against the betrayal of her sex. She held herslf aloof from all companionship, and rarely spoke to any one, save him to whose service she had devoted her life. His heart was often thrilled, and his memory carried back to the days of his boyhood, as he suddenly lifted his eyes, and encountered those of the supposed Wenona, fixed upon him with that expression he could so well recal, as beaming from orbs he believed now veiled in the tomb. 
               After partaking of a small portion of the offered food, he threw himself on his rough couch, and endeavored to snatch a few hours of slumber before the time for the attack arrived. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               The suppressed hum of voices, and the trampling of many feet, aroused Ashleigh from his troubled sleep; starting up, he hastened to the quarters of the commander, where he found Montgomery issuing his final orders. 
               A faint aud uncertain glimmer of daylight began to appear; but it was obscured by a drifting snow storm, under cover of which they hoped to gain the town unpercieved Guides had been procured to conduct the different divisions to their various points of attack, without exposing them to the enemy's artillery. A discharge of rockets was to be the signal for a simultaneous onset. 
               A mid the gloom and silence of the dreary scene, the troops were paraded, and then it was discovered that several desertions had taken place during the night. Among them, to the great mortification of our hero, was his especial recruit, Ben Gartly. In a few more days the term of his enlistment would have expired, but Gartly was much too careful of his own safety, to risk his person in the desperate onslaught about to take place. 
               To provide against treachery it now became necessary to change the plan of attack. After a brief consultation this was done, and Montgomery delivered a short but spirit stirring address to the men, which was recieved with enthusiastic murmurs of applause. He then proceeded to arrange his small forces according to the new plan agreed on. A division of two hundred under his own command, were to advance by the way of Cape Diamond; three hundred more under Arnold' were ordered to storm the town through the suburb of St. Roqued; an two smaller ones were detailed, to serve in opposite quarters; and if possible to set fire to St. John's gate on the southern side of the city. 
               Those arrangements completed, Montgomery placed himself at the head of his column and over the fast falling snow, pursued his way along the shores of the St. Lawrence, to the point of land on which a battery belonging to the army was situated. The ground over which they passed, was broken and uneven; and as if to increase their difficulties, it began to snow with great violence and a strong wind blew the icy particles directly in the faces of they men. They struggled on, inspired with a spirit kindred to that which burned in the breast of their galant chief, and reached the enterance of a narrow defile formed by huge ledges of rock, jutting out on either hand from the impending precipice. 
               This dangerous pass was commanded by a battery belonging to the enemy, and just as they entered it, Montgomery pointed upward, and exclaimed- 
               "Ha! there is the signal. What could have induced them to give it so much sooner than they were orderd onward my brave fellows," he shouted "we are betrayed! Lose not a moment, and all may yet be redeemed." 
               As he spoke, a flight of rockets streamed up in the gloomy sky, and fell in a shower of fire amid the snow flakes. Immediately the roll of drums beating to quarters were heard from the city, and the advancing party, hemned in that narrow defile, knew that the next moment might bring a distructive discharge in their midst from the battery in front of them. 
               Over ledges of ice and rock the dauntless men sprung, and in a brief space they reached the pickets of the enemy, which Montgomery pulled up with his own hands. 
               In the bewildermeut of the unexpected surprise, the English soldiers who manned the redoubt, fled from the guns they were placed to guard. The Americans came pushing on with shouts and cries, and in another moment they would have been masters of the batterry; when a solitary man stayed his flying steps, to give at least one parting shot for the honor of old England. 
               That shot saved Quebec, for it destroyed the guiding spirit of the assault. It traversed the little land, carrying death and destruction in its course. With the thrilling cry of "Victory or death," Montgomery fell dead. By his side, were struck down several of his bravest officers, among whom was Ashleigh, who fell apparently lifeless in the arms of his Indian attendant. Etura seemed to possess a charmed life, for no wound had ever yet been received by her. 
               Appalled at the loss of their general, the troops retired from the defile, and abandoned the enterprize. They carried with them their dead comrades, but in the darkness and confusion Ashleigh was overlooked; and he remained upon the icy ground, with the dusky form of the Indian bending over him, and endeavouring to staunch the life-current that welled from his side. Presently a small detatchment of English soldiers came up, and finding only an apparently dying man, with the young Indian beside him, they listened to her prayer, and removed him within the house occupied by themselves. They offered such rude appliances as they possessed, to stop the flow of blood; with skill and care Etura applied the dressings, and then sat down beside the scarcely breathing object of her intense solicitude to await the current of events, and watch for the return of consciousness to her charge. 
               In the meantime the battle raged desperateely in the quarter of Roque. In the first onset, Arnold was dangerously wounded; but the officer who took the command, succeeded in making a stand against the English. Momentarily expecting to hear of Montgomery'-success, he pressed forward, meeting at every step accumulated difficulties. He soon found himself hemmed in the narrow street, and fired on from the shelter of the surrounding houses: he was in the midst of an increasing storm, which raged furiously around him, deserted by his guides, and in utter ignorance of the route to be taken, or of the position occupied by the enemy's points of defence. 
               With the appearance of daylight, this little band found themselves in front of a barrier which they impetuously rushed to attack. They succeeded, only to find a forest of bayonets bristling in front of them: the street was filled with the trained bands of the British, and to advance, was only to meet certain destruction. 
               An attempt was now made to bring off the men in safety, but worn down, stupified with fatigue, and cold, discouraged by their losses, the soldiers could not be rallied. A deetachment from the garrison cut of their retreat, and after several hours of anxious suspense, the whole body surrendered themselves as prisoners of war. 
               Thus ended this fatal battle which cost the lives of so many brave men, and spread deep regret throughout the American colonies. 
               But it is time we should return to our hero A soldier's rough pallet, in a noisy room, filled with exhalations from a stove kept red hot and strong with fumes of tobacco, was the only place of shelter that could be obtained for the wounded man. Etura made many efforts to obtain the services of a surgeon, for she well knew that the imperfect dressing she had bestowed upon the wound, only served to prevent life from escaping with the effusion of blood. The reply to her entreaties was, that all the medical men were engaged in attendance on their own wounded, and the Americans must wait. 
               No resource seemed left but to sit beside the nearly lifeless form, and minister to his wants as well as circumstances permitted. The faithful Indian moistened his parched lips with water, and held the hand which soon burned with fever, clasped in his own. As the hours of that dreadful day waned, the pain of his wound became intolerable, and delirium followed. The Indian was often compelled to appeal to those around for assistance to prevent Ashleigh from tearing away the bandages which had been applied with so much care. 
               When almost despairing of assistance in time to be of service to him for whose sake so much had been braved, a tall commanding looking officer, dressed in the uniform of a Colonel in the British service entered the rude barrack. The soldiers saluted him with respect, and with a throbbing heart, Etura recognized him as the same she had once seen in New Haven. 
               
                  Col. Maitland approached the couch, as he said-"I hear you have an American officer. here, who is dangerously wounded. Jordan, I wish to see if anything can be done for him." 
               The sergeant he addressed, replied. 
               "He lies there in that corner, Colonel. But poor fellow! I expect his yarn is about to be cut. I must say for him, that the Indian dian lad is the most faithful nurse I ever saw If it had'nt been for him, the young man might have perished in the snow. We've tried to help him as well as we could, the lad asked it in such a manner that a heart of stone could scarcely have refused. This way Colonel, if you please; the sick man is in a bad place for such as he seems." 
               Thus garrulously talking, Jordan conducted Colonel Maitland to the couch of Ashleigh. In the pallid blood-stained figure, stretched almost lifeless upon the wretched pallet, he recognized the preserver of his daughter. Entra grasped his hand, and said- 
               "You can save him; can command the assistance he so terribly needs. You are the father of the fair haired girl he rescued. You will not be deaf to the voice of humanity," 
               The wild dark eyes were lifted to Colonel. Maitland's with an impassioned earnestness that would, under any circumstances, have commanded sympathy from a feeling heart. He gently replied- 
               "You are right, poor boy, I will see that everything is done for your Captain which skill and attention can accomplish." 
               Etura murmured her thanks, and Colonel Maitland turned toward the sergeant and conferred with him a few moments. The result of this was, that a litter was soon prepared, and Ashleigh placed on it, thoroughly defended from the intense cold by several buffalo robes, which were carefully spread around him. In this manner he was safely conveyed to the dwelling of his old friend, in the city of Quebec. 
               Hither Colonel Maitland preceded him, and by the time the melancholy procession reached the door, a room was prepared for his reception, and a surgeon in attendance ready to perform the operation on which the life of the wounded man depended. 
               The change from the atmosphere of the heated and smoky barrack, to the sharp air of evening, proved beneficial Ashleigh's fever in a measure subsided, and a gleam of intelligence shot from his eyes, as Col. Maitland placed him on his bed, and welcomed him to the shelter of his roof. 
               On examining his condition, the surgeon declared that no time must be lost in removing the bullet which had made a ghastly wound in his side. So long as it remained, the irritation must increase, while death would be the result. After a successful operation, the chances were in favor of the youth and unbroken constitution of the patient, proving victorious in the end. 
               This dicision was communicated to Ashleigh by Col. Maitland, though he seemed scarcely in a condition to comprehend what was said to him. After a brief pause, the heavy eyelids were partially lifted, and he faintly said. 
               "My wife-my Mary-send to her that she may be near me. Should I perish without seeing her, bear to her my undying love." 
               The effort exhausted him, and he sunk into insinsibility. Time did not suffice to await Mrs. Ashleigh's arrival, and Col. Maitland thought it would be more humane to keep her in ignorance of his condition, until the result of the operation was known. 
               The sugeon administered stimulating drops to enable Ashleigh to bear the pain, and then commenced his terrible task. The Indian knelt beside the couch, and held his hand in her own, and every spasmodic contraction of the fingers sent a thrill of suffering to the faithful soul, as if the sharp point of a dagger had been thrust into her own shrinking flesh; but there was no outward expression of suffering. The impassive surgeon himself was not more composed in appearance than the self-devoted being to whom suffering had became so familiar that it was accepted as the portion alloted to her on earth. 
               At length the painful operation was ended, no vital part had been injured, and all the patient had now to struggle against, was the exhaustion consequent on the heavy loss of blood. If that could be overcome, there was hope that his life might be preserved. 
               Such wus the news the messenger who was sent to Point Levi for Mrs. Ashleigh, was commissioned to communicate to her. A brief note from Jessie to the same effect, was sent-and the writer impatiently awaited the arrival of her friend. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh was aroused from a fitful and uneasy slumber on the dawn of the inauspicious day which witnessed the defeat of her countrymen, by the sounds of the distant combat. Hurriedly making her toilet, she left her room, and sought such information as might be obtained from her companions in terror. The wives of several American officers lodged in the same house, and from them the pale Mary gathered little consolation. One was in hysterics, and another walked the floor wringing her hands, and lamenting audibly. Slight and fragile as was her appearance Mrs. Ashleigh was of more heroic mould than these, and she returned to her apartment to watch in solitude through the interminable hours of that fearful day. 
               She sat beside the window which looked toward the city, with clasped hands, and lips compressed almost to agony to repress the cries that struggled to burst forth at every successive roar which came from the artillery of the enemy. 
               "Ah, should that have been my Edward's death-warrant," was the mental ejaculation, as the terrible reverberation came, shattering the glass in the window against which she leaned. The cold wind of winter blew upon her, and her hair was damp with the drifting snow, but the great anguish in her heart, rendered her insensible to her own discomfort. A Canadian girl, who had been her attendant since she came to Point Levi, brought her cloak and wrapped it around her. She passively submitted, but never moved her eyes from the curtain of blended smoke and thickly falling snow, that arose between herself and the city where so terrible a tragedy was enacting. The girl brought food to her, and insisted on her taking something. She drank a cup of strong coffee, and forced herself to swallow a few morsels, that her strength might not fail her, in the duties that in all probability lay before her. 
               A vague and terrible presentiment lay on her soul; at length, after five hours of mortal strife, the clangor of battle ceased, and a deep stillness succeeded the uproar which lately reigned in Quebec. The deeply tried wife, sat in motionless suspense, expecting a messenger to come with the feaarful tidings of which her soul whispered he would be the bearer. Hours, freighted with a weight of anguish which years of happiness might never efface, rolled their slow length along, and still no boat was seen cleaving the turbid waters of the St. Lawrence. Floating ice impeded, though it did not interrupt the navigation of the river, but amid the violence of the wind, it was extremely hazardous to attempt a passage; the boat might be crushed between the heavy masses, which momentarily clashed against each other, yet, over that dark, ice-laden tide, the wife felt she must reach her husband. 
               Toward evening the wind lulled considerably; the snow ceased falling, and the sun, with angry and lurid gleam, burst through a rent in the heavy clouds. Then, eyes humid with tears, were eagerly raised to the battlements from which drooped the flag of the fortress, to ascertain who remained conquerer in the conflict. They were soon satisfied, for a puff of wind extended the waving folds, and the lion of England was fully displayed to the anxious gazers; defeat had evidently been the portion of their countrymen. 
               During this temporary lull, a small boat was seen to put out from the opposite shore. Two men were in it, and while one wielded the oars, the other used a long pole, shod with iron, to keep the floating ice from closing on their frail bark. 
               A wild hope that one of them might be her husband, drove from the anxious heart of the young wife all thought of self. She started up, and throwing a hood upon her head, sped to the shore, regardless of the snow, which at every step buried her feet in its soft depths. She waved her handkerchief to them, and the hardy mariners steered the boat to the spot on which she stood. 
               Long before they reached the shore, Mrs. Ashleigh saw that both were strangers; one was a British soldier, and the other wore the livery of a servant. The latter resigned his ole to the soldier, and came toward the pallid wife whose lips vainly endeavoured to syllable the words she wished to utter. On his nearer approach she recognized the man as an attendant of Col. Maitland, whom she had several times seen in New Haven, and that he was the bearer of evil tidings she intuitively knew. He approached, and presented the note to her with which he was entrusted. She tried to read it, but the words faded before her excited vision. 
               "My husband is killed, and you are sent to tell me," she gasped, as she raised her eyes from the paper. 
               "No madam," he respectfully replied-"Captain Ashleigh is severely wounded, but he is in Col. Maitland's house, and under the care of a good surgeon. The wound has been successfully probed, and with care, he may recover." 
               "May recover!" she wildly repeated-"Then there is a doubt, and I am here, far far from him. Take me with you; I am ready now." 
               As she spoke, she held out her hands to be assisted in the boat. At that moment, the prolonged wail of the blast again swept over the torbid waves lashing them into fury, and in an instant the air was darkened with snow flakes. The man drew back.- 
               "The storm renews its violence; it is impossible to cross, madam, while it continues thus. When its fury is exhausted, we will take you over in safety." 
               "Wait! when my husband may be dying! I must attempt the passage now. You were sent for me; you dare not disobey my command to take me across at once." 
               Again the man respectfully expostulated, but frantic at the thoughts of Ashleigh's danger, she would not listen to him. She alternately commanded and implored him to brave the perilous attempt. 
               "If you have mercy, refuse not my prayers; name your reward and I promise that it shall be yours." 
               "I dare not go-all the money in the world would not restore my life after I was drowned in yon angry flood." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh wrung her hands in wild anguish. 
               "Man, man, do you fear, when a woman quails not? See, the wind lulls again-now, now let us go to my suffering husband, or see me perish at your feet." 
               She threw herself before him, and raised her clasped hands imploringly. Unable resist such real, such impassioned anguish the soldier called out- 
               "Bring the lady in, John. Had I a thousand lives, they should all be perilled in the service of such heroism. We came safe, and surely with an angel to protect us amid the storm, we can weather it in safety." 
               "Thanks!-oh, thanks," murmured the heart-wrung suppliant, as John raised her and almost carried her into the boat. They pushed off, and in another instant were tossing upon the raging and ice-laden waters. 
               Deep and fervent were the prayers that ascended from that deeply tried heart, as it turned from the perils that entwined herself, to the couch of her suffering husband. But one thought filled her mind, and the terror of that destroyed all consciousness of her own danger. 
               The boat had receded from the shore about twenty yards, and was in a mass of small fragments of ice which grated against her sides, when an avalanche, rising many feet from the surface of the water, was seen rapidly bearing down on them. 
               "Back her-back her," shouted John, as he struck wildly at the advancing mass, and with the impetus of the blow sent the light craft whirling toward the shore they had left. 
               "Mrs. Ashleigh," he added in despair, "we must return, or perish." 
               "No," she replied with solemnity-"God has heard my prayer. He will take us in safety to yonder shore, I feel well assured. Go, if you fear, we will land you; but this gallant soldier will not refuse to aid me in my extremity." 
               "No, lady, not if I perish in the attempt. Such courage I have rarely seen among men, and God forbid that I should refuse assistance to so noble a woman as you are." 
               Ashamed to be excelled in daring by one of the feebler sex, John again seized his pole and avowed his intention to accompany them if the persisted in the perilous attempt. 
               To cross in safety was the work of time and labor; but fortunately the wind lulled slightly, and by almost superhuman exertions the boat was brought to the landing whence it had originally started. A sleigh awaited Mrs. Ashleigh by the orders of Col. Maitland, and in a few moments she was whirled to his door. On her route traces of the recent conflict were everywhere visible in the trampled and blood-stained snow, but she closed her eyes and leaned back to avoid the sights that sickened her heart. 
               As her agitation subsided, she gained courage to dead the note which had been sent to her, and before her arrival she knew the condition in which she would find Ashleigh Col. Maitland met her at the door with cordial cheerfulness, and the sight of his face reassured her cruelly lacerated heart. He apologized for not meeting her himself, by informing her that the numerous duties, pressing on him at such a time, occupied him so entirely that even the calls of friendship must be slighted. 
               "Captain Ashleigh-how is he now?" she breathlessly asked. 
               "He sleeps, dear madam; he is completely worn out, and so are you,-so I will give you in charge of my daughter, who has been eagerly expecting you." 
               As he spoke, they entered the house, and a light form, radient in health, and glowing with animation, came flying to meet and embrace her. Could this indeed be the same Jessie Maitland she had parted from a few months before, drooping, almost dying? The bright vision clasped the woe-worn form of her friend in her arms, and her rosy lips murmured- 
               "He will live-he will live, dearest Mrs. Ashley. The surgeon has assured me that care and good nursing are alone needed to ensure his recovery. Ah, we will anticipate his wants, and in my turn, I will endeavor to make myself useful to him." 
               "Dear comforter," said the poor wife. "I will believe what you tell me, sweet Jessie. How glad I am to see you once agait, even amid the horrors which have led to our reunion. And you are so changed-so improved." 
               "Glad to hear it," responded Jessie with a smile, as she drew Mrs Ashleigh into a curtained and carpetted room, throughout which a bright fire diffused its pleasant glow. A table was drawn up in front of it, on which stood tea and toast ready for the refreshment of her exhausted guest. 
               "See what a thoughtful housekeeper I am," said the young girl, with a laugh as musical as the flowing of water, or the warbling of birds-"I knew you would be half frozen, and quite famished; so I busied myself in having something warm for you when you arrived." 
               "First let me see my husband," pleaded the guest: ut Jessie was inexorable. She insisted that Captain Ashleigh was doing very well, and his wife needed attention just then, much more than he did. 
               Thus overruled, Mrs Ashleigh sat down, and partook of the refreshment she so much needed. Jessie was the neatest and busiest of little housewives. She stirred up the fire until it roared up the chimney, as if raising its voice to give the new comer a welcome: she took the hood from the head of her exhausted guest, and smoothed her hair; chattering in the mean time in such a strain of cheerful vivacity, as to force the troubled thoughts of Mrs. Ashleigh a few moments from the couch of the beloved sufferer. 
               Finally she said- 
               "Now you are warmed, and a little reassured, dear friend, I will venture to shew you our invalid." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh arose with alacrity, and Jessie glided before her toward the darkened room in which lay the wounded man. With a trembling heart, the wife paused just within the doorway until her vision became accustomed to the semi-twilight which reigned within. A stove warmed the room, and there was no gleam of firelight-only the light of a small lamp, shed its feeble glimmer around. The floor was thickly carpetted, and without the sound of a footfall, the agitated Mary approached the bed, and looked down on the pale sleeper, who lay as motionless as if the Great Conqueror had already set his icy seal upon his frame. The pallid features, already wasted and fallen, looked rigid in their marble-like stillness, and with difficulty she repressed a cry as she bent over him, and placed her hand upon his heart to ascertain if the pulses of life yet kept up their 'funeral march.' 
               Slowly and faintly did they vibrate beneath her light touch, but reassured by that evience of continued life, she raised her eyes from his face, and looked around. Cowering by the opposite side of the bed was a dark figure wrapped in a bright colored garment, and wearing a coronal of feathers upon the dusky brow. 
               Ashleigh had many times spoken of his Indian satellite, but he had never informed his wife of his relationship to the companion of his childhood. One of her accomplishments was an acurate knowledge of drawing, and this led her to remember features with remarkable tenacity. The profile of the Indian was turned toward her, and even by the dim light, she recognized its identity with that of her who inflicted such bitter suffering upon her; for an instant a dizzy faintness rushed over her, and she grasped the aim of Jessie for support. Supposing her overcome by the sight of her husband, she tenderly led her from the room. When they reached the hall, Jessie said, 
               "I feared you would be shocked by the change in him. Come with me to my room, and lie down a little while. Mrs. Ashleigh shuddered. 
               "The sight of my husband lying thus, was indeed terrible; but for that, I was in a measure prepared. The thrilling shock I sustained, came from the sight of that form crouching beside him. Who is he? Whence came he? Ah here he is again!" 
               A low voice which again touched a painful cord in her memory spoke close beside her, in reply to her question. 
               "Lady, I came from the deep forest to fight in the cause of freedom. I sought the protection of your husband, for a tie existed between his family and mine. I found that desolation had been brought to his soul by the mad deed of my unhappy sister; but I so prayed him to permit me to remain near him, that he could not refuse. Fair wife of the pale-face, to whose side I have purchesed the right to cling, I am Wenona." 
               There was a tone of fierceness in the concluding words, and Miss Maitland hastened to say, 
               "Yes, dear Mrs Ashleigh, but for the faithfulness of Wenona, your husband must have perished before my father discovered him. He merits thanks from you, I assure you." 
               "And he has them," she mournfully replied. "Such an obligation can never, never be repaid-but, Oh! I would that yours less resembled that face I last beheld girdled by fire, while the triumphant death-song was poured over my child." 
               The Indian too shuddered at the recollections of that awful night; she said: 
               "Let not that resemblance become a barrier to my usefulneas to him you love. A heart as true to him as that of her who met so fearful a death, beats in my bosom. You, whom he loves, must surely possess sufficient nobility of soul to grant this wish. Banish me not, because my dusky features recal those of her who can no longer molest you." 
               "Your wish is granted. God forbid that I should refuse such a plea! share with me the care of nursing my husband, if you wish it, and in time to come, we will endeavor to reward you as becomes the servcie." 
               "I wish no reward beyond being near him: making myself of use to him. Thanks lady; I now feel that you are not unworthy of the heart you claim." 
               The dark form glided back to its station and when the two friends again entered the sick room they found the Indian leaning toward the bed with her dark eyes fixed upon the face of the sleeper. 
               The wife took the opposite side of the couch, and thus faithfully watched, and earnestly prayed for, by those two devoted hearts, the wounded officer slept in a state of exhaustion so deep that death alone could have been more still and dreamless. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               After a quiet night, Captain Ashleigh awoke quite sensible, though suffering from extreme weakness. He smiled as he beheld his wife beside him, and mumured a few faint words of joyful recognization. 
                
               Mrs. Ashleigh placed her hand on his lips, while the Indian arose, and took from the stand a reviving draught which had been left by the physician. 
               "Thanks, Wenona, my brave friend," he found strength to utter after taking it from her hand. "I know full well that without your aid I should have perished." 
               At these words, the figure of the young Indian seemed almost transfigured. The eyes flashed with tender brightness, and the lips trembled with emotion. The dark face was bowed to the pale hand which endeavored to lift itself to hers, and a burning tear fell on it. 
               "Live, live, friend of my soul, and I am repaid for all," came in stifled accents from her lips. 
               "I shall make a desperate attempt to do so, I assure you," he said. "With so devoted a friend, and so beloved a wife, who should cling to existence with more tenacity than myself?" 
               At the mention of his wife, the light faded suddenly from the bright face and with a suppressed sigh the Indian sunk into her place beside the bed. 
               The wife leaned her head upon his pillow, and whispered words of tenderness and hope in his ear; and the jealous heart stifled its weary cry, while the Indian buried her head in silence on her breast. 
               This love, wrong as it was, had something of the sublime in it, from the spirit of self sacrifice which enobled it. No longer did the passionate heart wish the death of her who made the object of her own devotion happy. She felt that in her true character a gulf severed her forever from Ashleigh; and only as she now followed him, could her presence be tolerated. As Etura, she would be scorned, and probably punished for the abduction of the child; as Wenona, she was regarded as the faithful friend of both Ashleigh and his wife; for she had discrimination to see that her late services to her husband had created a tie even between herself and the bereaved mother. 
               The surgeon came in soon after daylight, and on carefully examining the condition of his patient, he assured Mrs. Ashleigh that with care her husband would speedily recover from the effect of his wound, though his extreme weakness from loss of blood, must keep him confined to his bed for several weeks. 
               His words relieved her from a load of anxiety, though Ashleigh chafed under the idea of long confinement in the enemy's country, and himself a prisoner. The physician saw the troubled expression of his features, and said- 
               "You are too weak yet, sir to bear the slightest excitement, ahd I therefore give you something to compose you to sleep, while your good lady seeks the repose she so much needs. Your Indian nurse seems quite capable of attending to all your wants, and to him I will delegate the present care of waiting upon you." 
               "I am quite willing to trust him to Wenona," said Mary, looking greatfully toward the Indian. "But I will prepare the draught myself, and administer it befor I go. Now the terrible doubts of my husband's recovery are removed from my mind, I do indeed feel the necessity of sleep." 
               The glance of Mrs. Ashleigh was unresponded to, but in her heart Etura thanked her for the confidence she expressed. She simply replied- 
               "I will do all in my power to fulfil the duty assigned me. Sleep in peace madam, with the assurance that a faithful heart watches beside him you love." 
               For a few days, Ashleigh's recovery seemed to progress favorably; then he was called on by several of his late companions in arms, who imprudently bewailed their paralyzed efforts in behalf of their beloved country; and related as many instances of unavoidable suffering among the men, who surrendered amid the rigors of a winter in so inclement a climate, that his impetuous feelings were aroused, even before they left his room; there was incipient fever in his veins, and before the dawn of the following morning he was again delirious. 
               This relapse was followed by others, and for many days life seemed suspended on the faintest casualty. Thus several weeks passed before he was pronounced out of danger. Even amid her own deep anxiety, Mrs. Ashleigh was often struck with the forethought, and tenderness of the Indian. She once said to her. 
               "You believe your race and sex, Wenona. Who would expect such thoughtful care as you display, from one bred as you were in the forest?" 
               "Mine has not been the life of an untaught savage," she proudly replied. "Among my race a Catholic mission was established, and from the priests I received the education which made me what I am." 
               "That accounts for many things that have hitherto puzzled me; but if I am rightly informed the priests are Frenchman. How then did you acquire so perfect a command of our language?" 
               The quick art of the Indian, did not desert her at this question. She replied with an ingenious mixture of truth and falsehood. 
               "In my childhood there was a young American in the same household, to whom I became warmly attached, from him I learned his language, and it was dear to me for his sake." 
               "What has become of him?" 
               "Alas! I cannot tell; I do not wish to dwell on anything so painful to me. Your husband resembles him; hence my warm attachment to him. He has replaced the friend of my childhood." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh did not pursue the subject, for the expressive face of the Indian, revealed that this allusion to the past was exquisitely painful to hear. 
               Immediately afterward Jessie came to the door, and called upon Mrs. Ashleigh to join her in their usual evening promenade, on a balcony which extended around three sides of the house. It commanded a fine view of the lower town, with a wide stretch of St. Lawrence, and the magnificient scenery around which Quebec is situated. The snow chaped mountains which bounded the view in the distance; a falling cataract in the perspective, with its spray frozen into myriads of icicles, and the ice bound river, formed an assemblage of striking objects not often found combined. Nothing could be more wild and wintry than the snow covered landscape, though the sky that bent above it was cloudless. The fields of clear blue air seemed to have hardened into a brilliant sapphire dome, from which poured the beams of a bright sun that flooded the earth with light, but appeared to have lost all power to impart warmth to its frozen bosom. 
               Every afternoon, Jessie drew her friend from the confinement of the sick room to inhale new life in the clear atmosphere. Wrapped in fur covered mantles, and close hoods, they walked and conversed together for an hour; and in these promenades Mrs. Ashleigh learned the secret of Miss Maitland's amended health and brightened spirits. 
               On her return home, Jessie found a letter awaiting her from her precise aunt, Miss Cameron; and enclosed under the same envelope, was one from her lover. Herbert had won over the old lady to his side, and for the first time in her life, Miss Cameron took an active interest in a love affair 
               In her isolation, after the departure of her niece, Herbert visited her, and made himself of use to her in various ways. In return, she consented to permit letters to pass between himself and Jessie under the protection of her own. In these Herbert assured Jessie that she had never for one moment been absent from his thoughts, and all his endeavors were directed toward hastening the moment of their reunion. He had applied for a commission in the army destined to serve in Canada, and had every prospect of coming out with the next reinforcement sent from Great Britain. 
               Once reunited their joint intreaties must overcome the objections of her father to there union. For several months this correspondence had continued quite unsuspected by Col. Maitland, and he attributed the improvement in his daughter's health to her southern tour. Jessie had not yet gained courage to undeceive her father, and on this evening her heart was divided 
                     betwhen
                     between
                   joy and fear. 
               The morning had brought a letter from her lover in which his speedy embarkation was announced, and by the mail came dispatches to Sir Guy Carleton, announcing the arrival of the expected troops in a few days. Jessie felt that she must inform her kind, but stern father of the clandestine correspondence before Herbert's arrival; yet she shrunk from the ordeal with the nervous dread inspired by the recollection of his former undenying opposition. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh endeavoured to inspire her with courage. She soothingly said- 
               "Your father has seen how much you have suffered, dear Jessie, and he will scarcely prove immoveable now. His objections to Captain Herbert seem to be those of prejudice more than of reason." 
               "For that very reason, they will only be more dificult to overcome." replied Miss Maitland despondingly. "My father loves me very dearly, but he is obstinate in his own opinion, and the parents of Henry Herbert wronged him in some manner, I do not understand how; but I have heard my Aunt say that my father accepted the guandianship of their son with great reluctance. If I had been reared under his own eye it is very certain that no opportunity would have been allowed to Henry and myself to become attached to each other." 
               "There is a destiny in these things, and Colonel Maitland will find that his opposition must yieid before it. My advice to you my dear girl, is to go at once to your father's, and inform him of all you have told me. Hi tender affection for you will give great weight to your frankness, and you may find him more lenient than you imagine." 
               "Ah! if I only had courage to act thus, but my poor cowardly heart dies within me at the thought of my father's stern eye settling on me with displeasure." 
               "Dear Jessie," replied Mrs. Ashleigh impressively, "I once was placed in a position almost similar to your own. There was this difference however; my father would listen to no remonstrance, but forrced another lover on my acceptance. I deceived him, for nearly two years. I was an unacknowledged wife, and how much I suffered during this concealment, no words may convey to you. My husband dreamed not, he never can know how much I endured for his sake. The poor old man whose authority I successfully evaded is in his grave, in his last moments he forgave me, but even now; I feel remorse at times that I, his only living child, forsook him for another. Take warning from me dear Jessie and seek by every measure in your power to reconcile your father to your choice. Above all, dear girl, tell him the whole truth." 
               "I will," replied Jessie with a brightening face. 
               "I thank you, dear friend, for so nobly strengthening my feeble courage." 
               "My father is alone now; I will go to him while the influence of your words is still upon my mind. Pray for my success, for I am a very coward in anticipation of what lies before me." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh tenderly kissed her, and accompanied her to the door of the apartment in which Col. Maitland sat. With a few whispered words of encouragement, she passed on to her husband's room, and left Jessie to go in alone. 
               The young girl found her father seated beside a table on which the evening lamp was already placed, and before him was scattered a number of English newspapers received by the last mail. On one of these, his hand rested, and his spectacles were pushed back upon his forehead, while he seemed absorbed in unpleasant meditation. 
               As his daughter entered, Col. Maitland glanced toward her, and his stern face grew darker. 
               "Jessie," he suddenly said-and there was something in the emphasis with which he pronounced her name that caused her to start and grow pale. He motioned to her to approach him more nearly, and without another word, directed her attention to the name toward which his finger pointed. It was that of Henry Herbert, and she knew that the eye which rested upon her was seeking to read her soul. Jessie trembled, and felt as if ready to faint, for there was certainly little encouragement in the glance of cold inquiry that rested on her. 
               Touched by her agitation, Col. Maitland's voice was lower and softer as he asked- 
               "Were you aware of this? and if so, why have I been kept in ignorance of what was of such vital importance to me, as the expected arrival of this pretender to my daughter's favor, in this far distant land?" 
               Jessie fell at his feet in irrepressible emotion as she faltered- 
               "I came but now to tell you all, dearest father. To ask your forgiveness and implore your consent to my happiness" 
               "ALL," repeated Col. Maitland with cold composure. "What! is there more to reveal than the audacious conduct of this young man in following you across the ocean, and thrusting his unwelcome presence into the very division of the army to which I belong? Has he already dared to renew his addresses to you, when I positively refused my sanction to them?" 
               "Our feelings are not always under our control," faltered poor Jessie-but suddenly inspired with a feeling of desperate courage, she went on. 
               "Henry Herbert has again told me that he loves me, and I-oh! my father! hear me with indulgence, for I came to you with mingled love and fear to lay my heart open to you. But for the renewed assurance of his love you would have been childless ere now. Think not that change of scene, or amusement, gave back to you the daughter who now supplicates you for mercy. No-it was the knowledge that the warmth and brightness of her life were not forever withdrawn that brought back to her the wish to live." 
               "And had I then no hold upon your heart, ungrateful girl, that you would have bade adieu to life because you were severed from one whose presence is utterly distasteful to me, whose pretensions to your hand are odious to me?" 
               "Dearest father; pleaded the pale girl-I implore you to recall those cruel words. I love you with fervent filial affection, but my heart, my life, are bound up with those of Henry Herbert. From childhood we have clung to each other, and no other can be to me what he is. Refuse your sanction to our union, and again you will see me fade away. I cannot help it; I am a poor weak creature, whose life is only in her affections." 
               "And hey are turned from their legitimate channel, to twine around one who is the offspring of perjury and dishonor," said Col. Maitland passionately. 'Girl-girl! this man's father inflicted on me the deepest treachery-his mother the deadliest wound the human heart can receive; and now the son of such parents would tear from me the one treasure of my arid life." 
               "No-no, my father, he would only give to you a son in the husband of your daughter. He would gladly atone for the injuries of which he is the innocent memento." 
               Col. Maitland raised his daughter, and his voice lost its impassioned bitterness, as he more calmly said- 
               "It is vain, Jessie, to urge me further. Every feeling of my heart revolts at the thought of a union between you nd Herbert. The presence of that man; the thought that he possessed the right to claim a warmer place in your regard, than even I am entitled to would be an inexpressible bitterness to me. Would to God I had been aware of the childish intimacy so imprudently permitted by your aunt in time to prevent so deplorable a result. I have that confidence in your pride and good sense, which induces me to believe that when once convinced of the hopelessness of your union with Herbert, you will reconcile yourself to what is inevitable, and again become the cherished darling of your old father." 
               His closing words were addressed to ears no longer capable of understanding them for Jessie sunk in his arms in a swoon so like death, that he summoned assistance in the wildest alarm. 
               Long was it before she unclosed her eyes, and then the reproachful glance she cast on Col. Maitland went to his heart; but there were depths of sternness in his nature, which forbade his yielding to what he was determined to believe a mere fancy, which might be overcome by struggling earnestly against it. He forgot that on his daughter's side there was no sufficient reason to induce her to make such an effort. Herbert was worthy of her love, and the unrersonable caprice o her father was all that stood between herself and happiness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               Winter waned, and once more Ashleigh was strong enough to leave his apartment, and mix with the family; but as the bloom of health returned to his cheek, it faded from that of his young hostess. 
               Again that touching expression of listless languor veiled the expressive features of Jessie Maitland, and her form lost that elastic freshness which so lately seemed to draw vitality from the vivid life within. 
               Henry Herbert had arrived; had been recieved with chilling politeness by Col. Maitland, and a decided negative put on any attempt to renew his addresses to his daughter. In secret the lovers contrived to meet. To see Herbert, to speak to him once, Jessie considered no wrong against her father; and the lover who knew himself beloved, had a right to claim one interview from her, even without the sanction of paternal authority. 
               In the cold twilight, she one evening ventured forth, and was immediately joined by Herbert who had been pacing the street an hour in, anxious expectation of her appearance Together they sought the Catholic church, whose open doors offered shelter from observation: they entered a closely curtained pew, in which they could be screened from the remarks of any casual stragglers in the church. 
               With impetuous earnestness, Herbert urged her to an immediate marriage; and insisted that her father possessed no right to thwart so well grounded an attachment as theirs. Jessie implored him to wait yet a little longer, and Col. Maitland might relent. He could not behold her clouded brow, and drooping health unmoved. 
               Herbert listened impatiently-he remonstrated. 
               "Your father will never yield Jessie, and our happiness will become a sacrifice to his obstinacy. You are greatly admired: already has my jealous heart been stirred by hearing the conquests of the beautiful Miss Maitland referred to. Your father will not be satisfied with separating us; the time will come, when he will insist on giving you to another less repugnant to him than I am. Is it just. Jessie, that our dearest hopes must be sacrificed to the wrong which death should long since have cancelled? That wrong was also to his affections, and the intensity with which he still resents it, betrays how deep the wound struck. Yet this man denies to us the happiness he could so keenly appreciate himself. Oh! Jessie, it maddens me to think that only a prejudice stands between us." 
               In his excitement the young man forgot the place he was in, and his voice arose above the guarded tone they had first spoken in. Jessie said in alarm- 
               Dear Henry, you grow so violent that some of those persons who are praying before the pictures may overhear you. They would accuse us of sacrilege in thus violating the sanctity of the place by making it the scene of our interview." 
               "The church is the chosen sanctuary of crushed aspirations, and broken hopes!" he bitterly replied; "and without the hope of winning you, I am desperate. How do I know how long it may be before you are forced into the arms of another? Your father is not a man to stop at half measures." 
               'My father is stern and implacable, Henry, but he is just and true, and he loves me, I fear no such calamity as you have conjured up to torture yourself with." 
               Herbert saw that she was wounded, and penitently replied- 
               "I told you I was mad, my angel; therefore you will pardon me this outburst. If I loved you less Jessie, I could better bear this enforced separation; you have pledged yourself not to marry me without the consent of Col. Maitland, and that I know will never be given, unless some miracle should be wrought in my favor. Woman are not always constant; and such loving feminine natures as your's are easily influenced by those around them to act as they wish. Once convinced that a union between us is impossible, and you will find some other heart on which to lean; for you are not formed to live without love, Jessie." 
               "Unjust, unjust," murmured the deeply tried girl, weeping bitterly. "I would that I could give you such assurance as must calm your jealous apprehensions. I am no Catholic, Henry, but this spot is holy to me as to any of the votaries of that church; for it is the home of that Faith which first dawned on the christian world, and amid all its corruptions, the holy and the true shine forth as its foundation. Let us kneel together before yonder shrine, sacred to the mother of God, and mutually vow to belong alone to each other. Will that satisfy you?" 
               "It will-let us repeat the marriage service," said Herbert, smiling faintly. "It will, be morally, though not legally, binding on both of us." 
               "Are you sure that will quite satisfy you?' asked Jessie, as she lifted a prayer book, which lay upon the cushions, and turned over the leaves. 
               "For the present I must e'en content myself with that," he said with a sigh. 
               The body of the Cathedral was by this time enveloped in deep gloom, except around the altar were consecrated candles burned in front of an image of Christ. On one side, in a small recess, hung a picture of the virgin, before which a single light burned. The various worshippers had one by one departed as the dusk of twilight deepened, and only one figure was visible, as our lovers approached this shrine, and knelt together before it. This was a priest, who with bowed head, and folded hands, offered his prayers before the image of the crucified Redeemer. He seemed too deeply absorbed in his devotions to heed the proceedings of the lovers, and Herbert took the book from the trembling hand of Jessie, and commenced reading in that portion of the marriage service in which the mutual vows are taken. He firmly clasped the trembling hand of the young girl, and repeated them with an earnestness and fervor which betrayed how much stress he placed upon this solemn form of betrothal. 
               With faltering accents, Jessie followed him, and they bowed their heads before the shrine as they ceased speaking. Suddenly the two felt their clasped hands grasped by another, which held them firmly together and the priest they had observed, solemnly said- 
               "It is not a light thing, my children, to take such vows before the holy mother of God, and in the sanctuary of his temple. Know that you are wedded in spirit as firmly as if the benediction of the church had been asked. I now bestow it unsought, and you are no longer free to refuse it." 
               "Thanks, holy Father, you could not do me a greater service," said Herbert, passing his arm around the form of the alarmed Jessie, who would have started up and fled from the spot, but he pressed her so firmly to his side that she could not escape. 
               Half fainting, her head sunk upon his breast, and when she recovered perfect consciousness, the sonorous voice of the priest, was floating around her. An instant afterward, Herbert pressed his lips to hers, and said in rapturous tones- 
               "Now you are indeed my own, bound to me by the ceremony of that church which regards the contract as indissoluble, save by death." 
               "Oh, Henry," she reproachfully asked, was not this snare prepared beforehand? yet no-it was my own proposal to take those vows. Father what prompted you to this?" and she turned her pale face towards the priest. 
               "I scarcely know," he replied "unless it was a sudden movement of sympathy in favor of this young man. I have been in yonder confessional young lady, from the time you entered the adjacent pew until a few moments before you came forth. I have not yet lost all sympathy with nature and truth, and it seemed to me, to be good service to you both, to unite you in the bonds of marriage at once. You are Protestants I am aware; and if you refuse to recognise the validity of the tie which binds you to each other for weal or for woe, it can be legally done. But the ceremony I have but now performed, is morally binding as any that may come hereafter." 
               Jessie bowed her head in a tumult of fear and joy, for spite of her father's anger, it was sweet to know herself bound forever to him she so deeply loved. Herbert gayly said- 
               "You have done us good service, holy Father, and I give you most hearty thanks for it. I will shew my sense of gratitude by presenting to your church an offering worthy to be accepted. You are a good fellow in spite of your calling, and I am under greater obligations to you than I can express." 
                
               The priest received his thanks in silence and bowing his head upon his breast, glide away. 
               Jessie, overcome with agitation, was drawn from the church by Herbert, who said everything he could to reassure her. 
               "My father will never forgive this forfeiture of my word," she despairingly said. "He will never believe so improbable a story; he will insist that the plan was agreed on before-hand. Henry, Henry, I could not once have believed that to know myself your wife, would have made me so wretched." 
               "Unless you choose to consider it so, Jessie, the tie is not binding. I will not insist upon it. Consider yourself as free to remain with your father as before. All I desire is to know that a barrier exists, which must effectually divide you from another. The priest will never reveal the singular part he acted; and my discretion you cannot doubt." 
               "It is dreadful thus to own a divided duty," she mornfully answered. I so dread the anger of my father when the event of this evening becomes known to him! Ah! he will never, never forgive me!" 
               This one thought seemed to weight on her affectionate heart, and all Herbert's eloquence could not reassure her. They parted on the same spot on which they had met, with a promise from Jessie that she would again find the means of gaining an interview with him. 
               This promise Jessie was unable to fulfil; for Col. Maitland feared that his daughter might evade his authority so far as to communicate clandestinely with her lover, and she found herself the object of such strict espionage from him, that without detection she could not venture to meet Herbert. 
               Impatient at their unforced separation-irritated at the pertinacity of Col. Maitland, Herbert found means to convey to Jessie letters containing the most passionate entreaties for only a glimpse of her, if no more. If she refused this consolation, he should be tempted to brave the utmost anger of her father and put forward his claims as her husband. 
               Poor Jessie vainly told him that she risked everything in complying with his request. Her implacable father had warned her against attempting to see him, and had assured her that so surely as he knew her to be guilty of such rebellion against his wishes, he would disown her. She concluded thus- 
               "I have again hazarded his displeasure by entreating him to withdraw his prohibition to our union, but his anger frightened me. Oh Henry, what is to be the end of all this? My heart is torn between conflicting affections. I love, I reverence my father, and with his displeasure haunting me, I could not be happy even with you; sincerely as I love you. Bear with this cruel separatian, Henry, and light may yet dawn upon our path. Do not wring my heart by such an appeal as your last, for I am already sufficiently unhappy in the strange position in which I am placed. I dare not attempt to meet you, for certain detection would follow. I know that I am constantly watched." 
               Herbert had been reasonable for the first few weeks after their union; but as time progressed and he beheld no prospect of reconciliation with his guardian, he became irritable and impatient. Toward the close of the winter the city was very gay, and Jessie, accompanied her father to many assemblies, in the hope of being able to communicate with her lover for a few brief moments, but Col. Maitland watched over her so jealously that the young officer durst not approach her. 
               Herbert saw that the lately blooming cheek had lost its roundness, and become pale as a snow-drift; and in her eyes was a feverish restlessness which revealed the struggle that was destroying her. He began to think it was his duty, as well as his right, to rescue her from such a state of wearing anxiety, as evidently preyed upon her health. 
               This new view of the state of affairs he instantly conveyed to Jessie in an impassioned letter, and it threw her into such nervous excitement as to make her seriously ill. She struggled against her indisposiction, and resolved to risk everything to see him once more, that she might in person entreat him to forbear. 
               Jessie sent a few agitated lines to Herbert, saying she would meet him on the same evening after the family had retired, and confer with him a few moments on the best course to pursue. Herbert must himself arrange the place of their interview, and be in readiness to join her as soon as she issued from the house. 
               With an exulting heart Herbert read the words, and his firm determination was at once taken, that once under his protection, he would never permit the woman he claimed as his wife, to be snatched from him again, unless she herself chose to repudiate the tie that united them. 
               He would permit her to choose between her father and himself; but if she refused to follow him, he would give her up forever, and go far away, where they would never meet again. The conflict and uncertainty of the few past weeks of his life had been too terrible to be longer borne; he would end them in some manner, even if the result should be his desertion by her he loved. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               Jessie sat in the family circle that evening with a heart filled with fear and disquietude. Her father observed that she was paler and more silent even than usual, and he exerted himself to draw her from her painful pre-occupation. Conscious of this, she made many efforts to rally her spirits, but in vain-she she was too wretched and self-condemned, to be able to assume what she did not feel. 
               Once more Ashleigh was able to sit up beyond the hours of an invalid, and he was placed in a large chair in front of the cheerful fire, while his fair wife sat beside him, and seemed to forget all her trials in the delight of again beholding him restored to health. 
               The Indian sat in the shadow of the mantel, and her dark wandering eyes took in the various figures of the group, but her lips were never opened, except to reply to some remark addressed immediately to herself.-Then a brief response was made, and she again sunk into silence, thus passively resisting all efforts to make her an active participator in the domestic drama around her. 
               In the course of the evening, several American officers called to confer with Col. Maitland on the chance of a speedy exchange, for they were becoming extremely impatient to escape from the unpleasant thraldom in which they were held, while their struggling country so much needed their services. 
               The feeble remnant of the Americans which escaped imprisonment, still occupied their intrenchments, but were quite unable to offer any detriment to the well fortified city. Sir Guy Carleton was too well provided with all that was necessary for defence, to fear the enfeebled enemy, who remained in their intrenchments, because the severity of the weather offered no other alternative. 
               Arnold, who remained in command of the Americans, had recovered from the dangerous wound he received in storming the city and was preparing to retrace his steps toward the centre of war, as the opening spring should permit him to do so. Daily communications, concerning the exchange of the prisoners passed between him and the Governor of Quebec, and Ashleigh confidently expected that such arrangements would be made between them, as to ensure the freedom of himself and his companions in captivity. 
               As returning health came to his frame, his eager spirit yearned for an opportunity to wipe out the disgrace of defeat, and afford more efficient aid to the cause of freedom than he had yet been able to give. 
               On this evening Col. Maitland gave his visitors the cheering assurance that in a few more weeks their exchange would be effected, and themselves at liberty to return to their homes. They soon after retired, and Col. Maitland after their departure sat many moments absorbed in deep reverie. Suddenly he raised his head and said to Ashleigh- 
               "There is an expression in the face of your friend Clifton, which recals the image of a man I would give much to meet. I had once a singular adventure which can never be forgotten by me; for to it I owe all the prosperity of my life. I have earnestly desired again to meet the hero of it; but as years pass away I have gradually lost all hope of so doing." 
               He glanced toward his daughter as he thus spoke, and she looked up with an expression of interest. He replied to the wistful glance by asking- 
               "Would you like to hear the particulars, Jessie?" 
                
               "Above all things, dear father, I would like to learn the history of your whole past life, that I might be enabled to-to-" 
               She paused, and seemed uncertain how to proceed-Col. Maitland took up her sentence- 
               "To influence me to your own wishes, perhaps." 
               He saw that she was wounded, and more kindly went on- 
               "Much of the past is too painful to be willingly recalled, my child, and this incident is connected with remembrances I care not often to evoke. However I will comply with your request." 
               He shaded his eyes with his hand, and after a brief pause said- 
               "Once I stood alone on the margin of one of the rivers of my native land, a bankrupt in love, fortune and hope. The fiend I had trusted, won from me the plighted bride in whose truth I placed implicit confidence. His wealth had assisted me to start in life; and I stripped myself of everything to return to him the means of future prosperity, which I would not accept on such terms. I freed myself from the galling bondage of debt to him whose very name had become a sound of horror to me; and lone and desolate I went forth from men to brood over my blighted prospects; to nurse in solitude the fierce passions which the conduct of the unfaithful ones had aroused." 
               As he proceeded, Col. Maitland rivetted his eyes on his daughter's face, as if seeking to read in its expressive features her comprehension of the story he was narrating. In the drooping eyelids, and colorless face, he saw that she knew enough to understand to whom he alluded, and he went on- 
               "I was friendless and hopeless; but for the strong belief in future retribution, I should at once have thrown myself in the tide which lay so tempting at my feet; and as I loitered near it, I was watched by one who suspected that my purpose was to commit suicide. 
               "This belief was only confirmed by what happened. I paused, and leaned over the lucid mirror, that I might behold my own haggard and despairing features; I lost my balance and fell in. As I arose to the surface I was grasped by a strong arm, and dragged upon the shore, while a manly voice rebuked me for my unhallowed attempt to rush on a future which must inevitably be darker to the suicide, than the life he is so eager to escape from. 
               "I disclaimed all such intentions, and the stranger listened to me with indulgence. Suddenly he turned a piercing glance upon me, yet there was so much benevolence in his expression that I shrank not from the inquisition he evidently wished to make. He said- 
               "Some dark sorrow is upon you. I have read somewhat of the storm careering within your soul. Confide in me-I may be able to aid you." 
               "My soul was yearning for some faithful breast into which to pour the full tide of its griefs, and the voice of the stranger dissolved as by some mystic charm, the reserve of my nature. I told him all my wrongs-all my desolation, and he soothed me with words of hope in which I placed no trust, yet I was comforted by the sincere sympathy he gave me. He asked my address, and bade me be of good cheer, for bright days yet lay before me. I gave it, and we parted." 
               "On the following day a lawyer called on me, and informed me that the business I had recently relinquished, had been repurchased for me, and handed over papers which proved the truth of his statement. I satisfied myself by enquiring that my unknown preserver was my benefactor, but he was nowhere to be found." 
               "For years no clue was given to me by which I could discover his whereabouts. I recovered my tranquility of mind; everything prospered with me, and I at length forgot my false love so far as to choose another in her place. When you, my child, lay a smiling infant in the cradle; one evening, without being announced, a tall, noble-looking man walked into the room in which myself and my wife sat." 
               "I sprang up and cordially welcomed him, for in the stranger I recognized my preserver. I would have kept him with me, but he refused to remain longer than was necessary to behold the happiness which I assured him flowed from his kindness to a despairing stranger. He looked for a brief moment upon the face of my fair wife, and then bent over my sleeping child. He said to me as he crossed his hands above her head and blessed her- 
               "She will be fair; take heed that you make her good and true. In years to come perhaps I may again find myself upon the path of this little one. If I do, I shall feel myself entitled to look after her future, as well as her father." 
               "In that case," I replied, "your wishes shall be paramount to mine. Claim the authority to rule the destiny of my child, and I will yield it to you." 
               "Take heed lest this promise be claimed when you may wish it otherwise," he smilingly said. 
               "No," I replied, "I will regard it in the light of a solemn vow: and now best friend come with me to my counting-room before you leave, and receive back your own. I no longer need the assistance I am assured that you rendered me, and I return it, that you may make some other grateful heart as glad as you have made mine." 
               "He did not disclaim the service, nor refuse repayment; the good he desired had been accomplished, and he accepted as a matter of course, the means of aiding others. Then he bade me farewell, refusing even to reveal his name. He insisted that it could be of no importance, as it was not probable we should ever meet again." 
               "Nineteen years have passed since then and I have seldom been even reminded of him. This evening the presence of Captain Clifton brought back forcibly to my mind the person of that singular being; yet I know not what impelled me to relate these long-buried events." 
               Jessie arose and softly approaching her father, wound her arms caressingly around his neck, and whispered- 
               "'Tis no longer painful to recal them, dearest father; atonement was offered, though by a stranger; why are you so implacable toward him who innocently suffers for the wrongs of others?" 
               Col. Maitland regarded her with cold displeasure; he removed her arm quietly and motioned her to her seat. Then turning toward Ashleigh, he resumed the discussion of his exchange as calmly as though nothing had inerrupted it. 
               Deeply wounded, Jessie with difficulty repressed the tears that started to her eyes as she sunk pale and exhausted into her seat. The guests witnessed this little scene with pained surprise. They were aware of Col. Maitland's refusal to sanction his daughter's choice, but both had indulged the hope that he would ultimately yield to her wishes, especially when he saw how seriously her heart suffered in the conflict between duty and affection. 
               After the first interview with her lover, Jessie had given no further confidence to her friend; she dared not speak of what occurred on that evening; and in silence she bore the burden of her own grief and remorse, for her involuntary breach of faith towards one she so tenderly revered as her father. 
               At the usual hour for retiring, they bade each other good night, and Col. Maitland suffered his daughter to press her lips to his, without returning the salute. Jessie knew not what moved her, but after leaving the room, with her heart full to overflowing, she came back, and throwing herself upon his breast implored his pardon for the words which had offended him. He calmly said- 
               "I forgive you, Jessie, on the condition that the past is never again alluded to between us. My decision in reference to Henry Herbert, is invincible; therefore delude not yourself with a vain hope. When once convinced that I will not bestow you on him, you will give up this pining sentimentality in favor of a man I will never tolerate as my son-in-law." 
               The inflexible tones of his voice assured her that there was no relenting in his heart; and the unhappy girl bowed her head with a feeling of despair, for she knew not from what source could come rescue from the miserable position in which she was placed. 
               With faltering steps she sought her own apartment, and after indulging in a hearty burst of weeping, mingled with broken prayers for deliverance from the perplexity of her position, she prepared herself to meet her lover, and confide to him the hopelessness of their present prospects; little dreaming how soon Herbert would cut the Gordian knot of their difficulties, and set at defiance the authority he considered as abused by her father. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               Feeling like a criminal, Jessie, when all was quiet, stole from her room, and lightly threading the stairs, passed through the hall and with trembling fingers turned the key in the ponderous lock. The grating sound it made caused her heart to palpitate violently and she paused in alarm, fancying that she heard steps in her father's room. 
               All, however remained quiet, and with desperate courage, she threw open the door, and was clasped in the arms of Herbert, whose impatient heart had brought him to the threshold to await her coming. He almost carried her to the corner of the square, where a sleigh awaited them, and lifted her into it. Then placing himself beside her, he carefully arranged the buffalo robes to shield her from the piercing air of the cold clear night. The driver without a word touched his horses, and away they sprang over the glittering surface of snow, with an airy fleetness which might have made them successful competitors with the fabled steeds of the sun. 
               Jessie felt the exhilirating motion, and raised her face with a faint smile as she asked, 
               "Whither are you taking me, Henry?" 
               "You will presently learn," replied Herbert evasively, "suffice it, my sweetest Jessie, that I would take you to no place to which an objection can be made by the most fastidious sense of propriety. Are you not my own? Is not your honor also mine?" he tenderly asked. "Ah! if I dared recognize that ie," she softly murmured. "But it may not be. In the joy of seeing you, of being near you, Henry, I forgot all the misery that presses on me. My father is more implacable than ever; and if this struggle continues much longer, I believe it will destroy me." 
               "I know it, love. I have felt it with bitterness, and my resolution is taken to end it to-night," replied Herbert in a tone of decision which the trembling girl felt to the depths of her heart. She faltered- 
               "What can you mean, Henry? You would not take an ungenerous advantage of what has passed, to tear me from my father's protection?" 
               "God forbid," replied Herbert with emotion. "I will be guided by your own decision, Jessie, but within this hour I must insist that the choice between your father and myself must be made." 
               "Oh, cruel, cruel Henry, how can you try me thus? my heart is nearly broken now," asked Jessie in accents that wrung his heart. 
               With ineffable tenderness he drew her to his manly heart, as he said- 
               "I may seem cruel, my own one; but I am taking the only course that can end the suspense which is slowly undermining your very existence. I have watched you for weeks past, and I have seen you daily fade; yet your father in his blind egotism will not see what is palpably before him. It is my right to interfere, and unless you absolutely forbid me I shall exercise it." 
               "What then would you do? compel me to relinquish my duty toward him whose claims are even stronger than yours?" 
               "No claim is stronger than mine," he decidedly said. "The Scriptures say, that a woman shall forsake both 'father and mother and cling to her husband.' In that relation I certainly stand to you, Jessie; and what is of more importance still, your heart sanctions the tie, though you to fear acknowledge it. I will use no force, my gentle love; from your self shall come the decision, but it must be final. If you send me from you now, it must be forever." 
               The heart of the listener fainted within her at these words. She remembered the quiet firmness of the boy she had known in past years, and she felt assured that the man would never recede from what he so deliberly uttered. She murmured- 
               "Alas! this is a cruel alternative. Will you not give me yet a little time in which to make another effort to win my father over?" 
               "I would, my dearest Jessie, if there was the remotest probability of success. Col. Maitland sees you daily fading before him, yet he relents not. A few more weeks, and it may be too late to save the life that is so precious to me. You are fragile as a delicate flower, my angel, and cannot bear much more than has already been inflicted on you. Your father is wilfully blind, and I must save you even by seeming cruelty." 
                
               "Ah this is indeed a terrible trial!" said the weeping girl. "Henry, if I refused your prayer, you could not forsake me? you would not dare to cast me off entirely?" "I would," replied Herbert firmly. "If your love for me is not sufficiently strong to bear this ordeal, I will relinquish it at once, and forever. Better even that, than the restless wretchedness of the last few weeks of my life. I seem hard and unyielding, my beloved, but it is for your sake; summon strength to brave your father, and tell him all. He has sufficient love for you to forgive what cannot be amended." 
               "If I only thought so, I would not hesitate. Ah! I know he will walk through life in his stern pride, aloof from the disobedient daughter who defied his commands." 
               There was a pause, which Herbert broke by saying: 
               "We approach the end of our drive, Jessie," and he pointed to a spacious dwelling in front of them, with a light burning in a window. "We are expected there, and preparations are made for re-solemnizing our marriage by a clergyman of our faith. So soon as the ceremony is over, I will take you to your father's house, and to-morrow morning, at an early hour, I will come to lay the history of our union before Colonel Maitland. I will force him to believe my statement by bringing with me the priest as a witness. In another moment we will stop before the house; decide quickly, Jessie-love and happiness with me, or despair and degradation with your father; for I declare to you I was never more solemnly in earnest in my life." 
               The deep tones of his voice vibrated with a passionate intensity that left no doubt on the mind of the agitated listener of how fearfully excited he was. There was a brief silence, and Herbert held his breath suspended, to catch the first sound from her lips, on the word she might utter, he felt, turned the happiness of his life. Jessie raised her clasped hands toward Heaven and prayed fervently; then placing them in her lover's she said: 
               "With thee! with thee! I have not courage to send you from me, for life to me claims all its brightness from you presence." 
               For a brief moment even the fear of her father was forgotten, as she listened to the rapturous thanks of her lover. The sleigh drew up in front of the house, and Herbert lifted her from it, and carried her into a brightly lighted and well warmed room. On a table in front of the fire, refreshments were placed, of which he insisted that she should partake. A glass of wine restored her fainting energies, and when she seemed to have regained outward composure, Herbert rang a small bell which stood on the table. Immediately the door leading into the next apartment opened, and a clergyman in the black robes of the Church of England, advanced into the room, followed by two ladies, who seemed merely intended to act as witnesses, for they did not offer to approach or address the young girl. 
               Without pausing, the minister walked forward and stood before the young officer and his trembling companion, who was half entwined by his strong arm. Herbert took from his pocket a ring, and in a few brief moments the ceremony of marriage was a second time performed, which bound them together for life. Silently the actors in the scene glided from the room, leaving the bride and groom alone. 
               "Whither have you brought me?" asked Jessie, "and when shall we return?" 
               "You are in the house of a friend of mine, who was willing to aid me in this affair. We will return immediately, and to-morrow, at the earliest possible moment, I will come to proclaim our union, and to aid you in sustaining the first burst of your father's anger." 
               The light of love faded from the bride's features, and she shuddered. 
               "Never fear, my own Jessie; we will find means to make your father listen to reason whispered Herbert, folding her tenderly in his arms, and bearing her forth again to the sleigh. 
               Jessie listened to his word of hope, and believed them while they floated around her. Their brief drive back was to her a dream of happiness, for her throbbing head rested against the heart she believed all her own; she felt that come what might, she was now legally his wife, and even the authority of a parent could not sever them. 
               But when Jessie was again safe in her own room, all her old fears assailed her, and the dread of what must inevitably come on the morrow, arose as a hideous phantom before her, effectually banishing sleep from her pillow. 
               She could hardly persuade herself of the reality of all that had so recently passed; it seemed like a fantastic dream which came to mock the desolation of her heart. She arose at the dawn of day, and steadily prepared herself to leave her father's house, for she felt the terrible conviction that after what bad occurred, she would no longer be permitted to remain in it. 
               His forgiveness at once Jessie dared not expect; in time, when he felt how lonely his existence was without her, her father might relent; but in the first outbreak of his resentment, she believed there was no hope of immediate pardon. 
               Jessie felt wretchedly ill, but she would not yield to it; with faltering steps she descended to the breakfast room, and in it found the assembled family. Her entrance was greeted with a general expression of concern at the evident suffering depicted in her pale features. Col. Maitland, shocked at the change in her appearance, sprung forward to meet her, with words of affectionate enquiry which made the poor girl feel like a criminal in his presence. 
               "My daughter-my darling Jessie, you have suffered severely. You are not well enough to preside at the table. Mr. Ashleigh, permit me to trouble you, and I will place her in this seat near the fire." 
               Jessie passively submitted to be installed in a cushioned chair beside the glowing hearth, for she felt too weak to resist. Her father himself brought her tea and toast, and insisted that she should make an effort to eat. It was vain to make the attempt, for she felt as if suffocating. She leaned back, unable longer to control her emotion, and threw her handkerchief over her face, that the tears which swelled from her closed eyelids should not be seen by the rest of the party. 
               Col. Maitland gazed on her with a half repentant feeling. His morning meal was effectually spoiled by the thought that he had gone so far. Earlier in the struggle he could have yielded with grace; now his consent to her marriage must be wrung from him by the pining of a silly girl, whose life might be the sacrifice to his firmness. The thought irritated him, and destroyed the new born sympathy inspired by her evident unhappiness. 
               In silence the meal was despatched, and then the guests retired, feeling that in the present aspect of affairs, their presence might be intrusive. Before doing so, Mrs. Ashleigh approached Jessie, and softly enquired if she could serve her in any way. 
               "No, dear friend," she replied. "Leave me alone with my father. I must speak with him once more on the subject nearest my heart. The result God alone knows; but on it hangs my fate; I feel as if I could not survive his anger." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh tenderly pressed her hand, and left the room. The servants removed the breakfast, and Col. Maitland sat down opposite to his daughter, in grim silence, with a newspaper open before him, ostensibly reading, but his mind took no note of the words over which his eyes roved. 
               Jessie sat with her face still concealed, but he could see as he glanced toward her, that the hands which lay like folded lilies on her lap, were trembling with agitation. At length he threw the paper down, and exclaimed: 
               "Will you never speak? What am I to think of this scene? My God! girl, do you think I am made of iron, that you try me thus?" 
               Jessie drew away the covering from her face, and looked imploringly at him, as she said: 
               "I would speak; I would tell you what moves me to this anguish of passion, if I only dared." 
               "Speak then, for if there is a secret. I must and will know it. What have you done that you fear to reveal?" 
               Jessie felt that the trying moment had arrived; from herself must come the first revelation of her disobedience; for her father would find it more difficult to bear if told by another. The love and confidence which had once existed between them, seemed to render it imperative on her to inform him herself of her marriage, and prepare him for the speedy arrival of her husband. In this emergency, a new born courage came to her aid, she more calmly said: 
               "If you will promise me on you honor as a gentleman to listen to me five minutes without interruption, I will reveal the cause of my emotion." 
               Her father regarded her with surprise, but he gravely replied- 
               "I promise what you require;" and he turned his attentive face toward her. 
               With low but unfaltering tones, Jessie commenced with her first interview with Herbert, and related rapidly but distinctly all that followed down to the event of the previous night. 
               Her dilating eyes were fixed on her father's features, and her heart grew cold as she beheld the expression of deep sternness which gradually settled over them as she proceeded. 
               There was a pause in which she could hear the rapid pulsations of her own excited heart: suddenly they almost ceased, and she felt as if life must recede from her before a sound issued from those locked and rigid lips. 
               At length Col. Maitland said more as if speaking to himself than addressing her, 
               "And just as I might have relented, my own child has perpetrated this wrong against me. Hear me wife of Henry Herbert; no longer daughter of mine, hear me--" 
               Jessie sprang up with sudden strength, and threw herself in his arms, as she wildly exclaimed- 
               "Father, I cannot bear renunciation from you, and live; look at me-see, I am almost dying now, and do not add to the weight you have already laid upon my heart; a little more, and it will break, and you will carry to your grave the conviction that your unkindness destroyed me." 
               "Your new bridegroom will bind up the shattered fragments," said Col. Maitland disdainfully. Go forth with him, and let him try his skill; you have chosen between us, and I bid you follow him." 
               He held her from him, and again she sunk upon her seat bewildered and crushed. Her head throbbed violently; the object before her seemed floating in an indistinct haze, and for a moment she believed she was dying." 
               Her receding senses were aroused by the sound of voices in the hall, and the next instant Herbert was ushered into the room. Col. Maitland stalked past him, and slowly pointing to his daughter said- 
               "Here is your wife, sir; take her from my roof without delay, for I do not choose that it shall shelter either of you longer than is absolutely necessary." 
               Even as he thus spoke, the angry father was struck with the noble presence and manly bearing of him he thus repulsed. Herbert stopped, and stretching forth his arm stayed the departing steps of his former guardian. 
               "Col. Maitland, for your own sake, I ask you to pause. The hour may come, and soon, when your present violence will be regretted. Let your unhappy daughter be clasped to your heart in forgiveness, before another actor appears on the scene, who is entitled to claim this boon at your hands." 
               "I do not understand you, sir," haughtily responded the old man. "Had you waited yet a little longer, know that I might have been touched by my daughter's constancy-by her filial affection-but after the dishonorable deception you have been doubly guilty of, I disown--" 
               "Pause, rash man," said a voice of deep-toned solemnity, from the open door, and turning quickly Col. Maitland beheld the priest who had first united Herbert and his daughter. His hair whitened by the snow of nearly seventy winters, fell in scanty locks upon his temples, but his large bright eyes were undimned by age; and as their eagle glance met that of the father, he impetuously thrust forth his hand, and exclaimed- 
               "Met at last! Friend of my life, whence came you now, and why have you kept yourself so long concealed from my knowledge?" 
               "Because it was needless to reveal myself to you. I now come to claim a promise pledged to me many years ago. I would control the destiny of that child toward whom you have shown yourself so hard a parent." 
               "She has taken her fate in her own hands,' he sternly replied; let her abide by the choice she has made." 
               "Amen, I heartly say to that; but you must also give your sanction to her choice. Listen to me, Robert Maitland, and then see how uncalled for is your harshness to yon drooping creature, whom God in his infinite mercy still permits you to claim as your daughter. One night, now many weeks ago, I prayed in a confessional in which I had lately heard a tale of sin and sorrow. Suddenly the suppressed tones of passion and entreaty came from a seat in the vicinity of my place of concealment. I know not by what impulse I remained to listen to a tale of love that touched even my old heart. When the lovers came forth to take a vow of faithfulness to each other before the shrine of the holy mother of God, I had glided from my concealment, and was already stationed where I could see them. In the young girl I beheld one in whose fate I had long cherished a deep interest, for the person of your danghter was not unknown to me; in her companion, I recognized the only relative I have left on earth." 
               Col. Maitland started, and wonld have interrupted him, but the venerable man laid his hand upon his arm, and said- 
               "All that shall be explained at the proper time, listen now to what more immediately concerns your daughter. The pair knelt and uttered such vows as bind man and wife together. Moved by a sudden impulse, I approached them, and before your daughter could remonstrate, I pronounced her the wife of Henry Herbert; I then left them, but from that hour I have watched the process of events in this house with deep interest. I have held myself in readiness at any moment to interpose and claim the promise voluntarily accorded to me many years ago." 
               "And now, who are you? and why have you done this?" asked Col. Maitland, impressively, while Herbert stood with his arm supporting the drooping form of Jessie, who listened with breathless interest to the words of the priest. He went on-"during the days of your intimacy with the father of that young man, can you not call to mind any allusion made by him to an uncle, the brother of his mother, who in early manhood, had in a fit of violent passion, taken human life?" 
               "I do remember the circumstance-and you?" "I am that unfortunate man. For years I was a wanderer over the wide earth, remorse haunting my steps, until I sought to atone for the wrong committed against one man, by benefitting his fellows yet on earth. I became a wandering philanthropist-and never did I see a case of distress, that I did not make some effort to relieve it. Thus my patrimony gradually dwindled away, and when it was nearly all expended, I entered that church which permits penitence and prayer to expiate even on earth, for every sin. I loved the father of this boy, and when I learned the wrong he had been guilty of toward you, I felt it but just to perform the part I acted toward you. Through me, you regained fortune, position, and a truer love than her you had lost; why then should you cherish resentment toward the dead? even to the destruction of the happiness of the living?" 
               "It was not well done, I admit," said Col. Maitland, reluctantly. "But how happened it that you came hither so opportunely? I scarcely can believe in the reality of this strange scene." 
               "This morning my nephew came for me to bear witness to the truth of the involuntary union which had taken place between himself and your daughter. He informed me of all that has transpired since that evening, together with his reasons for bringing affairs to a crisis. In my turn, I showed him what power I possessed over the destiny of his wife, and informed him of my relationship to himself. And now I ask you, as the only return for such service as I was once enabled to render you, that you will receive yonder noble and attached pair as your true and loving children, forgiving them, in spirit and in truth, for any disobedience they may have been guilty of toward you." 
               "Dictated by you, I should feel bound to comply with even harder terms," replied Col. Maitland, with a smile. "Henry, the past is cancelled. My daughter, come to the heart which is ready to avail itself of any excuse to clasp you to it in love once more." 
               The happy pair approached, and knelt before him; he laid his hands reverently upon their heads, and blessed them. He then lifted his daughter to his breast; but the overtasked frame could bear no more. Overcome with illness and emotion, Jessie would have fallen, had not her father sustained her sinking form. 
               Bitterly was the unbending parent punished, when he beheld the suffering his sternness inflicted. The poor girl's strength was at last completely exhausted, and an illness, so violent as for days to threaten her life, followed the exciting scenes of the past weeks. 
               Reduced to the weakness of infancy, she lay upon her couch, and in the delirium of fever, repeated over and over the anguish and remorse which had agitated her heart, until the father felt as if he never could forgive himself for all he had made her endure. The fear of losing her revealed to him how inexpressibly dear she was to his heart; and the watch of love, held beside that sick bed, created a strong link of sympathy, even between himself and his daughter's husband. 
               When perfect consciousness at length dawned on the mind of the invalid, she was cheered by the confidence which appeared to exist between her father and her beloved Henry. Under such grateful auspices, her strength rapidly returned, and she was soon able to sit up, and smile once more, as in the days of her early gladness. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               One evening Jessie sat in her invalid chair, her father on one side, and Herbert on the other, with that delicious sense of enjoyment which is felt by the young and unbroken in constitution, when recovering from severe illness. 
               Spring had thrown its genial sunshine over the earth, and the mantle of snow had disappeared. Patches of early green gleamed forth in the distant landscape, which the elevated position of her chamber window commanded; again the waters of the St. Lawrence flowed gladly on their course, freed from their icy fetters; the young buds were peeping forth upon the trees, and occasionally the glad twitter of a bird gave the pleasant assurance that the vernal season had indeed arrived. 
               It was also spring-time in the heart of the young wife, for the sun of hope shone brightly upon the pathway that lay stretched before her; and the sweet smile upon her pallid lips-the expression of calm happiness in her soft blue eyes, had in them a gleam from that inner and purer life which the Divine Spirit of perfect love breathes into the soul. 
               Near the window sat Ashleigh perfectly restored to health, and expecting on the morrow to take his departure for his native home, to resume his service in the cause of his country. Beside him was his wife, completing a piece of complicated embroidery which was intended as a parting gift to her young friend. 
               They had been conversing on the approaching parting, and Col. Maitland said to Ashleigh,- 
               "I would that we could induce you to return to your true allegiance, Captain Ashleigh. I am convinced that the struggle between the mother country and the colonies must end in the complete subjugation of the latter; and I would gladly save one in whom I feel so sincere an interest from sharing the defeat of his rebellious countrymen." 
               The dark eye of him he addressed flashed and his manner was very earnest as he replied- 
               "My own conviction differs very materially from yours, dear sir; but even if I believed our cause hopeless, I would not abandon it until the last sword raised in its defence is surrendered; till the last hope of freedom is quenched in the blood of those to whom it is dear. Speak not of ultimate defeat to men who are prepared to endure every hardship sooner than surrender their dearest hopes. Remember the march of a portion of those men who so recently evacuated their ice-bound lines before this city, and comprehend what men of such determined souls can accomplish. Arnold's command traveled through swamps, and woods, over precipices and rivers, never before trod by the foot of a white man. Privations which make men shudder only to imagine were borne without shrinking, for in the determined hearts of that brave band, the fire of patriotism was kindled never more to be extinguished. "Liberty or Death," is the watchword of our people, and the earnestness ness with which it has been shouted from one end of the colonies to the other, is as a revelation of future victory." 
               Col. Maitland shook his head, and looking incredulous, he said- 
               "The enthusiasm of youth and hope, believes everything possible. I, who know the resources of Great Britain-her determination to conquer the rebellious spirit of your countrymen, behold a very different result. Even now, at this stage of the struggle, can you not see how greatly the chances are in her favor?" 
               "The horizon is now darkened, it is true; but I feel the conviction that the clouds will ere long be dissipated, and my countrymen emancipate themselves from the galling chains they have so long borne. The prediction of him whose life was given in defence of this city, has been realized. Montcalm, only a few days before his death upon the field of battle, remarked that, "so soon as the American colonies were relieved from the pressure of the hostile French power, they would feel themselves independent of English protection, and their revolt against the mother country would be the result."-Blind to what the sagacious Frenchman foresaw, our rulers have forced us into rebellion against an authority too oppressive to be longer borne. I trust, dear sir, that we who are personal friends, may meet no more in arms against each other; but to bring over to your side an American worthy of the name, is now impossible." 
               "England may concede all you demand." 
               "It is now too late. We dare not trust her promises; and even if we could, the lives of our bravest and best, men, must be made a peace offering to her, should we accept her tardy justice. No-war to the knife is our destiny for years to come; but I do not despair of success at the last." 
               "Admit that you gain it, my young friend, what then will be the probable result? Your most successful military chief, Washington, will win the hearts of the soldiery, probably seize the reins of government, and establish a military despotism worse than that you have sacrificed so much to throw off. Your frantic countrymen have hurled the statue of our King from its niche; that of Liberty will in all probability share its fate, and the image of your chief be erected in its place, with a crown upon his brows in place of the laurel wreath his deeds have won." 
               Ashleigh listened impatiently. 
               "Ah, you have never yet beheld General Washington, or you would not thus impute the deed of a traitor to that noble man on whom God has stamped the seal of greatness. His countrymen will be proud to place him at the head of their government, and entrust to him even more authority than he would willingly accept. Let the future shew what he is-having seen him, I know he can well afford to abide the ordeal." 
               "So be it, my young friend; I can feel sympathy for your enthusiasm, though I think it misplaced. In the years of turmoil and strife lying before you, I trust that you may escape unscathed. For myself, I am not likely to be ordered on active service, where so many younger men are eager for distinction. I shall probably remain on this spot until the result is accomplished." 
               At that moment the priest entered. He had visited Jessie frequently during her long illness, and his unaffected goodness made him welcome and dear to each member of the circle there assembled. A life of wild adventure, portions of which he related with singular graphic power, rendered his conversation deeply interesting; he spoke several languages with facility, having learned them while sojourning in the countries in which they were spoken. Since he had assumed his present calling, he had lived several years among the Indians in the North-West, and had paid long visits to the missions established among them by the French. Thence he wandered to Quebec, where the increasing infirmities of age induced him to take up his permanent abode. 
               It so chanced that in all his previous visits, the Indian had never been encountered by him. Etura had learned portions of Father John's history from the conversation of the family, and purposely held herself aloof. She was aware that he had at one time spent two years at the mission in which her brother received his education, and might possibly be acquainted with his person. To be recognized nized in her assumed character, and yet be unable to sustain it, would she knew be fatal to her disguise, therefore she carefully avoided him. 
               This evening, she had been out in the city filling a commission entrusted to her by Ashleigh, and soon after the entrance of the priest she returned to make her report. Absorbed in a deep and painful reverie, she did not heed the sound of a strange voice, but walked directly into the room in which the party sat. 
               The first object her eyes rested on, was Father John, and she paused in the doorway almost paralyzed by fear, even through the paint that streaked her features, the pallor that overspread them was visible. The glance of the old man fell on her, and starting forward, he exclaimed-"Wenona, whence came you? By what chance do I find you here?" 
               Making a violent effort for self-command, the low voice of the Indian replied to his question in calm tones. 
               "I am in the service of the Americans, and was captured in the late battle with my superior, Captain Ashleigh." 
               "Ah, how has it chanced that we have not before met? did not Wenona wish to claim his old friend?" "Holy Father," replied the Indian evasively-"had I known that in Father John I should meet a friend, I should have sought you long ere this." The old man arose, took the clasped hands of the Indian in both his own, and addressed her in the soft dialect of her tribe. Etura understood not a word, and for a moment her heart died within her at the certainty of detection if this scene continued much longer. With a desperate resolve, she bent toward the priest and whispered a few sentences into his ear. 
               They seemed to transfix him with amazement; he held her at arm's length, and examined the features which had so deceived him-the pale lips syllabled the word 'mercy," though no sound issued from them, and softly relaxing his grasp, Father John returned to his seat, as the Indian hurriedly glided from the room. 
               "My Indian satellite seems to have moved you strangely," remarked Ashleigh with surprise, as he beheld the singular emotion of the two. 
               "Wenona always was a strange being," replied the priest quietly; "I little expected ever to meet him among the defenders of the colonies. I will see him to-night alone, and learn from him the history of the causes which have led him into his present position." 
               No more was said on the subject, though each one who beheld it was surprised at the singularity of the late interview, and felt assured that some painful secret lay beneath the apparent mystery. 'Twere vain to conjecture what this was, for from the quiet and reserved Indian nothing could be gained, and from his calling, the priest was too much accustomed to become the depository of others' secrets, to be incautious enough to betray any clue to the import of the whispered words which had produced so great an effect. 
               Father John soon afterward took his leave, and in the gloom of twilight we will precede him to the confessional in which he sat on the night on which Jessie and Herbert had taken refuge near it. It was now occupied by the drooping form of the young Indian, who awaited the arrival of the venerable man with a restless fear which was torture to her. 
               At length a feeble and uncertain step was heard approaching, and the priest drew aside the curtain that sheltered the unhappy creature from observation. The light from a neighboring shrine fell upon her gay dress and drooping figure, and after a pause he said- 
               "But for that hopeless attitude, I should still be tempted to believe that you have spoken falsely, and think the young Sachem I once knew now standing before me. But Wenona never lost his spirit thus. In the sorrowful expression of your features, I recognize no trait of the brave Indian lad." 
               "The resemblance which strikes you will cease to surprise, when I tell you that Wenona is my brother, and for purposes of vital importance to me, I personate him. Father, I have been reared in a different faith; but if you will receive the confession of a crushed and bleeding heart, under the seal of secresy enjoined by your church, I will make it to you most gladly." 
                
               "Speak on; I will accept your revelation in good faith" 
               She threw herself upon her knees before him, and impetuously said- 
               "An unloved girl, with the passionate and fiery soul of a slighted woman, kneels before you, and entreats you not to betray her sex; for a breach of faith on your part will be death to her. I have taken a solemn vow that in the hour of discovery, I will destroy myself, and I am not one to recede from my purpose." 
               "But why is this concealment necessary?" asked the bewildered priest. 
               "It enables me to follow the man I love without scandal. I was reared with him-I have been his slave from childhood; let my life end in the ignoble servitude, since from it I drew all the happiness I now know; if the feeble glow that reaches my heart may indeed be called happiness." 
               The priest began to understand her. He said with severity. 
               "But Captain Ashleigh is married: he is devoted to another." 
               "Alas! he was free when I first learned to love him," she mournfully replied. "Father, blame me not; I have tried to live away from him. I would have sought the forest home of my brother; but my soul died within me when I no longer heard his voice. The wonderful resemblance between Wenona and myself suggested the plan I adopted. As Wenonia I returned-was received as a companion in arms, and as such I will remain with him to the last." 
               The priest was touched by her devotion, yet he read her a long homily on the sinful ness of her conduct, in so loving one whose affections were bestowed on another. 
               "That is my misfortune," replied the poor girl, "but I cannot see that it makes my love a crime. To be near him-to shield him from danger is all I ask. Deny it to me, and I will no longer live." 
               "Poor sinful child of earth," replied the priest compassionately, "Will no persuasions turn you from your erring path? Is the voice of God mute in your heart, that you violate the instincts he has given to your sex, and call it no crime? Leave this idol, unhappy one, and his image will grow dim-you will create for yourself other and happier ties." 
               "Never! I have sacrificed everything to follow him-I have placed an impassable barrier between myself and the ordinary duties of women. Never will I betray my sex until the hour of death renders all earthly things indifferent to me. I tell you truly, that in this wide world I have no place of refuge if I do as you would bid me. My lot is cast, and I abide it to the last." 
               "I will find an asylum for you, uuhappy child, replied Father John. "The doors of our church open to receive those the world has forsaken. It will not seem strange to Captain Ashleigh that you prefer to remain with one he thinks an old friend. I will place you with the sisters of our holy church, who dwell in the city. They will receive and cherish you, and once more the peaceful consciousness of rectitude may brighten your life." 
               The Indian arose, and stood before him with her hands clasped, as she earnestly replied- 
               "Holy Father, look back through the long vista of the years through which you have traveled, and recal the days of your youth; the rush of feeling-the swift-bounding of the life-current, now so calm in its flow, and then judge me. I refuse your kind offer, for I could not live amid the quiet routine of conventual existence, even if no grief clutched forever at my heartstrings. The wild instincts of my race forever stir within me, and the life of toil and danger I have embraced is not without its charm. The greatest one I admit, is, that it is shared with him I love; it enables me to watch over a life that is unutterably precious to me; to perform services for him which even her he so dearly loved, would shrink from. This is my glory and my reward. I ask no other." 
               She turned as if to leave him, but the priest detained her. 
               "Should the time ever arrive when you wish to avail yourself of my protection, and I yet live, come to me; my heart shall be open to you, poor misguided one; and such assistance as I can render shall cheerfully be yours." 
                
               "Thanks, good and holy man," she replied, with emotion. "Yes, I thank you as sincerly as if it were possible to accept your kind offer; but my destiny is already written. My short span of life will be devoted to him I choose to follow: the end will be death in his service, or self-immolation; for I will not survive his knowledge of my identity. Adieu, good man, for such I feel you to be." 
               In another instant she was gone; and on the following morning, at an early hour. Etura accompanied Ashleigh on his return to his native home. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               Letters from Oakwood had reached Ashleigh at long intervals, and the news they contained rendered him extremely anxious to revisit his family. 
               Since the departure of his son, the health of Mr. Ashleigh had rapidly failed him; in fact the shock he sustained on the night of the supposed destruction of his grandson, together with that of the young girl he had loved as a daughter, had never been recovered from. A slow fever, which alike weakened mind and body, fastened on him, and Ruth wrote in great distress to her brother, urging him to return as soon as possible, as she was left in a country threatened with invasion and outrage, in an almost unprotected state. 
               Allen was far away in that division of the army under the immidiate command of Gen. Washington, and she rarely ever heard from him in the unsettled condition of the country. The few neighbors on whose assistance she could rely, were rapidly removing from among the first to be attacked, in that system of predatory warfare about to be adopted by a point which it was understood would be Sir Henry Clinton. Under such painful apprehensions our little party journeyed as rapidly as possible toward their place of destination, and as they drew near the bourne of their wishes, many painful fears assailed the heart of the son and brother. 
               It was bright summer weather, and the smiling landscape seemed too fair and peaceful to be marred by the rude passions of men, as the little party of equestrians approached the rural valley in which Oakwood lay. Various were the emotions that assailed the three travellers; intensely painful to the mother's heart was her return to the scene of her bereavement; and scarcely less so was the recollection of that night of horror, to the young Indian. 
               Etura had no intention of taking up her abode in the old mansion; that would have been to painful, as well as hazardous to her incognito. In some unguarded moment, the eyes of Miss Ashleigh might be less easily deceived than those of her brother, and her identity be discovered. She had already informed Ashleigh that she intended to remain in the village during his stay at Oakwood, as the remarkable likeness she bore to one whose memory was painful both to Mr. Ashleigh and his daughter, might awaken unpleasant recollections. 
               Ashleigh willingly acquiesced in the propriety of the proposal, and thus it was arranged. 
               Many weeks had elapsed since the last communication was received from Ruth, and as the young officer drew near the scenes of his early happiness, his mind was filled with vague uneasiness. He knew not why, but he felt an instinctive foreboding that some evil was impending over his loved home, or had already fallen on it. When they reached the foot of an eminence from the top of which a view of the native town could be obtained, he spurred his horse rapidly forward, and looked down on a scene of desolation which struck coldly on his heart. 
               The lately flourishing village lay before him a heap of ruins, from which smoke yet ascended. Farther on, his frenzied eye glanced toward the venerable home of his fathers. It was no longer there, and the column of the smoke which ascended in the clear summer air, eloquently told its fate. 
               "My helpless father; my unprotected sister!" he exclaimed with bitter anguish. "Oh what has been your fate, amid this scene of outrage!" 
               Wildly dashing forward, forgetful of everything but the desolation before him, Ashleigh entered the town, but he paused not as he heard his name uttered in accents of surprize, and often of sorrowful welcome, by the pall groups he encountered wandering around the ruins of their late happy homes. 
               Ashleigh dared not ask the fate of those that were dear to him; he feared the reply that might be made, and he dashed swiftly toward the spot on which the solution of his doubts and fears must be found. The lawn was trampled, and the shrubbery destroyed; the fences broken down in many places, and nothing remained of the dear old house, but a heap of smouldering ashes. 
               On one side of the yard, an old shed stood so far from the main building as to have escaped the conflagration; and the frenzied eye of the young officer rested on a melancholy groupe collected beneath the shelter of a tree which grew near it. A gray-heared tremulous man, sat on a brocken chair, with clasped hands, and bowed form. At his feet crouched a young girl, with disordered hair, and a pallid face, on which the impress of terror yet remained. A middle age negro woman wrung her hands, and audilly lamented the destruction on which the others silently gazed. 
               Ashleigh dismounted, and rapidly approaching them, knelt before his father with tears upon his manly checks. His sister with a cry of joy, started up and threw her arms around his neck, but the old man looked vacantly at him, as if unable to comprehend who he was, or why he came to that scene of suffering. He passively submitted to have his hands taken, but he made not the slightest movement of recognition. Then Ashleigh saw that a heavy blow had been dealt upon his head, and the blood had settled in deep purple lines across his forehead, and beneath his eyes. 
               "Oh merciful Father!" groaned the unhappy young man, "Only now have the horrors of war been truly brought home to me. My sister what means this scene? Who has committed these ravages? Yet why do I ask? Men claiming the same blood, speaking the same language, have perpetrated outrages which should brand them with infamy to all future time." 
               Ruth mournfully replied- 
               "Last night, by the orders of General Try on, the town was given up to pillage and conflagration. A party of ruffians came hither; my father attempted to resist them, and their leader struck him across the head with such violence as to render him senseless for several hours. He has since spoken only a few vague and disconnected words, and I fear he is sadly injured. Oh my brother, this is a terrible reception for you." 
               "And yourself, Ruth?" asked the brother with effort. "Amid such a scene, how did you escape?" 
               "I scarcely know, I was so absorbed in the danger of my father that I heeded little else that was passing. The wretches pillaged the house, and then set fire to it, as they retired with their booty. We took refuge in this shed for the remainder of the night, and Dorcas fortunately managed to save some bedding, and a few chairs." 
               "And was there no friend, who in so dire an emergency, would give shelter and protection to my father and sister?" said Ashleigh bitterly. 
               "The calamity is so universal, my dear brother, urged Miss Ashleigh, "that men are absorbed in their own losses. They find their energies tested to the utmost to provide for their own; yet many have endeavored to aid us, as far as lay in their power. I declined their offers, for we were in a better condition than many who made them. We at least could command a shelter; and I was in hourly expectation of your arrival. I therefore considered it best to remain on the spot that you mind find us at once." 
               "It was well thought of my sister. Ah this terrible calamity unmans me; will nothiny arouse my father from his stupor? It wrings my heart to see him thus?" 
               Ruth sorrowfully regarded the old man, as she replied- 
               "If anything could, it would be your presence. Father, dearest father, welcome my brother-your son is before you-see, he has returned to clasp your hands." 
               As she thus spoke, Ashleigh knelt before him, and took both of the chilled hands of the old man in his own. He vaguely repeated- 
               "My son? Yes I have a gallant son, but he is a prisoner far away, and they have meanly taken advantage of it, to bring ruin and desolation on the grey-haired man, and innocent maiden. My noble boy will repay them yet; wait, let him come, let him only come." 
               "I am here dearest father. Look on me, know me, I am your Edward. I have come to remove you from this ruined home." 
               But one portion of his words seemed to make any impression. Mr. Ashleigh shook his head and raised his tremulous hands, as he said- 
               "No, no, I will not be removed. I will stay where I was born, and where I will die. They will not have to wait long for the last, not long. The old man is nearly worn out. His feeble frame will soon be borne to the rest which knows no waking." 
               "Speak not thus dearest father; your children are beside you, and they cannot bear it. Long shall you remain with them." 
               At that moment a group of the people from the village approached, escorting Mrs. Ashleigh and the young Indian. Etura endeavored to screen herself from observation as much as possible, as they drew near the old man. Her efforts were vain, for his wandering eyes were attracted at once by the vivid color of the mantle she always wore. Hence they glanced toward her face, and a gleam of intelligence lighted up his features. Then wonder and horror were aroused in the lately dormant mind, and he raised his hand, and pointed to her with his trembling finger, as he said- 
               "Behold the murderess in her robe of blood. How dares she come hither? The doom of the innocent is on her soul. No wonder the red stains break forth on her garment." 
               The first impulse of the unhappy being was to rush forward, and trow herself at his feet, there to demand pardon for all the past; but with an emotion of convulsive anguish, she checked it, and stood impasssively before him, while the weeping Mary threw herself upon his breast, and exclaimed- 
               "'Tis not the destroyer of my child, dear father, 'tis not Etura you behold, but the youug Sachem, her brother. He has atoned for the crime of his sister, by saving the life of my husband." 
               "Ah! 'tis well then. And you, in your black robes, are you in mourning for the woes of your country? Well may you be, for her children should wear sack-cloth and ashes, and veil their faces in wo." 
               "I am your daughter, the wife of the son you love. Speak to us father. Recognize us as your children." 
               A faint and confused glimber of the truth seemed to glance athwart his mind. He put his hand to his head, and muttered- 
               "My brain is sadly confused. Take me away from this bright light, Mary. It hurts my eyes greatly." 
               Ashleigh lifted him in his strong arms as if he had been a child, and bore him into the humble shed. In one corner stood a bed, on which he carefully placed him. The two sisters remained to watch over him, and whispered the tale of their mutual trials, while the aged man slumbered fitfully. 
               In the meantime Ashleigh went among the group of villagers, whom the most of his arrival had drawn together, to learn all the particulars of the disasters of the preceding night. The narration of them only fired his soul with a more eager desire to rush into the fray, and avenge the outrage as soon as possible. 
               Before night he wrote to Col. K-, an officer in the Connecticut iine, who was then at Brooklyn with Washington, and offered to join his company immediately, with a band of volunteers from the ravaged district. 
               The spirit the invaders hoped to quell by outrages unsanctioned by the customs of civilized warfare, was aroused into a species of frenzy; and men who never before had thought of arming in defence of their country, were now only anxious to be led against the foe, that they might at least strike one blow in revenge of their desecrated homes, and houseless children. 
               Their peaceful little villages had only shared the fate of other towns in the vicinity. East Haven, and New Haven had both been pillaged and burned by the orders of General Tryon, and a cry of vengeance arose above their ruins. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               The limits of my story will not permit me to follow my hero through the subsequent scene in which he gained the distinction of a gallant and able officer. 
               Captain Ashleigh joined the army in Brooklyn in time to share in the memorable retreat from Long Island, which the interposition of nature in favor of the Americans, aided materially in affecting. 
               While it was clear at New York, a heavy fog veiled the proceeding of the army at Long Island from the ships of the enemy, and enabled the Commander-in-chief to remove his whole encampment under its friendly shelter. When the movement was at last discovered by the enemy, they attempted to enter the river, and cut off his retreat; but an unfavorable wind sprung up, and prevented them from interfering with the admirable movements of their adversary. The God of battles was with the man who then held the destinies of our struggling country. Amid all the difficulties the great heart of Washington had to contend with, from insufficient and discordant means with which he labored for the freedom of his native land, such assistance was often vouchsafed as saved her in her hour of greatest need. 
               Had his plans been defeated on that day, the freedom of the Colonies must for a time have been considered as lost. The unconquerable spirit of her sons would have risen from defeat, to battle anew for independence, but the struggle must for a season have become even more hopeless than it then seemed. Even after the army had been successfully transferred to New York, it required all the energy and indefatigable perserverance of Gen. Washington to prevent its total dissolution. The troops were without discipline, and discouraged by the dismal prospects before them the faint hearted were hourly deserting. To add to his difficulties, among those that remained true to the cause, dissensions arose every day between the recruits from the Southern and the Eastern section of the country. 
               Forgetting that all were Americans, armed in one common cause, fighting for all men hold dear; that disunion among themselves must produce the most terrible results, the men were hourly upbraiding each other with the greatest animosity, and not unfreqnently proceeding to blows. 
               In this situation, it was of immense importance to Washington to ascertain the position and intended movements of the British army, which was then in possession of Long Island. He consulted with several of his most trustly officers to oscertain if a man could be found among the troops who would be willing to undertake so hazardous an enterprise. He hesitated to ask the services of a spy from an officer of any standing yet in the almost disorganized condition of his army, it was difficult to pick out a man from the ranks with sufficient intelligence, prudence, and adroitness, to succeed in so important a service; and even if found capable, where could one be sought who would willingly encounter the great peril of the mission? 
               In reply to these representations, Washington said- 
               "In so momentous a crisis in the fate of our country, I will not believe that a man cannot be found willing to risk his life in this service, and capable of accomplishing what I desire. Seek for him, for I feel that he will he forthcoming at the proper moment." 
               The officers dispersed, and the Commander remained alone calmly awaiting the report of their success. 
               Col. K-, the commander of the detachment in which Ashleigh served, was among those with whom he had consulted, and he returned to the portion of the city in which his men was quartered, with but faint hopes of finding among them one capable of undertaking a service of so much importance. 
               He remembered a man in Capt. Ashleigh's troops of more then average intelligence, who held the post of sergeant; and he proceeded at once to consult his superior officer as to the qualifications he possessed for the trust he wished to delegate to him. He found Ashleigh without difficulty, and cautiously revealed to the young officer the nature of his errand. His hopes were at once crushed by learning that the man he referred to was confined to his bed with severe illness. 
               "Then I know not what is to be done," said Col. K-despondingly. "The other officers consulted by Gen. Washington declared that they knew not a man who could be trusted in so perillous a crisis; but with that faith in success which sustained him in every difficulty, the Commander said, the right man would be found." 
               "Ha! said he so?" exclaimed Ashleigh with a sudden glow of enthusiasm. "Yet, he was right. The man is found. I will encounter the risk, and return in safety from the enemy's line." 
               "You! Are you well advised of all your risks? Besides, the character of a spy is one an officer is not expected to assume." 
               Ashleigh's cheeks flushed, but he clamly replied- 
               "What matters it, so the service be performed with the good faith of a man of honor? I cannot consider it a degradation, to assume any character which in this terrible crisis, may possibly save my bleeding country." 
               His campanion warmly grasped his hand: 'You are right my young friend; but you have other ties which must be considered. Your wife, your sister, your infirm father, call on you to regard them before the interest of our country. Should you perish, what would be their fate, in a country so unsettled as this?" 
               The glow of enthusiasm faded, and after a pause the young man firmly replied- 
               "I can give a protector to my sister in one to whom she has long been plighted. He will be a son to my father, a brother to my wife, should I become a victim to the cause I have embraced. I love them all ardently, but in the wretched crisis, in which we are placed, it seems to me that the duty of the patriot to his country is paramount to that he owes to his own household." 
               "Nobly and well said," exclaimed Col. K. "but let me entreat you to pause and reflect on this enterprize before I communicate with General Washington. You may see cause to recede from your offer, weigh well all you may chance to encounter, before you decide on accepting so hazardous a service." 
               Ashleigh replied with a smile- 
               "I doubt if any deed of daring would have been recorded on the page of history, if the person who accomplished it had paused to calculate all the chances for or against him. No, Col. K-. I desire no pause in which to recoil from what seems so plainly my duty. Besides, I have sufficient confidence in my own resources, to believe that I shall return in safety, with the information the Commander-in-chief needs." 
               "I trust so, in God's name," was the fervent response. "Since you are determined, let us lose no time, but go at once to Gen. Washington." 
               Ashleigh assented, and a few moments brought them to the house occupied as head quarters. After a brief delay, they were ushered into the room occupied by the great man they sought. At the upper end of the apartment was a table covered with papers and beside it sat Washington, with a chart of Long Island before him which he was earnestly examining, which his pencil traced lines rapidly upon it. 
               As the officers entered, Washington raised his head, and greeted them with the dignified suavity which distinguished his manner. His face brightened as he recognized Col. K-. and he asked- 
               "Has Captain Ashleigh found the person I desire among those in his troops?" 
               "The right man has been found as your Excellency predicted," replied the officer he addressed, bowing deferentially. 
               "Ah! that is good, and in whom? In the sergeant you named?" 
               "No sir; but in Captain Ashleigh himself." 
               Washington turned quickly toward the young officer, and grasping his hand, said- 
               "Will Captain Ashleigh indeed volunteer on such a duty? There is great hope for our country, when such a spirit animates her sons, that they shrink from no service her cause may demand." 
               "Thank your Excellency," said Ashleigh with a warm glow upon his bronzed cheek. It is my purpose to accomplish your wishes, if there is possibility of so doing." 
               Washington gazed a moment with his serene ene eyes into the bright face of the young man, and then laying his hand impressively upon his shoulder, said with emotion- 
               "I thank God that the wailing cry of our bleeding country is stronger in your soul than the whispers of pride. Many would think that you derogate from your station, Captain Ashleigh, in undertaking this service; but I do not. Its importance, its danger, elevates it to the rank of the deeds accomplished by the heroes of the old. Go on your holy errand young man; bring back to me the information which may save your country's cause; and your noble recompence shall be the eternal gratitude of her sons." 
               "With the help of Heaven I will accomplish what I undertake, or perish in the attempt; no man can do more," said Ashleigh fervently. 
               "Amen," responded Washington, "but let me recommend every degree of caution, consistent with the success of your enterprise; for we cannot afford to lose so gallant an officer." 
               The cheek of the young man glowed at such words from one so reverenced, and he bowed low over the hand he warmly clasped. He said- 
               "Having made my purpose known to your Excellency, I will now hasten to my family, to make such preparations as may be needful, to enable me to depart at the earliest moment." 
               "You also have near and tender ties," said Washington, gently. "This but renders your offered service the more magnanimous. In one hour you will receive from me a written document, indicating the precise information which may be most useful to me. Your departure must take place under cover of night, Captain Ashleigh, and I again impress upon you the necessity of extreme caution. You are aware that if you fall into the hands of the British, you will meet an ignominous death, and they will endeavor to aggravate your sufferings as much as possible." 
               "I thank you for the caution, but your Excellency may rest assured that I shall take every precaution to escape detection. I trust that in twenty-four hours I shall return with all the imformation that may be needed by you." 
               "I trust so; and in the meantime take with you the assurance of the esteem and approbation with which George Washington regards your conduct in this disastrous crisis. It shall be my care, that your disinterested self-devotion meets its just reward." 
               "With such an example as your commander has set before us, no man claiming the name of American, should refuse to perform any duty that may conduce to the ultimate triumph of his country's cause. The reward I alone seek is the approbation of him who is the hope of his native land, in this, her darkest our." 
               Again the bland smile illumined the massive features of Washington as a sudden ray of light, and he turned to the table and lifting the chart he had been examining on their entrance, he said- 
               "Here is a correct map of Long Island with the outposts of the British army marked out upon it. From our recent occupation of the place you know the ground very well, but this may be of use to you. And now, Captain Ashleigh, may God preserve you." 
               "Amen," responded the young officer fervently, and he left the room deeply impressed with the simplicity and unaffected dignity which General Washington's manner seldom failed to produce even in the minds of those who were inimical to him. The enthusiastic Ashleigh felt at that moment as if life itself would scarcely be too great a sacrifice, to obtain the approbation of such a man. 
               But soon this exaltation of feeling subsided, and all that must be accomplished in the few hours that remained before he set out on his hazardous enterprise, arose before him. He hurried with quick steps to the quarters of Allan; by the time he reached them, the feverish rush of feeling was subdued, and he calmly reviewed the chances involved in the undertaking before him. He did not recoil from the dangers that lay in his path, even when the pale face of his beloved Mary arose before his fancy; for he knew that she possessed sufficient heroism amid all her love for him, to send him forth with words of encouragement agement, upon a duty he deemed so sacred. But every contingency must be provided for, and he sought Allan for the purpose of bestowing on him the right to protect those he left behind him. 
               The evening was warm and clear, and the brilliant beams of a gorgeous sunset cast their radiant glow over the beleagured city, in which beat so many fearful and unquiet hearts. Ashleigh stood at the door of Allan's temporary home several moments collecting his thoughts for the approaching interview. At length he entered and found Allan alone. As he arose to greet him he said- 
               "You are welcome, Edward; I was just about to seek the lodgings of your father to enquire how the old gentleman is this evening." 
               "About as usual. I am afraid he never will be strong again; but it is much that life and reason were spared, after the severe shock he sustained last year." 
               As he spoke, Ashleigh threw himself upon a seat, and the light from an open window fell on his face. Allan regarded him an instant, and then asked- 
               "Has anything occurred of especial interest to you? your features express an unusual degree of emotion." 
               "Ah! do I indeed betray myself thus? asked Ashleigh with a faint smile. "I am more deeply moved than is common with me, my friend; but it is with a purpose which may lead to your happiness." 
               "What can you mean?" 
               "You have long loved my sister, George, and I propose this evening to bestow her hand upon you; your tried affection deserves this reward, before I go on a service of danger which renders it expedient to give her to another protector at once." 
               Allan listened in bewildered surprize-"you speak in riddles which I am at a loss to solve. To what service do you allude, pray explain." 
               In as few words as possible, Ashleigh related his recent interview with Washington, and the pledge he had given. Allan heard him in sorrowful surprize. After a pause he said- 
               "This service is full of peril, Edward, and should not have been hazarded by one bound by such ties as you possess. Suffer me to take your place, for I should not be so deeply lamented as you would, should I be so unfortunate as to be captured. Let me thus prove my devotion to Ruth, by saving her brother to console the blighted remnant of her father's days." 
               "Your offer is generous-noble, my dear friend, but it may not be accepted. I have offered my services to our commander in good faith, and I should feel forever dishonored to retract. You, my dear George, can relieve my mind of its greatest anxiety by receiving before I depart, the hand you have so long sought." 
               "Ah! if Ruth can only be induced to consent," exclaimed the lover with flashing eyes, forgetful for an instant of the heavy blow about to fall on her he loved. 
               "My sister has long loved you George," replied Ashleigh gravely-"she will moreover see that the motive which induces me to make this request is of sufficient force to remove all idle scruples. But time flies, and I have much to attend to before I depart. I will go at once, and reveal to my family as much as is needful of my purposed enterprize, so you follow me in half an hour, accompanied by the chaplain, and I guarantee the consent of Ruth to become yours at once." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               A small but comfortable house had been obtained by Ashleigh for his family; and on that bright evening, the wasted figure of his father reclined in a large chair near an open window, from which the bay was visible, now reflecting the varied hues of a brilliant sunset. 
               Change of scene, and the stirring events of the day, had in a measure effaced Mr. Ashleigh's regrets for his own individual losses; he felt that in comparison with the calamities which threatened the nation, they were of trifling moment. With his son beside him, his mind soon acquired its usual tone, but his physical health he knew to be a wreck. To live to witness the triumph of his country's cause, was now all he desired; and no young heart bright with the undimmed enthusiasm of hope, felt a deeper interest in the struggle than that of this feeble worn man of sixty. 
               Near him sat his daughter, reading aloud an evening chapter from the Bible; and by a curious coincidence, it was the relation of the sacrifice of Isaac. Mr. Ashleigh sat with clasped hands, half listening to what was so familiar to her, yet almost unconsciously for the sound of her husband's approaching footsteps. 
               Ashleigh came in while the sweet voice of the reader was yet engaged in her evening task, and sunk into a seat in silence. The eyes of his wife lifted wistfully to his face and as she gazed earnestly upon it, the delicate rose tint that brightened her cheek, retreated and left her pale as marble. Some intuitive sense of approaching danger to him came to her, as she read in that face which was an open scroll to her, the working of his unquiet mind. 
               As Ruth closed the sacred book, Mr. Ashleigh said- 
               "Ah! it was a great trial of faith which God demanded of Abraham. It was had to rask of him the sacrifice of his only son." 
               "Dear father in a holy and just cause, could you not do the same?" asked Ashleigh. "Have you not already done so in devoting your only son to the service of his country?" 
               "But for you there are chances of escape, Edward, whereas Abraham laid his child on the altar, in the full belief that his life would be required at his hands." 
               "To me, it seems that the patriarch's faith in God's infinite goodness, assured him that a means would be found to save the son he so dearly loved. Should a similar trial come to you, dear father, should I go on a service of peril, which is of importance to the cause I serve, could you not have the faith which nerved him of old, in parting from me." 
               The old gentleman turned his gaze on his son, and after a pause of earnest scrutiny, replied- 
               "That your question is not an idle one I read in your face. If you can effectually serve the cause in which our every hope is embraced, go, I will not withhold you, however deep may be my struggles in your absence. Neither will she draw you back from the path of duty, who now at the bare intimation of danger, so wildly grasps your hand. Mary, my daughter, the wife of him who battles for his country, must be strong to bear all that may befall him." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh had risen, and now stood beside her husband, struggling to stifle the painful emotion that thrilled her heart. She replied in a firm, but low tone- 
               "I know it father; I feel it; and I would be heroic, if my woman's heart did not beat so tumultuously. Tell me, Edward, what you would do? What is required of you? I will endeavor to nerve my soul to endure in silence." 
               Ashleigh pressed her cold hand in his, as he said- 
               "I came hither to reveal to you, that I have volunteered on a service of great importance to the Commander-in-chief. I will not attempt to conceal from you that it is also full of peril, though its exact nature I cannot yet reveal. Let it suffice that I was moved to undertake the duty, by a conviction of its necessity; and I moreover believe that I shall return in safety to those who love me. My father, I shall take with me your blessing. My Mary, my sister, your prayers will accompany the wanderer on each step to his way." 
               "Go then in God's name, and that of the cause you serve," said Mr. Ashleigh solemnly, as he laid his hand upon the bowed head of his son, in the attitude of solemn benediction: while his wife and sister hung round him in speechless emotion; yet neither thought for an instant of dissuading him from the enterprize he had undertaken. The heroic women of that day, were too fully impressed with the importance of the struggle then pending, to hold back their dearest one from participating in it. 
                
               After a pause of deep emotion, the young officer took the hand of his sister and impressively said- 
               It is necessary to provide for every possible contingency, my dearest Ruth; when about to face unknown danger, I cannot leave those so dear to me, in a city threatened with attack, without a protector on whom they possess some legal claim. Before I depart, my sweet sister, I entreat your consent to bestow this hand on him to whom it has so long been plighted." 
               The young girl turned aside her weeping ace, as she faltered- 
               "Not now, not now dearest brother. George himself, would not ask it in a moment of such distress. He will be the same to us, whether the tie be cemented now, or at a further time." 
               "But it will lighten my mind of its most serious care, darling Ruth, to know that you are the wife of Allan. The engagement has already been one of long standing. Consent then to this request, as if it were the last I shall ever make to you." 
               "Ah! if regarded thus I dare not refuse. Do with me as you please." 
               "I thank you," he briefly replied. "Allan will be here in a few moments, accompanied by the Chaplain, for I have already seen him and made the necessary arrangements. If you desire to make any change in your dress, I recommend you to do so as speedily as possible, for time presses." 
               Ruth retired at once, to her own apartment and then the wife grasped her husband's hand, and drew him into the next room, where they could be a few moment alone. She hurriedly said- 
               "You know you may trust me Edward. Tell me all, all. I must comprehend the full extent of the danger you go to encounter, or I shall torture myself with a thousand fears." 
               I did not mean to withhold my entire confidence from you love," said Ashleigh tenderly, "for I know that you possess more fortitude than usually falls to the lot of your sex." 
               He then briefly recounted the events of the day; she clapsed her hands over her face, that he might not behold the emotions which convulsed it, as she listened to his words. She at length looked up, but oh! so pale, and said in trembling tones- 
               "A spy! and if you are taken your inevitable fate will be death! Oh God of mercy! aid me to bear this burden!" 
               "He will, he will, my precious Mary," whispered Ashleigh, as he sustained her half-fainting form in his arms. After a few moments, the poor tortured heart beat with a less passionate throb of anguish, and raising her head, she more composedly said- 
               "Your honor is pledged, my husband, and I will not ask you to recoil from your proffer, even if my heart should break in the conflict Go, the welfare of your country is of more importance, than the happiness of a single individual." 
               "My angel wife, you speak truly, nobly; my word is pledged, and honor is only found on the path of danger. I shall return safely my Mary; the service is one of peril; bu with caution, I can easily escape the vigilance of the enemy." 
               The few tears shed by the heroic wife were soon wiped away, and at the sound of Allan's voice in the sitting room, she hastened to Ruth to assist her in the hurried toilette she was compelled to make. 
               In a few moments, the two returned to the apartment occupied by the rest of the party, the bride simply robed in white, with no ornament save her own fair loveliness. Allan met her at the door, and as he drew his hand beneath her arm, he whispered a few words which caused her pale cheeks to glow, and for an instant her humid eyes were raised to his, with an expression of love and trust which appealed irresistibly to his deeply enamored heart. The mental vow he at that moment made, to cherish the fair flower thus given to him, was even more solemn than that he was about to take. 
               The two stood before the minister, and by the simple ceremony of the puritans they were speedily united. Then the pair knelt, as on the evening of their betrothal, before the gray-haired sire, and received his benediction. Brief, yet touching was the prayer of the old man, and every heart there was thrilled with the solemn invocation to the God of battles, with which it ended, to preserve all those who were sent forth on a service of danger. 
               Ashleigh pressed his sister to his heart at its conclusion, and expressed his thanks for her compliance with his wishes. 
               "I have given you to a noble husband dear Ruth," he said, "seek to render him happy, and in so doing, find your own felicity. And now, I must prepare to bid you all adieu." 
               Heartbreaking was the parting that ensued. For many moments the father held his son in his feeble arms and then fervently said: 
               "No longer mine, but my country's, I yield him to her service; yet oh! God of the believer save him-protect him in the danger he goes to encounter, and bring him back in safety to those who love him." 
               Here his sister wound her fair arms around his neck, with tears silently streaming over her pallid cheeks. The last embrace was reserved for his wife, who made every effort to repress the outward show of the anguish that rived her heart. She only whispered- 
               "Come back to me, my Edward, or I shall die in my loneliness. I have no one but you oh, my beloved, in this wide wide world to cling to." 
               Ashleigh placed her nearly lifeless form in the arms of his sister, and tore himself away. 
               Hurriedly returning to his quarters, he summoned the Indian to his presence, and enquired if the articles he had ordered her to purchase before he went to head quarters in the afternoon, were ready for him. 
               "They are," replied Etura, "when have I ever failed to obey your commands to the letter, however difficult of execution they might be." 
               "True, Wenona, and these were by no means so easy to fulfil just now. Bring forth the things and let me see them." 
               Etura went to a closet in the wall, and drew forth a suit of coarse clothing, a red wig, and a pair of false eye-brows of the same color. Next came a pedler's pack passably well filled. 
               "Ah, well done my faithful ally-now get me a little brown powder to darken my complexion with, and my disguise will be complete." 
               Etura proceeded on this errand, and on her return found him quite metamorphosed in appearance. Even her eyes sharpened by love, would scarcely have recognized him in his new garb. While he used the powder she had brought, in deepening the bronzed hue of his features, she stood before him apparently calm, but beneath that guarded exterior was surging a sea of fear, anguish and uncertainty, which momentarily threatened to sweep away all the concealment of the past, and reveal to him the long-guarded secret. 
               Making an effort to steady her voice, Etura at length said- 
               "What means this disguise, Captain Ashleigh? Whither are you going? and what use do you purpose to make of yonder pack? I who have served you so faithfully, surely have a right to demand this much confidence." 
               "You deserve, and shall have it, Wenona," replied Ashleigh frankly. "If you will go as a spy to the British encampment, and provided you shrink not from the risk, I will take you as my only companion, in the voyage I must make down the river." 
               A gleam of wild joy shot over the expressive features of the Indian. She exclaimed: 
               "Shrink! never! May I indeed accompany you-share in your peril?" 
               "Not exactly the latter, my good friend for that must be borne alone. When I reach the scene of danger we must part. You will remain in charge of our boat on the shore occupied by our countrymen, while I go among the enemy." 
               "Even that is much. Should you be pursued, I can be on the alart to aid your escape. Thanks, a thousand thanks, for this privilege." 
               "One would suppose that I had granted a coveted boon, Wenona, instead of placing you in a position in which your life may be perilled in my service," said Ashleigh with a faint smile. 
                
               "Life! of what value is it, but to devote it to those we love?" asked the Indian in a low tone, as she turned away and busied herself in completing their preparations. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               The night was clear and starlit, but when three figures passed the last sentinel of the American outposts, to whom Allan gave the word of the night, a thin mist was beginning to curl upwards from the surface of the bay. 
               They speedily reached a small cove in which the boat lay concealed, and the little figure of the Indian at once stepped into it, and began to make preparations to cast loose the fastenings which held it. 
               Ashleigh paused a moment, and wrung the hand of his companion, as he said- 
               "I leave in your care Allan, all that is dear to me. Should I perish in this enterprise, be to them all I would have been, had life been spared to me." 
               "I will, so help me heaven," responded the young officer. 
               A few more whispered words were exchanged, and the friends parted. Ashleigh sprang into the boat and pushed it from the shore; as he waved a last adieu to Allan, it glided within the curtain of mist, which momentarily thickened, and rolled as a white winding sheet in pale folds around them. With a heavy sigh, and a foreboding heart, Allan lost sight of the light craft and its inmates, and then turned toward the city he had recently left. 
               Ashleigh had with him the papers of instructions sent to him by Washington; they were brief and simple, merely indicating the course it would be most expedient to pursue, and the precise nature of the service demanded. To avoid the outposts of the enemy, it was necessary to take a circuitous route, and the boat glided with almost noiseless motion over the placid waters of the bay. 
               The town of Brooklyn was occupied by the English, and their outposts extended some distance below that place. The map was simply a sketh of the encampment as occupied by the Americans; but the British had made many additions to it since the retreat of his countrymen, and Ashleigh deemed it best to proceed to the the Narrows, nine miles below the city of New York, land there, and thence proceed on foot to reconnoitre the position of the enemy. 
               Wrapped in silence, each absorbed in deep, though wordless emotion, sat the two occupants of the boat, as it was cautiously propelled through the water, and seen through the curling wreaths of filmy vapor which encercled them, the forms that sat within might have been mistaken for phantoms by the superstitiously inclined. Thus concealed from observation no challange came to them and in safety they drew near the point on which the adventurer intended to land. 
               As the boat touched the shore, Ashleigh addressed his companion- 
               "Wenona, I permitted you to be my companion thus far, because I know how sincere and incorruptible is your attachment to me. It is necessary to my safety, that a courageous heart shall await my return, provided I am so fortunate as to come back in safety. So soon as I leave you, I wish you to take the boat to the opposite shore, conceal it, and then seek for a spot which will command a view of the point, on which I am about to land. Be ready at a signal to come over for me. If I do not return by to-morrow's sunset you may be assured that I am a prisoner, and beyond all human aid; for one taken under such circumstances, has short shrift, and a speedy doom. When the last gleam of daylight fades from the earth, and I am not with you, return as speedily as possible, and bear the news of my capture to those I left behind." 
               "I will do your bidding." 
               Daylight was beginning to appear; the light mist which only rolled in fleecy clouds near the surface of the water, did not veil the kindling glories of the eastern heavens, as star after star paled before the fiery gleam of the approaching God of day. A small headland which jutted into the bay, was the landing selected by Ashleigh, who stepped upon shore, and shouldering his pack, prepared to leave; while his silent companion nerved her heart for the parting which might be their last. 
               Ashleigh took the cold hand, which hung listlessly by her side in his own, and kindly said- 
               "Whatever my fate may be, faithful Wenona, at the last, I will not forget the true friend who has stood by me in every danger for so long a time." 
               In speechless emotion the Indian threw herself at his feet, and pressed his hands to her lips. 
               The dim twilight of early morning concealed the working of her features, the tears which deluged them, or the incognito she had so carefully preserved might have been betrayed. Occupied by his own feelings Ashleigh withdrew his hand, and murmuring a hurried "God bless you," started on his way. 
               Then Etura arose; dashed the blinding tears from her eyes, and followed his receding figure as long at it was visible. Her anguish seemed suddenly to yield before another thought. She muttered, as her dark features brightened- 
               "Should he be taken, I will obey his last instructions, and then return to save him, or perish with him." 
               From the point of land which forms the East side of the Narrows, runs a ridge of hills iu a Northeastern direction, five or six miles in length. These bills were now covered with a thick wood; into which Ashleigh at once plunged; and as he walked rapidly forward, his mind was constantly on the alert to discover the approach of any threatened danger. Every portion of the ground was familiar to him, and after a walk of several miles, he seated himself in the shelter of a thicket, and partook of the food which Etura's fore-thought had provided. 
               Then resuming his pack, another half hour of brisk walking brought him in sight of the British encampment of which he had a bird's eye view from his elevated position. 
               The sun was shining brightly, and he paused on the brow of the hill, and looked over the animated panorama stretched at his feet. 
               A portion of the men were going through military evolutions, while others repaired the works, and a few stood idly looking on. In the morning sunshine it was an animating sight to one fond of military display. Neatness and discipline were everywhere visible, but the heart involuntarily asked to what all this tended? And the answer struck a cold thrill to the soul of him who made the query. To death, carnage, enslavement of a people that struggled to be free. 
               Ah! if any scene may make angels weep, it is a battle field in which the blind instinct of destruction, for the sake of self-preservation, must animate the crowd of struggling, maddened wretches, ready to hurl or be hurled into eternity, without one prayer upon the lips, one thought of the great ordeal they rush upon. 
               While Ashleigh stood upon his elevated point of view, protected from observation by a screen of low bushes, the sound of approaching voices warned him to dive deeper into the woodland; as he did not wish his proximity to the encampment to be betrayed, until he had made its entire circuit, and noted the additions made by the English. From a convenient opening between the branches of the underwood, he obtained a view of those who approached. In a few moments two officers in the British uniform paused just below him and pursued their conversation. 
               One was a middle aged man of benign aspect and soilderly bearing; the other was many years younger, though bearing sufficient resemblance to the elder to show that ties of blood united them. The more youthful one spoke, and the sound of his voice ascended clearly to the spot occupied by Ashleigh, 
               "Well uncle, I do not know why you pause to look back on yonder place. My very soul is weary of it, and I should be glad to escape from it altogether. What can Sir William mean by keeping us so long inactive before yonder den of rebels? Unprovided with every thing as they are, we could soon drive them from the city, and thus virtually end the war." 
               "Softly, softly, Charles," replied the elder, "you are but a young recruit; and know little of the men we have to contend with, or of him who commands them. You have never fought against the Americans but once, and then we were victorious." 
               "And always should be, for by Saint George! one half threw down their arms on that day, and fled." 
               "But the rest redeemed the credit of the nation. The battalion which was enclosed between De Heister's Hessians and the English soldiers, fought like lions. I must say that I never saw more courage displayed in my life." 
               "Y-e-s they, in a measure atoned for the cowardice of the rest, and it grieved me to see brave men contend against such odds." 
               "Believe me Charles, there are thousands in this land ready to die as did those brave men, sooner than relinquish the hope which armed them in defence of their native land. I comprehend the spirit of these people better than those who have recently arrived from England; for I was among them before the appeal to arms was made. Three years have nearly passed sinee the first blow was struck, and the end is further off yet. Should we take New York, as you suggest, the hydra would only be crushed in one place, to rise with renewed strength in another." 
               "Is there then to be no end to this odious contest," asked the youth impatiently. Must Lacy Hall be masterless for years to come, and my betrothed bride wear out her youth in vain expectation, until I return a gray-haired, and possibly a wooden-legged veteran? Truly the picture is a chilling one, even on this bright morning, uncle." 
               "My words are true, Charles, as you will find. In my opinion, there can be but one end to this unhappy war." 
               "And that?" interrupted his nephew. 
               "Will be, to grant the demand of the Colonists. England will burden herself with a debt which unborn millions must yet groan beneath, to subjugate a people who from herself have imbided the hatred of oppresssion, their determination to be free. After a sacrifice of blood and treasure, it is fearful to think of, the mother country will be forced to concede at last. It will be humiliating to our pride, but it is a lesson we shall be compelled to learn." 
               "Pray enlighten Sir William Howe, uncle; he thinks very differently." 
               "'Tis well that he should, for 'tis his place to lead his troops to victory. The government at home decides on what is to be done and the agent has only to perform faithfully that portion of the duty delegated to him. I shall fight at the command of the country I serve, just as if I believed the cause righteous, or that it will be finally successful. But let us return, we have already passed far beyond the limits of the encampment." 
               They turned; and descended the declivity, and Ashleigh arose and looked after them. In the elder officer he had no difficulty in recognizing the former admirer of his sister, Col. Lacy, and his resolution was taken to avoid his vicinity if possible, while in the English camp. 
               So soon as the two again entered their own lines, Ashleigh emerged from his concealment, and drawing his map forth, accurately sketched the additions which had been made to the works since they have been evacuated by his countrymen. Then concealing it in a belt which passed around his body, he sallied forth on his dangerous enterprize. 
               As he approached the British sentinels, it was necessary to use the utmost caution to avoid being seen by them, before he had completed the entire circuit of their outpost, and accurately noted the position assumed by the British commander. 
               At sunset, Ashleigh stood on the opposite side from which he had started, with the conviction that the commission entrusted to him, would be imperfectly executed unless he entered the camp, and endeavored to ascertain something of the intented movements of Sir William Howe. 
               Unwilling to return to Gen. Washington without having fully executed the duty he had voluntarily assumed, Ashleigh considered the risk he braved trifling in comparison with the approbation to be gained from the man he so highly honored. 
               He knew that itinerant traders passed with impunity from one army to the otber, and if he could sustain his assumed character, there was little fear of detection, and his resolution was speedily taken. 
               The sun was setting as he emerged in the open road, and advanced carelessly toward a sentinel who leaned against a tree humming an old song. About twenty yards further on a group of officers sat together, in front of a large tent; some reading, others conversing, and all wearing an expression of listless weariness which betrayed how slowly time lagged in those long summer days. 
               As the sound of the wayfarer's step came to the ears of the sentinel, he grasped his musket, turned quickly and asked- 
               "Who goes there?" 
               "A friend to you," answered Ashleigh. 
               "And to my cause," the man promptly responded. "Hump! a pedler! Hark'ee friend, what brought you hither?" 
               "A desire to dispose of my merhcandise, to be sure. What else should induce me to tramp over hill and hollow, and trust myself among armed men, but to turn an honest penny? Can't you help me to a customer or two among your people? If you will do so, you shan't want for tobacco to fill your pipe for a week to come." 
               At this the man's features relaxed. 
               "Ah that's talking to the point at once, honest pedlar. As one good turn deserves nother, I don't know but I can help you along among our people. I shall be relieved in a few moments, and then we'll go together to my tent." 
               At that instant, an officer strolled from the group before mentioned, and approached the two. Ashleigh at once recognized in him the young man he had that morning seen in company with Col. Lacy, and he devoutly hoped he would pass him without notice. Such was not destined to be the case, for when he came opposite to them he paused, and asked- 
               "Who is this Timothy, with whom you are holding so long a conference?" 
               The soldier touched his cap, and replied- 
               "An honest pedlar, Lieutenant Lacy, who wishes to dispose of his wares to our people." 
               "Ha, I am right glad of it," said the young man with a look of animation. "I am just now in want of several things I cannot conveniently obtain, and this man may have them. Follow me to my tent my good fellow, and I will have the first choice of your wares." 
               As Ashleigh reluctantly turned to obey, the sentinel twitched his sleeve and whispered- 
               "You'll not forget your promise concerning the tobacco? I'll watch for you when you come out from the Lieutenant and give you a bit of supper in my mess." 
               "Thank you," replied Ashleigh, "I will accept your offer with pleasure." 
               The tent of young Lacy was several hundred yards distant, and as the pretented pedlar passed along, his quick eye noted the strength of the works, and the space occupied. Sentinels were placed at regular intervals, and everything indicated that the English commander permitted no relaxation of discipline. 
               His companion strolled carelessly along singing a gay song and occasionally casting a glance of satisfaction at the formidable defences his countryman had erected around them." 
               "Do you mark those barriers, my friend?" he asked, half turning toward Ashleigh. "A portion of them were erected by the Yankees; but they were forced to run off, and leave them to us. We have made many additions to them, and now, I flatter myself that with such defenders they will prove inpregnable." 
               "I would undertake to storm them with ten thousand brave and true men," thought Ashleigh, but he prudently made no reply to the young boaster. 
               Soon afterward they reached his tent, and summoning his attendant, Lacy ordered a light to be brought, and the contents of the pack to be spread before him. This was soon done, and an expression of deep dissapointment veiled his features as each successive article appeared, A few coarse cloths, and many gaudily colored handkerchiefs made up the stock of dry goods; the remainder consisted of tobacco, of various qualities, cigars, and many small commodities of more utility then elegance. 
               "Nothing worth having but this bundle of cigars," said the young officer, with a look of disdain at the inferior articles offered for sale. "I scarcely think it worth while, Mr. Pedlar, to walk through the world bearing so worthless a burden as that." 
               "If I can make an honest living by it, should I not be satisfied?" asked Ashleigh. 
               "Ah well, perhaps so; but it is a shame in such stirring times to see so strong-limbed a fellow as you are, passing his life in tramping with a load upon his beck. Why do you not take service?" 
               "And become food for powder?" asked the soidisant pedler gravely. "My calling is an humble one, it is true, Lieutenant Lacy; but it is also an independent one. Wherefore shall I not strive to be contended with it?" 
               "Just as you please," replied Lacy indifferently. "Only, it must be a craven spirit that could content itself with such a lot." 
               At that instant two officers entered the tent speaking earnestly together. Ashleigh obtained a glimpse of them, and his heart almost died within him as he recognized the two persons he would most sedulously have avoided in this perilous crisis of his fate. He bent over his pack, and affected to be busily engaged in replacing his scattered goods. 
               In the foremost he recognized Col. Lacy, and in his companion Ashleigh beheld his deadliest and most determined foe, Walters. He wore the uniform of a Captain in the British service, though this was the first intimation Ashleigh had received of his having joined the enemies of his native land. 
               In an instant, his suspecious eye fell on the supposed pedlar; he abruptly paused in what he was saying, and asked- 
               "Whom have you here, Lieutenant Lacy?" 
               "Only a fellow with a pack of trash," replied the young officer contemptuously. "I took the trouble to examine his wares, but found it only lost time!" 
               "It seems to me that too many of that class of rogues are allowed free access to our encampment. How do we know what treachery may be practised by them toward our cause? Hark 'ee fellow, answer me truly; how long is it since you were in yon den of rebels, and what are they now plotting against the cause of their King?" 
               Ashleigh slightly raised his head, and replied- 
               "I am a regular trader sir, and possess passes from both Sir William Howe, and Gen. Washington. In that character, I am bound to hold myself strictly neutral, and convey information to neither party. Therefore sir you will excuse me if I decline replying to your question." 
               He again bent over his task, and Walters exclaimed- 
               "By Heaven! the knave is insolent! I will teach him better manners to his superiors." 
               He attempted to rush toward him, but Col. Lacy laid a firm grasp on his arm, and gravely said, 
               "Walters, you are excited by the wine you have taken, at our late dinner, or you would not propose to raise a disturbance with an inoffensive man in the very heart of the encampment. Sir William would be deeply offended at such a brawl, and would probably have you placed under arrest." 
               Though evidently much excited by the potations he had indulged in, Walters had sufficient discretion left to listen to the remonstrance. He sullenly said, 
               "Ah, well, a more fitting time may be found, but as to that insolent fellow there, I would swear that the sparkle of his eye is not quite strange to me, nor the sound of his voice either. When my head is clearer, I may be able to remember where I saw him last." Col. Lacy coldly said, 
               "I would advise you then to cool your brain, by pouring cold water on your head. When in your sober senses, if you find anything suspicious about this man, you can inform the commander. In the mean time, I shall not permit him to be disturbed while in my tent." 
               With a muttered imprecation, Walters turned and departed. As he passed a group of soldiers, he called to a tall, cadaverous looking individual, and commanded him to follow him. When he reached his own quarters, Walters said to this person, 
                
               "Ben Gartly, you are a keen observer, and as staunch a blood-hound as any in the army. There is a pedlar now in Col. Lacy's tent, whom I strongly suspect to be other than he seems. Follow on his track; find out if he is an impostor, and I will reward you handsomely." 
               Gartly listened in grim and half contemptuous silence. After a pause he answered, 'You are always promising to reward the many dirty services you find for me to perform, Capt. Walters, but I find that nothing substantial comes to me of late." 
               "Mercenary wretch! do you ask pay for every hour of service given to the cause of your lawful sovereign? But in this instance you shall have it. The man dared to speak insolently to me, and I will see if he escapes from our lines unscathed. Do my bidding, and you may take my purse as your reward. It has gold in it, knave. I must sleep, but should anything come of your investigation, awaken me at once, and inform me of it." 
               He threw the half emptied purse toward Gartly, stretched himself upon his hammock, and almost immediately was sleeping soundly. Gartly regarded him with a grim and hard expression, and proceeded on his errand. 
               Thus the two persons most likely to penetrate his disguise, were on the path of Ashleigh, rendering his escape from his perilous position almost impossible. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               After the departure of Walters, Col. Lacy threw himself on a seat, removed from the vicinity of Ashleigh, and bestowed no further attention upon him. This was better fortune than he had hoped for, and he hastened to replace his goods, and take his departure. 
               Close beside the door he found his new acquaintance, Timothy, and accompanied him at once to his tent. It was situated almost at the opposite side of the encampment, and by the fading twilight the young officer made many observations on the condition of the invaders. 
               Even his strong heart grew almost doubtful of the ultimate triumph of his country's cause, when he looked around, and remembered the disorganized and discontented mass he had left behind him. He knew that the defeat on Long Island had nearly extinguished the fire of Lexington and Bunker Hill, and the militia were hourly deserting their colors in such numbers as even to threaten the dissolution of the army. 
               Under such discouraging circumstances, a successful blow must be struck to re-animate the cause; but Ashleigh felt that the demonstration must be made in some other quarter. With the broken and disheartened forces now at the command of Washington, nothing could be accomplished against the British at this well-defended point. 
               When they at length reached the tent, he found it already occupied by three men, who were drinking over a small table feebly lighted by a dim lamp. A bottle of spirits, surreptitiously obtained, and several tin cups were placed before them, which were seldom permitted to remain idle. The men testified much pleasure at the appearance of the pedlar's pack, and asked, with solicitude, if he'd brought with him a supply of brandy. On being answered in the negative, one of them rudely said, 
               "You must be new to your trade, man, or you would have found means to conceal a flask or two of what's justly called the 'water of life;' especially as you were coming among such a thirsty set of fellows as John Bull's proverbially are." 
               Ashleigh quietly replied, "I knew the admission of spirituous liquors to be prohibited, friend, and I did not wish to smuggle a contraband article into the camp." 
               "Mighty scrupulous, truly, for one of your calling; pray what have you got there?" 
               Ashleigh replied by opening his pack, and exhibiting his wares. They speedily found purchasers among the group which began to gather from the neighboring tents so soon as it was known that a pedlar was among them. His stock of pipes and tobacco was soon exhausted, and, in fact, his pack nearly lightened of its whole load, when a voice spoke at the entrance which caused his heart to contract painfully. The nasal tones were too peculiar ever to be forgotten, and Ashleigh knew that his treacherous recruit, Ben Gartly, would fix his piercing glance upon him in another moment. 
               "I hope I'm not too late, boys, to come in for some of the weed," he said. "My stock is exhausted, and I am almost in a state of exhaustion myself, for the want of a good quid; stand out of the way, fellows, your turn's been served already." 
               "Yes," replied Timothy, "and so well served that there's nothing left for you, Gartly, so you may just take yourself off." 
               "We'll see about that Tim. Come, old boy, shell out quick, I'm not used to waitin'. 
               As he thus spoke he had forced his way among the group, until he stood opposite to the supposed trader. Glancing at his pack, he exclaimed- 
               "Hillo! what's this? I would swear to that pack any where, but you're not the man that claimed it the last time it was along here." 
               "Perhaps not," replied Ashleigh quietly, "but I am now the undisputable possessor of it. The recent owner is dead, and I have bought out his stock in trade. My tobacco is all exhausted, and you must look elsewhere for a supply." 
               The young officer knew that perfect self-command could alone baffle one he knew to be both acute and observant. He did not turn from the eye of his quandom acquaintance, but returned glance for glance. After surveying him keenly for a moment, Gartly stooped toward him, and touching his fiery locks, said- 
               "Perhaps you'll pay handsomely to have that crop of hair on your head left alone? I'll swear your mother never sent you out in the world with that fiery bush over your dark eyes." 
               "If I have been so unfortunate as to lose my own hair, and am forced to wear a wig, I see no reason why you should endeavor to make a jest of it," replied Ashleigh, with as much indifference as he could assume. "I believe, Mr. Gartly, that another bundle of tobacco is left in the bottom of my pack, which I had overlooked. Here it is." 
               "Very well, I will take it; but as Tim Johnson's quarters are rather crowded, may be you'd come with me, stranger? I'd like to have a moment to myself, to give you a list of the things I'd like to have you bring me when you make your next trip." 
               Uncertain whether he was really recognized, and impressed with the belief that the cowardice and cupidity of Gartly might be easily dealt with, Ashleigh considered it best to accept this invitation. He therefore shouldered his pack, excused himself to Timothy and followed the gaunt form of Gartly from the tent. 
               The two walked rapidly until they left their late companions behind; then Gartly turned his head furtively toward the young man, and said- 
               "I guess you didn't expect to find me among the Britishers, or you'd hardly ha' ventured in the very lion's mouth?" 
               "What do you mean?" asked Ashleigh evasively. "What can an insignificant trader, such as I am, risk in coming hither?" 
               "Much, when he takes up a trade he knows nothing about; You're no pedler, and you know it well enough. I ain't going to tell on you, Captain Ashleigh, provided you make it worth while for me to hold my tongue." 
               "You know me then?" said Ashleigh, as calmly as he could speak. 
               "Yes, you don't come the blind man over me. I knew you the moment you looked around and spoke. It's well for you that Captain Walters sent me to look after you in place of coming himself." 
               "Where is Walters? and if you are his emissary, what chance of escape have I?" 
               "Every chance if you are as liberal as you used to be," replied the wily knave. "Walters is lying on his bed drunk, and before he is sober enough to understand anything, you may be safe enough." 
               "I know of old, Ben, the only terms on which your services are to be obtained. My life is forfeited if I am detected here; and I will give you all the money I have about me to find me the means of escape at once. The purpose which brought me hither has been accomplished as far as possible, and I am roady to go immediately." 
               "That purpose was no good to the British I dare swear," said Gartly, "but that is no difference to me. My own interest can be best served by letting you off, and those of the old country must wait their turn." 
               "Then I will lose no time in getting away. You have the pass word, and can put me beyond the last sentinel." 
               "Not quite so fast, if you please sir. Discipline is too strict here to let a man outside of the posts before morning. Come to my tent, and I'll give you a night's lodging in return for many you have given to me. At day break, you can get away without suspicion." 
               Although he mistrusted the fidelity of one he knew to be as unprincipled as Gartly had proved himself, Ashleigh felt that there was no alternative. He followed him in silence, and endeavored to shape out a course to pursue in case he found himself the victim of treachery. Gartly set food before him, of which he sparingly partook; and while thus employed, he used all his arts to cajole his guest into paying his ransom at once. Ashleigh declined doing so, as he knew his only safeguard against betrayal was the retention of the bribe until he was beyond the reach of danger. He assured Gaetly that he would deliver the money to him on the following morning, when he found himself beyond the limits of the British lines. He felt that he was now entirely in the power of the renegade, and it was not without uneasiness that he was presently left alone by him. With attention he listened to every sound, fancying each step the approach of the officer sent to arrest him, and drag him forth to an ignominious doom. 
               By a most unfortunate concurrence of circumstances. Ashleigh had been thrown under the observation of the very persons he would most earnestly have desired to avoid. On one side, his bitterest foe; on the other, a creature so destitute of feeling or principle, as to sell his life without scruple, could he obtain a higher bribe than the one he could offer. 
               That his mistrust of Gartly was well founded, may be seen by the course taken by that miscreant, when he left Ashleigh to brood in solitude over the position in which he found himself placed. He proceeded at once to the tent of Walters, and with much difficulty aroused him from his slumbers. By this time, he began to recover from the influence of the wine he had taken, and recalling the previous conversation between himself and Gartly, he eagerly asked- 
               "What news? Have you discovered any suspicions about that fellow?" 
               "I've discovered all I want to know," replied Gartly sententiously. 
               "And what is that? Is he a spy?" 
               "What would you say now, Captain, if I was to tell you that the man you hate worse than any other in the world, is not twenty yards off; with that about him which would give him to the hangman before he is twelve hours older, if sir William only knew of his presence here." 
               By this time, Walters was keenly alive to the import of Gartly's words, and his black eyes glittered fiercely, as he asked- 
               "Who is he? An American, of course; a spy too, from your words; and my enemy? Ah! I have it! 'Tis Ashleigh at last in my power!" 
               He started up, and would have rushed forth immediately, to give the alarm, but Gartly stepped resolutely before him and said- 
               "He is quite safe, Captain; and until day-light will remain quietly in my tent; in the belief that I will then help him off. I will answer for it that he does not escape me. He thinks he has bought me up, but he refuses to pay me before I put him outside the posts. He is tired, and must sleep in spite of his position. Then I'll pay myself, and afterward, you may come in for your share in him." 
               Walters laughed as the miscreant thus spoke. 
               "Ha! well, let him dream of escape, even while the toils are closing around him; we can afford to grant him that much grace, when he stands on the verge of doom. Oh rare chance that has thrown this bitterly detested man upon my path, in such circum stances as will enable me at last to triumph over him." 
               "And without any danger to yourself too," said Gartley with an air of perfect good faith. "That's the best of it, my noble captain." 
               Walters turned angrily toward him, and demanded- 
               "What do you mean sirrah? Do you dare to insinuate that I fear this man?" 
               "Oh n-o, by no means. I really do not think you are afraid of Beelzebub himself, Captain; but you know in a hand-to-hand encounter with a fiery and strong-limbed fellow like this, you might get worsted, that's all I meant, upon my honor." 
               "Go to your prisoner, sir, and see that you guard him safely," replied Walters haughtily. "I shall hold you responsible for his ap-appearance to-morrow morning." 
               Gartly touched his cap with an air of mock respect, as he asked in a tone his superior by no means liked- 
               'Will my noble captain tell me what reward I am to get for this important service? Taking a spy through my own sagacity is worth promotion; and I am tired of being ordered about by everybody, without being able to order any one in my turn." 
               "So you wish to have some poor devils beneath you, eh?" said Walters sneeringly. A precious time they will have with you; but your whim shall be granted; I will see about having you made a sergeant, for this service." 
               "And see that you keep your word this time, captain; for once before the same thing was promised me, and here I am, Ben Gartly, private still." 
               "Consider my honor as pledged this time Gartly." 
               "Honor," muttered the other half aloud-"I wonder when you came in possession of such a commodity. 
               Walters feigned not to hear him, for the past relations existing between himself and Gartly, gave him license to speak with much more freedom than their respective rank seemed to warrant. On his desertion at Quebec, Gartly had diligently sought Walters, until he found him occupying a respectable position in the British army, and thence forward attached himself to his fortunes. He proved a convenient tool, and Walters was glad to retain him near his person. 
               Gartly returned to his guest, and brought with him wine, which he hospitally pressed on him; but Ashleigh declined tasting it. The host then drank himself, offering a loyal sentiment at every bumper he swallowed. 
               "You have become wonderfully attached to your new friends, Gartly," at length remarked Ashleigh, arousing himself from a sombre reverie. 
               "Ah yes, Captain; you see the pay is good, and the rations are better than we got among the Continentals." 
               "I think your pay was never behind hand, Gartly, at any time, for I am sure I advanced myself. I would advise you to keep out of the reach of Gen. Arnold, for he has sworn that if any of the deserters from the army on the night of the attack on Quebec ever fall into his hands he will hang them on the highest tree he can find. 
               "Ah! Arnold is an awful tempered man. But I think it is not exactly prudent to talk on these subject; somebody may overhear us, and discover that you are not what you seem-" 
               "Well thought of Ben. I am weary, for I have been in motion for nearly thirty-six hours, and I have not slept in that time." 
               "Here's a bed sir, that 'might accommodate King George himself. Take possession without scruple, for the man to whom it belongs is in the sick ward, and won't be here to-night to dispute the ownership with you," 
               Glad to repose, after the great fatigue he had undergone, Ashleigh threw himself into the hammock, and spite of the dangers by which he was surrounded, was soon in a deep sleep. Physical exhaustion demanded rest, and for many hours he was oblivious of everything. 
               When he awoke, the faint hue of awakening life pervaded the encampment, and the pale gray gleam of early dawn penetrated into the tent. He at once arose, and looking around for Gartly, found that he was alone. Hoping that he would return immediately to redeem the pledge given the previous night Ashleigh sought for his pack. It lay in the corner emptied of the few things which had remained in it, and he then discovered that the purse and map he had carried about his person were also gone. 
               The conviction of the treachery he had almost anticipated, came to his mind, and he endeavored to prepare himself for the worst. With the resolution of a brave mind, he firmly faced the danger that menaced him, and sought to find some rational means of escape from the peril that surrounded him; but there was a moment of irrepressible anguish, as he reverted to the loved ones he might never more behold, to whom his untimely doom would be a life-long grief. 
               He reviewed his position, and it seemed desperate. In the heart of the enemy's encampment; ignorant of the pass word, how could he hope to elude the vigilance of those who were doubtless placed as a guard upon his motions. If taken, a doom of ignominy would surely be awarded him, and he rapidly made up his mind to dare the chances of an attempt to escape. Better be fired on, and meet the soldier's fate than wait the coming of that terrible crisis which surely impended over him. 
               Ashleigh knew that he was uncommonly swift of foot, and a chance remained in his favor, though a faint one. Buttoning his coat firmly across his breast, he approached the opening of the tent and lifted the curtain. A sentinel stood beside it, grim and gaunt, who presented his bayonet as he attempted to pass, and gruffly said- 
               "You do not go out here my fine fellow. You're my prisoner, in the name of his majesty, King George." 
               In another instant the man was lying in the dust, floored by a well aimed blow on his temple, and the resolute fugitive dashed forward at a pace which seemed to defy pursuit. He heard footsteps behind him, and loud cries, but he paused not in his career. Several shots were fired after him, but they left him unscathed, and he reached the last sentinel unhurt; if he could pass him, he felt almost sure of escape. 
               By this time the whole encampment was astir; the reveille was beaten, and then came the loud tattoo of the drum sounding an alarm. 
               "A spy! a spy! take him! shoot him!" was heard in confused shouts on every side. 
               With the agile bounds of youth and desperation, Ashleigh approached the foe in front. The man was six foot high, and of powerful frame; an encounter with him he knew would be fatal, for a struggle would enable those in his rear to come up and re-capture him. Making a sudden, detour, he leaped over a low palisade, and stood in the open country. Like an arrow from a bow, he sped forward, with a shower of bullets falling around him without inflicting a wound. His escape seemed almost assured, when his foot became entangled in a cluster of low underwood, and he stumbled and fell. He recovered himself immediately, but that slight pause was fatal to him; it enabled those in pursuit to come up with and seize him. Amid the jests and jeers of his captors he was carried back a prisoner. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               Finding further disguise useless, Ashleigh threw aside his wig, and false eye-brows, and when he reached the tent he had so recently escaped from, he confronted Walters as calmly as though no danger menaced him. "At last I hold you at an advantage, Edward Ashleigh," said his ancient foe, with scornful emphasis, "our feud will soon be ended now." 
               "Yes," replied Ashleigh, with assumed tranquility, "by the great pacificator-death I well know what awaits me, Walters, and I can spare your words either on that subject or any other." 
               "Perhaps so, but I am in the humor to speak to you for once. 'Tis well that you are so perfectly prepared for your fate, for 'tis not likely long to be delayed. Sir William Howe waits your appearance before him even now; and you will surely leave his presence a condemned man." 
               Of that I am already aware. Lead on, follow. Let me reach there as speedily a possible, who if foes, are bound to treat me with the courtesy of gentlemen." 
               Walters laughed doubtfully, as he replied: "That is as it may be. You will find that British officers have not much consideration for a rebel and a spy, although he may once have claimed the station of a gentleman." 
               Ashleigh deigned no reply, and in a few moments they reached the open esplanade, in front of a large tent, over which floated the flag of Great Britain. Into this he was conducted with little show of formality, and found a council of officers hurriedly assembled around the British commander. Sir William Howe sat at the head of a table with an expression of stern anger on his features, as his eye rested on the noble lineaments of the prisoner. The ruddy light of a bright dawn fell through the entrance of the tent, upon the group thus hastily assembled to decide the fate of a fellow-being. Except on one face, there was no no expression of sympathy; as Ashleigh glanced around, he encountered the eye of Col. Lacy fixed upon him with deep commiseration, and had he not known it before, that mournful gaze would have assured him of his doom. 
               There was no assumption of courtesy in the manner of sir William Howe as he said: "When an officer and a gentleman takes on himself the character you have assumed, Captain Ashleigh, he forfeits the consideration due to his position as such. You have been taken in my camp, under circumstances which leave no doubt as to the character in which you entered it. According to the laws of war, you are condemned without a trial; at sunset you die upon the gibbet." 
               Ashleigh had expected summary punishment, and he steeled himself to listen in calmness to the sentence. He regarded the speaker with unblanched cheek, and unquailing eye, as this cruel doom was pronounced. He said- 
               "If taken in your lines, I looked for condemnation from you, Sir William Howe; but not for so speedy a doom. A few more hours may surely be granted to one standing on the brink of eternity, in which to make his peace with his God, and to send a few parting words to those he leaves behind him." 
               "You have twelve hours before you, sir," he sternly replied, "make the most of them, for they are your allotted term on earth." 
               Howe then turned toward Walters, and continued in a more courteous tone, 
               "Captain Walters we owe you thanks for your vigilance in discovering and capturing this rebel spy." 
               The prisoner turned disdainfully toward the person addressed, and said with cutting emphasis: 
               "Captain Walters has now an opportunity of wreaking a long cherished vengeance on me without any possibility of danger to himself. I do not forget that it has been offered on more equal terms and refused." 
               "Spare your taunts," replied Walters coldly, though his dark cheek glowed painfully, "they cannot now move me; my courage is too well established to be affected by them." 
               "To God I leave the avenging of my death, and his hand will not always be stayed," said the prisoner impressively; "when you least expect it, oh! man of falsehood and blood, the doom of the destroyer shall overtake you." 
               "A prophet has arisen among us, it would seem," was the sneering rejoinder, but the stern tones of Howe interrupted him. He turned to Ashleigh, and said, 
               "Prisoner, I shall now deliver you over to the Provost Marshal for execution before daylight leaves us. 'Tis well that you expected no mercy, for none will be accorded to a traitor and a spy." 
               Ashleigh looked him clearly in the face as he replied in firm, unfaltering tones, 
               "Life can be but once given; and he who yields his own in a noble cause, should know how to meet his fate. I only lament that I can die but once in the glorious cause of my oppressed country. Hear me now, oh man o power, tell you that she shall yet conquer in the struggle; from the depths of darkness and discouragement, light shall spring, which will lead her children on to victory. I shall perish with this belief strong in my soul, and thus carry a triumphant heart with me to the ignominious fate you would thrust upon me. As one of the martyr's of a glorious cause, shall I in future times be regarded, and that consciousness takes from my untimely death its sting. In kind shall my doom be retaliated, and among those now present the victim may possibly be found." 
               The English commander coldly answered, "'Tis well that you are resigned, sir. As to the future, we will leave time to declde which party shall prevail. Major Andre, will you summon the Provost Marshal?" 
               
                  A young officer of singularly prepossesing appearance stepped from the group around Sir William and obeyed the command. How little could he then have dreamed that his own fate had been foretold by the prisoner. 
               The person thus summoned soon appeared, and an involuntary thrill of repulsion passed through the heart of him who was about to be surrendered to his keeping. He must have been selected for his office on account of the brutality his appearance indicated. He was low and square built, with features of coarse ferocity which bore cruelty stamped upon them in legible characters. His hair hung in matted locks on his low forehead, and the eyes that gleamed beneath them were small, cold and glittering as those of a snake. 
               "Josiah Elton," said Sir William Howe to this personage, "the young man standing before you has been convicted of high treason in serving against the cause of his lawful sovereign, and entering this camp disguised as an emmissary from the commander of the rebels. See that you guard him safely until sunset, at which time he gives his life as the penalty of his crime, and may God have mercy on his soul." 
               A course chuckle burst from the lips of the man, and he said: 
               "I take pleasure in obeying you, Sir Wilam. Every loyal Briton must rejoice to rid the world of these accursed rebels. I wish there was a score of them to hang as high as Haman." 
               The officers around shrank from him in disgust, and murmurs of disapprobation were heard among them. Sir William frowned- 
               "You have more zeal than discretion, Elton; remove the prisoner at once." 
               A guard of soldiers which he had brought with him for the purpose, now surrounded Ashleigh, and with a firm step and lofty bearing, he went forth with them followed by the commiseration of many of the spectators. 
               The prisoner was conveyed to the quarters of the Provest Marshal, who remained with him to witness and enjoy his emotions. In solitude, the painful feelings of one who had so much to attach him to life, might have overcome his firmness for a few moments; but with this cold inquisitor before him, the unhappy young man would not yield to the natural emotions which swelled his heart courageous as it was. 
               He calmly asked for paper, which was brought, with a sly sneer, the meaning of which he was far from comprehending. He first addressed a few lines to Washington, informing him of the defeat of his mission, and his rapidly approaching fate. Then he penned a letter tender consolation to his father and sister; and last saddest task of all, came the farewell to his wife. In that, he poured forth his whole soul with an eloquent pathes-a depth of tenderness which showed that the bravest and most daring have also springs of intense feeling in the soul, scarcely dreamed of by those of colder blood. 
               This task completed, Ashleigh leaned his head upon his hand, and endeavored to arrange his thoughts and pray to Him whose will it seemed that he should thus perish in his hopeful youth. Suddenly his meditations were interrupted by the harsh voice of Elton, asking- 
               "What disposition do you expect to be made of those letters?" 
               "They are to be forwarded to New York to their several addresses, of course," replied the prisoner, with an expression of surprise. 
               "Of course, indeed!" repeated Elton. "You take things very coolly, young man: do you suppose that we will trouble ourselves about them? Behold their fate," and the wretch snatched them up and tore them into fragments. 
               The prisoner grew pale, and for the first time he trembled, but it was with anger. 
               "Am I to perish without communicating with those who are dear to me?" he bitterly asked. "Will no voice be permitted to come from the lost one, to console them for my early fate? Why were the writing materials brought to me only in mockery?" Oh, Father, I have fallen into the power of a demon, bearing the form of a man!" 
               "Man, or demon, sir, consider that point as settled; you send no communication to the rebel camp." 
               "Not even a line to my wife to inform her of my fate?" pleaded the condemned one, who now, indeed, felt all the bitterness of his doom. 
               "No intimation shall go hence that a man from yonder den-of disloyalty, can face his fate with the firmness you would make a merit of displaying." 
               "And to imbitter my last hours as much as possible, you deprive me of the only consolation I can now claim, in bidding a last adieu to those I love. Wretch! this cruelty will yet come home to you." 
               "Maybe so, and maybe not," he indifferently replied; but I shall not change my course for such vague chances as that." 
               There was a pause in which Ashleigh endeavored to keep back the rush of bitter indignation that flooded his soul at this outrage. When he had regained composure, he said- 
               "Since my last hour will so soon arrive, I wish to see a clergyman. Summon your chaplain, that I may prepare to meet my fate as becomes a Christian." 
               "If you know how to say your prayers, you can go over them just as well without a preacher as with one," replied Elton, with insulting coldness. "I shall not trouble myself to send for our chaplain, for he has as much as he can attend to in getting our own sick people ready to go through old Peter's gate." 
               "Then bring me a Bible," said the prisoner. 
               "Bibles are not so plenty as you may think, and I should have to look a long time before finding one. The descendant of a psalm singing old puritan ought to know enough scripture to fill up all the time you have to spare, without wanting the book to refer to." 
               The prisoner turned proudly away, resolute to ask nothing more, since it seemed predetermined that the ordinary consolations of those in his position should be denied him. 
               In placing him in the power of so coarse a wretch as Elton, the English commander must have been aware that every courtesy would be violated, every feeling outraged by him. He endeavored to subdue the bitterness aroused by such treatment, sufficiently to meet his fate in a frame of mind becoming one who believed that this stage of being was only a prelude to a higher and nobler state of existence. While endeavoring to raise his thoughts to that world he was so soon to enter; to cast aside the clinging affections that cried within his soul, he heard a familiar voice without, speaking to the sentinel on duty, and the next moment Col. Lacy entered the tent. 
               He wrung Ashleigh's hand in silence, and then turning to Elton, said, 
               "Leave me alone with the prisoner." 
               "It was Sir William's order that I should not lose sight of him," he sullenly replied. "I can retire to the entrance, but beyond that I cannot go, unless he commands it." 
               "Stand there then," said Lacy, sternly, "and take heed that you do not interrupt the conversation I wish to hold with the prisoner." 
               Elton muttered something in reply, but he assumed his station at a sufficient distance to insure the privacy of the interview. 
               Col. Lacy then seated himself beside Ashleigh, and said, with much feeling: 
               "When I promised your wife, at the commencement of this struggle, that I would serve her at some future day, should the power be mine. I little anticipated that the most melancholy of all services would be demanded at my hands; that of bearing to her the last words of her husband." 
               "Even that is a consolation; the value of which I can appreciate, after the recent cruelty to which I have been subjected," replied Ashleigh, and he then related what had occurred in reference to his letters. 
               Lacy expressed the deepest disgust. He added, "I feared something of the kind, from my knowledge of the man's character to whose tender mercies you were consigned. I therefore sought permission of Sir William Howe, to see and confer with you on your last wishes. With difficulty I obtained the favor, and now, Captain Ashleigh, confide them to me, and I pledge myself that they shall be strictly executed. The inevitable chances of war are terrible enough, without adding unnecessary cruelty to them." 
               "How deeply I thank you, words may not express," replied the prisoner, with emotion "To die without sending a last greeting to those I love, was indeed a terrible thought. So much time has already been consumed in writing the letters which have been destroyed, that the small remnant left me, will not suffice to express half that is in my heart. Take this ring to my Mary, a lock of hair to my father, and sister, and tell them that I shall die with my heart full of love for them; that my last prayer will be for their consolation, mingled with the aspiration that not in vain will my life be given in my country's cause." 
               "Alas!" asked Lacy, mournfully, "was there no other, without the ties that bind you, who would have undertaken this dangerous service?" 
               "Doubt not that many among my country's sons would have braved all the perils that now environ me; have borne, without shrinking the fate which approaches me. But the need of this peculiar service became known to me, and it seemed my duty to embrace it. I hoped to carry it to a successful issue; but having failed, I can bear the penalty with firmness. I have requested the services of a clergyman, but they were denied me. Must it hereafter be told, Col. Lacy, that a condemned man was in his last moments refused the consolations of religion, by the sons of that nation which claims for itself the highest civilization on earth?" 
               The brow of Lacy grew stern, and a bright spot of crimson gleamed on his cheek, as he replied, 
               "I fear the reproach must be recorded against us. Our chaplain is not with this portion of the army, to-day. His duties summoned him several miles away, and Sir William will not permit him to be recalled. I have already remonstrated with him on this subject, but he is inflexible. I have brought with me a prayer-book, from which you may glean consolation in this extremity. The ture are found within its pages." 
               "Thank you, dear friend, I shall at least die with the belief that one heart near me is moved by my fate. The sun already sinks toward his western home, and with his last rays, my spirit must pass from earth; therefore, I have no time to lose in makiug solemn preparation for the great change that awaits me." 
               Lacy read with him, and joined fervently in the prayers offered for one in extremity. 
               As the hour for the execution drew near, the whole encampment was in motion. The troops were drawn out in military array, in the country beyond the line of tents, where, on a conspicuous spot, a gibbet had been erected. While the sun moves down his fiery path, and the muffled drum rolls ominously upon the ear of the thousands who prepare to witness the execution, we must return to those we left in so fearful a state of suspense. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               Mr. Ashleigh passed the hours of his son's absence, in prayer, and in reading such portions of scripture as might afford consolation in case the worst should befal him. 
               The perturbed mind of the newly wedded bride scarcely gave a thought, even to him who claimed her as his own; and Allan himself wandered from post to post, endeavoring to interest himself in the condition of the army, but without success. He sought the point from which Brooklyn could be best seen, and sent many a wistful glance toward the long array of tents which lay glittering in the bright sunlight; but from that quarter no intimation of the fate of his friend could come, and he returned, with a feeling of oppression he could not shake off. 
               In the solitude of her own apartment with the light of day excluded, the wife passed those terrible hours of suspense, which seem to wring life from the heart. She no longer marvelled at the record of the hair having turned white, from mental anguish, during the progress of a few hours. She felt the weight of a terrible presentiment upon on her soul, and waited the blow that she knew must fall with every nerve alive and quivering with agitated expectancy. 
               Sleep came not to her pillow; food scarcely passed her lips, during those long and dreary hours, which passed as a hideous nightmare, peopled with horrors. 
               The second morning came, and then her heart said, 
               "To-day, we shall know his fate. A few more hours, and he will be safe with those who love him, or he will be beyond all help." 
               She arose at the thought, unclosed a window, and suffered the light of morning to enter her room. Mechanically she arranged her disordered toilette, that she might be ready in an emergency to go forth at once. Even if captured, Ashleigh would be permitted to see his nearest friends, and the consolation of being near him at the last would not be denied her. She forced herself to swallow a few morsels of food that her strength might not fail her, and then sat with clasped hands and listening ear for hours-motionless, scarcely breathing, in the intensity of her excitement. 
               Many times did Ruth wander into the room and address her, but she heard not, heeded not the words of hope she would have breathed into her ear. One only thing she was conscious of; a neighboring clock sounded the hours regularly, and as the strokes fell clear, deep and distinct, each one sent a shuddering thrill to her soul, for it sounded to her as the knell of her unhappy husband. 
               The morning waned, and the sun was high in the heavens, before any token from the absent one was received. Suddenly a figure appeared before the open window; ghastly, toil-worn, and wretched, stood the Indian, with blistered hands and wearied feet; but with a heart still strong to do and dare for him she so fanatically loved. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh started up-she tried to syllable the words that rushed to her lips, but utterance was denied her. The low, broken tones of the messenger fell as with the force of a mighty blow upon her heart, and for an instant it almost ceased to beat. 
               "Captain Ashleigh has been taken, and condemned to die." 
               The excited wife neither fainted nor cried out. The anguish was too sharp and cutting for such demonstrations. She motioned to the Indian to enter the house, and herself passed to the common room of the family, in which she knew the father, sister, and friends, were assembled. The deadly paleness of her cheek might have revealed her errand before she spoke. She said with the calmness of despair- 
               "Our suspense is ended. Wenona is here, and ALONE." 
               The father clasped his trembling hands over his convulsed features, and spoke in fervent supplication, 
               "Oh! God of infinite mercy and goodness, who hast sent this trial upon us, enable us to bear it in that spirit of christian resignation which shall be pleasing in thy sight." 
               Ruth threw herself before him, and clasped his knees, while tears streamed over her pallid features, and Allan rushed to the door to meet the messenger of such evil tidings. 
               Etura came in, and with clearness gave a detail of what had occurred since her departure with Ashleigh. 
               "I obeyed his last commands," she continued; "I remained with the boat until nearly daylight; then I became so restless that I could stay no longer. I crossed to the other side and concealed the boat in a secure place, where the bushes grew down, and hung over the edge of the water. About an hour before day dawned, I started on my way to meet Captain Ashleigh or to ascertain his fate, for my mind was haunted by the thought that he would never return in safety. I passed rapidly over the hills, and stood at daylight upon the last one that looks down on the British encampment. I had scarcely gained this position, when a sudden tumult took place in the English camp. I heard shouts, and distinguished the words "a spy, a spy." I knew that the worst had happened, and I saw a figure which I at once recognized, flying from his pursuers. He cleared the lines, and I believed him safe; when suddenly his speed slackened, he seemed hurt, for he fell, and the bloodhounds on his track came up with him before he quite recovered himself." 
                
               "I scarcely know how I passed the next half hour. When I completely recovered myself, I felt that my duty was to return and report Captain Ashleigh's capture, that measures may be taken to save him, if possible. It was late before I reached the boat, and then I was forced to be cautious in rowing toward the city; I have lost much precious time, but it could not be avoided; and now what is best to be done, Captain Allan?" 
               "We must at once go to the Commander in Chief, and report this disastrous intelligence." 
               "I must accompany you," said Mrs. Ashleigh, firmly, "I must in person entreat Gen. Washington to make every effort to rescue my unfortunate husband." 
               As she spoke, she threw on a bonnet, and drew a thick veil over her changed features. Allan would not oppose her, though he felt how fruitless her prayers might be, and in a few moments they reached head quarters. They were at once admitted, for the announcement of their names caused a painful fear to glance across the mind of the good man they came to claim assistance from. 
               Washington advanced with native courtesy toward the pallid and nearly sinking wife, and placing her upon a seat, turned to Allan as he said 
               "I fear the presence of Mrs. Ashleigh here, at such a time, is but an evil augury." 
               Before he could reply, the excited wife exclaimed, "Enable me to behold my husband once more before he perishes, oh, father of my country, and my heart shall ever bless you." 
               "Is it even thus?" he mournfully asked. Allan briefly replied- 
               "Captain Ashleigh is a prisoner, General. In the exasperated state of feeling now existing on the part of the English towards us, it is easy to imagine that his fate will speedily be decided. Can no step be taken which may defer, if not finally avert it." 
               "I will use every effort in my power; a flag of truce shall be taken over, and offers made which Sir William Howe may possibly accept." 
               "Thanks, your Excellency. Make me the bearer of the flag, and permit the wife of the prisoner to pass over with me." 
               "It shall be done without loss of time. Mrs. Ashleigh all may not yet be lost; hope for the best, at least," he kindly said to the bowed and stricken woman, who sat as a pale statue of despair before him. 
               She grasped his hand, and gratefully said, "I know that all which human energy can do towards his liberation, you will not fail to accomplish. But there is a conviction in my heart that all will be in vain; hasten then, that the few hours left to him on earth may be cheered by the presence of her he loves." 
               The sun was rapidly declining in the west when a party of three persons took their places in a boat manned by four skilful rowers, who made the light craft cut the waters with a swift and even motion, as they rowed toward the opposite shore. 
               Allan, bearing a white flag in his hand, sat in the stern, beside the drooping form of the hapless wife, and in front of them was the Indian, wrapped in a wild and passionate reverie, in which but one distinct thought or purpose stood palpably before her. To save Ashleigh or die with him, was the only feeling in the tumult of wretchedness that surged in her breast. 
               Allan would have declined her attendance but she so passionately insisted on her right once more to behold him she had so faithfully served, that he could no longer refuse. 
               As they drew near to the spot on which they intended to land ominous sounds met their ears; the hum of a vast body of men in an unusual state of excitement, was mingled with wild strains of mournful music, and the hearts of the listeners painfully contracted as they recognised a funeral-march. 
               "Should his doom already be sealed," was the thought of terror which came to them. 
               Allan leaped on shore, and demanded of the sentinel on duty- 
               "Does the prisoner yet live?" 
               "He does, but preparations are now making to execute him. As the sun sets, he dies." 
               Mrs. Ashleigh cast a despairing glance toward the broad red disc of the luminary. One hour more, and her life would be desolate late. What the other faithful heart felt was inscrutable. There was a look of restless impatience, almost of exultation, on the dusky features-some purpose evidently moved her, but it was unfathomable. Her step did not falter, nor need support as did that of the unhappy wife, as they proceeded on their way to the tent of the English commander. 
               An officer came to meet the bearer of the flag, in whom they recognized Col. Lacy. A mournful greeting was exchanged, and in reply to Allan's eager inxuiries, he said- 
               "I fear your mediation will be of little avail. I dare not encourage hopes which may be fatally disappointed." Then turning to her who walked beside him as one in a terrible and bewildering dream, he continued-"I have not been unmindful of the promise I once pledged to you, Mrs. Ashleigh. I have endeavored as much as lay in my power to soften the severity of your husband's fate." 
               "I have no words to thank you," she replied with emotion. "Oh, aid us to obtain a brief respite for him, even should death be his ultimate doom, and the blessing of a broken heart shall be yours." 
               "I will do my best, Madame; but my influence with Sir William Howe is small." 
               Suddenly a faint crimson flashed across her face, and she asked- 
               "Is Major Marston with your troops?" 
               "He is, and a word from him would have much weight with Sir William. He is his most intimate friend and counsellor." 
               "I am aware of the influence he possesses, While Captain Allan seeks the presence of the English commander, I entreat you to procure an interview for me with Major Marsten. I once knew him; he cannot refuse me this service." 
               "I can readily do so, dear Madame, for Marston and myself are in the same regiment, and occupy neighboring tents. Permit me to conduct you to mine, so soon as I place Capt. Allan under the escort of the officers I see advancing to meet us. I will then seek Marston and bring him to your presence." 
               A group of officers here met them, and Allan, followed closely by the Indirn, was conducted with much ceremony to the tent of the British commander; while Mrs Ashleigh submitted to the guidance of Lady, and in a few moments sat in the solitude of his tent endeavoring to collect her bewildered thoughts for the interview on which so much depended. 
               She pressed her hands wildy on her brow, to still the tumultuous throbbing which thrilled it almost to madness, as memory reverted to the past, and she felt the wretched uncertainty of the present. 
               No other hope of prolonging the brief space of life allotted her husband remained to her than was to be achieved through the influence of a man who had once devotedly loved her, and who must consider himself as badly treated by her. Uncertain of the result of the appeal she was about to make, the brief interval of Lacy's absence was to her one of the most agonizing portions of her life. 
               Col. Lacy presently returned, accompanied by a fair haired man of prepossessing appearance, whom he left at the entrance of the tent. He looked much excited, and was evidently paler than usual. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh arose as he entered, but he advanced precipitately toward her, and said, 
               "Be seated, madam, I beg-you do not look able to stand. Oh, Heaven! Mary, that such a meeting should be ours!" 
               The words seemed to rush unbidden from his lips, for he hastily attempted to mutter an apology, which was quite unintelligible. 
               "It is indeed a mournful meeting," she replied with starting tears, "I have ventured to come to you as a suppliant; to appeal to the generous nature I know you to possess. Aid me I conjure you, to obtain a few more hours of existence for him I love." 
               "To me-to ME, you come to ask my assistance in saving him who robbed me of my bride? Do you think that I have forgotten that I am more than man?" 
               "I know you to be noble-forgiving," she pleadingly said, "or I should not thus have humiliated myself. The boon of life may not be yours to obtain, but surely, you will ask a few brief hours of respite, that I may pass them near my husband. Think! a few more brief moments, and they will lead him forth to the AWFUL doom that awaits him. If you ever truly loved me, and in my dire extremity I dare appeal to that love, you will gain this melancholy privilege for me." 
               "Appeal not to a passion which once made the happiness of my life, but for a long period also made its misery," said Marston, in deeply moved accents, "I am once more fancy free Mary Ashleigh, but the memory of that olden time is one of bitterness. Refer not to it, if you expect me to aid you." 
               "On my father's services then, let me found a claim to mercy. He died in defence of your cause; Sir William Howe will not refuse so small a boon to the daughter of a man whose life and fortune, were sacrificed to sustain his country's interests. I only ask you to become the mediator; your influence is, I well know, all powerful with him. Oh be magnanimous! forgive the past, and use it in my behalf." 
               "The past is forgiven," he more gently said. "I know that my persevering pursuit of you was ungenerous, and therefore your course toward me was in a measure excusable. I will aid you as far as lies in my power, and for this, I claim no credit, for the life of my rival is forfeited by the laws of war.-A few more hours of existence may be petitioned for without angering Sir William, and I will obtain them, Mrs. Ashleigh." 
               She would have thanked him, but he waved his hand impatiently, and hastened to leave her presence. 
               Immediately after her departure, Col. Lacy entered and informed her that he would conduct her to her husband, as permission had been obtained for an interview, while Maj. Marston was with her. 
               She conquered the faintness which for an instant unnerved her at the thought of beholding him under such painful circumstances, and accompanied Lacy with firm steps toward the tent in which Ashleigh was confined. 
               The hideous Elton stood at the entrance, and she shrank shudderingly aside as her garments brushed against his repulsive person. The curtain was lifted, and the evening light streamed in on the person of the condemned man. Ashleigh leaned upon a table with his hands clasped over his face, as if in prayer. Lacy left her, and with noiseless steps the wife glided near, and clasped his bowed head to her breast. With a start he, removed his hands, and one wild gleam of joy shot over his features, but it was instantly succeeded by the shadows of hopelessness.-He tenderly said 
               "Oh, my Mary, why have you braved this unnecessary anguish? A few brief moments since to die was comparatively easy. Now, I hold you to my heart, and life thrills with renewed vitality in every nerve of my frame. It seems impossible that by man's decree we shall be so cruelly separated." 
               "Ah! could I only die with you, or for you," she murmured, "it could be better borne than this terrible parting. Is there no hope of escape from this fearful doom, for one so young, so full of life and energy as you? Tho' I feel how impotent is prayer, for I have vainly asked protection for you from the most bigh." 
               "Say rather, my beloved, how blessed is prayer," said her husband, while a bright beam of faith gleamed from his dark eyes. 
               "But for its consolation I could not have reconciled myself to the fate which momentarily approaches. Ask hope from Him who was himself a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief, and be assured, my Mary, that even in this extremity it will not be denied you." 
               "Hope, faith, joy, are all dead within me," was the despairing reply. "It is better to yield life even as you must, than be the wretched survivor of all that made it dear. Hark! there comes that wailing strain again. It tears my heart in twain. Why do they thus cruelly add to the suffering we must inevitably fear? Is it not enough that you must perish in your noble manhood, without adding the cruel insult of music at such a time." 
               "My love, it is customary to me; there is something inexpressibly solemn in those tones: they suggest to me how soon their wailings will be exchanged by me for the joyful music of the heavenly spheres." 
               "And I-and I-oh Father of the hopeless, enable me to control the anguish, that I may not destroy this dearly purchased tranquility," was the mental prayer of the hopeless wife, as she threw herself upon his breast in trembling expectation. Ashleigh encircled her with his arms, in the firm conviction that it was their last embrace, and drops of anguish stood upon his brow, in the bitter struggle to maintain outward composure in this trying hour. 
               Many steps were heard without, and the nearer and nearer approach of a body of armed men was distinctly audible. Then the hideous face of the Provost Marshal was thrust into the scene of their terrible parting, and his harsh tones were heard. 
               "The hour has arrived Captain Ashleigh. No countermand has been sent by Sir William, and I must obey my orders to conduct you to the place of execution. 
               "I am ready," replied the prisoner firmly, as he arose and placed his wife upon the bed-She had fainted at the terrible summons, and with a brief prayer, Ashleigh pressed a fervent kiss to her pallid lips, and turned with a bleeding heart but calm brow toward those who came to lead him to an infamous death. In this supreme hour the anguish that rent his soul, he was resolute to veil from those who had evinced so little sympathy in his fate; they should see that he could face death with the firmness of the stoic, though ties of tender affection bound him to earth. With firm steps Ashleigh moved from the tent, without daring to give one backward glance to the senseless form of his wife. The bright sun of a cloudless September evening was pouring its brilliant beams upon the encampment, which seemed teeming with life and activity. In his own veins coursed the tide of existence strong and swift, yet in a few more moments he would be unconscious of all this stir; a mere clod of earth, from which the subtle vivifying tenant had been dismissed at the mandate of his fellow man; his only crime that love of Fatherland which men of all nations and all creeds have agreed in considering the most sacred and elevating of all human affections. 
               As Elton laid his rough grasp on his arm to place him in his proper place in the mournful procession, several officers hurriedly approached. The foremost among them wore the American uniform, and he seized the hand of the prisoner in a grasp that was almost painful, as he said with deep emotion- 
               "Edward, my brother, my friend, I have with difficulty obtained a few hours respite for you. Sir William Howe reprieves you until sunrise." 
               "It is a doubtful mercy, Allan; yet I thank him even for this," replied Ashleigh; "for I have much to say to you concerning those who are dear to me, and this respite affords me an opportunity of so doing. Wenona, my faithful friend, I am rejoiced to see you once more before the scene closes." 
               At this address, the Indian pressed forward; the eager face approached his, and in the faintest whisper, though audible to him to whom it was addressed, she breathed- 
               "Be of good cheer; hope-all may yet be well." 
               The prisoner made a deprecating movement, as though all expectation of rescue had departed from his own soul; but there was an expression in the Indian's face, which quickened the pulsations of his heart in spite of his better judgment. He pressed the hands which had fervently grasped his own, and passed into the tent with Allan. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh had recovered and risen from the couch, and she welcomed her husband's return with as passionate joy as if pardon had been granted, instead of a reprieve of a few hours. Together the three sat, absorbed in the last painful communion permitted them on earth. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               Night fell; with the setting sun, clouds suddenly arose, and spread over the whole heavens. The wind moaned among the tents as if conscious of the deed to be consummated on the morrow, and a wild storm was evidently brewing. 
               Alone in his tent sat Walters; the expression of exultation his features had worn at the capture and condemnation of his enemy strangely altered. Angry, perplexed and baffled he evidently was, and many times he impatiently turned his head toward the entrance. 
               At length the curtain was raised, and a slender form glided toward him. He pushed a seat rudely toward the new comer, and after a pause, said in a tone of stern anger- 
               "What fool's play is this, Etura? And pray how long have you worn that masquerade?" 
               "It is now nearly three years," replied the Indian calmly, and her dark eye did not shrink from the lowering glance of her companion. 
               "So-like a fond fool you could not live away from your idol. How comes it that he never suspected what I knew at a glance?-How have you successfully preserved this strange incognito?" 
               "You were aware that I still lived. Ashleigh believed that he had seen me perish in the flames lighted at your command-how then could he doubt the tale I fabricated? In boyhood, he had seen my brother, and the singular resemblance existing between us was remembered by him. My only difficulty was to obtain permission for one who recalled the supposed destroyer of his child, to remain near him. This I overcame; how it matters not: and now to the purpose that brought me hither." 
               "And that purpose?" asked Walters doubtfullly. 
               "Is to save him for whom alone I live." 
               "How will you compass it?" he sneeringly enquired. 
               "Through your aid," was the firm response. "Refuse my demand, and I will proclaim that, which will cover you with infamy, and drive you from the society of honorable men.' 
               "But in that event, what will be your own fate? The revelation will be as terrible for you as for myself." 
               "Nothing would then be terrible to me; for the light of my life would be extinguished in the death of him I would save. I tell you that the ordinary restraints and motives of human beigs move me not. To serve, to protect, to save the man to whom I have devoted my wretched existence, is the only end for which I live. When the earth receives his ashes in its embrace, I have no further object in life. I shall join him in the unknown land." 
               "You would not be guilty of the crime of suicide?" 
               "I do not know," she vaguely answered. "I might if life proved too tenacious of its hold; but it will not be necessary. I shall die when I no longer see him, no longer hear the tones of his voice." 
               "Etura, this is madness. Are you in your sane mind, when you speak thus?" 
               "I do not know-I feel that I speak the truth. I know that it is foolishness to you, and such as you; but there are souls that can comprehend me." 
               "Is that of Ashleigh such an one?" he mockingly asked. 
               "I believe it is; yet I do not know. He preferred another to me, therefore I may doubt it, but that alters not the case so far as I am concerned. It is my destiny to cling to Edward Ashleigh so long as life lasts, and I must fulfill it. I have no power to change the decree of fate." 
               As she thus spoke, Walters regarded her with an expression of contemptuous pity mingled with anger; he said- 
               "This is surely the strangest infatuation that ever entered the breast of one of your wayward sex. Do you know that if Ashleigh had the faintest suspicion of your identity, this man would pursue you to death, for the supposed destruction of his son? Yet you sacrifice all that is dear and valuable in existence, to follow him as his slave." 
               Etura quietly answered- 
               "You wish to arouse bitter feeling against him in my breast. Know at once that it is vain. You can never comprehend my devotion to him; it was the first feeling I knew when reason dawned; it will be the last that will animate my soul." 
               Walters ground his teeth with anger, but he forced himself to speak calmly. 
               "But admitting that Ashleigh is now saved, what is to be your ultimate fate?" 
               I care not; I enquire not; to die in his defence is the prayer of my soul. God may grant it in requital of the wretched lot he has given me." 
               "Besotted idiot!" muttered Walters between his clenched teeth, as he found what an impracticable task it was to argue with one whose mind was occupied with a single fixed idea. 
               Etura sat still, calmly awaiting his decision, for she knew it must be given as she wished. 
                
               Her companion at length asked- 
               "I demand of you the means of passing behind the English lines, accompanied by the prisoner, before the dawn of day," replied the Indian with emphasis. "I do not come to you to ask favor, but to insist upon this service as a right. You are in my power, and I do not scruple to use it in such a crisis as the present." 
               "And you are equally in mine." 
               "That, as I before stated, matters not. I care not what becomes of myself, if I fail to save Edward Ashleigh." 
               "How is it to be accomplished without compromising me?" 
               "That is easily arranged. I brought with me a disguise which the prisoner can assume. The tent in which he is confined is situated at the edge of the encampment. There is beyond it but one sentinel to pass. You have asked as a favor, that the guardianship of the prisoner should be entrusted to you, and it was granted. Your former accomplice, Garty, watches at the door of the tent, and the soldier on guard at the extremity of the line is also one of your troop. You can bribe him to permit you to take his place for half an hour, and Ashleigh is safe." 
               The face of Walters darkened. 
               "You very coolly ask me to place myself in the power of another, who would inevitably betray me. The soldier would inform against me, and I should bear the burden of the prisoner's escape." 
               "You can bribe him to be secret," she calmly answered. "I leave you the means of so doing, by refraining to proclaim that the true heir of the estate you claim, yet lives." 
               An expression of intense hatred flashed across the dark features of Walters, and he made a motion toward her as if he would clutch her throat, and press life from it. Etura haughtily drew herself aside, and continued in the same unfaltering tone. 
               "I do not fear you, surrounded as I am by thousands, many of whom would respond to the lightest call. I warn you that 'tis best for yourself that our interview remain secret. The destruction of one you hate, may be acceptable to you, but if it is to be purchased at the expense of both fortune and position to yourself, it will be rather dear vengance. The world is sufficiently wide for both you and Ashleigh to breathe in, without coming in collision with each other. Listen, then, to the voice of reason, and suffer him to escape through your agency." 
               Her words struck clear and distinct upon his ear, and reason told him that Etura only spoke the truth; yet it was difficult to yield to its convictions. Walters had so deeply exulted in the thought that the man he bitterly detested would so soon be removed forever from his path, that it was hard to be forced to act the part required of him. Yet he saw no means of escape; he knew from the past what the Indian was capable of doing, and he felt that if he refused the service she so imperiously demanded, his ruin was consummated. 
               While these conflicting feelings warred in his mind, he paced the tent with hurried steps, and his reply was so long delayed that Etura became impatient. She said- 
               "Time wanes; it is now past midnight. At dawn, Captain Allan must return to report to Gen. Washington. Before that time the escape of the prisoner must be secured." 
               As Etura had stated, at the request of Walters, Gartly had been placed as sentinel over the prisoner, with the promise of a reward from his superior officer if he vigilantly performed the duty assigned him. As the storm arose, and the night air became chill, and damp, the enthusiasm of Elton in the maintainance of his watch, considerably abated. After the arrival of Allan, he was ordered to leave the prisoner alone with his friends, and when darkness fell over the earth accompanied by rain and driving wind, Elton concluded to trust the guardianship of Ashleigh to the faithfulness of the sentinel, rather than risk an attack of rheumatism by keeping at his post himself. 
               With joy the Indian had recognized Gartly, for both cowardly and grasping, she knew that through those vices she held him as securely in her power as Walters himself was. Before seeking the latter, she secured the co-operation of Gartly, by the promise of a larger bribe than he hoped to obtain by remaining true to his trust, and all that now remained, was to execute successfully what she had so skillfully arranged. 
               While Walters sought the sentinel stationed beyond the tent, the Indian glided into it and approached the prisoner. She received a sorrowful greeting from the three who sat with clasped hands, with an aching sense of hopelessness in their hearts: the agonizing consciousness pressing upon them, that each passing moment lessened the brief remnant of existence to one so dear. 
               The condemned man was the calmest of the three, and he strove by cheerful words to sustain the sinking eoul of the being who sat beside him pale as a spectre, and nearly as cold as if life had already forsaken her frame. 
               Mrs. Ashleigh raised her rayless eyes to the dusky form that entered, and from the dark face, she knew not why, a gleam of hope glanced athwart her soul. Ashley said- 
               "Welcome Wenona. I feared you had forsaken your old friend in these gloomy hours." 
               "No-far from that," she whispered. "I have been laboring in your service. I have sought and obtained the mens of deliverance." 
               He started up, and a brief flash of hope brightened his features; it rapidly passed away, and he sighed as he said- 
               "Alas! Wenona, my captors keep too strict a guard on me to hope for success in such an enterprise." 
               "The attempt can at least be made," exclaimed his wife, starting up with renewed life. "Dear Wenona, you are indeed our good angel-for you have acted, while we only grieved. What are your plans?" 
               "Captain Ashleigh has only to assume the disguise which I have brought with me, and accompany me. The sentinel who guards the entrance is gained over, and will permit us to pass. But one more remains, before we are clear of the lines; and he has been gained over. I know a pathway by which the out-posts can be avoided, and a boat with a trusty oarsman awaits us a mile below.-There is yet darkness enough to allow us sufficient time to effect an escape." 
               There was an assured tone in her voice which gave a new impetus to hope in the hearts of the listeners. Ashleigh asked soulfully- 
               "But you Wenona? Do you risk nothing, yourself? I would sooner meet my doom than bring evil to one who has proved himself so faithful to me." 
               "I shall accompany you. We can escape under the cover of the storm; and so soon as it abates, I would recommend Captain Allan to return to New York." 
               "As it will not be seemly that the bearer of a flag of truce should be implicated in the escape of the prisoner, I will return at once. The greatest violence of the storm has already passed; we can cross in safety to the other side, for our boat is large and strong." 
               And you, my beloved Mary, must accompany Allan," said Ashleigh, turning to his wife. "A few more hours and I shall fine you in safety, or I shall be alike insensible to joy or grief. Go, and God speed you, my best love." 
               He clapsed her to his breast, and after a brief moment resigned her to Allan, who almost bore her from the tent. The deeply tried wife had endured so much that she was passive in their hands; she was taken to the boat almost in a state of insensibility, and this excited no surprise among the few spectators, when it was remembered under what heart-rending circumstances she had parted from her husband. 
               The Bay was rough, but not dangerous to firm and tried boatmen; lighted by torches, the boat shot out from the land, and was soon lost sight of, amid the rolling waves. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               The disguise brought by the Indian, was simply a coarse overcoat, such as are worn by working people. This Ashleigh assumed, and putting on the large hat which he had worn from New York, he was equipped for the adventure. 
               While he prepared himself, the Indian glided from the tent to ascertain if Walters had assumed the watch on the edge of the lines, in place of the sentinel. In a few moments she returned looking quite satisfied, and made a signal to him to follow her. With beating hearts the two went forth in the darkness and no challenge come to them as they passed the entrance. It was passed midnight, and deep gloom enveloped the encampment, save when a huried dash of lightening illuminated the scene for a brief moment, and then all was densely dark again. 
               The Indian grasped the hand of Ashleigh and guided him toward the point af egress, though she was several times forced to pause and wait for the next flash to shew her in which direction to turn. 
               They reached the last barrier. A tall figure was momentarily visible, standing with his gun poised in his hand. The evil thoughts, and fatal purpose darkly matured in his mind, were dimly foreshadowed in the soul of the Indian, for she had an initiative feeling that the bitter enemy of both herself and Ashleigh, would never permit them to pass. "He will fire on us as soon as we leave,,' she thought "and I shall probably be selected as his victim. Hatred will be sacrificed to interest, and his first object will be to destroy me. The camp will be alarmed by his fire, and persuit commence in which he hopes to recapture Ashleigh. Well, so be it, Edward will have a chance to escape and my life will be well sacrificed in securing it. I am weary of this aching sense of pain which they call life! Oh more then weary, and it will be well resigned in his service." 
               As they reached Walters, a few muttered words passed between him and the Indian, and then in the deep darkness, the fugitives stood beyond the lines. Etura hurridly whispered- 
               "Now run for your life, until we cross the open space before us, and gain the shelter of the woodland." 
               About two hundred yars of cleared ground lay between the spot on which they stood, and a skirt of low underwood lying at the foot of a hill still covered with the nature growth of the forest. Once under cover of this, and Ashleigh felt they would be safe. On such a night, the attempt to pursue them must prove fruitless. 
               With fleet steps the two sought its shelter, making as straight a line toward it as the darkness would permit. There was a pause in the rain; the sky bent above them as a dense vault of black marble; the wind seemed to cease its wailing for a brief moment, only to gather force for its next sweeping charge. suddenly the darkness was rent asunder, and the fiercy thunderbolt of Heaven discharged their wrath upon the earth. 
               Accompanying the crash, was the sharp report of a rifle, and a cry of human anguish went up amid the surging blackness which enveloped the earth. 
               It was the cry of mortal suffering wrung from lips unused to utter the plaints of weaker natures; but he who had inflicted that wound, had not escaped scatheless. The electric fluid, attracted by the glittering gun barrel, flashed along the deadly tube, as it sent its messenger of death, and struck down the murderer in the act of consummating his crime. 
               Ashleigh heard the wail of woe that came from the heart of his faithful companion, and turning toward her, sought amid the darkness until his hand grasped her form. As he raised, she with difficulty whispered- 
               "Leave me; I am dying. Keep to the shore for a mile, then cry as a whip-poor-will and you will be answered by one who awaits you. Hark, the alarm is given, and you will be immediately pursued. Do not encumber yourself with me, it may lead to your own destruction." 
               "Sooner would I perish, soul and body, than abandon one who has so faithfully stood by me," was the response, as Ashleigh wound his strong arms around her light form. 
               No reply came, for Etura was insensible, and as Ashleigh fled, he felt the warm life-blood streaming over the hand which held her to his breast. He heard the alarm sounded, and soon a party set out in pursuit; they carried torches, but before many steps were taken, they were extinguished by the torrent of rain that again came down. Then they fired at random, and the ball swhistled around the fugitive, but he heeded them not. Exorting every muscle he endeavored to reach the spot on which the boat was concealed as speedily as possible. A weary and almost hopeless task it was to outstrip his pursuers thus burdened; but Ashleigh would sooner have returned and yielded himself a voluntary prisoner, than relinquish that form in which the struggling respiration assured him that life yet lingered. 
               Onward he went amid the drifting rain, and driving wind followed by shouts and cries, which, at moments, sounded almost beside him, as he approached the point at which he expected to find the boat. The young officer doubled on his pursurers, and turning back reached a chump of underwood he had remarked during the last brief flash of light. 
               Crouching down, he heard the steps of the pursuing party pass beyond him, and then he ventured to utter the melancholy cry of the night bird. It was responded to almost beneath his feet, and a few steps brought him to the boat. 
               "Is it you, Wenona?" asked a hoarse voice in a guarded tone. 
               "I carry Wenona in my arms, serivously wounded,," replied Ashleigh. "You were stationed here to aid my escape; lose no time for I hear the soldiers returning." 
               "Hist!-here, Captain Ashleigh," responded the voice. "I see the dim outline of your form; I will take the Indian from your arms, and do you follow me into the boat. We have not a moment to lose, for the next flash will show those red coated devils where we are." 
               As the man spoke he pushed his boat from the little cove in which it had been concealed, and it rested on the open water. Ashleigh surrendered his burden, and quickly obeyed the instructions of the waterman, but not a moment too soon. He seized an oar, and was about to push off, when a hand was laid on the boat, and a cry arose. 
               "Hear they are, boys! Come on and they are safe enough." 
               Ashleigh raised his oar, struck a violent blow in the direction of the voice, and the dull heavy fall which followed, assured him that the man was struck senseless. In another instant the boat was spinning in the foaming waves, many feet from the shore. The danger of being engulfed by them was imminent, but Ashleigh was mindful of that. He threw the oar aside, and drawing off his coat, placed it in the bottom of the boat, and tenderly laid the Indian upon it. She was now quite conscious, and to his questions she replied- 
               "I bleed inwardly-a few more hours and all will be over with me. Hasten to your own home-take me there, for I have a duty to perform which I would not leave undone." 
               "Oh faithful friend; speak not so hopelessly of yourself," said Ashleigh, "you shall be saved if human skill can accomplish it." 
               "My race is nearly run. My brief journey draws to its close, and I regret not that it is so," she feebly replied; and then she firmly closed her lips, that the expression of the intense sufferiflg she endure, might not be wrung from them. 
               With the next flash of lightning, the pursuing party favored them with a parting fire, but the balls skipped harmlessly around the boat, and amid lulling storm, the two men bent to their oars with the consciousness that on their own exertions now depended their safety. The owner of the boat was an experienced waterman, and managed his craft with the dexterity of one accustomed to meet and baffle danger. 
               At intervals, a light was shown from the opposite shore, toward which they shaped their course. At length it was safely gained and strong hands seized the boat as it came within reach, and drew it to the land. 
               As Ashleigh stepped out, he recognised several of the men belonging to his company who had signalized their attachment to him by joining with Wenona in this effort to save him. Warm were the congratulations he received on his escape, but the manifestation of joyful feeling was checked, as the main agent of it was lifted from the boat, in an almost lifeless state. 
               They gathered round the prostrated form with many expressions of sympathy, and soon a litter was formed, on which the wounded Indian was placed, and borne as swiftly as possible toward the city. One of the men hurried forward to inform the family of the melancholy catastrope of the night, that everything might be in rediness for the receiption of the wounded one, by the time they reached the house with her. 
               The messenger found the family assembled together, engaged in earnest supplication for the escape of him who was so dear to them. The joy of learning that he would soon be clasped to their hearts in safety, was damped by the knowledge that a human life would probably be the sacrific at which it was attained. 
               By the time the mournful procession reached the door, a surgeon was in the house, and everything in readiness to make every effort to save the self-devoted being who had shown unwavering faith to the last. 
               In a state of half-cousciousness the Indian was placed upon the bed prepared for her, and as the surgeon bent over her, and felt her pulse, she faintly whispered- 
               "Request every one to leave the room, Doctor, while you examine my wound." 
               The request was complied with, and then she said- 
               "I am faint; give me something to take this deathly sickness from my heart. Then bathe my face to remove the pain from it." 
               The surgeon complied with her wishes, and he was surprised at the pallid beauty of the features thus relieved of the disfiguring mask they had so long worn. Etura then said- 
               "Human skill can be of no avail to me, doctor, and it will only be loss of time, which is precious to me, to permit you to examine my wound. It is in my left side below the heart, and I momentarily feel the blood flowing fainter and colder as the sources of life are clogged in their course. Raise me with those pillows, and then summon the family. I have a revelation to make, which is of the last importance to them." 
               The surgeon possessed much experience, and as he pressed his fingers on the fluttering pulse, he knew that her words were true. He He silently obeyed her, and as the anxious groupe gathered around her bed, she veiled her face with her hands until they stood beside her; then suddenly dropping them upon that of Ruth, she spoke for the first time for years in her true character. 
               "My friend-my childhood companion, do you not know me?" 
               A thrilling cry broke from the lips of Mrs. Ashleigh, and she wildly exclaimed- 
               "It is-it is Etura. My child!-my child; where is he? What is his fate, since you perished not amid the flames." 
               All the truth gushed on Ashleih's mind, as be fixed his gaze upon the rapidly changing features before him, and the words he would have uttered froze upon his lips. Etura answered the anguished cry of the mother- 
               "Your child lives: he may be reclaimed, On the borders of Lake Superior, my brother will be found, and he has the lad under his protection, Wenona will be answerable for his safety." 
               Then turning toward Ashleigh, she continued-"I would have avenged myself for your desertion; but when half accomplished, my heart failed me, and I returned to follow the steps of him whose presence was life and light to me. I have lived alone for you-and now I die for you; tell me Edward Ashleigh, can human love do more than this?" 
               "It cannot-it cannot," murmured he, as he knelt beside the couch, and clasped her chilling hand in his own. "Here I bow before you Etura, to ask forgiveness for all I have caused you to suffer. Oh, Etura, amid all the changes of my future life, your devotion shall never-never be forgotten. Blind I was to the love you bore me, until the knowledge of it came too late. Pardon-oh-pardon!" 
               "It is yours; and I too must seek to be forgiven for the insupportable anguish I caused you to endure, in believing that your child had perished in the flames. Walters contrived the scheme to get the boy out of his way, but I would not permit him to fall in his power. To my brother's carehe was committed, and from the deep forest you will reclaim him in safety. At first, I hoped the mother's heart would break beneath the anguish of her terrible bereavement; but your love sustained her, and gradually I resigned myself to the position I occupied. I could watch over your safety-save you from annoyance, in danger, sacrifice myself for you, and I was contented. To persist in your defence, was my prayer. God is merciful, for he has granted it to one so sinful and erring as I am." 
               She sunk back quite exhausted, but after a few moments revived, seeing the old man she had so long regarded as a parent, bending ing over her, with tears upon his furrowed cheeks, she said- 
               "Dear father, bless your erring and repentant child. Ask mercy for her from Him to whose presence she speedily goes. My sister-my darling Ruth, come near me: may true happiness be yours, gentle spirit of love and truth. Edward draw close to me, with her I have forgiven for rivalling me in your heart." 
               Ashleigh drew dis wife forward, and the dying girl took the clasped hands of the fair in her own and murmured-"The wayward and perverse spirit is overcome by the great conquerer, and it bids both be happy in each other's love, seek and reclaim the child I tor-from you, and let your blessing and forgivenesss rest upon the grave of the Indian girl whose wild blood would not be tamed to the conventional forms of life. Edward you were reared as my brother; as a sister then take me in your arms; let my head rest upon your breast, and my eyes look into yours, as the last spark of expiring life fades from them." Ashleigh raised the drooping form, and tenderly encircled it with his arms-her large bright eyes were fixed immovably on his, and she quietly breathed her life away, happy thus to die. 
             
             
               CONCLUSION. 
               No time was lost by Ashleigh in making efforts to recloim his son, but the unsettled condition of the country threw so many obstacles in his way, that the struggle for independence was ended before the parents finally succeeded in regaining the young Edward. 
               The boy was then eight years of age, and his predilection for the wild life he led was so strong that it was long before he could be ized life. The early influences to which he was thusexposed, exerted a permanent influence on his subsequent career; for in after years, he was numbered among the most successful pioneers who led the way to the settlement and prosperity of the world west. tutored to comply with the customs of civil-His descendants yet live in the fair valley which he assisted in rescuing from a forest wild, and caused to team with the fruits of peace, industry and happinesss. 
               Ashleigh rose to high rank before the close of the war; he then retired with his father to the paternal acres, on which a new and more modern dwelling was erected. Allan, and the fair Ruth, also settled in the same vicinity, and the aged patriarch lived to see his grandchildren cluster around him in their young beauty: to behold the dove of peace once more fold her pinions over the fair land which was now indeed the heritage of her sons. Of the various characters who have figured in these pages, a brief mention may be acceptable. 
               At the close of the war colonel Maitland returned with his daughter and her husdand to Scotland, where Herbert's estates were situated. The veteran never had cause to regret the consent to their marriage, which was wrung from him. Before their departure Father John died, and among his brethren his memory was reverenced as that of a saint. 
               Walters, as we have related, was killed by the lightning's blast on the night of Ashleigh's escape. Ben Gartly met the fate that Ashleigh predicted for him, for he unfortunately for himself, fell into the hands of Arnold, was recognized as a deserter by him, and ordered to instant execution for the same crime which he had perpetrated a few weeks subsequently himself. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
