
    ----CITATION----
        Chinquopin.. George Denny, or, Sketches of Life in the Far West .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6047
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            PRICE, 50 CENTS. 
             
               GEORGE DENNY; 
               OR, SKETCHES OF LIFE IN THE FAR WEST. 
             
            
                
             
            BY "CHINQUOPIN."
             
            
               SAN FRANCISCO: 
               PUBLISHED BY P. P. HULL AND COMPANY.
             
            1856. 
          
          
             
            JEWELRY ESTABLISHMENT. 
            JOHN W. TUCKER, No. 125 MONTGOMERY STREET, Would beg leave to call the attention of his friends and the public to his unusually LARGE STOCK OF RICH & VALUABLE JEWELRY, WATCHES & SILVER PLATE, BY FAR THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT ON THE PACIFIC, CONSISTING OF DIAMOND WORK; QUARTZ WORK, in novel and endless variety; WATCHES, from the most celebrated makers in England, France, Switzerland and Sweden, in Plain and Jewel set Gold Cases; STERLING SILVER WARE, for Family use, of the latest patterns, in sets, consisting of TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE; Dinner Service; Knives, Forks, Spoons; Salvers, Pitchers, URNS, GOBLETS, ETC. 
            Articles of BIJOUTERIE from the most celebrated ateliers of Paris, Geneva, Florence, Turin, Rome, Berlin, Brussels, London and New York. California Gold Fabricated in all styles, by home Artists. Cane Heads; Bracelets; Ear-Rings; Signet Rings; Pins, &c., &c. 
            J. W. T., having recently completed a thorough renovation of his well known premises, would respectfully solicit an inspection of his Stock previous to purchase, by Wholesale as well as Retail buyers. 
            J. W. TUCKER, No. 125 Montgomery Street. 
          
          
            R. H. VANCE'S PATENT AMBROTYPES, 
            Corner of Sacramento and Montgomery Sts., 
            SAN FRANCISCO. 
            I have purchased the patent right of Cutting Ambrotypes for this State. I hereby denounce all Pictures taken on Glass in this city or State, and called Ambrotypes, as bogus, and a fraud upon the public, being a miserable imitation of the genuine article. 
            EXPLANATION.-The term AMBROTYPE, by which these pictures are designated, is derived from the Greek word AMBROTOS, signifying durability, ever-lasting, etc. The picture is taken upon plate glass, over which is placed a corresponding glass, the two being united by an indestructible gum, enabling the picture to retain its brilliancy for ages; it will not corrode at sea, or change in any climate, is beautiful in tone, bold and clear in its effect, and may be seen in any light. Taken in miniature and life size. 
            The AMBROTYPE is Patented in the United States, Great Britain and France. 
          
          
            FISHER & Co., HATTERS, 
            LEADERS OF FASHION! 
            Have constantly on hand the most complete assortment of Hats, Caps, Gloves, Canes and Children's Goods, Ever exhibited on the Pacific Coast, Corner of Montgomery and Commercial Streets, SAN FRANCISCO. 
          
          
             
             
               GEORGE DENNY; 
               OR, SKETCHES OF LIFE IN THE FAR WEST. 
             
            BY "CHINQUOPIN."
             
            
               SAN FRANCISCO: 
               P. P. HULL & CO., PUBLISHERS-TOWN TALK OFFICE, SAN FRANCISCO.
             
            1856. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, BY P. P. HULL & Co., In the United States District Court in the Northern District of California. 
          
       
      
         
            George Denny, or, Sketches of life in the far West 
             
            GEORGE DENNY; 
            OR, SKETCHES OF LIFE IN THE FAR WEST. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               A GAME OF BILLIARDS-THE BITER BIT-THE LOOSE COMMUNION BAPTISTS. 
               IT was a stormy night in December, 18-. The city of St. Louis was enveloped in the obscurity of a "Corporation Moonlight," a condition of things which was tantamount to almost total darkness. The numerous gas lights that lined the principal streets, usually so brilliant, were dark as Erebus. We will explain, for the edification of those of our readers who do not dwell in cities, that the gas company of St. Louis, at the time of which we write, taking advantage of the terms of their contract, by which they had agreed to light the city during the year, excepting only those nights when the moon shone, would not allow a lamp to be lighted on such nights as the almanac declared to be moonlight, no matter whether it was stormy or fair. The consequence was that when the moon was obscured by clouds the citizens groped in darkness. 
               On the night in question the only guide for the stranger or the wayfaring denizen were the scanty rays emitted from the stores and shop windows. 
               A celebrated billiard saloon, on one of the most fashionable streets of the city, was brilliantly lighted, and presented, by contrast with the dreary aspect of the streets without, a cheery and inviting appearance. The room, spacious and lofty, was richly ornamented and furnished in the most extravagant and costly style. Large, splendid mirrors, of French manufacture, reflecting full length figures, occupied the spaces between the windows at the ends of the room, and gave it the appearance of triple its actual length. Heavy damask curtains shaded the windows. Long rows of softly cushioned seats extended round the walls in rear of the ten richly carved mahogany and rosewood tables which occupied the center of that vast room, and were artistically placed in the most favorable position for the players. A bar, filled with the choicest liquors and wines, occupied a niche in one portion of the room, expressly prepared for the exquisite taste of the bon vivant. Sofas, lolling and double chairs, marble top tables, hat racks and capacious spittoons, filled up the vacant places. 
               Two young men entered, nodded familiarly to the proprietor, and, passing the usual salutations with their acquaintances, passed to the further end of the room where there was a vacant table, and selected their cues for a game. 
               "There go two of the best players in town, except Victor McKay," said one of the loungers, with a knowing air. 
               "Who is that splendid looking fellow that is going to play with George Denny? He is a stranger, is he not?" inquired another habitue of the room, who had been addressed by the first speaker. 
               "Yes, he is a stranger that George fell in with at the Planter's House. His name is Harry Grifford, and it is reported that he is from Louisiana, and as rich as Crsus." 
                
               "Well, it's my private opinion that if such is actually the case, George has got roots on him, and will play it mighty low down before they get through. There will be some high betting anyhow. Let's go and see the sport." 
               George Denny was about about twenty-one years of age. A little above the medium hight, he was well formed and graceful in appearance. A light moustache curled from his upper lip, and his long brown hair fell in wavy folds over a broad forehead. From a distance his distingue air and easy self-possession would impress one very favorably; but closer, the steady and somewhat reckless glance of his cold gray eye and impassive features, would repel and engender a feeling of dislike. He was dressed in the hight of fashion, and on his fingers flashed diamond rings of considerable value. 
               His companion was altogether different in bearing and personal appearance. He was also richly and fashionably dressed, but in far better taste. His age was about twenty-five. His countenance was open and frank, and entirely free from the marks of dissipation that distinguished the other. 
               "What shall we play for?" said George, carelessly, as the marker spotted the balls. 
               "Perfectly immaterial to me. Anything you please." "Well, suppose we try the rub for a champagne supper at the Empire; theater tickets included?" 
               "Agreed." 
               The game commenced by George leading off with a run of twenty-five. His antagonist made a very difficult carom to begin with, showing to the experienced eyes of the bystanders, who were versed in the mysteries of billiards that he possessed a perfect knowledge of the angles of the table; this he followed up by some very fine strokes, but broke down at twenty. 
               George won the first game by fifteen points. 
               Grifford, now having the first play, took the lead and kept ahead until the close of the game, though sharply followed by Denny, who would have won again, had it not been for a few fortunate strokes, which Denny and all the old players denominated scratches.
                
               The third game now commenced and was played with much care by both parties. Grifford at length won it, but only by a very few points. 
               "A splendid match! By the Lord Harry!" said one of the spectators, admiringly. "I thought at one time that Denny was bound to win." 
               George, who was evidently much chagrined by the to him unexpected result, gritted his teeth, but said nothing. 
               "Perhaps you would like to play a game with me, sir," said Victor McKay, a tall, sharp looking personage, addressing Grifford, who was leaning on his cue with an air of careless nonchalance.
                
               "I have no objections," replied Harry, who was well aware of the reputation of McKay, and that he was said to be the best player in Missouri. 
               To the astonishment of all the by-standers, Grifford beat him, though not badly. 
               "Let us try that again," said Victor. 
               "Agreed." 
               "Perhaps you would like to risk something on the result of this?" continued the vanquished player. 
               "I have never yet made a bet on any game either of chance or skill," replied Harry, "excepting small wagers of suppers," &c. 
               "Ah! yes; I see," said McKay, in a contemptuous and insulting tone, "you are an excellent player, but lack the nerve to back up your skill. A bet now of any size would spoil your game." 
               "Very well, sir," said Harry, sternly; "as you have expressed your opinion of me so very freely, I will for once depart from my general rule, and bet you what you like." 
               "My bet is a thousand dollars," said Victor, drawing a roll of bank bills from his pocket, and casting them on the table. The wager was a large one, and the young planter hesitated a few moments, but finally accepted it with an abstracted air of uncertainty, as if he feared to lose. 
               "I would like to try a thousand on this rub myself," said a well known citizen. 
               "I will take your offer, sir," said Grifford, suddenly facing the last speaker. "As there are none here willing to back up my play, I will do it myself as long as my purse holds out." The former did not fancy being snapped up so quick. 
               It augured ill for the safety of his money, he thought. It was too late to recede, however, and he, somewhat reluctantly, placed the amount of his wager in the proprietor's hands as stakeholder. 
               "I am ready to take a few hundreds more," said Harry, whose manner had totally changed. His look was confident and determined. Five hundred more were taken by a club of Victor's friends, who had the greatest faith in the tried skill of their champion. 
               Once more the balls were spotted, and Victor gained the lead by stringing. He played with the greatest care. All his skill was brought into requisition, and a run of fifty points, and both balls in baulk, relieved the apprehensions of his friends and backers, who had been a little disconcerted by the bold and careless demeanor of his antagonist. They now breathed freely again, for Harry failed to count. Victor played admirably, and made another run of thirty points. 
               Grifford watched the game with a slight compression of the lip, until he observed, at the close of the last run, that the break of the balls was favorable. With a gay flourish of his cue he made a carom, then played a hazard, and secured a spot ball. This he followed up by a succession of hazards, displaying the most extraordinary skill and perfect command of his ball. He played into the corner and side pockets alternately at each stroke, leaving the ball he played with in such a position that it was easy to send the red whirring into the pocket. 
               "Fifty-seven-sixty-sixty-three!" counted the last better with much uneasiness, while the others drew in their breath forcibly and wished themselves well out of the scrape. "Extraordinary playing!" 
               Grifford played on with an impassive air, and the sharp click of the balls is the only sound that is heard, so intense is the excitement. Eighty-eight, ninety-one, ninety-four, NINETY-SEVEN, ONE HUNDRED! 
               "The game is out!" shouted the marker, who had never before witnessed such consummate skill and perfect knowledge of the difficult game of billiards. 
               It was now Grifford's turn to commence the second game. He opened with a brilliant stroke on the white and light red, then played them together, one against the cushion and the other traversing the table until the three balls were driven to the lower end of the table. By a series of skilful plays he kept them in proximity until he had run the game out without even giving his opponent a chance to play.
                
               McKay and his compeers were perfectly astounded. "Sold! by the Lord Harry," exclaimed Victor, turning to the planter, with an expression of admiration he could not repress. "You have beaten me fairly, and the stakes are yours. Did you learn to play in this country?" 
               "I learned the carom game in France, the hazard I easily mastered while yet a mere boy on my own tables." 
               "Bien jou! Sacr! nom de Dieu. I thought you muss av got him in La Belle France," exclaimed a dapper little Frenchman, who had watched the movements of the young planter, and was delighted with his graceful, easy manner and perfect self-possession. "Monsieur, you play wiv beaucoup grace. Je suis charm wiv ze parfait savoir-faire ov ze game you av play." 
               Grifford thanked the vivacious foreigner, and responded to the congratulations that poured in upon him with a bow, as he received the stakes with the utmost sang froid, and replaced them with the proprietor for safe keeping until the next day. 
               "Not so green as they took him for, by a d-d sight," exclaimed one of the b'hoys, who had kept a sharp eye on the disposition of the funds. "He'll do to travel. Ha! ha! Sharp's the word. I must keep an eye on him." 
               "Shall we adjourn now and partake of that supper I lost on the first rub, or shall we visit the Thespian court of old Sol Smith, and see the celebrated Ravel family? Besides the astounding feats of the daring Gabriel, we will be favored with the inimitable pantomime of the comical, quizzical and ever cheerful Espinosa. Which shall it be?" inquired George Denny of his companion, with an air of profound deference. 
               "As you please," replied the young planter, in a careless and indifferent tone. The temporary excitement of the game having subsided, he seemed to take but little interest in the success which had attended his play, or the amount of the wagers he had so easily gained. 
               Gracefully throwing the right half of their heavy circular cloaks over their left shoulders, so as to be able easily to muffle their faces in the folds, thus favorably arranged the two emerged from the brilliant saloon and walked rapidly to the corner of Third and Olive streets. There they met with a disappointment. They were too late to obtain even an entrance into the theater, it being crowded from pit to dome. The elite and fashion of the city, who, by the way, have many things in common with the vulgar herd-among them, curiosity and a love of the marvelous were there, but sadly inconvenienced by the proximity of the masses who filled the broad aisles, and in fact every vacant place from the foot-lights to the green baize doors, leaning over the boxes and jostling the sprigs of aristocracy and the leaflets of fashion in a very unceremonious way. Audible hints and insulting expressions, given from behind handkerchiefs redolent with patchouli or jocky club, produced no other effect than to increase the number of impatient, contemptuous glances with which they were regarded by the obnoxious persons, and a bearing still more free and easy. 
               Grifford and Denny attempted an entrance, but were obliged to beat a retreat. 
               Two hours later and they might have been seen in company with two others, dispatching a midnight supper at the Empire. Monsieur Dumoulin, the vivacious Frenchman before spoken of, and Mr. Yolee, the proprietor of the billiard saloon, had joined them by request. 
               The table displayed a choice selection of edibles and delicate viands. The sparkling wine flowed free and fast. The party were soon in a fair condition to make a night of it, quaffing bumpers of champagne, in honor of Harry's victory, and to their better acquaintance. 
               It transpired in the course of the free and easy conversation that now took place, that Grifford was traveling for pleasure and amusement in any direction that the fancy of the moment might dictate. 
               "Monsieur,  votre bonne sant. I hope you vas stop, restez ici longtemps. Je vous prsente mes respects," uttered the friendly little Frenchman, rising to make a profound bow. 
               "Unanimous on that toast," said George, cheerily hob-nobbing all round, and the glasses clinked merrily. 
               "By the by, Yolee," he continued, coquetting with his glass, "this is the night of our regular meeting; we must go to church and make a night of it. If Mr. Grifford will join us, I think we can promise him some amusement." 
               "I had forgotten all about it. Of course we must go. I would'nt miss it for ten dollars, as this is the night especially set apart for the initiation of old Lumbertoes," replied Yolee, pushing back his chair and rising from the table. "Shall we go now, gentlemen?" 
               "What kind of a church is it that you are so anxious to attend at this late hour?" inquired Grifford, guardedly. 
               "There is no sell about it, I assure you," replied George; neither is it an orthodox society, but an association of queer geniuses, who support a peculiar institution in a fanciful manner." 
               "What is the name of your midnight church?" 
               "THE LOOSE COMMUNION BAPTISTS." 
               "That is a queer name for a club of bon vivants." 
               "I grant you that, but we have no controversialists among us, and don't care a fig whether baptizo means to immerse or sprinkle, as we have no sympathy with the word in its cold water sense." 
               "I can safely swear to that, for, to my personal knowledge, there is not one of our society who has not a mortal aversion to the article in any shape," said Yolee, laughingly. 
               "Well, I will accompany you," said the planter; "but you will not expect me to take any part in the ceremonies, or become a member of your singular association, unless I am more favorably impressed with its peculiar merits after we get there than I am now." 
               "Certainly not, unless it is your pleasure." 
               Yolee, acting as guide, led the way up Fourth street to a building now well known as Odd Fellows' Hall. A room in the third story was brilliantly lighted, and the muffled sounds that reached the party as they ascended the wide stairs, indicated that the worship going on there was decidedly more Bacchanalian than orthodox. They entered just as a tall, good looking fellow of about thirty was ascending the rostrum at the further extremity of the hall, with a roll of parchment in his hand. 
               He paused, and, gravely saluting the last comers, informed them that the regular business of the meeting had commenced, and that he was about to read the by-laws of the Society for the edification and benefit of Brother Lumbertoes, who was soon to be initiated into the more than Eleusinian mysteries of their craft. 
               "My brothers," said the speaker, casting his eyes rapidly over the assemblage, which consisted of some eighteen persons, "in perpetuating the time-honored usages 
                   
                     McKay and his compeers were perfectly astounded. "Sold! by the Lord Harry," exclaimed Victor. 
                  
                  
                   ges and customs of our church, it is our invariable practice, when a stranger is introduced into our midst by any member of good standing and acknowledged worth, to extend to him the right hand of fellowship, and invite him to partake with us of the good things provided for us by a committee who perfectly understand the doctrine of creature comforts. In the unavoidable absence of the R. R. B., it devolves upon me to perform his duties." 
               "What is the meaning of R. R. B.?" inquired Grifford of Yolee, in a low voice. 
               "Right Reverend Bishop, or Right Rollicking B'hoy, just as you happen to be in the humor." 
               The presiding officer requested perfect silence for a few minutes, and then read the following articles of association: 
               Article 1. This church shall be known by the name of the Loose Communion Baptists, and shall meet twice each week, on Wednesday and Saturday evenings. 
               Article 2. There shall be seven officers in the church, who shall faithfully perform the duties to be hereinafter specified. 
               Article 3. The officers shall be known and honored by the names of the Right Reverend Bishop, Grand Worthy Elder, Skad Keeper, Quill Driver, Blue Pills, Hall Keeper and Big Dog. 
               Article 4. No person shall be eligible to membership who is under seventeen, or over eighty-five years old; or who has ever had the delirium tremens over three times. He must also be sound on the main question-go it while you are young, for when you get old you can't. Live while you can is our militant motto. 
                
                  DUTIES OF OFFICERS. 
                  It shall be the duty of the R. R. B. to preside at all the meetings of this Society unless drunk; open the meeting with an appropriate speech, order the Q. D. to read the minutes, and order the H. K. to provide all members with a fid.
                   
                  2. It shall be the duty of the G. W. E. to preside in case of the absence of the R. R. B., no matter what the cause of such absence may be, as the welfare and comfort of the church must be attended to under all circumstances. 
                  It shall be the duty of the S. K. to collect all fines from delinquent members, and all initiation fees-furnish the Grub and Lush Committees with funds, if he has any, when they can't provide the necessary edibles and bibibles on tick or otherwise, for our carnal appetites and desires must not be neglected. He must keep his books by double entry, and be ready at any moment to yield them up to the inspection of any member who may wish to obtain information about the pecuniary condition of the affairs of our society. The S. K. will not be permitted at any time to buck at monte, thimblerig or keno with the church's funds. 
                  Q. D.-It shall be the duty of the Q. D. to keep the minutes of each meeting correctly, and read the same at the commencement of each subsequent meeting. He shall procure all new songs, and be constantly on the qui vive for anything that may turn up to promote our amusements; also, keep a faithful account of the receipts and expenditures, particularly the receipts. 
                  B. P.-It shall be the duty of the B. P. to watch over the various members of this Order, and see that they do not fall into the hands of modern quacks and empiries. He shall examine them at stated periods, to insure to them the continuance of a healthy physical condition. 
                  H. K.-It shall be the duty of the H. K. to be at this hole fifteen minutes before the opening of each meeting-not to admit any person who fails to give the password; but, at the same time, should any member be so inebriated as to affect his articulation, a peculiar knock or sign, known only to members, may procure him admittance. 
                  It would be well if the H. R. were a corpulent person, so that should he become overpowered by the drowsy god, or the effects of previous potations, and weaken at the knees, his blockading the entrance would effectually prevent intrusion. 
                  B. D. It shall be the duty of the B. D., when called upon by the R. R. B., or G. W. E., to bring to the Lodge all absent members-to take no excuse from such absentees, and at all times to risk their displeasure rather than fall. He will be held responsible for their attendance. Should any member be so intoxicated as to impede his navigation, the B. D. may, in such case, employ a wheel-barrow, or even, when such an article cannot be procured, he shall be empowered to call upon one or more members to assist him in carrying such refractory member. All fair means of inducement may be used, such as a promise of No. 1 punch, or an extra article of brandy, even when red eye is the only article of lush in the church's possession. Absolution shall at all times be given in full bumpers for such slight deviations from the commands of the decalogue. Should the absentee still persist in refusing to attend, and all fair means fail to move him, the B. D. shall be empowered to use foul means, but to retain the privilege of running, should the inebriate be full of Dutch courage, and show fight. 
                  A Committee on Grub shall be appointed by the R. R. B. or presiding Elder at each meeting, to act for one week. It shall be their duty to roam all over the city, examine with parental care the growth of all young pullets; discover every henroost, and, before committing any depredations on the same, to examine the combs of each matronly hen in order not to slay a laying chick; for the committee must use all means in their power to keep the Society in fresh eggs. They are to watch every small kitchen garden, know at what time young and tender vegetables will be ready for use, and be particularly careful not to damn the reputation of the church by being canght pilfering for its use. 
                  A Committee on Lush shall also be appointed by the R. R. B. or G. W. E., to act for one week. It shall be their duty to keep constantly on hand a full supply of the choicest liquids; to keep posted on all new arrivals of vinous or alcoholic products, (except the Aromatic Scheidam Schnapps, which we repudiate with well merited abhorrence,) and to sample each to the extent of one quart, on pretence of having some friend to purchase, but on no account to require more than five drinks before passing an opinion. It will then be their duty to pronounce it undrinkable. It will also be expected of this committee that they will not fail to keep the church in tobacco and pipes; cigars, of course, preferred if any merchant can be sufficiently gulled to allow them to sample a box. 
                  "These are the by-laws now in force," continued the G. W. E., "but it is in the province of our Society to alter, amend or add thereunto at any time they may deem proper. I will take this occasion to explain, for the edification of the incoming member, Brother Lumbertoes, that we selected the name by which we are known to distinguish our Society from the Hard Shells, Soft Shells, and other mutton-headed Societies of the day, which, with loud professions of piety, godliness and infallibility, are yet greater sinners than we are; for do they not add the most unblushing hypocrisy to the long catalogue of their moral crimes? They commune by the small--; we go it large, and with a perfect looseness. It may be said that we resemble the Quakers more than any other denomination, for when the spirit moves we open our mouths freely. We are now ready to initiate Brother Lumbertoes," said the speaker, descending from the dais, and taking a seat at the head of the long table which occupied the center of the room, and around which the lay members, following his example, quickly seated themselves. Grifford was invited to join them. Not wishing to baulk their humor, he did so. 
                  "Brother Lumbertoes, you will please arise; place your right hand upon that champagne bottle in front of you, and, with your left firmly grasping that swan-necked goblet, imbibe freely, and repeat after me the following oath." 
                  "I regret to interfere at this peculiar and interesting time," remarked one of the members, slowly rising to his feet and looking the candidate full in the face, "but the fact is, my conscience will not allow me to do otherwise. I feel that I should be derelict in my duty if I did not waive all personal feelings and considerations and state what I know to be the truth, that friend Lumbertoes is not eligible to membership in this Society." 
                  "Not eligible!" repeated a chorus of laughing voices; "what is the impediment?" 
                  "He is a guzzle function!" 
                  The look of bewilderment which spread over the broad face of the unlucky applicant caused a roar of laughter that fairly shook the walls. 
                  "What is a guzzle function?" inquired Harry, sotto voce, of his companion. 
                  "That is exactly what I'd like to know. Don't ask any one else what it means, though, or they will sell you, sure." 
                  "I regret, my brothers, that your friend is in that melancholy condition, but it is nevertheless a deplorable fact, and will effectually bar him from the delightful associations of membership with us." 
                  "What the devil is a guzzle function?" demanded Lumbertoes, his face quite purple with excitement. 
                  "It is applied to men who drink more than three gallons of liquor a day!" replied the first speaker, coolly taking his seat, amidst a perfect storm of hip-hip-hurrahs, and propositions from each member to drink the health, and become better acquainted with Mr. Lumbertoes, the guzzle function.
                   
                  That worthy individual, who, by the way, was an old gentleman of Falstaffian proportions, who had lately emerged from the liquor traffic to live in peace and comfort the rest of his allotted days, took the jokes of the b'hoys in good part. Songs, stories and drinks followed each other in rapid succession, and all was characterized by boisterous mirth and stuttering glee. 
                  "Ah! here comes our dilatory and recreant Quill Driver," exclaimed the G. W. E. as a young and exquisitely dressed member entered the room. 
                  "Come forward, sir, and explain the reason of your absence on this momentous and highly important occasion; and mark me well, sir laggard, your excuse must savor of great excellence to avert the penalty of your delinquency." 
                  Thus speaking, the G. W. E. drew up his stately form to its utmost hight, and majestically waved the Q. D. to his accustomed desk. The culprit walked slowly forward, coughing to conceal a smile which curled his pointed moustache, and gave it an air of mock humility. 
                  "Most Worthy Elder, the fact is, I was wending my way to join you in excellent good season, but while passing the Mansion House, in a quiet and contemplative mood, I happened to meet a youth, anxiously inquiring the way to be shaved. I had observed him before in the busy haunts of men, and learned that his was a peculiar idiosyncracy; in short, that extreme verdancy characterized his every step. At his earnest request I took him under my wing for protection, and did imbibe freely both at the Empire and Planters' House at his expense; after which pleasant episode he returned the compliment by presenting to me his application for admission into this our spiritual abode, and this box of super-excellent regalias. 'The head and front of my offending hath this extent and no more.'" The stern look of the presiding officer melted away from his flushed countenance. 
                  "Well, sir, in consideration of the extenuating circumstance you have mentioned, and this being only the seventy-sixth offense against our rules, you will be dealt with leniently. You are only mulcted in a fine of half a dozen of champagne, which, with the box of regalias, will of course become the property of the church. And now, sir, as your absence interfered with the regular order of our proceedings, will you deign to read the minutes of our last meetings?" 
                  "Society met pursuant to adjournment, and, for a wonder, all the members were in attendance. Minutes of the preceding meeting were read and approved. An eloquent speech was then delivered by the R. R. B., who was fortunately au fait in his office for once. The Grub Committee rose, made their report, which was accepted, and asked leave to sit again-to a fine sample of eau de vie and accompaniments which they had under consideration. Leave was granted them. I regret to be under the painful necessity of informing this Society that the price of poultry has materially advanced in consequence of the constant efforts of our efficient committee. In our spiritual affairs a much better state of feeling exists, albeit the choicest brands of the vintage of '79 and most venerable brandies have a downward tendency." 
                  The report was received uproariously, and then the real business of the night commenced. George, without appearing over officious, plied all the arts he was master of to gain the good will and confidence of the young planter, who, as a spectator, a 'looker on in Venice,' had been much amused with the novelties he had witnessed. Although solicited repeatedly, he had refused to take any part in the proceedings of the L. C. B. 
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               ANTECEDENTS. 
               Colonel George Denny, the father of the fast young man of the same name mentioned in the opening chapter of this "ower true tale," had reached his fortieth year unscathed by the shafts of Cupid, which had been launched by the bright eyes of young and beautiful women in abundance against his invulnerable breast, as soon as it leaked out that he was the possessor of a princely fortune. 
               He was the son of a patriot of the Revolution, who had distinguished himself at Bunker Hill, Ticonderoga and White Plains; had fought the battles of liberty with honor to himself and profit to his country. Covered with glory and the traces of many wounds, he finally died, bequeathing to his only son little else than the remembrance of his father's noble deeds. Thrown upon his own resources at the age of fifteen, Colonel Denny commenced a life of privation and hardship which continued until his twentieth year. By dint of hard study and constant application he had acquired a good English education, and became a perfect draughtsman. At that time the settlements on our western frontier were overrun by hostile savages, and a long and sanguinary war ensued. Denny was one of the first to volunteer his services to fight the natural enemy of the white race. The Indians, with their usual bad faith, had broken every treaty made with them by our Government; had committed depredations upon the property of the settlers, and murdered defenseless women and children under circumstances of the greatest atrocity. 
               Denny entered the army as a private soldier, but, having distinguished himself by many feats of great daring, he soon acquired a reputation for skill and prowess that caused his rapid promotion. He possessed in an extraordinary degree all the qualities of head and heart which endear the soldier to his comrades. In two years he had reached the rank of colonel. 
               At the close of the war he turned his attention to civil engineering, and having been appointed Government Commissioner to survey the lands of the Sacs and Foxes, he spent the next five years of his life in the woods of the Northwest, attending to the onerous duties of his post. There was a charm in the wild freedom of border life which was peculiarly pleasing to the energetic engineer and his bold confreres. The extensive forests they traversed abounded with game. Deer, elk and bear sported playfully near them, and scarcely fled at their near approach, they were so unaccustomed to the appearance of the lords of creation. 
               The wild and picturesque beauty of the scenery, ever-changing in sublimity and grandeur, challenged their admiration on every hand-each succeeding day revealing some new and attractive features in Nature's great panorama. Col. Denny quitted with much regret the forest life he had led with such pleasure; but the term of his appointment having expired, he returned with reluctance to the haunts of civilization. 
               A moiety of his salary, amounting to some four thousand dollars, he expended in the purchase of lands at government price. These lands he located with sagacious foresight, and in the course of ten years the tide of emigration having peopled his domain with settlers, a city sprang up on one portion of it, and his original investment realized between two and three hundred thousand dollars. 
               His residence, situated on the Ohio river, opposite Blannerhasset Island, was a most beautiful specimen of architecture, and had been constructed under his personal supervision. It was a gothic structure, unique in appearance, and literally embowered in trees. A venerable weeping willow, which had withstood the storms of centuries, guarded the front entrance, and its long, pendant branches and luxuriant foliage threw a deep, refreshing shade over the front piazza. The grounds had been laid out under the guidance of a cultivated taste. The mansion was flanked on either side by an orchard, bearing luscious fruit, while, in the rear, was a labyrinth of flowers which filled the air with their fragrance. 
               Internally the house was furnished in a style of costly elegance. Soft Brussels carpets covered the floors. Inlaid mahogany and rosewood furniture, piano, chairs and sofas, were arranged in their appropriate places, and their polished appearance and good order gave evidence of the superintending care of an excellent house-keeper. Such in fact was Mrs. Chappell, a cousin of the Colonel's, who kept a much closer watch on his affairs than he did himself. Not a speck of dust was allowed to soil the splendid paintings that depended from the walls, or to collect on the various articles of vertu that were scattered around. 
               It was the eve of a warm and sultry day in August, 18-.The owner of this charming villa was pacing the terrace in the shade of the willow with regular and measured steps, which were light and elastic, and displayed as he walked, with an air of careless abandon, the contours of a form of perfect manly symmetry. He was tall and commanding in appearance, and looked five years younger than he really was. His brows were bent in thought, and so deeply was he absorbed in the subject of his silent contemplation that he did not observe the approach of a carriage, which, driven by a burly negro, rushed past with lightning-like speed, until his attention was suddenly aroused by an exclamation of terror from Mrs. Chappell. 
               "Eh! What?" said Colonel Denny, who just that moment caught sight of the flying horses, and also of a female who appeared to be struggling to spring from the carriage. The whole had passed so quickly that he had obtained but a glance, as it were, of an enchanting visage as it whirled by. He observed with horror that the carriage, dragged on at such fearful speed, swayed from side to side like a drunken man, now running upon two side wheels, then bounding over the inequalities in the road, it scarcely seemed to touch the ground until at a short turn it crashed against the fence. A sharp cry of agony announced the catastrophe. Gently he raised the insensible form of the female from the earth, where she had been thrown by the concussion, and bore her to the house in his arms as easily as he would have carried an infant. The sleeves and bosom of her dress were crimsoned with blood, while her face was pale and colorless as marble. 
               Mrs. Chappell applied all the usual restoratives within her reach, and a servant was instantly dispatched for a physician. Fortunately one of great ability, Dr. Cummings, lived near by, and was soon in attendance. 
               "Is she dead, Doctor?" inquired the compassionate housekeeper, who was much excited, and feared that the syncope, which bound the faculties of the fair stranger was but the precursor of death. 
               "By no means, madam. I thought at first that concussion of the brain had ensued, but on examination I am now convinced that the injuries she has received, though quite serious, are by no means dangerous. The blood on her dress, which has so terrified you, proceeds from a small wound on her right arm, which was a very fortunate circumstance, as it has prevented more serious consequences." Dr. Cummings belonged to the old allopathic school. 
               The patient soon gave signs of returning animation. Convulsive gasps, that were painful to behold, shook her delicate frame for a few moments, and then her respiration became calm and regular. With a slight shudder she opened her eyes and gazed with a bewildered air upon the group by whom she was surrounded. The attending physician, who had not failed to notice the singular style of beauty which distinguished his patient, now that her pale countenance was illumined by the light of large, lustrous eyes, hastened to explain the circumstances of her present situation. 
               "My dear madam,"-(Confound these old fogy doctors, what liberties they always take, thought Col. Denny,)-"My dear madam, compose yourself, and do not be alarmed," continued the doctor; "you have met with quite a serious accident. You have sustained some injuries, but none of a very serious nature. A few days at the most will fully restore you again. My friend here," and the speaker waived his hand gracefully towards the designated personage, "was fortunately a witness of the terrible scene; he hastened to your relief and conveyed you to his house." As he ceased speaking, the young lady fixed her large, brilliant eyes, beaming with gratitude, upon the yet handsome countenance of the Colonel, and murmured words of thanks in a low and tremulous voice. 
               Mrs. Chappell now interposed her matronly authority, and turned the gentlemen out of the room, saying that the patient needed quiet and repose. 
               Patrick Moriarty, one of the servants of the house, had been sent to look after the driver, who still lay on the ground where he had been thrown with great violence. The task was not much to his taste, as he had a national feeling of dislike for the sable sons of Africa. He, however, approached the inert mass of ebon flesh, and so far overcame his feeling of repugnance as to loosen his neckcloth, and rubbed his hands and forehead with no very gentle touch. 
               "Are yez kilt? yez bloody nagur!" he shouted in the ear of the prostrate black. 
               "Bress de Lord, mas'r! whar is dis nigga?" inquired the driver, looking around him with a stupid air. 
               "Here yez are, my boy; as big as life an' twice as purty. Are yez much damaged?" shouted Pat, with a comical look of commiseration. 
               "Well, I dunno, mas'r," said the black, dubiously, rubbing his arms and legs, and shaking his woolly head. "'Fore God! dis chile thot he was done gone, shua. I seen a heap ob stars an' things fur 'bout a minit, an' den darkness struck dis nigga, an' he didn't saw no more tell jess now. What's my missus?" 
               "Never bother about the misthress-she's all right. What's yer name, old chap?" 
               "Pompey, sa'," replied the darky, who was a stout, powerful looking fellow, of about seventeen years. 
               "I say, mas'r, is ye got any sperets at de house? Dis chile is powerful weak, an' a leetle drap 'ud do him a heap ob good!" 
               "Bad luck to yez; don't spake av it. They're all temperance folks in this place, an' sorra a taste can be had for love nor money. It's meself that's in a sufferin' condition for the want av that same." 
               "Dat's mighty bad!" said Pompey, who had lost considerable blood and felt rather shaky, "but de Lord's will be done!" 
               After much time Patrick succeeded in getting his charge safely ensconced in the kitchen, where some warm cordials and a substantial supper restored his strength and cheerfulness. 
               On the morning of the following day the invalid had so far recovered as to be able to receive visitors, and expressed a desire to see Colonel Denny. This he had anticipated, and having taken unusual pains with his toilet he entered the room with no little trepidation; in fact, at the commencement of the interview he experienced all the embarrassment and awkwardness of a schoolboy on his first entrance into society. The well-bred ease and perfect self-possession of his young guest quickly reassured him, however, and they soon engaged in an animated conversation, in the course of which she informed him that her name was Eugenia De Forest, and proceeded to make him acquainted with the following particulars. With a charming naivet of manner she allowed it to transpire, by inuendo, that she was between nineteen and twenty years of age, was of French extraction, and had lost her mother while yet too young to realize the extent of her great misfortune. That since that time she and her only sister had resided with their father on his plantation, which was beautifully situated on the Kanawha, until two years previous, when his sudden death had left them alone in the world without a protector. "We have recently been living with an aunt who resides in Parkersburg," she continued; yesterday I started to visit a friend of our family who resides at Hock Hocking, when the accident occurred which resulted in my being thrown upon your hospitality in such a singular manner. "I am but too happy, Miss De Forest, that it is in my power to render you even the slightest assistance," said Colonel Denny, who politely placed his entire establishment at the disposal of his fair guest. The impression made upon him by the fascinating Eugenia was so favorable, that he inwardly blessed the accident that had placed her in the novel position she now occupied as an inmate of his bachelor establishment. Never had he experienced such singular emotions as while gazing upon the varying cheek of the lovely invalid. In perfection of feature she was as beautiful as the ideal of his wildest dreams of former days. Her form was a little above the medium hight, full, rounded and voluptuous. Eyes of a dark hazel color vailed their languid brilliance, beneath long, silky lashes of singular luxuriance. Wavy masses of dark hair floated on her shoulders, white as alabaster, affording as perfect a contrast as the raven's wing upon a snow drift. Her teeth, small, white and regular, were imprisoned by the gentle pressure of firm, rose-colored lips. She was dressed with exquisite taste. The only ornament she wore was a diamond cluster ring of rare brilliancy that flashed on her small white hand. 
               "You spoke of your sister, Miss De Forest. If you would like to have her with you, I will send for her at once." 
               "The very request I was about to make," said Eugenia, with a gratified smile. "My physician informs me that the contusions I have received will prevent my departure for several days." 
               "The longer the better," said the Colonel, gayly. "I will see that Mrs. Chappell takes excellent care of you." 
               That afternoon Pompey left for Parkersburg, and bore the following letter from his young mistress: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           MY DEAR FANNY-Congratulate me, my friend. I have effected a lodgment in the heart of the enemy's camp, though nearly at the cost of my life. Pomp was so anxious to do his part well that he nearly killed us both by his furious driving. He managed the accident very adroitly, and I do not regret the severity of my injuries, as they answer the purpose I have in view most admirably-that is to remain here as long as I possibly can. I was conveyed by Col. Denny to this beautiful mansion in his own arms, and am now duly installed with all the honors-an invalid guest. I write you with some little pain, but much exultation of spirit, for if I do not mistake the signs of the times-and you know I am an excellent judge in such a case-the proprietor of this lovely spot is as much in love with me already as I am with his broad acres and full coffers. That is the best companion I can think of to denote the great strength of his sudden attachment. Thus far my little plot works admirably. Come to me at once, darling; but be upon your guard, and do not forget the part we rehearsed together in reference to the demise of our lamented parents! Act your part as well as I shall mine, and success is certain. Bring my large trunk, the metallic toilet case, and all the articles of bijouterie that may be scattered around. Do not forget that you are my only sister! Pomp is well instructed, shrewd, cunning, and equal to any emergency. Be very prudent, my dear, and on your arrival pay particular attention to a certain old ogress you will find at the head of this establishment-I mean Mrs. Chappell, the housekeeper, whom it is important to conciliate. 
                           
                              Yours, devotedly, 
                              EUGENIA.
                            
                         
                         
                           P. S.-Burn this as soon as you have read it. 
                         
                      
                  
                
               On the evening of the same day, Miss Fanny, a petite and sickly looking girl of eighteen years arrived, and, being ushered into the presence of her sister, was received with the most lively demonstrations of affection and regard; and a little scene ensued between them which convinced the Colonel and Mrs. Chappell, who were present, that the sisters possessed the most amiable dispositions and tender and susceptible natures. 
               Tears of genuine sympathy glistened on the cheeks of Fanny as she threw her arms around the neck of her pretended sister, and showered upon her a thousand little grateful attentions. 
               Eugenia De Forest was a remarkable woman, and possessed a versatility of talent that would have immortalized her name had she chosen to follow in the bright train of Thespis. She possessed the rare art of appearing to be exactly the character she wished others to believe she was, and could act it out to the life. In cunning and deceit she was a Machiavel in petticoats. She had drawn upon a fertile imagination for the little episode of her early life which she had narrated to Col. Denny, with such an appearance of truth and ingenuousness as completely to impose upon the credulity of her admiring auditor. 
               The death of her mother, when she was but ten years of age, had left her penniless and alone in the world. Since that time she had been reared and educated by the kindness of a relative of her mother's, who had been estranged from her by some differences of their early youth. Mrs. Brooks, the lady alluded to, had been estranged from Eugenia's mother for a number of years, but seeing the destitute condition of her only child she generously forgot the variance of former years and took the little orphan to her home, as the adopted child of her widowed heart. For a time she treated the pretty little outcast with all the fond care and affection of an own mother, but Eugenia, even at that early age, developed so many repellant traits of character, that it became necessary to govern her with stern determination, and throw around her the protection of the strictest discipline. Only the most rigid treatment could keep her in check. As she grew up, duplicity was her forte, and she reveled in falsehood and cunning. Artful and scheming, she was an adept in mischief, and, with the strange perversity of vicious childhood, particularly delighted in tormenting her good and amiable aunt, who had no sooner forgiven one fault or trespass of the precocious little sinner than she would be called on to punish or forgive another prank. 
               When Eugenia reached her thirteenth year she was sent to a celebrated female seminary at Marietta, where she continued the exercise of her versatile powers, but as she possessed the art to enjoy any benefit that might arise from her tricks of legerdemain, as she facetiously called them, while she always managed to cast the odium upon others, she bore an excellent character at the institution, and her good old aunt was delighted with the favorable accounts that reached her of the exemplary conduct of her proteg, who was making rapid progress in her studies. Possessing a superior memory and extraordinary quickness of perception, she studied but little, yet always excelled, and became a great favorite with her teachers. At the end of four years she finished her studies and acquitted herself with honor and eclat. During her first year she had become acquainted with Miss Fanny Duval, and conceived for her a violent friendship, which was reciprocated with equal ardor by that young lady. Fanny was also an orphan, of quiet and retiring manners, and soon learned to love this new friend; for, to her, the usually proud and imperious Eugenia had ever been kind, gentle and affectionate. The mild blue eyes, placid, even temper and warm, affectionate nature of Fanny attracted the queenly Eugenia, who had become her room mate for a time, and the mysterious affinity of opposite qualities soon cemented a firm and lasting friendship. 
               When Eugenia returned home, Fanny accompanied her, and from that time the two were inseparable. Mrs. Brooks, who rejoiced at the apparent change which had taken place in the disposition and character of her niece, who now appeared only a little wild and eccentric, received them with open arms, and readily consented to a plan they had formed by which they could live together. 
               The routine of balls, parties, and flirtation now commenced, which usually mark the introduction of new accessions to country society. Eugenia was the reigning star, the cynosure of all eyes, and attracted the unbounded admiration of the rustic beaux of the neighborhood, who, however, with a few exceptions, gazed and admired from afar off, for the haughty bearing and aristocratic air of the proud beauty repelled their diffident advances. Eugenia, unromantic and practical, had formed plans for the future, which as yet she had not found an opportunity to carry into execution. The life of dependence she had led since the death of her mother was galling to her pride. She longed to be free, and, above all, to be wealthy. Mrs. Brooks was only moderately well off, and could bequeath to her, at the best, but a bare competence, while she panted for riches as the ne plus ultra of earthly enjoyment. She pictured to herself the ever-varying delights of affluence, and resolved to enjoy them. "How?" she often asked herself, and the only reply was, "by marriage." No suitable opportunity occurred until the arrival of Colonel Denny at his country residence. He never went into society, and our fair schemer did not even know him, but the fame of his great wealth soon spread abroad, and she resolved to become acquainted with him, and commence a vigorous seige upon the heart of the good looking old bachelor. 
               Fanny, accustomed to obey the dictates of her friend, whether right or wrong, had joined in the conspiracy, and followed her directions to the letter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               EUGENIA'S SUCCESS-MARRIAGE-UNHAPPINESS AND CRIME. 
               Just six weeks from the date of the events recorded in the preceding chapter, Colonel Denny committed an act that embittered the whole of his after life. He married Eugenia De Forest. The mystic spell of the enchantress was upon him, and he had yielded to the mysterious power of her fascinations. Eugenia was both witty and accomplished, and had by no means hidden her light under a bushel; on the contrary, it shone forth in all its splendor. Concealing her real feelings and sentiments, she had simulated all the phases of love with such consummate tact that her husband only saw her in the borrowed light of hypocrisy and deceit, and imagined that he possessed the entire love and devotion of her young and passionate nature. The wedding was a splendid affair, and the blooming bride looked magnificently in her rich trousseau of blonde lace and satin, pearls, diamonds and triumph. The elite and bon ton of the country were there to congratulate the happy pair, dance their approbation of the whole arrangement, and partake of the sumptuous repast and jollification that invariably attended an old-fashioned wedding. 
               Fanny Duval, knowing as she did that her friend had played a bold and skillful game for wealth and position, did not feel particularly happy, even in the knowledge that the prime objects of her ambition had been secured. She tried to rejoice in Eugenia's success, but could not avoid feeling that it was all wrong, and trembled for the consequences of her friend's matchless deceit when the time of its being revealed should arrive. 
               The marriage thus contracted was not productive of happiness to either party. Circumstances of slight difference of opinion soon arose, which convinced Colonel Denny that Eugenia did not possess the amiable disposition and noble qualities which he had so fondly ascribed to her. For a time, it is true, she was all gentleness, and endeavored to make his will her law, but the constraint thus self-imposed was particularly distasteful and it was soon abandoned. 
               She plunged, with all the zest of a neophyte into the vortex of fashion, and lavished immense sums of money for the most trivial and useless gewgaws. But the full fruition of fortune's favors did not yield the perfect happiness she had so often anticipated, and the result was a soured and discontented disposition. She had never loved her husband, and, with a strange perversity of conduct, she now visited upon him the effects of her own disappointment. 
               After one of their now frequent disputes, in which, as usual, the better-half had gained the day and carried her point, the Colonel, with the utmost bitterness of heart, inquired of himself, as he gazed upon the flashing eye and determined features of the beautiful virago, if this was the same amiable being he had espoused, or whether some magic influence had not transformed her into a termagant. He even fancied he could see an essential difference in her physique, that he perceived a change in the color of her hair and long and beautiful lashes which he had so much admired in former days. Her person was more angular in shape, and he found many defects which before had entirely escaped his notice. 
               Ah! Colonel, it was not all fancy. The dark, beautiful hair had been made so by art. It was originally of a sandy hue, but the constant use of a metallic comb and never-to-be-sufficiently lauded hair dye, had given the wavy curls that soft glossy appearance which delighted your eye. Constant clippings of the lashes, when she was young, for a disease of the eyes, had caused them to grow to an unusual length; but alas! they were even lighter in color than the hair that required such constant care to keep in order. The same magic dye, carefully applied with a camel's hair brush, had produced an astonishing effect on them also. A judicious use of cotton and compression applied by Eugenia's skillful hand had materially improved the contours of her form. All these adventitious aids, and many others connected with the toilet, of such deep mystery that the minuti cannot be here explained, she had pressed into her service in making up the tout ensemble of her personal charms. It was now only upon certain occasions, such as balls, evening parties, or when company was expected, that she would take the trouble to fix up her imposing array of peculiar beauty. 
               In every day life she had subsided into a plain, shrewish looking woman, with light eyelashes and a pale, determined look. In public she still shone with all the lustre of dress and jewels, and looked as beautiful as Ninon de Lenelos, the Aspasia of France. Her sparkling wit and pointed repartees flashed as brilliantly and coldly as the diamonds that glittered on her white hand. She was the observed of all observers, and it certainly would have required the utmost stretch of imagination on the part of the beholder to transform the beautiful and accomplished being before him, whose smile was so sweetly amiable, into the scolding, snarling Xanthippe of private life. 
               Such was the mother of George Denny. 
               He was born about two years after the consummation of the ill-assorted marriage of his parents. His father had looked forward to this event with much anxious expectation. He hoped that, in the exercise of maternal feelings, the fond care and love of the mother for her first born, might be revived the long neglected duties of the wife. He was again doomed to be disappointed. The heartless woman neglected her tender babe, even refusing the sustenance required by the wailing innocent to prolong its existence. The cry of utter helplessness, her own flesh and blood, failed to touch that stony heart. No chord of tenderness vibrated to the tiny voice of the pretty child in that unnatural woman, and George, from the time his eyes first saw the pale countenance and cold, unpitying eye of his mother, drew his sustenance from the breast of another. 
               From that time Colonel Denny gave up all hope of domestic happiness, or even peace in their little family circle. They occupied different suites of apartments, and upon him devolved the duty of rearing the child who had been given to them by Providence, doubtless for some wise purpose, but was a fruitful source of unhappiness and misery. When George was two years of age Mrs. Denny, after a quarrel of unusual severity with her husband, in which he had asserted his unalterable determination to prevent his wife from exercising any authority in the affairs of their child, committed an act of so atrocious a nature that Colonel Denny resolved to apply for a divorce, and cast off the worthless wretch forever. With the fires of deadly hate flashing in her dilated eyes, and curses on her pale, writhing lips, she vowed revenge. She had been foiled in her attempt to assume the control of the prattling infant, whose large eyes gazed upon the convulsed face of his mother with child-like wonder. He fled from her with fear, and sprang into his father's outstretched arms. 
               In the privacy of her chamber the unnatural wife and mother, with lowering brow and compressed lips, brooded over plans of dire revenge. The thought of Lucrezia Borgia flashed upon her mind, and the same means used, with such fearful effect, by the "Scourge of Italy," were open to her. Her husband breakfasted in his own suite of rooms. The table for him and his son was prepared by the domestics, and usually placed in the library, which communicated with his sleeping room by means of a folding door. He was fond of reading while drinking his Mocha, and spent a pleasant hour at his matutinal meal. On the morning after the fierce quarrel a shadowy form glided into the library, for the Venetian blinds were yet closed, and dropped a white, impalpable powder into each of the cups, and then vanished with noiseless steps. She had resolved by one bold crowning stroke of infamy to rid herself of the hateful presence of her noble husband and innocent offspring. With matchless cunning she had visited the pantry in the dead hour of night, and placed the deadly poison in such a position on the shelf that if suspicion should be aroused it could easily be made to appear that the fatal catastrophe was the result of accident. The awkwardness of a servant, who stumbled against the table and upset the server, breaking the dishes with a crash, frustrated this attempt upon the lives of her unconscious husband and son. 
               Colonel Denny kept a light burning constantly in his sleeping room, for it was necessary to rise frequently during the night to attend to the wants of his little charge. About midnight a slight figure entered his bed-room, and approached the couch with noiseless steps. Her face was very pale and stony, but not a tremor passed through her delicate frame as she gazed upon the sleeping forms before her. In her right hand she grasped firmly the ivory haft of a glittering poniard. Raising it with a quick, convulsive motion, she plunged its bright blade into the breast of her husband. A deep groan followed the commission of the fell deed. Uttering a cry of agony that froze her blood with horror, he sprang to his feet with a motion so quick and violent that the dagger was wrested from her hand and fell clattering to the floor. As her victim staggered towards her, with the blood oozing from his breast in a crimson stream, she fled from the room, shrieking with horror. Hastily seizing her jewels and some roleaus of gold that she had previously prepared in portable shape, she rushed from the house she had desecrated with her baleful presence and fearful crimes. 
               Fortunately the blow inflicted by Eugenia was not mortal. The Colonel was sleeping on his side, and the steel blade, directed by an unskillful hand, had glanced from the sternum into the right lung, inflicting a wide, gaping wound. The terrified servants flew to the residence of Dr. Cummings, urged by affection for their wounded master, and almost carried him in their arms to his bedside. The affair was hushed up as far as possible, and no inquiries allowed to be made as to the fate of the wretched Eugenia. Colonel Denny, prostrated by the blow inflicted by the hand of his perfidious wife, occupied the couch of pain and suffering for weeks and months, before he fully recovered. As soon as he had entirely regained his health, he applied for a divorce in the tribunals of justice. This did not suit the views of Eugenia, and she opposed the application with a remarkable pertinacity. She brought all her arts into requisition to defeat his purpose. Since the attempt upon his life she had thrown off all restraint and become an abandoned profligate, though so cunningly veiled were her intrigues and liasons that she never lost caste or reputation. She visited the Judges personally, and told her fictitious tale of wrong and suffering, and plied her mystic arts with such consummate skill that she engaged their sympathies in her behalf. With the tears streaming down her cheeks and sobs rending her fair bosom, as if in the very excess of agony, she told her piteous tale with such a semblance of truth, and earnest, imploring tones of voice, that her auditors, prepossessed in her favor by her great personal attractions, as much as by her pretended sorrow, secretly determined to favor her as much as possible. At these interviews she was always dressed with the most scrupulous care and elegance, wearing the most beautiful and costly jewels, and veiling her charms but sufficient to inflame. 
               It is easy to postpone legal trials-to find some mazy labyrinth of technicalities, in which the baffled plaintiff may be kept wandering and struggling until heart-sick, he abandons the Procrustean paths of tardy justice, and submits to wrong rather than to be longer tortured. For four years Col. Denny tried, in different States, to obtain a legal dissolution of the ties that bound him to the fallen, depraved woman who bore his name, but in vain. Her influence and gold were more potent than his wrongs. He then applied to the Legislatures of Ohio and New York to obtain the much coveted release, but again met with signal failure. Eugenia, the arch-hypocrite, again forestalled him by virtue of her specious beauty and ready tears, which procured champions of eloquence to espouse her cause. They opposed the passage of the bills with such vehemence and ardor that the other members, who had not investigated the cases, except by the titles of the acts, fearing to do anything that would prejudice the interests of the beautiful woman who daily appeared in the lobby, and excited their sympathies by her mournful, downcast look and tearful eyes, registered their votes against the bills, fully convinced that they were thus preventing a foul injury from being done to an innocent and unfortunate woman. 
               The secret of Eugenia's success in everything she undertook might be ascribed to the versatile genius and Machiavelian powers of cunning and deceit which she possessed in a super-eminent degree. She belonged to all the benevolent and pious female societies where she resided. Instant in prayer, she would address the Throne of Grace, in a strain of eloquence so pure in diction, and redundant dundant with elevated sentiment, that her admiring sisters verily believed she had already commenced the enjoyment of beatific happiness. 
               An hour later she might have been seen with a few select companions, in the deep privacy of her own room, with a glass of sparkling wine in her white hand and ribald songs upon her lips. Tears would flow at her bidding, or be instantly checked by the loud, careless laugh. She could wreath her features into the sweetest smiles, or clothe them with an expression of the most profound grief. In the life now led by the hollow-hearted Demirep, she found full scope for the exercise of her depraved tastes and demoralizing habits. Pompey, fit servant for such a woman, followed the fortunes of his mistress, and served her with fidelity. 
               Fanny Duval, the confidante and bosom companion of her comparatively innocent girlhood, had fled affrighted from the friend she had loved and served so truly, before six months of her married life had passed. 
               On the return of Col. Denny from his fruitless mission, he found that his arch-foe had given the death-blow to his remaining hopes. George, his darling boy, had been kidnapped. From the circumstances related by the tearful housekeeper, in whose charge he had been left, it was doubtless the act of Pompey, Eugenia's miscreant servant. This last crowning misfortune filled the bitter cup of misery to overflowing, and the strong man wept like a child. For him to remain with his unnatural and polluted mother was moral death-rather would his distracted father have seen him in his grave. 
               A vigorous search was instantly commenced for the missing boy, and prosecuted until almost every town and city in the Union had been visited. No means were left untried to trace him out; but it was all in vain. Eugenia's measures had been so well taken that no clue was left behind. 
               Five years afterward Col. Denny found his bright-eyed, intelligent boy in the purlieus of Cincinnati, associating with the outcasts of society; dressed in rags and filth, and steeped in the slimy depths of degradation. For a time Eugenia had watched him closely to prevent their being discovered, but she soon wearied of the task, for George was wilful and difficult to manage. Having accomplished her object, she abandoned him in that great city to follow his own inclinations. Precocious in deceit and wickedness, he soon became the leader of a little band of ragamuffins, such as are to be found in every large city. 
               Nine years afterwards, George purloined from his father's desk a large amount of money, and fled to St. Louis. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE MASQUERADE. 
               When George Denny and Harry Grifford again met, they did not recognize each other. The former was attired as a bandit of the Pyrenees, and the latter as a French knight. They were in a vast assemblage of men and women, who were dressed in as great a variety of apparel as there were different persons in the room. All seemed to be eagerly engaged playing a part in the Terpsichorean theater. Nearly all the costumes of the known world were there represented. The plain grey gown and cowl of the ascetic, the gorgeous panoply of royalty, the gladiator of Rome and the knight templar of Old Castile, the gipsy beggar and the millionaire, all mingled together pell-mell, shuffling, dancing, laughing and enjoying themselves. 
               Dominos, of all textures and colors, surmounted by masks or half masks, with crape vizors, concealed the forms and features of beautiful women, and were worn principally by them, though a few of the gentlemen also appeared in that rather ungraceful costume. 
               There were also queens, dowagers, maids of honor, grisettes and flower girls-the former appareled in the elaborate costumes of their high stations, and the latter in the beautiful simplicity of theirs. 
               Nothing can equal the amusement of a masquerade when properly conducted. The fun of the thing is absolutely irresistible. Harry Grifford entered into the spirit of the scene, and was soon engaged in the sharp encounter of wit without the fear of detection. Spirited, unmerciful quizzing, to ascertain the real name or identity of a mask, and the sharp repartees which foiled the attempt, provoked merry peals of laughter on all sides. 
               Harry approached a sprightly little female, whose mask was as perfect a representation of a Milesian servant girl as could well be made out of any other material except the real Irish flesh and blood-not omitting the pug nose and carroty hair: 
               "Are you one of the waiting maids of her Highness the Duchess of Blarney?" he inquired, insinuatingly. 
               "It's me private opinion yez will be afther waiting a long time before yez find out that same," was the quick and saucy retort. 
               "Whose service are you in now, my pretty fair maid?" 
               "At your sarvice, sur, for the prisint, for want of a betther." 
               "Won't you tell me who is your mistress?" 
               "Sartinly, sur; I'm me own misthress." 
               "Then you are not engaged with any one now?" 
               "Av coorse I am. I'm engaged wid yer honor at prisint." 
               "Then allow me to claim your hand for the next dance," said Harry, gallantly. He was both foiled and amused. 
               "Wid all the pleasure in life, sur," replied his sprightly companion. Harry was a graceful dancer, but his partner was absolutely perfect in the beautiful art. She floated around him in the mazy figures of the quadrille and waltz with an aerial grace and lightness of motion that was charming to behold. She seemed insensible to fatigue, and her preux chevalier, who particularly prided himself on his powers of endurance, was the first to propose a truce, and led his companion to a seat. 
               "Wall! I swan to man, she's as pooty as a picter!" said a tall Down-Easter, sidling up with a mincing step. Look a here, Mister Knight, may I dance with that air gal? Beg pardon, Miss; don't want to dance enny more, I 'spose, deu ye?" 
               "Not wid the likes of ye, Mr. Impidence! small thanks to yez for the complimint. I know yez, sur, for a decaiving omadhawn, that yez are. Git along wid yer nonsinse." 
               "Wall! neow, yeou needn't be so darnation snappish, if yeou air cute, 'taint pooty. Yeou needn't git mad jest cause a feller wanted to dance with ye, nor nothin', need ye?" 
               Harry, with a gesture of impatience, was about to resent the unusual importunity of the Yankee, when his companion whispered to him that the mask was her brother, and begged him not to notice anything he might say. He takes the liberty of an old friend. 
               "Wall! I thought this feller with the coal scuttle on his head would git mad drectly an' swear or sumthin'. Yeou needn't git riled about nothin'. Good-bye tell I see yeou agin." 
               The Yankee, with a graceful pirouette, raised his hand to the lips of his mask and cut a bee line for another part of the room. 
               "Mademoiselle, je vous prsenter mes respects. Voulez vous dancer wiv me ce soir?" said a little French garcon with an enormous wig and curling mustache. 
               "What's that? I don't understand yez, sur." 
               "I mean you vill dancer wiv me ce soir." 
               "How do yer know I will sur." 
               "Sacre! Pardonnez moi, Mademoiselle. I do not could speek zis langue Americaine ver well. I was wish speek for ze plaisir of votre, what you call him? hand in ze cotillon, s'il vous plait." 
               "Oh! I know what yer mane now. Yer want to dance wid me." 
               "Oui Mademoiselle," said the garcon, delighted that he had made himself unstood at last. 
               "Sorry to say, the cotillion is half out, sur; you've been so long in axing." 
               "Ver true, Mademoiselle. Au revoir." 
               "How I wish that odious mask was removed," said Harry, who would have given his knightly spurs for one glance at the countenance it so effectually concealed. 
               "You might wish to have it quickly replaced again," replied his partner, for the moment forgetting her assumed character. "The mask is but a type of the hidden features." 
               "Impossible!" said Harry earnestly. "Let me beg of you to remove it for an instant, or tell me your name, that I may know you when we may meet again, for I am certain this is not the last time we are to see each other." 
               At this moment a stately mask in the august dress of the Autocrat of Russia, approached and claimed her hand for the set then forming. 
               With an inward malediction on the emperor, who had interfered so malapropos and broke up the conference, Harry went in search of further adventures. He was not personally known to any one in that spacious room, excepting George Denny, and neither of them knew of the presence of the other. He had visited such scenes before, but this had been gotten up on a scale of magnificence and exclusiveness he had never seen equaled. 
               The large, spacious hall and side-rooms were brilliantly lighted. The gas burners were gaily trimmed with flowers and ribbons, and trembling pendants that glittered with borrowed light. The ceiling and walls were painted in arabesque, and the cornices were concealed by flowers and evergreens, which were also disposed in wreaths and circling folds, so as to fill up the spaces between the beautiful pictures that graced the hall in many places. 
               The manager, a tall handsome man, a celebrated teacher of the Terpsichorean art, had personally superintended the distribution of tickets, so that none but persons of respectability could have an entre to his rooms. 
               George Denny, who seemed to be on terms of familiarity with many of the elite, who were personally known to him, danced incessantly and perpetrated many humorous things in his character of Brigand. His showy apparel, long-waving plumes and gilded trappings set off his lithe form to advantage. He was the beau ideal of a dashing highwayman. As Harry approached him he was engaged in a conversation with a beautiful blue silk domino, from whose straw-colored vizor issued a voice of remarkable sweetness. 
               "I will acknowledge that your conversation indicates a knowledge of me that could only be possessed by a friend, and yet I tell you once more that I know you not, and as I do not wish to place myself in a position to be ridiculed as the 'bandit's bride,' I respectfully decline the honor of a promenade with you." 
               "Nay, fair lady, hear me out, and do not dismiss my prayer so abruptly. I am the prince of good fellows, and my fame extends from Barcelona to the Gulf of Lyons. No Spanish lady would esteem it a disgrace to walk or dance with me. Come! I insist." 
               "As I am no Spanish lady, I will not come. Sir Knight, I claim thy protection," she continued, turning to Harry, who had been attracted by the clear, ringing tones of her musical voice. 
               "'Tis thine, fair lady. If I prove recreant to the trust, then call me craven and no true knight. Know you that vaunting bravo?" 
               "Aye, sir, too well to walk or dance with him, else I might have favored his bold suit." 
               "What service shall I perform, lady fair, to gain thy favor?" 
               "Seek that petite Irish maiden yonder, who is laughing so loudly with the Emperor of Russia, and say I would have speech with her." 
               "I hasten to execute thy behest." 
               "Lady of the luxurious ringlets, I have a message for thee." 
               "Speak on, Sir Knight of the Rueful Countenance, it's meself that's listenin'." 
               "I would conduct you to the tall lady in the blue domino, who wishes thy presence." 
               "Farewell, yer majesty, for the prisint. I'm off to spake wid my sister." 
               "Your sister?" inquired Harry, "pray introduce me." 
               "Sartinly, sur; I'll do that same." 
               "Sister, allow me to introduce the Count de Bourbon-Count de Bourbon, my sister!" 
               A simultaneous burst of merry laughter followed this very satisfactory introduction. 
               "You are determined not to afford me a glimpse of your roguish face, or give me any knowledge of either yourself or your sister, I see," said Harry, as soon as the laughter had subsided. 
               "Right for wanst. I can't afford it, sur, for then yer would be afther making luv to me, an' talkin' sintimint an' all that kind of nonsinse, and there would be an ind to all the fun. It wouldn't do at all at all." 
               "Why did you introduce me to your sister as the Count de Bourbon?" 
               "I'll tell yer sur. The Sanhedrins say there is a Bourbon amongst us. The only French cavalier in the counthry is yourself, and you must acknowledge the fortunes of war are against ye, sur, for, like him, yer are hors du combat." 
               Harry acknowledged the compliment and the corn by a courtly bow, and owned himself fairly vanquished. 
               The witty repartees of the Irish girl amused and piqued him not a little. 
               "Were a damsel in distress to ask a boon of thee, most puissant knight, what answer wonld'st thou give?" inquired a low voice at his elbow, issuing from a pink domino with small waist and coiffure of rare flowers. 
               "That I would accord it right willingly, fair lady." 
               "Would'st thou do so without asking the name, or motive, of her who would claim thy assistance?" 
               "I swear it on the honor of a true chevalier." 
               "Is thy lady love here to-night?" 
               "Alas! I have no lady love." 
               "Do you know --?" and she whispered a name in his ear. 
               "I do not. She is a perfect stranger to me." 
               "On your word, do you not know the person?" 
               "No; by my knightly faith." 
               "I saw you dancing with her not half an hour since." 
               "Ha! 'tis then the Irish girl of whom you speak." 
               "Yes. Dost thou know her now?" 
               "I do not. What is thy request?" 
               "That you should, on thy devoir as a gallant knight, again seek her presence, court her attention, and so occupy her time that none else shall follow in her train." 
               "What if the lady wearies of my presence?" 
               "Then, of course, thou art released." 
               "I hasten to obey thee." 
               Harry thought he perceived the dim outline of an intrigue, and, as the wish of the pink domino chimed in admirably with his own humor, he resolved to do her bidding. Again he approached his former partner, and they danced and promenaded until tired of exercise. They then engaged in conversation, suggested by the mimic scene of life before them, and Grifford soon became deeply interested. His companion was as accomplished in mind as she was outre in person; i.e., in the character which she had assumed and sustained with signal ability. 
               Mutually interested, they took no note of time, until the hour for supper arrived. While preparations were being made to ascend to the room above for refreshments, the Bandit drew near and addressed the lady, who evidently shrank from his approach: 
               "Shall I have the pleasure of attending ing you to supper?" he inquired, at the same time offering his arm. 
               "No, I thank you; I have a chaperon," replied the lady in her natural voice-the tones of which were somewhat tremulous. 
               "Are you also determined to offer me a public slight, as your sister has already done?" interrogated the Brigand, in a voice suppressed with passion. 
               "You have heard my only answer," replied the lady haughtily. 
               "I know you are not engaged, for your brother told me so. Beware--" 
               "Sir!"-interrupted Harry sternly-"your language is very offensive to this lady, and I must request you to cease your importunities." 
               "Who the devil are you, sir? and by what right do you assume the protection of that lady?" hissed the Bandit between his clenched teeth. 
               "By the right that every gentleman should exercise to protect a female from impertinence and insult." 
               The reply to this was so gross an outrage upon good breeding and decency, that our knight instantly knocked the offender down with impulsive indignation. The ladies screamed, and a number of gentlemen rushed between the belligerent parties. 
               "Your card, sir!" exclaimed the furious Bandit, who was now separated some distance from his antagonist. Harry drew an enamelled case from his vest pocket and handed him one as coolly as if nothing had occurred to disturb his tranquility. 
               "Harry Grifford!" muttered Denny as he read the words engraved on the card. "Perdition! this is most infernally unlucky! It won't do to fight him just now; it would ruin all my well-conceived plans." Thus speaking, he pocketed the card and his indignation and left the room, but he never forgave that blow. From that hour he was the implacable enemy of the young planter-all the more dangerous from being unsuspected. 
               During the confusion caused by the knocking down process, Grifford had been separated from his companion. He looked around for her as soon as quiet was restored, but she had disappeared. A general rush was now made for the supper room and he joined the hungry throng. After ascending a flight of winding stairs, they entered a room of equal proportions with the one below. The tables were literally loaded with delicacies, and the attack on the Malakoff was not carried on with more determined vigor than the siege that now commenced. The outer fortifications of bread and butter and choice viands disappeared rapidly. Huge towers of crusted cake were demolished with astonishing celerity, while the constant artillery of champagne announced the victory of an hundred and fifty glorious appetites. 
               The company were yet engaged with the last course when the alarming cry of "Fire! fire!" resounded through the room from the hall below. In an instant that gay scene was changed to one of the wildest confusion; a general rush was made for the stairs, and the too eager crowd, as is usual in such cases, frustrated their own purpose; for, encumbered by the paraphernalia of the room, they completely blocked up the doorway in their frenzied haste to escape. While all in the building had been engaged at supper in the third story, one of the pipes leading from the gasometer had burst, and the volatile fluid becoming ignited, wrapped all that part of the building in flames before it was discovered. A few of the first who descended succeeded in reaching the street, but the rest were driven back by the encroaching fire, which now enveloped the stairs. Shrieks of wild despair now took the place of gay bon mots and careless laughter, for the fate of those that remained in the stifling atmosphere of that room seemed inevitable. 
               Harry Grifford, instead of attempting to descend by the stairs, as he might have done at the first alarm, was coolly looking around for some other mode of escape. Over head was a skylight, and it occurred to him that by piling up the tables it could be reached, and they might pass over the tops of the adjoining houses. The suggestion was instantly acted upon by the distracted crowd, and they were soon in comparative safety. Grifford was one of the last to emerge from the burning pile, and in his arms he bore the almost insensible form of the Irish girl. 
               "My sister! for God's sake, save my sister," she gasped in an agony of terror and apprehension. 
               Harry leaped again into the room, now dense and black with smoke, and vainly sought in every approachable place for 
                   
                     His companion was as accomplished in mind as she was outre in person; i. e., in the character which she had assumed and sustained with signal ability. 
                  
                  
                   the missing female. No trace of her could be found, and he was forced back, scorched and blackened by the fervent heat. As he sprang through the skylight the roof fell in with a terrible crash. A vast column of burning cinders floated high in the air, throwing a lurid light far and wide over the threatened city; but the gallant firemen were there working with superhuman energy, and though the Hall could not be saved, they prevented the fire from spreading, and their long ladders soon relieved the escaped throng from their disagreeable position. Thousands of citizens had by this time flocked to the vicinity of the conflagration, and the dark forms of men, rushing in every direction, presented the usual scene of wild excitement that a midnight fire always causes in a large and populous city. 
               Harry reassured his companion as to the fate of the missing one, by suggesting that more than probable she had escaped with the first party, and as it was useless to look for her friends in that vast crowd, he called a coup, and springing in, they were rapidly driven to her residence in the western part of the city. As they approached the stately edifice they perceived a blue domino standing on the steps, and in a moment the sisters were locked in each other's arms. So absorbed were they in the happiness of the moment, that they entirely forgot the presence of the noble-hearted stranger, who had rendered such important service, until the rattling carriage announced his departure. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               NEW CHARACTERS-MYSTIFICATION. 
               "How thoughtless of us to be so occupied with each other as to forget the generous friend who risked his life to insure our safety," said the younger of the two ladies as they ascended the steps and passed into the house. "Not even a word of thanks: what will he think of us, Julia?" 
               "I was so rejoiced to see you again in safety, darling, that I did not notice the gentleman at all," replied Julia. "Who was it that accompanied you, Daphne?" 
               "It was our old friend, James Wilson, the French Knight. Oh, Julia; after he had assisted me out of that horrid place, I suddenly thought of you, and believing you had been left behind, implored him to save you. He plunged into the very midst of the flames, without a moment's hesitation, and searched until the tottering walls and burning roof threatened instant destruction. When he came back, his hands and face were blackened and scorched to such an extent that I would not have known him except by his dress, for his helmet was gone, and he did not look at all natural." 
               "It was nobly done," said Julia, and, passing her arm around her sister's neck, she kissed her white forehead with much tenderness. "We will find some opportunity to evince our gratitude and atone for this seeming neglect. Ah! Herbert, where were you during the fire?" she continued, addressing her brother, who now entered the room, and threw himself into a fauteuil with an expression of pleasure, to see them again at home all right." 
               I had gone home with Oceana, who felt too ill to remain any longer at the masquerade. When I returned the hall was entirely consumed, and I was looking for you, girls, with much anxiety, when a gentleman relieved my apprehensions by informing me that you were both at home, safe and uninjured." 
               "That was James Wilson, I suppose," remarked Julia, who then proceeded to narrate the circumstances of her own escape. "We were sitting near the door when the alarm was given, and my partner hurried me down the stairs, through the entresol and into the street, before I well knew what had happened. He then placed me in a carriage, and, saying he must go back to look for you, Daphne, ordered the driver to take me home, and then rushed into the hall again. 
               Captain Lescomb was an old steamboatman of the Mississippi. His family consisted of himself, wife, one son and two daughters, the trio we have introduced to the reader, partly in their assumed and partly in their real characters. Capt. Lescomb, having acquired an ample fortune in the early days of steamboating, when there being but little competition, the business was much better than now, had purchased a splendid mansion in the most fashionable part of the "Mound City," and retired from the turmoil of active, busy life. 
               Herbert Lescomb was about twenty-three, a tall and rather good looking fellow, with a large, expressive eye, and high, broad forehead. Nominally he was a law student, but in fact a gentleman of elegant leisure, very fond of his sisters, amusement and cigars-the latter of which occupied a far greater portion of his time than Chitty, Vattel or Blackstone. 
               Julia Lescomb, the elder of the sisters was also tall and quite interesting in appearance. The calm expression of her light blue eyes and perfect repose of features denoted a mild, even temper, and amiable disposition. A cicatrix on the left cheek somewhat marred the beauty of her placid countenance, but would soon be forgotten in the charms of her varied and brilliant conversational powers and refined manners. 
               Daphne was rather petite in form. Her delicately chiseled features were faultless and spirituelle in expression, and genuine feeling shone in the depth of her liquid eyes. Lively and impressive, witty and accomplished, she was a general favorite. Young Lescomb was justly proud of the beauty and intelligence of his sisters. 
               "Well, girls! how have you enjoyed yourselves?" inquired Herbert, after they had laid aside their masquerading costumes and had comfortably seated themselves before a cheerful fire. 
               "With the exception of the closing fright, excellently well," replied Julia. "Such a scene as we mingled in to-night is always to me both pleasing and instructive. It has for the time being an appearance of reality that is delightful. In imagination, I was transported to the scenes of other times-to the days of chivalry-when belted knights fought valiantly for the guerdon of honor and the smiles of beautiful women." 
               "That reminds me of another obligation to our gallant knight," said Daphne, earnestly. 
               "What is that?" inquired her brother, who was not present at the time referred to. 
               Daphne related the circumstances of her refusal to go to supper with the Bandit; his insulting language, and prompt punishment. 
               "Who was the dastardly scoundrel?" demanded Herbert, his eyes flashing with fury. 
               "I do not know his name," she replied, secretly congratulating herself that she did not. "Oceana called me aside and told me to beware of him; not to encourage his advances in any way-by dancing, promenading, or even talking with him. She said something about a conversation she had overheard. Just then we were interrupted, but, as I thought she must have some good reason for warning me thus, I at once acted upon her advice." 
               "She told me exactly the same, in substance," added Julia, "and that was the reason I refused to walk with him, and claimed the protection of our chivalrous friend." 
               "Who was this knight you speak of in such high terms?" 
               "It was Jas. Wilson," replied Daphne. 
               She then informed Herbert of their escape from the burning building; of his coolness and daring; and expressed her belief that they all would have lost their lives had it not been for his perfect self-possession. 
               "Heavens! how fortunate that he was there! Brave, generous-hearted fellow! I will see him to-morrow and thank him personally," ejaculated Herbert, who had secretly resolved to asertain from Oceana the dastard's name who had insulted Daphne. 
               About ten o'clock the next marning, Herbert Lescomb entered the store of his friend, James Wilson, and, advancing hastily, grasped his outstretched hand and wrung it with unusual fervor. 
               "I come to thank you on the part of my sisters and myself for your noble conduct last night-God bless you, my dear fellow!" 
               "I don't know what you mean, Hub," said Wilson, with the utmost surprise. 
               "Yes, you do. You can't evade me in that way." 
               "I am not trying to evade you in the least. I don't understand you. Explain-what is up now?" 
               "Simply this-that you laid us under everlasting obligations last night, and this morning you are too modest to acknowledge knowledge it. The girls told me to offer you a thousand apologies--" 
               "Really, my dear boy," interrupted Wilson, "although I should be happy to render you or yours any service in the world, yet, as I have done nothing to merit any thanks, I cannot allow you to go on. There is some mistake." 
               "You will tell me next that you did not know of the fire." 
               "Of course I will; what fire do you mean?" 
               "Wilson," said Herbert, a little impatiently, "did you not protect the girls last night, and save Daphne's life by conveying her from the dancing hall which was on fire?" 
               "No; I did not even know it was endangered. I did not attend the masquerade, as I was very unexpectedly obliged to go out to Florissant yesterday evening, and have just returned. Tell me the particulars," said Wilson, earnestly. 
               "The girls thought it was you. There is some mystery here," said Lescomb, who then acquainted his friend with the occurrences of the previous night. 
               "I told Julia my costume would be that of a French Knight; by chance some other appeared in that character." 
               "Yes, and performed the part like a true gentleman; I wish I knew him." 
               "And so do I." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE GAMBLER'S PLOT. 
               When George Denny rushed from the hall, with the blow of Harry Grifford yet stinging on his brow, his face burned like fire, and felt as though each pore in his cheek was filled with nettles pressing their sharp points through the dry cuticle. He stepped into the Costumer's, and tore off his gilded trapping with a curse upon the inoffensive attire. He then proceeded to Delmonico's, and, filling a glass with eau de vie, gulped down its burning contents to drown the keen sense of humiliation which degraded him in his own eyes. 
               "Hello! George, old boy! what's the matter with you?" queried a person seated in one of the private boxes, who had observed his excited manner and lowering features. 
               "Ha! Victor? just the man I wanted to see." 
               "Then step in here. Garcon!" 
               "Aye, aye, sir," replied the active waiter. 
               "Two oyster stews-champagne-cigars," ordered Victor, who was too old a hand to let a chance for a fine supper, at another's expense, slip by without improving it. 
               As soon as the savory edibles were placed on the table, and they had fortified by each quaffing a glass of the beaded wine, George rapidly narrated the events of the evening. 
               "Well, to tell you the plain truth, he served you just right! You should be gentlemanly, even if you are a gambler," said the other, sententiously. 
               "But I am not a gambler," replied George, wincing uneasily at the plain, matter-of-fact language. 
               "If not one now, you are in a mighty fair way to become one, I can tell you," laughed Victor, ironically. What do you call playing little games of pool, euchre, and twenty-deck, but gambling, I should like to know?" 
               George scowled at his companion, but did not further notice his cutting remarks, because he felt their truth. 
               "What did you want to see me for?" 
               "To arrange a little plan of revenge on the purse of my friend, who beat you so easily at your own brag game the other night. I shall strike first at that." 
               It was now Victor's turn to flinch. 
               "I owe him one on that myself. Never was I so infernally sold. Go on." 
               "I was disguised to-night, and he did not know whom he struck so fiercely. He will expect to hear from me to-morrow, but of course will not, for when we meet I shall be ignorant of the whole affair, as I did not attend the masquerade." 
               "But will he not learn it was you by inquiring of others?" 
               "Not one chance in a thousand for him to find out, as he is a stranger to nearly all who were there." 
               "Good! I begin to twig your drift. Travel ahead." 
               "We are tolerably familiar now. I will make myself useful and necessary to him; will gain his confidence, and, taking advantage of his free and generous disposition, will lead him on, step by step, into the pleasures and mysteries of our city, until some night when he is well charged with wine and ready for anything, I will introduce him to the Tiger, which is so well kept by you and old Lemoine, and then we can both take our revenge." 
               "By thunder! George, you are a star. If you can make it work, I am with you." 
               "What portion of the profits will you give me?" inquired Denny, with a sharp eye to business, as well as revenge. 
               "Thirds, of course. You shall share equally with myself and Lemoine." 
               Having effected this mutual understanding, they now separated on very good terms with each other. 
               George Denny was known about town as a fashionable young man-rather fast, perhaps, but, as he had arrived in St. Louis with the most flattering testimonials and letters of introduction to many of her wealthiest citizens, he frequented the best society. He was well received, partly on the strength of his father's well known reputation, and partly because he possessed an aristocratic air and polished exterior. 
               When Harry Grifford reached his hotel he found that the adventures of the night, though pleasing and agreeable at the outset, had resulted in some rather severe injuries. He had not realized them in the excitement of the moment, but they were now painfully attested by shooting pains in his left arm and shoulder. He rememberod a fall he had received on his return to the supper room. A large pierglass in front of him reflected his features, and he started back with an exclamation-not particularly of delight, for the fire had not increased his personal beauty. His blackened face presented the ruins of a fine mustache, and his flowing hair was crisped and unseemly in appearance. A negro boy was comforably dozing by the fire. Harry stirred him up with some asperity, and sent him for a surgeon. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               LOVE. 
               A week elapsed before Harry Grifford appeared again in public, and then his left arm was suspended in a sling, and there was a slight pallor in his countenance. It was the festival season. The holidays had been ushered in amidst the usual noisy demonstrations of joy, and the entire population of the Mound City had suspended business, and joined in the pursuit of pleasure and amusement. Festivities were the order of the day-or rather night-and balls, parties soires, followed each other in rapid succession. If one's bank account is large, and his purse plethoric with the shining oro, it soon becomes known among the upper ten. The young planter occupied this enviable position, and soon found that the gilded portals of fashionable society flew open for his reception, although he had made no special effort to obtain an entre. 
               The circle of his acquaintance now embraced nearly all the fashionable young men of the place, and among them Herbert Lescomb and Wilson; but as yet he had not mingled in female society, although numerous cards of invitation lay upon his scritoire. Now that he had recovered from the injuries received at the fire, he resolved to accept the invitations, for he experienced an ardent desire to become acquainted with the charming incognita of the masquerade. 
               It was in pursuance of this object that he might have been seen wending his way up Olive street, on Christmas evening, in company with George Denny, to attend a party at the residence of the Lescombs. At the door they were met by Herbert, who ushered them into an anteroom, where they laid aside their cloaks and hats. He then introduced Grifford to his parents, who received him with cordial politeness. Captain Lescomb was a rather bluff and hearty looking sailor-like personage. A bon vivant of the old school, he delighted in seeing the young folks meet together and enjoy themselves on occasions like the present. His wife, a middle aged, matronly woman, greeted the gentlemen with quiet, easy politeness, and then left them to welcome other arrivals. 
               George Denny was already acquainted with them, and had accepted the invitation given him by the unconscious Herbert. With the most brazen effrontery he now appeareed in the society of those who, had they known his real character and conduct, would have kicked him ignominiously into the street. It was a bold step on his part, but he reasoned that, as they did not know of his derelictions, it was better to act as if nothing had happened than to give a clue to suspicion by absenting himself from the society he usually frequented, and where he was likely to meet the Lescombs. 
               Harry entered the reception room, and was introduced to such of the company there assembled as were unknown to him, with the usual formalities. It was an animated scene, and the compliments of the season were exchanged on all sides, with lively bon mots and pleasantries. That universal and much abused topic, "the weather," was entirely lost sight of by the little groups of ladies and gentlemen who were gayly conversing together in different parts of the room. 
               St. Louis, like the Monumental City, is justly celebrated for its beautiful women. Daphne Lescomb was one of the fairest of her lovely daughters-at least so thought the young planter, whose eyes were riveted upon her fairy-like form with unqualified admiration. The sisters were dressed with exquisite taste, and exactly alike. The most fastidious eye could have found no fault with the perfect elegance and simplicity of their toilet. The auburn hair of the younger was arranged in a bandeau that circled her brow like a tiara of gold, and harmonized perfectly with her azure eyes and dazzling complexion. 
               As soon as the conversation began to flag, Herbert Lescomb conducted Miss Oceana Valencia to the piano, which stood invitingly open. A brilliant prelude, a la Strakosch, introduced a number of the beautiful arias of Italy, which were played by the fair performer with a masterly touch. Jenny Lind had not yet reached our shores to charm the hearts and entrance the senses of the musical world with her sweet warblings and matchless genius; but the favorite music of the incomparable Swede had preceded her like an avant courier, and the songs of the expected cantatrice had already found their way to the music stands of her American admirers. 
               
                  Ah! non Giunge and Casta Diva were now sung with striking effect by the excited pianist, who threw her whole soul into the execution of the inspired music. 
               "I am delighted to hear those familiar tones again," said a low voice as soon as she had ceased playing. 
               "Ah! Mr. Grifford," she replied, with a surprised, but not embarrassed air; "I am glad to see you once more. I believe the last we heard of you was, that you were still in France, pursuing your studies." 
               "And I," said Harry, taking the proffered hand, with the easy familiarity of an old acquaintance, "am happy to find that I am not entirely forgotten by the gay and merry playmate of former days. The execution of those difficult pieces was worthy of Strakosch himself." 
               Oceana smiled her thanks for the merited compliment, and inquired if he proposed to remain in their city for any length of time. 
               "I have been so much interested since my arrival that I have not yet thought of setting a time for my departure," replied Harry. 
               "Then you are pleased with the society, I presume." 
               "I am delighted with the only two phases I have seen, each of which were equally charming, one at the masquerade, the other here," he rejoined, galiantly. 
               "What character did you appear in?" demanded Oceana, with the air of one who had learned a fact of great importance. 
               "That of a French Knight. Were you present on that occasion?" 
               "Yes; and, mistaking you for another, who was to have appeared in that character, required a boon, which you doubtless deemed a singular request to be preferred by a stranger." 
                
               "Ah! then you wore the pink domino and head-dress of flowers. Who was the lady you bade me follow with such constant attention?" inquired the planter, with absorbing interest. 
               "That I am not at liberty to tell," replied Oceana, archly. 
               Grifford entreated his companion to divulge the name of the lady in question, but without success. At this moment Miss Julia Lescomb struck up the Bavarian, with much spirit, and soon the floor trembled to the rapid steps of the waltzers. George Denny now approached, and Miss Oceana, accepting his offered arm, they joined the gay throng, and "threaded the mazes of the giddy dance." 
               "I perceive that you are acquainted with that proud and aristocratic southerner?" he said, in an inquiring voice, after the dance was ended; at the same time leading Oceana into the embrazure of one of the windows, where they could converse without being overheard. 
               "Yes; I have known him since my childhood. His parents, when we lived in Louisiana, were our nearest neighbors." 
               "That's fortunate," said Denny, sotto voce. "Is he rich?" 
               "I presume so. His father possessed unbounded wealth, and I have heard that Harry Grifford is the only heir. He is noble and chivalrous. I wish you would seek his acquaintance." 
               "He knows me now, and counts me among the number of his warmest friends," replied her companion, with emphasis. 
               "I am very glad to hear it. Oh! George, I trembled to see you enter this house, after what occurred the other night. I shielded you to the best of my ability, when Herbert demanded your name; but, beware of the future, for my sake, will you not?" and, laying her hand upon his shoulder, she gazed into his face with a glistening eye. 
               "I have already explained that I was under the influence of wine, Ocy, and begged your pardon, as I could not apologize elsewhere. The influence of your love will prevent the like from ever occurring again," said the wily hypocrite, pressing her small hand to his lips with affected ardor, and toying with the slender fingers. 
               Oceana Valencia was a Creole-a child of the "sunny south"-she possessed an ardent, impulsive nature and fervid imagination. A brunette; her features were small and regular, and the expression of her deep, earnest eyes was very sweet and engaging, especially when interested in conversation with those of her friends whom she loved. Her dark hair, in a profusion of natural ringlets, ornamented a finely shaped head, and gave an additional charm to a full and gracefully rounded form. Six months previous she had become acquainted with George Denny, who admired the charming Southron, and paid assiduous court to her. His constant attentions, honeyed accents and insidious flatteries, had gained her affections; and, although latterly many circumstances had occurred to shake her fond reliance in his constancy and truth, yet she clung to the hope that he would reform for her sake. 
               "Your friend does not join in the dance to-night; what is the reason?" inquired Herbert, interrupting their conversation. 
               "He met with an accident, not long since, and has not entirely recovered yet, I believe," replied Denny. 
               "Ah! how was that?" 
               "His black boy told me that his master fell through the skylight of the hall, on the night of the fire, while in search of a lady who was, at the time, supposed to have been left behind." 
               "What character did he represent?" demandod Herbert eagerly. 
               "I do not know," replied George, who, for obvious reasons, pretended ignorance. 
               "He was dressed as a French Knight," said Oceana. 
               "It is to him, then, that we are under such deep obligations," said Herbert, thoughtfully. He made no public demonstration of noisy gratitude; for an innate feeling, suggested by his own fine sensibilities, that such an act would be annoying and disagreeable to the noble Southerner, prevented him from doing so. He quietly informed his sisters of the important discovery he had made, and from that moment the handsome planter became an object of absorbing interest to them. 
               Music was again proposed, and Daphne was requested to sing. Without making any of the thousand excuses that are so fashionable with parvenus, she complied. She chose a song of home life-a simple story of the domestic circle-the glad carol of a loving wife, greeting her husband on his return from daily toil. The voice of the impassioned songstress was sweet and earnest, and vibrated with the gentle influence of a zephyr upon the hearts of her entranced auditors. Unlike the execution of Oceana, which was brilliant with the gems of art, but mechanical, this was characterized by deep pathos and genuine feeling. 
               Harry Grifford, attracted by the powerful magnetism of congenial feeling, approached the beautiful performer and listened with rapt attention. He possessed a cultivated musical taste, and, being an excellent performer on the guitar and flute, was more than delighted with the chaste and simple music. 
               Daphne was equally conversant with the fervid, impassioned style of the Italian school and the brilliant chefs-duvres of the German masters. The requests now eagerly preferred for another song, and still another, until politeness prevented her delighted auditors asking for more, were readily complied with. 
               Harry Grifford neither applauded nor complimented the exquisite performance; the emotions of his soul were too deep and thrilling for such a common mode of expression, but he thanked her with a grateful look and the silence of true feeling. The fairy links of the chain of destiny that were to bind "two souls with but a single thought, two hearts that beat as one," were already dimly perceptible to his entranced vision. After she had ceased playing, her audience dispersed to different parts of the room, leaving these two alone near the piano. 
               "I have just learned from my brother, Mr. Grifford, that it was you who secured my escape from the fire on the night of the masquerade, and to whom I am indebted for my life," said Daphne, in a tremulous voice, and she raised her beaming eyes to his with an expression that caused his heart to rebound with violence. 
               "Is it possible that you were the mysterious Milesian who so puzzled and interested me on that occasion? Your disguise was perfect, for I never could have divined that the Irish girl of the bal masque and the accomplished Miss Lescomb were the same," replied Harry, with ready tact, diverting the conversation to the incidents spoken of, to avoid the expressions of heartfelt gratitude that were trembling on her lips. 
               "Yes; I assumed that character to gratify a passing whim. By a singular but natural mistake, you were thought by myself and sister to be a very old friend of ours; one who is about to be connected with our family by still nearer ties than those of friendship." 
               Harry felt a chilling sensation creep over him. 
               "With all the freedom warranted by the circumstances," she continued, "I-I fear you must have deemed me very forward and unmaidenly." 
               "Not so, I assure you. I only thought of the pleasure afforded by your gay presence, and admired the skill with which you played the role you had chosen. It was almost too real and perfect." 
               "James Wilson, the friend referred to, and whose marriage with Julia will take place in a few weeks, was to have appeared in the character you selected, but, being unexpectedly prevented from attending, the comedy of errors commenced, which very nearly had a tragic ending." 
               "Then it was of your sister's wedding you spoke?" questioned the Planter, with a feeling of immense relief. 
               "Certainly," answered Daphne, somewhat surprised by the joyous tone of the questioner; "they have known each other almost from childhood, and have been engaged so long that we have learned to regard him as a brother." 
               Her naive and half-confidential manner, while making these disclosures, charmed him, for it evinced that he was regarded in the light of a friend, without waiting the tardy course of tedious formalities. The conversation, led by our skillful diplomat, now flowed in a channel that gave full scope for the expression of real sentiments and feelings, while the unconscious, parties only supposed they were quoting the opinions and sentiments of the poets they were discussing. The Bard of Avon, "Shelley, Moore and Byron furnished the ready stanzas, glowing with all the weird power of poesy, to express in chaste and beautiful language the dawning of love in their hearts. Mutually interested in the society of each other, they took no note of what was passing around them until their attention was directed to a short speech made by Captain Lescomb. It appeared that the old folks were getting rather dull, and he proposed that the entire company should resolve themselves into a committee on amusements; saying, "that a favorite pastime of his younger days was a play called 'Similarity larity,' which afforded much amusement both to old and young, as they could all join in it." The suggestion was well received and acted upon immediately. 
               The gentlemen selected partners, and seated themselves in a circle round the room. A judge was then elected viva voce, who appointed as prompters a gentleman and lady to take the initiative by passing round the room; the lady making some imaginary presents to the gentlemen, and her partner following the same plan by giving the name of something to the ladies. The judge then called upon them for the name of their respective gifts, and required the gentlemen to show briefly that there was a similarity between them or be mulcted in a pawn or fine. The prompters, having whispered the names of the gifts, this would sometimes tax their ingenuity to the utmost. 
               The judge now called upon the first couple. 
               "What were you presented with, Miss?" 
               "A beau!" 
               "And you, sir?" 
               "A pair of slippers." 
               "They are both useful articles, equally necessary in the boudoir and the drawing-room. In the latter, they are both indispensable. A lady hangs upon the arm of a beau, or a bow may be gracefully looped upon the arm of a lady, while slippers encase their feet. They are frequently embroidered, and ornamented, and I claim that they are similar in point of usefulness." 
               "In the opinion of the court the gentleman is acquitted." 
               The next lady's gift was "a guitar;" the gent's, "a boot-jack." The pleader, a rather bashful young man, arose, with a puzzled air, and being unable to find the least point of resemblance, submitted his case without argument, but implored the clemency of the court. His failure was hailed with a shout of laughter. 
               The next couple had received "a wagon," "a stick of candy." 
               "If your honor pleases," (the gent was a lawyer,) "I conceive there are striking points in this case. In the first place, they both have to be pulled; secondly, they are generally painted; thirdly, they are useful for the children to play with, and the old folks to ride in-" 
               "That will do. Never mind fourthly and fifthly," interrupted the Captain, who was on the bench; "you have gained the case, sir." 
               "A piano-a purse." 
               "Are similar in musical qualities. The one makes elegant music for the aristocracy; the other, when filled with gold and silver, jingles the sweetest of music for the million. Without the precious metals they would be useless." 
               "A mirror-a grizzly bear." 
               The gentleman arose with a loud ahem, and stared around for a few moments as if in search of something he was utterly unable to find. 
               "A grizzly bear and a mirror! Well, I give it up. The only reflection that occurs to me is, that I cannot possibly discover the least point of similarity between them." 
               Daphne had been presented with a diamond breastpin. Harry, with a bunch of grapes. 
               "I will premise that the pin is a cluster of brilliants, and that the grapes are ripe and luscious. A lady of taste would prefer the first cluster to any other ornaments. The taste of a lady would choose a cluster of the last in preference to any other fruit. They are similar, because equally pleasing and ornamental to the fair." 
               The play went on until the judge had collected as many pawns as he wished for, when he sold them off at auction, alluding to the blunders and break-downs of the unlucky possessors, in a strain of grotesque, auctioneering eloquence that convulsed his hearers with laughter. 
               The festivities were continued until a late hour. When Harry Grifford left the gay scene to return to his hotel, the gentle pressure of Daphne's fair hand vibrated on his nerves, and her earnest "good-night" rung most sweetly and musically in his ears. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE GAMBLER'S DEFEAT. 
               George Denny, without appearing to do so, kept a strict surveillance upon the young planter, and craftily pursued the course he had determined upon with a steady perseverance worthy a better cause. His friend, too noble and ingenuous to suspect the existence of sinister motives in others without overt cause, never dreamed of treachery or deceit being concealed beneath the open, plausible manner and professed friendship of his effeminate companion, who seemed to be so totally absorbed in fashionable follies and luxurious living, as to be incapable of any other pursuit. The fact is, Grifford was rather disposed to underrate his abilities and powers of mind, and did not place a very high estimate upon his character or friendship; but, as he was well received in society, was gay, careless and jovial, prolific in expedients, and always ready to devise ways and means to make the time pass pleasantly, he was tolerated rather as a fashionable and pleasant companion than as a friend. 
               Harry Grifford became a constant and favored visitor of the Lescombs. The fascinating Daphne was the magnet that attracted him. Her sweet smile ever welcomed his approach with undisguised pleasure, and from the time the initiatory step was first taken in the delightful lessons of love, he did not attempt to conceal his admiration of her, and became her avowed adorer. He soon found that the Platonic theories he had indulged in vanished like a morning mist before a brilliant sun. There was not a shade of coquetry in the disposition of our heroine. She loved the handsome Southerner, and the fact was well attested by the ingenuous manner in which she received his homage and devotion. 
               The rooms occupied by Victor McKay and his partner Lemoine, for the purpose of carrying on their gambling operations, were situated in the second story of a spacious building on one of the principal streets. In the very heart of the city they carried on their nefarious business with impunity, for, so well were their precautions taken, that none but the initiated could gain an entrance. The police might have troubled them, it is true, and broken up their establishment, if they had felt so disposed, but the chief officers had quite a little interest in the profits of the house, in the shape of perquisites and hush money, and closed their virtuous eyes to the disgraceful scenes enacted there night after night. 
               A trusty negro stood at the door of the ante-room, and admitted all who could give the private signal, without which none could enter there, so exclusive were the regulations of the place. 
               The fell spirit of gambling reigned in those gilded halls. The beautiful decorations, costly furniture and well furnished sideboard, being only so many devices to lure the unwary to certain ruin. Here young and old were induced to try their luck in the delusive chances of the gaming table-chances that are a thousand to one in favor of the bankers and against the novice. There is no such thing as luck in the vocabulary of a fashionable gambling hell. It is but a trial of consummate skill and slight of hand, assisted by perfect mechanical instruments, against ignorance and folly. 
               At the further extremity of the second room a number of men were collected around a long table, covered with green baize, engaged either in betting against the tiger, as the game of faro was called, or watching the varying fortunes of the betters. 
               The former were men of the city, some of them engaged in responsible business, clerks of large mercantile houses, brokers and lawyers; while the latter were principally of the same ilk as the dealer and croupier, and were taking items for future use. No money was visible on the table, ivory "checks" having been substituted for bills and coin. They were marked from one dollar up to one thousand, and were used ostensibly for the purpose of making change; but, really, because they induced the betters to risk more than they otherwise would, it being almost impossible to invest the substitutes with the intrinsic value of the several amounts they represented. 
               Lemoine was dealing with a slow, regular movement, as much as to say: "There is no use of haste, gentlemen, I am certain to win your money, any how, so I will take my own time for it." He was a fat, blowsy-looking man, of perhaps forty, with very gray hair and small, ferret-like eyes, almost buried in the adipose substance that puffed up around them. His features wore an expression that was intended for a smile, and, whether he lost or won, his language and manners were polite and insinuating. The monotonous tone of the case keeper who pronounced aloud the names of the cards as they fell from the box, was in striking contrast with the fierce, exulting voices or muttered curses of the players as they lost or won on the deal. 
               Eleven o'clock struck, and the game closed for the players to partake of a sumptuous repast furnished by the liberality (!) of the patrons of the house. 
               Lemoine and McKay were in excellent spirits, for the bank had been unusually successful, having gained a large amount. 
               The infatuated gamesters drink deep, some to drown the remembrance of their heavy losses, others to gain courage to again beard the tiger in his stronghold, and wrest from him the funds they had been entrusted with for a far different purpose. The capacious maw of the insatiate beast had engulphed their honor and reputation, and the hope of making him disgorge required the stimulus of repeated draughts of brandy before they dared to attack him again. 
               George Denny, accompanied by Harry Grifford, now entered, and being invited to partake of refreshments, seated themselves at the well furnished table. A meaning glance was stealthily exchanged between the former and Victor, but no other salutations passed between them, as George did not wish his companion to think he was known familiarly to the gamblers. 
               The game soon opened again, for the feverish impatience of the losers could not brook a lengthy recess. 
               "Shall we try our luck?" queried George. "These gentlemen are said to deal a fair, honest game, and I believe I will risk a few scads, just for amusement." 
               "What are the limits?" 
               "The extent of the bank." 
               "Are parolis allowed?" 
               "Yes, certainly, and all reasonable combinations taken." 
               "Well, then, I will join with you in a few bets, but you must place them as you understand it. Choose the cards, and go ahead." 
               This did not exactly suit George's views, but he acceded for a time to avoid suspicion. He played with much apparent caution, and won several times in succession. The cards then changed, and he lost still more rapidly than he had gained, and, starting up from his seat with a gesture of impatience, swore he would play no more, and insisted that his companion should try his fortune-perhaps he would be more lucky. 
               Thus urged, Harry was almost pushed into the vacant seat. Fortune favored him at first-that is to say, Lemoine allowed him to win largely at the onset-but after sufficiently baiting the gilded trap, the tables were turned as usual, and he began to lose as rapidly as the others. 
               At the end of the deal one-half of the large amount of checks he had gained were passed over to the bank. Observing the perfect concert of action on the part of the dealer and case-keeper, by which, notwithstanding the skillful maneuvers of the former to secure the heaviest stakes by dealing double, thereby disturbing the run of the cards, that they invariably came out even, he proposed, as he was the heaviest better, he should be allowed to take the place of the latter. This was a customary proceeding, and of course no objection could be made to the proposition on the part of the bankers, as they professed to deal a fair, gentlemanly game, as they styled it in the phraseology of the sporting circle. 
               The "king" was the soda card, and Harry backed the royal piece of paste-board with one-fourth of his remaining checks. The king lost. 
               "Paroli," he said, quietly, putting double the amount of the first bet in the same place. 
               In a few moments the croupier swept this in also. 
               "Paroli, again," said the better, and, taking a well filled portemonnaie from his pocket, he coolly selected an amount of bills sufficient, with the checks, to make the whole equal to one thousand dollars. 
               The spectators, struck with the admirable ble sang froid of the last player, who risked his money without emotion of any kind, as if the result was not of the least consequence to him, ceased their own amusements and watched the progress of the game with absorbing interest. 
               Again the king lost. The suit was now exhausted. 
               "Paroli, upon the seven," said the same imperturbable voice, and a steady hand placed two thousand dollars upon the designated card. There were yet two sevens undealt. The chances all seemed to be against Grifford. The cards fell adversely and he lost again. Nothing daunted, he placed a paroli bet of four thousand upon the remaining seven, and coolly watched the slow and regular movements of the smiling dealer. Stealthy glances of satisfaction were exchanged between Victor and George, who exulted that their victim was fairly in the toils they had so treacherously prepared for him, and from which they did not intend he should escape until thoroughly plucked. 
               Again fortune frowned, and the seven lost. 
               "Paroli on the Jack!" said Harry, deliberately placing a certificate of deposit on the card. Eight thousand dollars now depended upon the turning of a single card, and the suppressed breathing of the bystanders showed how intense was their excitement. Even Denny and McKay leaned over the table and watched the cards as they glided from the oily fingers of the dealer with no little anxiety. 
               Harry gained the victory this time; the knave won. 
               "Paroli, again, on the Jack!" he exclaimed, in a clear, ringing voice. 
               According to the case, there were yet remaining in the box a jack, a queen and a deuce. Harry, who had observed that in the shuffling process the Jack was next the bottom card, requested the dealer to proceed. 
               Lemoine hesitated, and would gladly have shirked this heavy bet if he could, but there was no chance for him to avoid it. The blazing eye of the spirited Louisianian was upon him, and he quailed beneath its steady, searching light. Supposing the per cent to be as usual in favor of the bank, he nervously touched the cards and made a deal that cost him and his partner over fifteen thousand dollars. A scene of the utmost confusion followed the coup de grace which had broken the bank. 
               Lemoine reeled in his chair like a man stricken with apoplexy, and his torvous face turned perfectly livid, so much was he excited by the unexpected result. 
               "Hell and furies!" exclaimed Mckay, gnashing his teeth with the violence of despair. "Curse the infernal business; it has ruined me!" 
               The convulsed features of the broken gamblers were painful to behold. Nocturnal vigils, kept in the pursuit of their unlawful calling, and the constant alternations of hope and fear, as success or defeat predominated with them, had so powerfully acted upon their physical systems that even their hair had turned gray, and they had grown old before their time. 
               Grifford did not pity their distress in the least. He gathered up the bank-bills and gold, and, taking the arm of Denny, who was almost stupefied with amazement, left the room. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               GEORGE AND EUGENIA-MOTHER AND SON. 
               On the morning after the signal defeat of the gamblers, George Denny paced uneasily the limits of his comfortable apartment at the Planters' House. A rich dressing gown enveloped his aristocratic form, and he was surrounded by all the desirable appliances of luxury, and yet a more miserable being could not well be found. He was a penniless spendthrift, and brooded over his gloomy prospects in a state of mind bordering on distraction. The funds surreptitiously obtained from his father had been spent in dissipation and riotous living, and he dared not apply to that outraged parent for a supply. He thought of feigning repentance until he had regained his confidence and favor, but, after mature reflection, discarded the idea, for he well knew that the immense fortune he once possessed had been squandered by Eugenia's crimes and his own extravagance. 
               While his credit was good he had pressed it to the utmost extent, and now he was beset by duns on all sides. He even owed for the rooms he occupied and the jewelry he wore so ostentatiously. He would have applied to Grifford for a loan to meet his most pressing necessities, but his pride forbade it. He was ashamed to let his circumstances be known to the man he had attempted secretly to defraud, for fear he would sink in his estimation. He was still absorbed in disagreeable reflections, and vainly seeking for an avenue of escape from the difficulties and embarrassments that beset his tortuous path, when an obsequious black boy informed him that a lady in the parlor desired to see him. 
               On repairing to the public reception room he was not a little surprised to find that the lady who rose to receive him was a stranger-apparently in the prime of life; she was fashionably attired; and he did not fail to notice the elegance of her appearance, and wondered what could possibly have been her object in seeking the present interview. 
               "You wished to see me, madam?" 
               "I did, or I should not have sent for for you," replied the lady, motioning to a chair, and reseating herself in an ample fauteuil, directly opposite to him. 
               "Is your name George Denny?" 
               "It is, madam." 
               "The son of Col. Denny, of Belpre?" 
               "The same," replied George. "May I be permitted to ask the object of these inquiries?" 
               "You do not remember me, then?" 
               "I do not, I assure you," asserted the mystified youth, after scrutinizing the impassive features of her countenance, and glancing at the ample embonpoint of her figure. 
               "And yet I know you well. I am your mother." 
               "Impossible!" ejaculated George, bounding from his seat with amazement. 
               Emotionless and calm as a statue, she made the unexpected announcement and watched the effect of her words. 
               "You cannot be my mother," he continued, gazing steadily at her composed features and drawing a long breath. 
               "And why not? permit me to inquire." 
               "You are too young and beautiful, madam; and, if I may trust my memory, do not at all resemble the being who gave me birth. She must be, at least, forty-three, while your age cannot exceed thirty." 
               Eugenia fixed her cold, hazel eye upon his puzzled countenance with a singular expression, and her lips parted with an icy smile. 
               "Then you do not believe me?" 
               "I would not be so rude as to dispute the word of any lady, and yet--" 
               Eugenia interrupted him, and rapidly recounted many incidents of his early life, that fully convinced him. 
               "I am as much at a loss now as before to know the object of this interview," said George, in a freezing tone. Her history was well known to him, having been narrated by the Colonel in detail when he had reached his sixteenth year. 
               "I came to extricate you from your difficulties, if you will permit me." 
               "My difficulties?" 
               "Yes; from the labyrinth of embarrassments you are now floundering in." 
               "Is it possible that you know-" 
               "Yes," interrupted Eugenia; "I know all. The life of reckless dissipation you have led-the financial stratagems you have employed-your acquaintance with Oceana and the young planter-the revenge you have sworn against him for the blow at the masquerade, and the heavier blow he dealt you last night are all known to me." 
               "In Heaven's name how did you learn all this?" inquired her astonished auditor. 
               "No matter how I obtained the information. You cannot deny its correctness. You are at this moment absolutely penniless and deeply in debt." 
               "I admit the truth of your remarks; and what then?" 
               "Simply this: if some good friend were to step forward now, release you from all your pecuniary embarrasments, and assist you in carrying out your schemes, would you follow the instructions of that friend?" 
               "I would, to the very letter," replied George, eagerly. 
               Would you obey them implicitly, even if required to make some personal sacrifices-say, to give up your present life of ease and luxury, and go to the Rocky Mountains, or cross the ocean?" 
               "Yes; I care not what they may be," replied Denny, whose circumstances were so desperate that he would have made a compact, a la Faust, with the Evil One himself, to secure the gold and power he coveted. 
               Good! he is even more tractable than I expected, thought Eugenia. "What guaranty will you give for the faithful performance of your engagements?" she continued aloud, bending upon his flushed countenance a searching glance that seemed to pierce to his base, hollow heart, with a strange and unearthly power. 
               "I will swear it upon my sacred word of honor." 
               "Pooh! such an oath would be violated at your first convenience, after obtaining what you wish," said Eugenia, in a contemptuous voice. 
               "Madam!" exclaimed George, with a fearful oath, "if your purpose is only to insult me, we had better terminate this interview." 
               "By no means. Keep cool, my son, and learn to look realities in the face, without flying into a puerile rage. You see I know you too well to trust to any security held by so frail a tenure. I am familiar with your past and present life, and know that at this very moment your heart is filled with the bitterest hatred against me. Your mind has been poisoned by the insidious tales of one whose name you bear; you detest me above all other women, and yet I am as calm and collected as if you regarded me with the warmest affection." 
               George gazed at the extraordinary woman with an undefinable sensation of fear gnawing at his heart, and, when she ceased speaking, shuddered to hear the low, sardonic laugh that pointed her significant sentences. The exhibition of such heartless and unnatural conduct on the part of his mother entirely overawed his lesser depravity. 
               "Who will advance the means I require, and on what security?" he interrogated, after a long pause. 
               "I will." 
               "Do you know the amount of my liabilities?" 
               "Yes; three thousand four hundred and odd dollars." 
               "And you will pay this large amount for me, on condition-" 
               "That you will give me a note for the full amount, with the signature of Mr. -- skillfully attached thereto, and faithfully obey my instructions." 
               "The devil! Why, that would be forging." 
               "It is true, it does look like it." 
               "I will not accept your proposition, madam," said George, rising, as if to leave the room. 
               "Very well!" said Eugenia, carelessly. "Go and pledge your sacred honor with the brokers, or present it in the shape of a draft at the bankers, and see how much gold it will bring. Of course it would be cashed on sight, and you will thereby be released from all your troubles." She spoke this with ineffable sarcasm. 
               George hesitated, and in that hesitation Eugenia triumphed. An hour afterward he placed himself completely in her power, by giving her a promissory note with the name of one of the wealthiest citizens of St. Louis appended thereto, and received in return a bona fide check for five thousand dollars, on the Bank of Missouri. 
               They then held a long conversation, the result of which will appear in its proper place. 
               George Denny had thus taken another step in crime. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               MARRIAGE-DISAPPOINTMENT-HAPPINESS. 
               The time appointed for the solemnization of the marriage ceremony between Julia Lescomb and James Wilson at length arrived, and in the afternoon of the eventful day Julia, Daphne and Oceaea were seated in the boudoir of the sisters, busily engaged in preparing the bridal trousseau. Surrounded with a profusion of snowy laces, glistening satins and beautiful jewels, they enlivened their fairy work with witty sallies and pleasant allusions to the happy occasion of their employment, in a strain of delicate raillery that suffused the cheeks of the affianced bride with conscious blushes. The bridal dress had just come from the hands of the mantua-maker, and Daphne playfully insisted upon arraying Julia in its beautiful folds. Then, with comic willfulness, she placed Oceana by her side, for the nonce invested with all the dignity of a bridegroom, and they gayly rehearsed the ceremony that was to bestow a new name and new duties upon one of their number. 
               "There, that will do. I think you are perfect now. It is not such a terrible thing to get married, after all, is it, Ocy?" inquired Daphne, after she had laughingly suggested a variety of little changes and improvements in the minutia of dress and ornament. 
               "Not when the characters and dispositions of the parties agree so perfectly as they do in this case," replied Oceana, earnestly. "Julia is happy in the generous love of an excellent young man, who cannot fail to appreciate the affectionate devotion of a heart that wholly and unreservedly belongs to him. I think the prospects before them are bright and glowing with promise of perfect happiness." 
               Julia's grateful glance thanked her warm-hearted friend, while Daphne pressed a warm, affectionate kiss on her fair brow. 
               Oceana, Valencia and Daphne Lescomb were bosom friends, and mutually confided in each other. The early companionship of their parents, which had cemented an enduring friendship between the two families, had paved the way for their daughters' intimacy, when reunited after a separation of many years. They delighted in speaking freely to each other, in secret, the inmost thoughts of their souls, and each knew of the penchants and dislikes of the other. 
               Oceana was well aware of the sentiments entertained by her friend for the distinguished southerner, and Daphne knew of the love passages that had occurred between Oceana and George Denny, with the exception of the fears she entertained on account of his recent conduct. 
               "What has occurred to make you look so sad, lately?" inquired Daphne, as soon as they were alone together. 
               "Nothing, in particular. Why do you ask?" replied Oceana, evasively. 
               "Because, I have noticed that your manner is changed, even towards me. The smile upon your lips is constrained and unnatural, and I am sure some cause of unhappiness exists that you have not confided to your best friend," said Daphne, seeking the averted eyes of the other, who was too much agitated by the kind, loving words and voice of sympathy to reply. 
               "Come, Ocy, dear; tell me all your troubles and sorrows. They will be lighter when shared by another who loves you as well as I do." 
               It was impossible to withstand this affectionate appeal, and Oceana burst into tears and threw herself into the arms of her friend. She acknowledged that she was very unhappy-that the conduct of George Denny was the cause of her unusual sadness, and that she feared he was becoming dissipated and unworthy the love of a virtuous and high-minded woman. 
               "Perhaps he is not yet irreclaimable. You may have heard exaggerated reports of his misconduct." 
               "Alas! no; I have heard no disparaging reports about him; on the contrary, he is well spoken of. The fears I entertain have been caused by my own observation." 
               "Do you, then, love him so much?" 
               "I did love him with all the ardor and wild strength of my woman's nature, as long as I deemed him true and honorable, and he gained a power and influence over my heart that frightens me even now, when I can hardly bare to converse with you, Daphne, upon this painful subject. I have not seen him for several days." 
               "What do you intend to do, darling?" 
               "I scarcely know. What would you advise?" 
               "Wait patiently, and hope on until your fears are fully confirmed by positive proofs, then discard him promptly and forever. The agony of the present act is far easier to bear, if caused by an unworthy object, than long years of unhappiness hereafter will be." 
               "I think you are right, Daphne, but it is almost impossible to be convinced of the utter worthlessness of a being we have once regarded with affection. It is a constant struggle between duty and reason, whose stern dictates command obedience, and the heart which soothes and flatters us with fond hopes of the future. I am very, very unhappy." 
               Oceana threw her arms around the neck of her friend, and sobbed with wild and uncontrollable emotion. 
               "Yes, darling; but do not give way to such wretched feelings on his account; for if he is in reality what you fear, he is not worthy of the least of those pearly tears." 
               With gentle words and affectionate carresses, Daphne soothed the wounded spirit of the weeping girl. It was a touching exhibition of the influence of true and heartfelt sympathy. 
               Those two inexperienced young girls, of surpassing loveliness, unversed in knowledge of the world-its hypocrisy and deceit-yet strong in the innate purity of female nature, combatting unworthy influences, and encouraging each other in the paths of duty, might have taught a salutary lesson to those orthodox bigots, who pretend to believe in the utter depravity of the human heart. 
               At the proper hour the guests began to arrive. A gay throng of fashion's votaries soon filled the spacious rooms, and were welcomed by the happy parents with more than usual cordiality. 
               At 9 o'clock the bride and groom appeared suddenly upon the brilliant scene, and the ceremony of marriage was performed by an Episcopal clergyman. Tears were shed by some, while others showered abundant felicitations upon the happy pair, who run the gauntlet of ceremonious usage with new dignity, and gracefully responded to the congatulations of their friends and acquaintances. Love, music and Terpsichorean divertisements were the order of the evening. Songs, sentiments and dancing followed each other in rapid succession, and all seemed to enjoy the festive scene, with the single exception, perhaps, of Oceana Valencia, who, in spirit, rejoiced with her friends in their happiness, yet felt in her heart the keen sting of disappointment. The presence of George Denny distressed her, and she avoided him with sedulous care. 
               "What has gone wrong with my pretty Oceana this evening, that she looks so pale and disconsolate?" inquired a well known voice by her side. 
               "Mr. Denny will hereafter cease to address Miss Valencia in such a familiar manner, if he would avoid giving offense," replied Oceana, haughtily. The steady tones of her voice gave no indication of the immense effort it cost her to speak to him thus coldly. 
               "You are really angry with me, then, are you, Ocy?" said George, in a bantering tone. "Pray inform me what I have done to merit this exhibition of your sovereign displeasure?" 
               Oceana vouchsafed no reply to his unfeeling words, but, bestowing upon the heartless fop a withering glance of proud disdain, she left him with quivering lips, and eyes flashing with indignation. 
               "What the mischief is in the wind now?" muttered George. "I should not fancy the idea of losing her entirely. I must look to this. Never mind-it will be all right to-morrow." 
               He sauntered carelessly to another part of the room, and joined a group who were discussing the ton of the city and engaged in the silly badinage of fashionable gossip. 
               The sweet smiles of welcome that lighted up the beautiful features of Daphne Lescomb, as she extended her jewelled hand to Harry Grifford, were peculiarly grateful to the young planter. They found their way to a retired part of the room, where they were comparatively secure from observation, and engaged in conversation. The subject matter must have been deeply interesting, to judge from his earnest, impassioned manner, and the low, tremulous tone of his companion. An eaves-dropper might have heard the thrilling accents of love, or observed the soft pressure of hands which had become locked together, probably in the abstraction of mutual admiration, for neither seemed to notice the significant fact. 
               "And now, Harry, I am going to ask you a few serious questions." 
               "Which I will answer promptly and truly. Proceed." 
               "What is your opinion of Mr. Denny? You are, I believe, intimately acquainted with him. Is he an honorable and desirable acquaintance?" 
               Harry was startled by the question, it was so entirely unexpected and foreign to his thoughts. 
               "I am hardly prepared to say," he at length replied. 
               "Is he not very dissipated?" 
               "His habits are somewhat irregular, I believe." 
               "I mean, does he not drink deep, keep late hours, and, perhaps, frequent the society of those who are engaged in pursuits that are not considered honorable among men?" 
               "He certainly does keep late hours, and, I think, is far from being free from the fashionable vices of the day," responded Harry, uneasily; for the questions of his fair companion turned his thoughts to the midnight scenes of revelry himself and Denny had recently mingled in, and which, by contrast with the present delightful scene, now appeared very odious in his eyes. 
               He instantly formed an unalterable resolution to avoid them in future. The elevating influence of love began to have its effects upon his heart. From that hour he determined to become worthy of the charming girl whose lustrous eyes beamed upon him with the beautiful light of affection. 
               "Then I infer, from the tenor of your replies, that if you had a sister you would not encourage her in forming an intimacy with a person of his character and habits, which, if not positively bad, are at least questionable?" 
               "I would prevent it at all hazards. Why do you ask?" 
               "You will excuse me for not disclosing my reasons at present, as they involve the secret of another." 
               "Certainly," replied Grifford, who had not felt so thoroughly uncomfortable for a long time. His conscience reproached him severely; for, with all the thoughtlessness of youth, he had engaged in scenes not sanctioned by his better judgment, or the strict rules of propriety. 
               "Have you learned anything recently very much to the discredit of Mr. Denny?" he inquired, avoiding the gentle eyes of his companion; for he fancied there was a shade of sadness in their mild light, and he asked the question to ascertain if their late adventures had become known to her. 
               "Nothing at all," replied Daphne, the shadows which had passed over her spirits momentarily, having been caused by the remembrance of Oceana's troubles, and not by any thought of wrong or evil on the part of her handsome lover. 
               By an easy gradation the conversation now flowed in another channel, of vital import to the parties concerned, but not very interesting or piquant to others, who may or may not be well versed in the language of love. It seems that it became necessary to urge the requests he made by a circling arm and fervid, earnest words, which had a singular effect, for her reply was almost inaudible-a few broken sentences, and her lovely head reclined on his manly shoulder, and tears of happiness shone in her eyes as he pressed her to his heart in a fond embrace. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               POMPEY'S TACTICS. 
               The career of Eugenia, in all its phases, from the period of her earliest ability to act upon the stage of life, up to the time when she appeared so unexpectedly to her profligate son, had been a constant acted lie, a stupendous falsehood; the vilest deceit and treachery, clothed by matchless hypocrisy in the witching semblance of truth and purity. 
               She now flourished as the widow of a wealthy Bostonian. No one thought of questioning her right to the name and station she had assumed, for her pretensions were supported by an abundance of the all-powerful standard of excellence. She lived in state at the planter's house, and disdaining to appear at the table d'hote, was served in her own apartments by the facile waiters. 
               Pompey was an extraordinary negro. What he lacked in education and culture had been supplied by the intelligence of natural instincts. Shrewd, cunning and faithful, he had rendered invaluable services to his scheming mistress, whose varying fortunes he had followed with unchanging fidelity for upwards of twenty years. 
               Eugenia touched a silver bell, and instantly, as if by magic, her ebony servitor appeared; his white teeth glistened like ivory by contrast with the thick protruding lips, which diversified a broad expanse of features, otherwise almost entirely flat. A corrugated forehead, receding from his redish eyes, was thickly covered with a tangled mass of coarse wool, which gave him a ferocious appearance. His burly form and cumbrous limbs denoted great strength; in fine, he was a fit servant for such a mistress. 
               "Pompey, do you know Mr. Grifford?" 
                
               "I dunno, Miss's, as I zackly does, but Ise saw de gen'lman a time or two." 
               "I have particular reasons for wishing to ascertain who and what he is. I want to know his whole history." 
               "Den I spec you want dis chile to fine out de ticlars ob de gen'lmuns gennyalogums." 
               "Yes; but be cautious, and do not excite suspicion or notice. Can you manage it?" 
               The negro indulged in a preliminary yah, yah, before he replied, and his eyes half closed while he chuckled over the prospect "ob fun in de 'spective." 
               "I reckon I kin, Miss's. Ef dis ole nigga draps de subjek afore it's done did, den it can't be did, dat's all." 
               "Have you any money, Pompey?" 
               "Nary red, Miss's; de las you gub me, done gone a week ago," replied the black with a broad grin. 
               Eugenia gave him a handful of silver, and he disappeared. 
               There is a kind of free-masonry existing among negroes which marks their intercourse with each other, and is strikingly peculiar to the African race. In everyday life they do not stand upon forms or ceremonies, but at their social gatherings they are ridiculously punctilious and exacting, and ape the manners of the quality, as they style fashionable society, to a most exaggerated and laughable extent. 
               Pompey strutted about the streets "de proudest nigga of dem all." In the course of the evening he observed Grifford's body servant leading his master's favorite horse from the stable, and accosted him: 
               "Whar ye gwine wid dat dar hoss, Bukey?" 
               "Jess gwine to tote him down to water, dat's all." 
               "Wall! ater ye fotch him back an hang him up to de rack, spose we take a sarcumbendibus roun about de town. Dis chile's up to de times; he knows whar dar's sum mighty fine sperets, he does." 
               "You is a hoss, dat's a fac! Nuff ced." 
               They proceeded to the upper part of the city, and Pompey, true to his promise, obtained some liquor, which soon put his companion in the most garrulous humor. 
               "I say, Bukey, is ye has got a fine Mas'r?" 
               "Reckon I has dat. He's de best Mas'r on de ole Massassip, shua," said Bukey, with energy. 
               "Dat's mighty good! Is he got plenty of niggas on he plantashun?" 
               "Jess a few quality niggas," and the speaker glanced proudly round to indicate that he was one of that distinguished class: "but he aint got no plantashun." 
               "Is'nt he?" 
               "No, nuffin but a big park an' a powerful nice house, wid plazzas all roun it, an chuck full ob de nicest kind ob fixins." 
               "Den he not berry rich, heh?" 
               "Oh yes; got a heap o' stock." 
               "Ah-yah! he's a drover, I spec." 
               "No sa! Bress your ignomus, no he is'nt. No sa; stock, stock, sa; bank stock, railroad stock, steamboat stock, stock in de church, an' a right smart sprinklin' ob oder kinds ob stock." 
               "Oh yes; I see; he's what de white folks call a stockade den, is'nt he?" 
               "Dunno 'bout dat; but de ole man, when he died, luff'd young Mas'r all de stocks, and said dey was money." 
               "Is de fader done dead?" 
               "Eh-heh." 
               "Whar's de mudder?" 
               "Has'nt got no mudder." 
               "Did'nt he neber had no mudder?" 
               "Dunno; dis nigga did'nt neber seed her." 
               "Well! ole fren, gub us your private 'pinion ob de white folks, anyhow." 
               "What do ye mean, nigga, de quality, or de common folks?" 
               "Why de quality, ob course; don't bodder wid de common folks." 
               "My 'pinion is dat dey mighty clebber folks, to take care ob demselves, an' all de smart niggas like yousef an' mysef." 
               "Dat's a fact; but is'nt dey gitten to be mighty disempated?" 
               "Yes; dey drink a heap, eat a heap, sleep a heap, spend a heap, and"- 
               "Does dey pray a heap, too?" 
               "Heh-eh! I spec not." 
               The foregoing is a fair specimen of the pumping process, as carried on by Pompey, until he had elicited all the information he desired. After closing his skilful cross examination, he treated his companion again, and they returned to the hotel on the best possible terms with each other. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE ANONYMOUS LETTER. 
               "Oh! I cannot-I will not believe it. It is a base and heartless fabrication," exclaimed Daphne Lescomb to her sister a few days after the marriage of the latter. "It is, it must be false! He is too good and noble to be guilty of such acts as are mentioned in this infamous paper." Thus speaking, she crushed in her hand a letter she had just read, and casting it from her with violence, burst into a flood of passionate tears. 
               "What is it, darling, that agitates you so?" inquired Julia. 
               "Read that terrible letter," sobbed Daphne. 
               Julia picked up the missive, which had caused such violent emotions, and read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           MISS LESCOMB:-Although not personally known to you, yet I trust I shall be pardoned for addressing you, after a perusal of these painful lines. Being aware of your betrothal to a man of disreputable character, I feel it my duty to inform you of facts in my possession which may prevent an estimable young lady from becoming the wife-victim, I should say-of a gambler and a rou. Such is Harry Grifford. Beware of him, if you wish to avoid a life of misery. His long residence in Paris corrupted his morals beyond redemption. A Sardanapalus in dissipation, it is even said he keeps a harem at his private residence, which is situated a few miles above Baton Rouge. He has gambled in this city already to a frightful extent. If you doubt the truth of this statement, inquire of Mr. Denny, who, in common with many others, is familiar with the circumstances. I write this, that you may be warned against a consummate villain. 
                           
                              ONE WHO WISHES YOU WELL.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Julia stood with her gaze riveted upon the fatal words long after she had finished a perusal that petrified her with astonishment. Was it possible that they had been so completely deceived in the character of Daphne's accomplished suitor? No; she could not believe it, and so she hastened to assure her weeping sister. Had not Oceana Valencia, his early friend and playmate, told them that he was honorable, high-minded and chivalrous? She had spoken of him in such becoming terms of warm admiration and friendship as a young lady might use in praise of a noble gentleman whom she esteemed highly. 
               "Oh! Julia, tell me that you do not believe the foul calumnies contained in that hateful letter, or my heart will break," said Daphne, almost inaudibly. 
               "I do not believe them, darling, I assure you. Had they been true, the writer would not have been either afraid or ashamed to attach a signature," replied Julia, in a cheery, comforting voice. 
               Their parents and Herbert, who did not look at the subject through the same medium of interested affection, were not, however, disposed to be so easily satisfied. There is not much faith to be placed in anonymous communications, generally speaking, but the one in question seemed to be stamped with the impress of truth, and as the happiness of a favorite member of their family circle was at stake, a thorough investigation of the charges preferred by the unknown was determined upon. 
               George Denny, instructed by Eugenia, played his part to perfection; for, as the reader has doubtless surmised, the specious epistle had emanated from her fertile brain. There was enough of coloring in the written aspersions to give the whole an appearance of damning truth. George, with the greatest apparent reluctance, allowed Herbert to draw from him the principal facts and circumstances of the midnight scenes they had participated in together. Without committing himself in the least, he disclosed the acts of his quasi friend in detail, and made them appear in the darkest possible colors. 
               Harry Grifford, all unconscious of the ominous clouds that had cast such deep gloom over the horizon of love, and threatened the destruction of his dearest hopes, wended his way, as was now his daily custom, to the residence of his affianced bride. 
               The hours passed in her charming society yielded perfect happiness and were anticipated with impatient delight, for he was beloved by one of the most beauteous of her sex, an artless, pure minded girl, who would gladly have made any sacrifice for the favored one she loved so devotedly. 
               The chilling words- 
               "Miss Lescomb is engaged and cannot receive company," were uttered by the domestic who answered the bell, and struck upon his heart like a blow of destiny. 
               "Did I understand you aright, that Miss Daphne cannot see me?" inquired Harry, in an unsteady voice. 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "Is she ill?" 
               "No sir; that is, not very ill." 
               "Was there no reservation made in my favor?" urged the planter, who was not yet aware of the full extent of his misfortune. 
               "Yes sir; I was drected in perticlar if Mr. Grifford called that he wern't to be admitted on no account." 
               Harry's resilient heart beat wildly as he turned from the door which had previously flown open at his approach, and slowly walked away with a choking sensation in his throat and a mist before his eyes that almost blinded him. 
               Mechanically he pursued his way to the privacy of his own rooms. His finely chiselled lip quivered with uncontrollable emotion, and his white nails pierced his hands, so firmly were they clenched in the effort to preserve an outward composure while yet upon the streets. 
               The sudden revulsion of feeling was overpowering in its effects, and he threw himself upon a sofa and gave way to grief-embittered feelings which he could not control. He exhausted the field of conjecture, but could not imagine why he was thus spurned with indignity from a house where he had ever been received as an honored guest. It was incomprehensible. 
               At length, an easy method of solving the enigma presents itself. He will write her for an explanation. Approaching his escritoir he penned a hurried note to Daphne, entreating her by the wildest arguments of fervid love to explain to him why he was thus debarred from her dear presence. The letter was a fair type of his impetuous nature, full of earnest, burning words, eloquently expressive of the deeply excited feelings of his soul. 
               In an hour it was returned to him unopened. On the same evening, as the steamer Grand Turk gracefully rounded from her moorings into the stream and swiftly glided down the majestic Mississippi, there might have been seen on her crowded decks the forms of Harry Grifford and his servant Bukey. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE FORGER FOILED. 
               Eugenia gloated over the misery she had wrought, and, while pretending to aid her wretched accomplice in his schemes of revenge, was cautiously strengthening the reins by which she held him in subjection. They held frequent consultations together, and George could not but admire her master-spirit, although he feared her more than any other living being. He had determined to outwit her in some way and regain possession of the dangerous paper he had given her and destroy it, for, as long as she kept it, he was hopelessly in her power. 
               On the morning after the departure of Harry Grifford he entered her rooms in a very bad humor, for, in order to revenge himself upon his enemy, he had been obliged, in his interview with Herbert Lescomb, to throw off the mask and appear in his true colors. Eugenia was absent. Here was an opportunity that must not be lost, as it might never occur again. He eagerly looked around for an ebony casket of curious workmanship, in which, on a former visit, he had seen her deposit some letters, and which he believed to be the receptacle of her valuable papers. It was on her writing desk. He seized it with eager haste, but did not find it open as he expected. It was evidently secured by a secret spring, as there was no key-hole visible. With but a momentary hesitation he drew a large clasp-knife from his pocket, burst open the lid and began to search among its perfumed contents for the forged note. He had just taken up a small package of papers, labeled "valuable," when a sardonic laugh interrupted him. He started, and with the flush of conscious, detected guilt burning upon his face, beheld Eugenia standing by his side. 
               "Ha! Is it possible that George Denny, the accomplished gentleman, the fashionable Bean Brummel of the Mound City, and the model rou, has condescended to become a thief as well as forger? Fool! do you think I would trust you so far as to keep a document of such importance in so insecure a place, when you had access to my rooms?" 
               George dropped the package he had continued to hold, for he was paralyzed by the blazing eyes of Eugenia. 
               She quickly picked it up, for it contained the identical paper he had been searching for. Her little ruse was completely successful. 
               "Triple fool! not to keep it when once in your possession. You are but a silly novice in stratagem," she continued in a contemptuous tone. 
               "Whatever I am, madam, it was your infernal influence made me thus," exclaimed George, goaded to fury by her bitter, sneering words. 
               "Now, that is gratitude with a vengeance! Who befriended you in your direst necessity but me?" 
               "True, but at the price of a fearful crime, which none but an incarnate fiend could have exacted. Since my eyes first saw the light, you have been my worst enemy. Whatever of crime or guilt there is in my career is owing directly to your baleful influence." 
               "George, why don't you try the preaching dodge? You are vastly eloquent, and would succeed admirably in the pathetic line. There is a refreshing unction in your address that is quite delightful. 'Pon my word I am pleased to see that you have some vim; you are not quite the milksop I took you for;" and again she indulged in that low, cutting laugh that stung her auditor to the quick. 
               George was stupefied. The proud, defiant woman, who had made of him an easy, pliant tool, yet scorned him with contumelious language, seemed to be utterly destitute of human feelings. It was beyond his power to comprehend the depths of such a character. She was an anomaly of Nature, and yet there are women now living who are the exact counterpart of Eugenia De Forest. 
               The thought that he was in the power of such a remorseless being was mortifying to his galled spirit, and filled him with desperation. She still held the note in her hand, and he determined to seize and destroy it. 
               Eugenia watched his changing countenance, and, as if divining the tenor of his thoughts, while he yet hesitated, she touched the bell and Pompey appeared upon the scene. 
               "D'you ring for me, Miss's?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Wall! here I is, Miss's." 
               "I wish you to retire to the ante-room, but remain within call, as I may need your services." 
               "Yes'm," replied Pompey, vanishing with a low cong.
                
               "You see I am prepared even for desperate measures, if necessary, but I would not advise you to resort to anything like violence, that is, if your ingenious little plans can be prosecuted without, as the result would inevitably recoil upon yourself. What is the object of the visit you have favored me with this morning?" inquired Eugenia, with a nonchalant air, as if she had dismissed all unpleasant thoughts and turned her attention to business. 
               "First, for advice and instructions." 
               "I am listening. Go on." 
               "Oceana Valencia refuses to see me." 
               "Well! is that a misfortune?" 
               "Not a misfortune, perhaps, but deuced unpleasant. She has cut me dead, and I don't like to stand it. As long as I believed her love was mine I didn't care much about her, but now that she has discarded me, I find that I love her consumedly." 
               "Sensible girl," said Eugenia, in a low voice. 
               "What did you say?" demanded George. 
               "That I would advise you to desist from all further attempts in that quarter." 
               "I thought I would reform, sign the pledge, and all that." 
               "It would be of no avail." 
               "Why not? Such dodges always win." 
                
               "Because her friend discarded Harry Grifford, principally on your testimony. You will be very justly considered more guilty than he was. The fact is, you are becoming too well known in this city to meet with distinguished success among the ladies hereafter." 
               "I think, then, I will follow your advice and give her up." 
               "It will be the wisest course. What next?" 
               "I am confounded hard up." 
               "Ah! another depression in the finances?" 
               "Yes; unfortunately, I am entirely strapped." 
               "And to what extent does your modesty expect me to become your banker this morning?" 
               "A couple of hundred or so," answered George. He had intended to ask for five hundred, but the incidents of the interview having made his success quite apochryphal, he concluded to moderate his demands. 
               "And you really expected to obtain a couple of hundreds more under all the circumstances?" 
               "I certainly hoped to do so." 
               "Then let me tell you plainly, that you are a more consummate fool than even my liberal estimate made you out to be. What has become of the amount of the check I gave you?" 
               "It has gone to pay my debts." 
               "Liar! you have not yet paid one half of them. You have at least three thousand left, if it has not been lost at play. Is it possible that you, in the full possession of your natural senses, expected to come such a shallow game as that and succeed?" 
               "Madame, I will leave you until you are in a better humor. I can't stand this infernal badgering any longer," hissed George, boiling with impotent rage. 
               "On the contrary, you will not go until my pleasure dismisses you," said Eugenia composedly. 
               He seized his hat with an unsteady grasp and was passing out of the room, when the single word "Beware," sounded like an echo, and brought the probable consequences of the act vividly before his distracted vision. 
               "What would you?" he inquired, falteringly, as he slowly retraced his steps. 
               "Nothing more than to read you a lesson on obedience, which I am certain will not soon be forgotten. You know that children are especially commanded to obey their parents, and I hope the salutary influence of the present scene will teach you the paramount importance of the divine injunction. I shall soon require your services, and will expect you to obey my call promptly, no matter in what guise it may come." 
               George Denny left her presence with a deep sense of humiliation rankling in his heart, such as he had never before experienced. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               A GLEAM OF HOPE-EXPLANATION. 
               A withering blight had fallen upon the gentle spirit of Daphne Loscomb. The bright, joyous sunshine had passed from her stricken heart, and its place supplied, not by the hopelessness of utter despondency, but by the deep gloom of crushed and withered hopes. Her beauteous features, pale and careworn, told of intense suffering, and the languid, downcast eyes, now veiled their glad light in tears of uncomplaining sorrow. Her affectionate nature and true womanly heart condemned the harsh, stern judgment of her parents, even while she bowed to their painful decision. She did not murmur when they excluded the dear object of her heart's choice from her society, but thought, and justly too, that they had acted hastily and unwisely in not giving him an opportunity to defend himself from the charges preferred in such a suspicious manner by an anonymous enemy, and sustained by the doubtful testimony of an acknowledged libertine. She inquired if Mr. Grifford had called, and was informed by the garrulous servant of the circumstances that occurred when he last sought her presence, when she delivered the peremptory message of denial to the astounded lover. 
               "I raley pitied him," said the talkative girl. "He looked so cut up, and didn't seem to understand that it could possibly mean him, until I had to repeat it two or three times; then he turned as pale as you are now, Miss, and walked off as stunned as could be." 
               Daphne thanked the simple-hearted girl, and indulged the hope that he would write to her, and that all would yet be satisfactorily explained. But when she learned that he had written-that his letter had been returned to him unopened, and that he had abruptly left the city-she experienced that tightening sensation of the heart which announces the flight of hope and the presence of despair. Staggering to her room, her passionate grief found vent in a flood of bitter tears, such as wretched woman can only shed. 
               Tears are the bright jewels of affection, which spring from their beauteous caskets to sparkle on the joyous cheek when glowing with perfect happiness, or flow in pearly drops, the heart's faithful exponent, when filled with intense sorrow. 
               Her parents, especially the good, kind-hearted mother, felt deeply for their daughter's unhappiness, and would gladly have made any honorable sacrifice to secure her peace of mind. Julia and Oceana, with kind, gentle words, and loving caresses, strove to comfort her, and the influence of genuine heartfelt sympathy, lightened the burthen of grief, and encouraged a spirit of patient resignation. 
               April arrived, amid showers and sunshine. One balmy, delicious day, the sisters were busily engaged wreathing the early flowers of spring into elegant boquets, and arranging them in beautiful vases, when Herbert burst into the room, and catching up Daphne in his powerful arms, imprinted a light kiss upon her white brow. 
               "Kiss me, you little minx-it's all right. Fal de ral de ral de rido." And he danced around the room with a quick waltzing step, still holding the fragile form of his sister in his arms. 
               "What is all right, Herbert?" inquired the wondering girl, as soon as the exuberance of his spirits had somewhat subsided. 
               Julia looked up from her fairy work with curious surprise. 
               "Harry is all right! Glorious! isn't it, girls?" and the excited speaker dropped into a chair and fanned himself violently. 
               "What do you mean, Herbert," demanded a low, eager voice, proceeding from Daphne's trembling lips. 
               The unexpected announcement caused the rich blood to mount in a gushing tide, that instantly suffused her pale features with a crimson flush, eloquent with the prestage of happiness. 
               "I mean, little one, that all is satisfactorily explained-at least it is so to me-that Harry is not the miserable wretch he was represented to us, but the same splendid, noble fellow, we all believed him to be until that infamous letter came, which caused us to forget all our obligations and treat him like a dog." 
               "Have you seen him then?" asked the girls in concert. 
               "No. I wish I could get hold of him just now. I'll tell you all about it if you will quit crying, you little heathens. I was in the store this morning, reading the papers and chatting with Wilse, when a gentleman entered who had a letter of introduction from a correspondent of his, an influential member of a large mercantile house in New Orleans. I was introduced to Mr. Bailey, who, it appears, is a junior partner. In the course of the conversation which followed, he asked me if I had become acquainted with a certain Harry Grifford, saying that he was an intimate friend of his, who had been on a visit to our city not long since. 
               "I told him I was slightly acquainted with the gentleman. Here was an opportunity to confirm the truth of the charges against our friend, or to prove their falsity, which I seized with eagerness. He answered all my questions readily, and his replies fully proved them to be a tissue of base calumnies. In turn, he wished to know the object of my pressing inquiries. I told him that the character of the planter had been traduced, and briefly related the circumstances of the gambling scenes as pictured to me by George Denny." 
               "Ah! there has been foul work going on," he instantly exclaimed, and proceeded to narrate the following curious history: 
               "There was one remarkable peculiarity in the education and early training of Harry Grifford. His father had at one time fallen an easy prey into the skillful hands of a band of sharpers who infested the lower Mississippi, and been swindled out of nearly all he possessed. The acute sufferings he experienced in mind at that time, while racked by remorse of conscience science, gave him a singular idea in reference to his son. He determined that he should be early initiated into all the mysteries of the gambling art, that he might avoid becoming a victim as he had done. As soon as Harry was of a suitable age he paid a large sum to a professional gambler to explain fully and practically all the swindling devices by which the fraternity prey so successfully upon mankind. The lessons occupied several weeks, during which every game in vogue, whether of chance or skill, was analyzed thoroughly, and all the cheating practises in use fully exposed." 
               "That accounts, then, for his turning the tables so completely upon the St. Louis gamblers," I remarked. 
               "Yes; and proves that the precautions of his father were wisely taken, for there had evidently been a skillful plan laid to entrap him into their toils." 
               "Yes; but for once they caught a Tartar, for he managed so adroitly that he foiled them with their own weapons, and broke up their bank entirely." 
               "But he scorned to use the money thus obtained," continued Mr. Bailey. "On his last return home he endowed the hospital of the Sisters of Charity in our city with over fifteen thousand dollars." 
               "Excellent!" I exclaimed vehemently. The punishment he inflicted upon the insatiable vampires of society was well merited and overwhelming. The disposition of the spoils in the manner you speak of shows that he did not attack the dangerous tiger, as it is facetiously called, through any motives of gain but to avenge the ruin they had wrought." 
               "Well, to make a long story short, he gave me, a full history of the European tour which he had made in company with Harry Grifford. Constant companions at the college in Toulon, in the gilded salons of Paris, or roaming through the classic scenes of Italy, they had been insepparable." 
               "He loves his handsome friend as a very dear brother, and speaks of him in the highest terms which one man can use in commendation of another. As soon as I had learned these facts I hastened home to tell you all about it, and also to give notice that I invited him to dine with us." 
               "Where is Harry now?" interrogated Daphne, the old cheerful light beginning to dance in her sparkling eyes once more. 
               "Upon my word, Daph, I forgot to obtain that little piece of information, but will ascertain that important fact." 
               The ladies now retired to dress for dinner, and soon after Mr. Wilson and Mr. Bailey were announced. 
               We do not particularly fancy the lengthy descriptions of epicurean repasts that some writers indulge in, but will briefly state that the one in question was recherch in all its appointments; the cuisine was perfect and gave general satisfaction to the happy party who partook of the various edibles, from boeuf a la mode to blanc manage and jellies. 
               Mr. Bailey possessed a thoughtful cast of features, somewhat pale, yet not 'sicklied o'er' with an unpleasant pallor. Intellectual and refined in conversation, his manners were polished and courtly, and he rapidly gained the good opinion of the Lescombs, who were already predisposed in his favor. 
               "You were engaged in the river trade for a number of years, I understand, Capt. Lescomb?" 
               "Yes; I laid the first keel that ever ploughed the turbulent waters of the Mississippi, and, after she was finished, commanded her until her ribs crashed against a huge sawyer in the Plaquemine Bend, and she sunk from mortal ken, barely giving us time to escape with our lives. 
               "I well remember our first trip, when we proudly walked the hurricane deck with a dignity and importance that now seems ludicrous enough, and noted the wonder and alarm of the aborigines as we glided swiftly by them. 
               "I verily believe they thought the great Wacondah had visited the earth in the plenitude of his mighty power, and that our smoking craft was his chariot of fire, for some of them prostrated themselves to the ground, while others fled affrighted to the woods, and disappeared, as if they held altogether a different opinion." 
               "And even they were not more superstitious than the Millerites of Spiritualists of the present day," suggested Mr. Bailey, with a smile. "That was a remarkable innovation upon the science of navigation, as understood and practised by our fathers, and yet not more striking or useful in its results, than the various improvements of the last forty years, which have peopled the rivers of this vast continent with floating palaces, almost as gorgeous and brilliant as the abodes of royalty, and yet the common carriers of a republican people." 
               Mr. Bailey had unwittingly introduced the hobby of the hardy veteran, and he instantly branched off into the intricacies of his favorite topic with a fluency that was both pleasing and instructive. All the inventions and improvements of the day, connected with the science of navigation, were as familiar to him as household words. In the maritime affairs of our Government he was equally au fait, and justly proud of the superiority of our naval architecture; he would descant by the hour upon the surpassing beauty and speed of American vessels, the philosophy of winds and currents, and perils of the great deep. Julia, aware of this little peculiarity of her father's, adroitly changed the subject, while he stopped to take a glass of wine. 
               "Is this your first visit to our city?" she asked, looking at their guest. 
               "By no means. Some of the most pleasing reminiscences of my life are connected with the Mound City, as I resided here with my parents until my twelfth year." 
               "You find it much changed since then, I presume?" ventured Daphne, who had as yet taken no part in the conversation. 
               "So much so, Miss Lescomb, that I recognize it only by the location. The old familiar landmarks are disappearing before the improvements of this progressive age with a rapidity that is painful to contemplate, when our early associations are connected with the scenes thus passing away. I look in vain for the play-grounds of my youth, or the singular structures of the Indian race, from which this city derives its beautiful name, and which were clothed, in my boyish imagination, with mystic interest." 
               "You refer to the romantic and imposing mounds that once abounded here so plentifully, some of which were strikingly beautiful, their summits commanding a view of the swift, turbid Mississippi, for miles in either direction?" 
               "Yes; I see there are but one or two left, and they are materially shorn of their gigantic proportions by the encroachments of streets and excavations." 
               "Can you inform me where Mr. Grifford is at present?" interrogated Herbert, rather abruptly. 
               "When I last saw him, some ten days since, he was at his residence, a few miles above Baton Rouge." 
               "Do you know whether he intends to visit our city again this spring or not?" 
               "I think not. It seems that he left here much sooner than he had anticipated, in consequence of an affair of the heart. I rallied him rather severely on his Romeo-like manner and mclancholy looks, but failed to elicit any information as to the cause of his changed demeanor. I think, sir, that some one of your fair ladies has taken possession of that psychological essence of his spiritual nature we usually call the heart, and kept it to his great discomfiture, for he has entirely lost the gay spirits of former days in a sea of despondency." 
               Mr. Bailey spoke in a half bantering tone, as if to challenge information on the subject, and yet was utterly unconscious of the fact that his careless words vibrated most painfully upon the heart of one of his auditors. 
               Daphne bent her head low to conceal the agitation caused by the allusions to one whose name even she could not hear spoken without emotion. 
               "A mere passing fancy, I suppose," said Herbert, not observing a beseeching glance bestowed on him by his sister. "You gentlemen who have resided upon the old Continent for a number of years, and mingled freely in the refined society of La Belle France, do not find much to either attract or interest you in American society; composed as it is, I mean the female portion of it, principally of young Misses, who spring at a bound, as it were, from the cradle into the dress and privileges of the full-grown, cultivated woman. In fact, these forward girls who occupy the front ranks and indulge in the vapid nonsense of 'woman's rights,' when they don't practically understand the first principles of woman's duty, are simply ridiculous in their parvenu pretensions, and incapable of inspiring an honest, enduring attachment." 
               "On the contrary, I am fully convinced of the sincerity of his passion, for his is not a nature to love lightly or unworthily. Although I concur with your views of society in general, yet you must confess there are some glorious exceptions, which, like the sparkling diamond, are all the more highly prized for their rare brilliancy and intrinsic worth. They are the priceless jewels of society, set in the pure gold of woman's true nature, and equally fitted to adorn the gay salons
                   of fashion, or constitute the happiness of the home circle." 
               And the speaker bowed gracefully to the ladies, as if to intimate that they, of course, were of the exception and not the general rule. 
               They now rose from the table and repaired to the drawing room, where they passed the evening in pleasant, social converse, enlivened by the sweet strains of music. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                   
                     
                        "What exile from himself can flee."
                      
                     CHILDE HAROLD. 
                   
                
               Harry Grifford returned to his home in a state of mind very nearly allied to desperation. His proud spirit was not one to yield lightly to emotions of grief, or be entirely prostrated by any misfortune that might befall him, and yet he felt that all the poetry of life had been destroyed, and that there was naught left but a dreary waste of painful recollections. 
               The once fair and beautiful characters traced upon his heart by the mystic power of love were now defaced in the ruins of hope. 
               His beautiful chateau on the lordly Mississippi had lost the charm of former days, and he wandered through its lofty halls with a listless, abstracted air, and downcast, petulant look. Unmindful of the affectionate attentions of his servants, they were rudely repulsed from his presence, wondering at the strange mood of their dear young master. 
               His abrupt and heartless dismissal from the presence of the loved one of his soul, without cause or reason being assigned, had filled his heart with bitterness, and he resolved to drive her lovely image from his mind, and consign it, with all the bright and glowing anticipations he had indulged in, to the Lethean waves of oblivion. 
               It is easy to make resolutions in affairs of the heart, but a very difficult thing to carry them out with any degree of success. If he paused to gaze upon the old familiar paintings that depended from the walls, the elegant chefs-d'uvres of art, whether representative of charming land scapes, or the artistic groupings of beautiful forms, gradually melted away and assumed the shadowy outlines of a still more beautiful figure-a living, breathing likeness that spoke to him the silent language of love from eloquent eyes, whose soft, loving light could not be portrayed by the limner's art, however perfect. If he sought the abode of the classics in his well filled library, and endeavored to distract his thoughts from the engrossing subject by perusing the writings of a favorite author, the peerless features of Daphne gleamed from the illumined pages with a sad, sweet look that seemed to chide his stern resolution. 
               His flute poured forth wild strains of gushing melody, and he unconsciously played her favorite tunes with strange and thrilling effect. He would spend whole days upon the gloomy bayous and picturesque lakes which abound in that region, fishing and gunning, or plunge into the mazy depths of the tangled canebrakes in search of game, and returning home at night, tired and weary, seek his couch but to dream of Daphne. 
               Wearied of the monotonous life he was now leading, he resolved upon a change of scene. In pursuance of this design he stepped on board a descending steamer and took passage for New Orleans. The boat was crowded with passengers and presented the usual medley that is peculiarly characteristic of western travel. Beautiful women, polished gentlemen, gayly dressed impertinent boys and forward girls, plausible chevaliers d'industrie, rough, hard-fisted Pikes, strapping Hoosiers, negroes and baggage. 
               As he was to spend only a few hours on board, Harry made no effort to hunt up old acquaintances or make new ones, but stood apart, indulging in serious meditation in his usual sombre mood. 
               As they neared their destination the passengers crowded to the bow of the boat to look upon the tall spires and elegant buildings of the Crescent City. As the sharp keel of the majestic steamer grated upon the levee a trembling spasm thrilled through her huge frame, and in an instant after a deafening explosion-the knell of death to nearly all the doomed passengers, reverberated far and wide over the busy city and announced a terrible catastrophe. The tall masts of the shipping, swayed by the concussion of the air, reeled until their tapering spars plunged into the muddy waters, now seething with the heated missiles falling on every side. More than an hundred souls passed from life into eternity without a moment's warning or time for preparation. 
               The scene that followed beggars all description. Thousands of citizens rushed to the spot, affrighted and dismayed by the awful spectacle of ruin before them. Some sought with eager, frenzied haste, among the mangled portions of human bodies to find the familiar lineaments of friends or relatives. Others laughed wildly on meeting some dear friend safe and uninjured. The levee was strewn with the bodies of unfortunate wretches-dead, maimed or gasping in the agonies of death. Some presented but a crushed and shapeless mass of human flesh, while others were apparently but little injured, though still and motionless. The stifled sobs of deep anguish-the low, wailing sounds of despair, and the loud, piercing cries of agony were heart-rending, and manly tears of sympathy glistened in eyes all unused to weeping. May we never again be called upon to witness another scene of such deep, thrilling horror. 
               Harry Grifford had fallen into the water some thirty feet from the boat and was rescued by a boatman, who dragged him to the shore in a senseless condition. His left arm was broken, and he had sustained other serious injuries. He was conveyed to the St. Charles, but days and weeks elapsed before he fully recovered from the effects of that terrible shock. Concussion of the brain had taken place, delirium supervened, and it was only by a miracle of medical skill that his life was saved. 
               When at last reason resumed its throne and he opened his weary eyes to a knowledge of the things of life, he felt like one slowly awakening from a hideous nightmare. Turning his languid gaze from the unfamiliar objects by which he was surrounded, to a figure reclining in a chair at the foot of the bed he recognized his faithful servant. 
               "Where am I, Bukey?" he uttered in a low, weak voice. 
               "Bress de Lord, Mass'r Harry! but I'se glad to hear you speak once more. You is in de St. Charles Hotel;" replied the black, gladly springing to his feet. 
               "How long have I lain here?" 
               "Eber sense de steamboat 'sploded. I was on de starn, 'way back dar, an' didn't got struck nor nuffin, so I hunt you up, mass'r, an' fotch you he'er, an' tole 'em to gub you de bess dey got in de house, an' dey did Mass'r, deed dey did," said Bukey, earnestly. 
               "You must not talk any more at present, Harry," said another voice, in familiar, cheering tones, and Mr. Bailey stepped around from the head of the bed and grasped the thin hand of the invalid with all the fervor of an old friend. 
               "What! you here too, Ralph?" 
               "Yes; I have been with you for some time; and now, my dear fellow, compose yourself to sleep again, for I shall not, positively, allow you to speak another word until you are stronger." 
               Thus speaking, he administered a sedative potion, and drew the curtains around the couch so as to exclude the light. 
               In a few days our hero was so far recovered that he was able to converse without fatigue, and learned from his garrulous servant that his friend had arrived a few days after the occurrence of the terrible accident, and since that time he had been constantly by the couch of suffering, unremitting in his brotherly care and attention. 
               "Here is a letter for you, Harry, which was forwarded to this place soon after you arrived. By my faith it is a charming missive, and, no doubt, a sweet messenger of love from some beauteous maiden, whom you have captivated. You are a lucky dog, after all your 'moving accidents and narrow 'scapes by flood and field," to find a Desdemona in this unromantic day," exclaimed Ralph gaily, as he scrutinized a perfumed billet-doux, which he held daintily between his thumb and forefinger for a few moments, and tossed it into the hand of his friend. 
               Harry said nothing, but his heart beat quick and impetuously, and his cheek flushed when he read the superscription. He recognized the delicate chirography, and tore off the envelope with eager haste. The following touching words met his gaze, and thrilled his soul with inexpressible delight: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              ST. LOUIS, April 10, 18-.
                            
                           
                              My own Dear Harry:-My heart has been desolate, very desolate and sad, since we last met; but now, while I pen these words, each one glowing with a kiss of undying affection for thee; like the folded petals of the primrose, which open to the first warm breath of spring, it expands to the welcome radiance of hope, for I am now permitted to address these lines to you. I know that you love me, Harry, and will come to me as soon as you receive this message from the true heart that beats for thee, and thee only. There has been a terrible misunderstanding, but all is explained now, and we wait but to welcome your return with affectionate hearts and smiles of joy and happiness. Come to me at once, dearest. Your own devoted 
                           
                              DAPHNE.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Harry read, and re-read, the brief but expressive note of Daphne with abounding heart and a glad smile of pleasure. He no longer strove to drive her image from his "heart of hearts," but beheld, in imagination, a perfection more gently loveable, more wildly beautiful and brightly glorious, than before their painful separation. 
               "So, I was right then, was I, Hal?" queried the voice of Ralph, with the slightest possible shade of irony in his tone, which effectually dissolved the fairy spell which cupid had thrown over the spirit of the entranced lover. 
               "Right in what?" 
               "How innocent you are, Sir Romeo! Why, of course, in what I said when I handed you that letter, which must contain a Niagara of happiness to cause such rhapsodical pantomime and ardent looks." 
               "Excuse me, Ralph; I entirely forgot your presence." 
               "Certainly, for I see you are transfixed by a bright silver arrow fresh from the quiver of Don Cupid. Vive l' amour!" 
               "Ralph, I am off for St. Louis to-mor-row." 
               "And joy go with you." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE COUNTERFEIT FIFTIES ON THE STATE BANK OF MISSOURI-SUCCESS OF EUGENIA'S GIGANTIC SCHEME. 
               When George Denny rushed from the presence of Eugenia so impetuously, his first thought was to fly from the city in order to avoid a subserviency that galled his proud and reckless spirit to desperation. He reached his room and began to pack up a few portables in a valise, when the thought occurred to his astute mind that the woman who, mysteriously enough, seemed to possess a perfect knowledge of his every act-his out-goings and incomings-and almost his every thoughts-would not long be ignorant of his present intention, and would doubtless frustrate it by the forcible means he had himself placed in her power. 
               "She said truly, I am a miserable, thick-headed dunce-a veritable d-dass," he muttered, in no very enviable state of mind. 
               The circumstances of the last interview fully confirmed him in the belief that he had been placed under the strictest surveillance for some purpose which she had not as yet condescended to make known. 
               "The yarn she told me about being my mother is all gas. I know it must be, and yet I can't see what in thunder she wants to pull the wool over my eyes for. No use trying to stuff me with any such nonsense. She must have got the items from the old gal herself, for they were all right and no mistake. She ain't a very bad friend either in a pecuniary point of view-that check was just in the nick of time, and kept me afloat on the top wave. I should have winked out entirely if it had not been for her assistance. Now the question is, shall I cut and run, and make her my implacable enemy by so doing, or remain and cooperate in schemes that must be of the greatest importance, to judge from the price so readily paid for the services of an accomplished ally?" Thus speaking, or rather thinking, George gave up his intention, and submitted to the humiliation of the position he occupied with the best grace he possibly could. 
               A few days a thereafter he was summoned by Pompey to attend upon his mistress, and obeyed the call promptly. Eugenia received him with a bland smile, and being about to partake of a sumptuous 
                  djeuner-dinatoire which had just been brought in, asked him to join her. The variety of luxuries thus served up proved her to be quite an epicure, and being too fashionable to rise before eleven, she indulged in extravagant luncheons in lieu of early breakfasts. George accepted the invitation, and partook of the chops, dainty omelettes and fragrant coffee, with infinite relish. 
               Eugenia was all smiles and affability, and overwhelmed her astonished guest with a thousand little pleasing courtesies. He praised her admirable luncheon, and she descanted upon his fine, manly appetite and handsome looks. This remarkable change of manner so delighted him for the time being that he scarcely felt the yoke of bondage which encircled him, it sat so lightly. 
               She ingeniously approached the object of the present interview, and gradually unfolded to him a scheme of villainy so vast and comprehensive in its brilliant results, yet so easy of execution, that he was struck dumb with astonishment. 
               "You see, George, that by this splendid operation an immense fortune can be realized with perfect impunity, if it is properly managed." 
               "And yet it is fraught with the most dangerous consequences if discovered before it is fully carried out." 
               "Pshaw! Not to us." 
               "No?" 
               "Of course not, for my precautions are so well taken that, even in that event, no clue would be left that could possibly implicate us in the affair." 
               "Who originated the plan?" 
               "I did," replied Eugenia, proudly. 
               "Is it possible? You have confederates, I suppose?" 
               "Only one; a gentleman artist of the most profound skill and warranted fidelity, but unfortunately he is a miserable penman." 
               "Who is he?" 
               "That is not necessary for you to know, as you will not meet him personally." 
               "What is it you wish me to do?" 
               "You are, I believe, an excellent penman?" 
               "Yes; I write a very fair hand." 
               "Then, I wish you to practice until you can imitate these names so perfectly that they cannot be distinguished from the originals," she continued, giving him two autograph signatures. 
               "Is the work, then, so far advanced?" 
               "Yes. A number of impressions have already been taken. They are almost perfect, and will be ready for signing in a week at the farthest." 
               "I will see what I can do," said George, seating himself at a secretary, which was furnished with writing materials in abundance. 
               After a few trials, he produced a facsimile of the cashier's name, which was written in an easy, graceful style; but the president's sign-manual was much more difficult to counterfeit, being such a cramped and irregular specimen of chirography that all the rules of penmanship were completely set at naught in attempting to follow the crooked lines with sufficient exactness to produce a correct duplicate. He at last succeeded, insomuch that there was a striking resemblance between them, which was peculiarly satisfactory, and called forth the warm commendation of Eugenia, who watched his progress with eagle eyes, for the success or failure of her well conceived plans depended mainly upon his proficiency in imitating those two queer looking signatures. 
               "Bravo, George! you executed these admirably for a first trial, and will soon be able to make an exact counterpart of each. Our triumph is now almost certain. If we succeed, one-fourth of the profits shall be yours." 
               "Good! That suits me to a T. It shall not be my fault if we fail," said her willing accomplice, who spoke of himself as one already identified with their plans and interests. The prospects, and inducements to join them, had been presented by the arch temptress in such alluring colors, that he was not only willing but eager to engage in the monster swindle which they contemplated upon mankind. 
               "It strikes me that unless the 'flimsies' are absolutely perfect in every particular, that the dodge must inevitably be discovered before we can dispose of any considerable amount of them, especially as they are all of a high denomination, there being none under fifty dollars, if I understood you aright." 
               "Well, George, I will tell you all about it. I did not intend to explain the details of the operation, but as you have engaged with us with such hearty good will and energy, I have concluded to do so to satisfy your doubts and convince you that our magnificent scheme has been well matured and is worthy the genius of a Monroe Edwards himself, whose personnel, by the by, you resemble very much. We will strike off about four thousand bills, making an aggregate of over two hundred thousand dollars, but not one of them will be offered this side of the Rocky Mountains. The golden clime of California is to be the great field of operations, and will prove to us a veritable EI Dorado. According to my calculations, it will be at least three months before it can possibly be discovered that our precious billets de banque are not quite so valuable as the glittering oro, which the honest miner will have exchanged for them. 
               "It requires about a month to come from the golden region now, and another to return. The delays consequent upon the tedious trip, makes it probable that even a longer time than that will elapse before any of them find their way to the bank from which they will purport to have been issued. The counterfeits (I dislike that plebeian word, it is so decidedly vulgar) will be so perfect that this cannot possibly be detected sooner. 
               "Now a great deal can be done in three months by energetic and skillful financiers, such as will be engaged in our novel banking operation. 
               "Philosophers and moralists will perhaps say that it is illegitimate and unlawful; especially will this be the case among our Wall street worthies, who cheat the simple-minded and take advantage of the necessities of their unfortunate neighbors during six days of the week and receive absolution on the seventh, by-their strict attendance at fashionable churches, where they occupy all the high places and make their sonorous responses with hypocritical sanctity. 
               "But wherein is our operation more reprehensible than theirs, or the gigantic swindles perpetrated upon the credulous people by many of our chartered banks in the Atlantic States, which with a nominal capital that exists only in the imaginations of their directors, issue their worthless scrip and flood the country with irredeemable promises to pay. The institutions flourish and prosper until their enterprising projectors having enriched themselves by fraud and peculation, there is a terrible crash-an explosion that agitates the world of Mammon, and is followed by the anathemas of their eredulous victims, who writhe and curse their unlucky stars, while the sleek and plausible authors of their ruin, with sanctimonious looks and humble steps, quietly retire to private life to enjoy their illgotten wealth." 
               Eugenia uttered the foregoing with an air of conscious pride and superiority, as if she would challenge a comparison; which, truth to tell, would not be so greatly to her disadvantage as it might seem at first sight; that is, if we confine the comparison to swindling brokers and wild-cat bankers. 
               "I perfectly agree with you. I cannot see that it is any worse, in fact not so bad, for in this case the principal loss will fall upon the brokers and Express Companies," replied George, upon whom the specious eloquence and artful sophistry of the remarkable woman began to have its usual effect. 
               The now eager dupe entered readily into all her plans, and, having received minute instructions upon every important point, he engaged in the undertaking with his whole soul, and performed her bidding with alacrity. He made frequent nooturnal visits to a dilapidated and mysterious-looking old house in Carondelet, where he was met by a man with a mask on his face and otherwise disguised, who introduced him, with many precautions, into the secret workshop, where the nefarious work was being so successfully carried on. 
               By the shaded light of an odorless lamp he perceived the appendages of the counterfeiter's art; a small but powerful press, dies of steel and iron, plates of silver and copper, vials of colorless aside, and an abundance of delicate, queer looking tools. 
               Nothing had been omitted in their preparations that was necessary to make their work absolutely perfect. George visited the State Bank of Missouri, frequently; ostensibly on business, for he bought drafts and warrants, and had quite a large account with the institution; but in reality to obtain useful information and note any changes that might take place in the affairs of the bank. On one of these occasions, while the attention of the officers was momentarily withdrawn, he purloined a quantity of ink from the huge inkstand, by means of a large sponge which he had carried beneath his cloak. 
               At length, everything being in readiness ness, he received a package of notes from the man in the mask, and conveyed them to Eugenia's room, where they were signed, and received the finishing touches under her immediate supervision. 
               We will now anticipate a little, and recur to the well remembered fact that a few months thereafter the monetary world, especially the western portion of it, was astounded by the discovery of a gigantic counterfeiting operation, which had been more completely successful than any other attempted in the United States. The spurious notes were remitted from California in heavy amounts, and were so like the genuine that several thousand dollars were actually received at the Bank of Missouri before the fraud was detected. 
               Of the vast amounts of money thus gained by the authors, who this day remain unknown, George Denny never received a dollar. Eugenia put him off with promises, and practiced upon his credulity until the eclaircissement took place, when she suddenly disappeared. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE RETURN TO ST. LOUIS-DISAPPOINTMENT-MEETING WITH DENNY AND DEPARTURE FOR CALIFORNIA. 
               Harry Grifford had taken passage on the magnificent Belle Creole for St. Louis, and, as they came in sight of the bold bluffs that limit the Arsenal grounds, a short distance below the city, he ascended to the hurricane deck and noted with pleasure the familiar landmarks and beautiful scenery which announced their proximity to the goal of his most ardent hopes. 
               The shades of evening were beginning to envelop the scene in sombre hues, and the old, crazy-looking shot-towers which dangled over the front of the steep precipice, threw far and wide their fantastic shadows over the swift rolling tide. 
               The sheen of the setting sun yet gilded the foliage of the lofty cypress on the eastern side of the river, when the Belle Creole shot round the jutting point of Duncan's Island, and a scene of unparalleled destruction was presented to the view of the assembled passengers. St. Louis, in ruins, was before them. The Fire King had visited the ill-fated city. His destructive reign of the duration of one brief night, the ever memorable 17th of May, had swept away a large portion of the beautiful city, many human lives, and destroyed property to an enormous extent; over five millions of dollars having been annihilated by the devouring element, which had been attended throughout by the fierce breath of a rainless tornado. 
               The broad levee was literally covered with charred timbers, heaps of black cinders and fragments of every description, while red piles of crumbling ruins alone denoted the places where once were stately buildings, filled with rare and costly merchandise. 
               The wrecks of twenty steamers hung upon the water's edge, and rendered the landing of the majestic Belle difficult and dangerous. The awe-struck passengers, many of them with strange forebodings, disembarked and hurried to their homes. 
               Our hero, with elastic step, passed through the obstructed streets of the burnt district, and hastened to the home of his betrothed. He passed the imposing Rotunda and magnificent Gothic edifices in the more retired streets with but a glance, for his bounding heart was filled with the image of Daphne and glowing anticipations of a kind and welcome reception, to the exclusion of all other objects. 
               He ascended the marble steps and touched the bell, which was instantly answered by a domestic, but not the same one who had repulsed him so abruptly on the occasion of his last visit to that princely mansion. 
               "Is Miss Lescomb at home?" 
               "She don't live here, sir." 
               "This is Captain Lescomb's residence, is it not?" 
               "No, sir; it used to be, but he moved away from here about two weeks ago." 
               "Can you inform me of the street and number of his present residence?" 
               "No, sir; we have only been here a few days." 
               Bitterly disappointed, Harry retraced his steps, in a thoughtful mood, and entered the spacious reading-room of the Planter's House. 
               "Mr. Grifford, I am happy to welcome you to our city again," exclaimed a familiar voice, and George Denny grasped his extended hand and shook it with vigor. 
               "And I am no less delighted to meet Mr. Denny, so soon after my arrival," replied Harry, warmly, for the casual meeting afforded him an opportunity to ascertain the abode of the Lescombs. 
               "St. Louis has been overwhelmed by a great calamity during my absence." 
               "Yes; about one-third of it is entirely destroyed." 
               "Have any of our friends suffered much by the terrible fire?" 
               "Yes; one-half of the business men of the city were completely broken up by it. Your friend, Wilson, lost everything, and his father-in-law, Captain Lescomb, whose property was principally invested on Main street, between Olive and Chestnut, was also ruined, in toto." 
               "Is it possible? Were they not insured?" 
               "Certainly; but the Insurance Companies fell in the general crash, and are not able to pay ten per cent." 
               "Where are the Lescombs now?" inquired Harry, with a sinking heart. 
               "Gone to California." 
               "Gone to California!" echoed Harry, gaspingly. 
               "Yes; they started across the plains about two weeks since," continued Denney, who pretended not to notice the violent emotions his abrupt announcement had caused. "The old gentleman found that the proceeds of a forced sale of his remaining property was but little more than enough to pay his liabilities, and procure a good outfit for himself and family. It appears that the resolution was very suddenly taken and promptly carried into effect, for in less than ten days after the date of the fire they were on their way to the golden strand." 
               "What could have induced them to undertake a journey so tedious and perilous to persons nurtured as they have been in the very lap of luxury? I wish they had waited until my arrival," said Harry, rather speaking to himself than to his companion. In imagination, he saw the gentle and affectionate Daphne exposed to all the hardships and inconveniences of camp life, and perhaps surrounded by real dangers as well as privations, amidst hostile savages whose country they must necessarily traverse. He instantly resolved to follow and protect her as far as possible. 
               On the fifth day of June, a cavalcade of horsemen crossed the western frontier of Missouri, some sixteen miles from Independence, and, halting on the edge of the wood-land which skirts the first broad prarie of Kansas Territory, began to make preparations to encamp for the night. Before them a vast sea of verdure extended as far as the eye could reach, and to those who had never before looked upon such a scene it was strikingly beautiful. The smooth, rounded knolls which diversified the otherwise even surface of the prairie, were similar in appearance to the regular, successive swells of the heaving ocean. 
               The similitude might have been carried still further, for as the gentle zephyrs of evening stirred the bending spears of grass which yet retained the moisture of a recent shower in glittering drops, the departing rays of the setting sun lingered upon the scene as if reluctant to bid adieu for the night, and were reflected from innumerable bright and changing mirrors. 
               "Magnificently beautiful!" exclaimed one of the travelers, gazing abstractedly over the scene until the monarch of day disappeared beneath the western horizon in a flood of radiance. 
               "Well, George, what do you think of this for an introduction to our North American Pampas?" 
               "I think it is all very fine and beautiful, and all that, but at the same time this long ride has made me as hungry as a bear, and I move we begin to fix for supper." 
               Harry, for the enthusiastic speaker was himself in propria persona, turned away with a look of disgust on his countenance. The travelers were mounted on powerful American mules, and were equipped for a long and arduous journey. The party consisted of five persons, Harry Grifford, George Denny, a gentleman named Haskins, who had solicited permission to join them at Independence, Bill, the guide, and Bukey. There was also another personage, the driver of the baggage wagon, which, drawn by four stout mules, now appeared upon the scene. He was a tall, muscular Pike Countian, who had long wished to go to the new El Dorado, but, not having the means to procure an outfit, he had eagerly accepted the offer made by Grifford to drive his team and attend to the mules for his passage, and a small stipend to be paid on their arrival in California. 
               As for Bill, the guide, if he had the good fortune to possess a patronymic, he could not be induced to tell it. He was short, broad shouldered and heavily muscled. Square, massive features, embrowned by exposure until they had become so dark and tawny as to induce the belief that he was a half-breed, were continually overcast by a stolid expression of ill humor. He boasted that he knew every tribe of Indians from Santa F to the Missouri river, and every trail south of the Platte, from the line to the Rocky Mountains. 
               The travelers dismounted, and uncinching their formidable looking Spanish trees, picketed out their animals with long lariats, or lasso ropes, and collected around a cheerful fire, where Bukey was making active preparations for their first camp supper. 
               The season was already far advanced when Harry Grifford was informed of the sudden departure of the Lescombs for California, and it was necessary, if he wished to cross the plains with safety during that year, that his preparations should be prompt and vigorous, and his determination be instantly carried into execution. He had furnished the entire outfit of the company, with the exception of the strangers who had joined them the day previous. 
               George Denny, who had been reduced by the deception of Eugenia to a thousand little shifts and tricks of sponging to sustain himself, such as are only known to the professed chevaliers d'industrie, had resolved, from the first, to attach himself to the fortunes of one whom he had so deeply injured. When Harry was about leaving, he wrung his hand with hypocritical warmth, and, with downcast eyes, expressed his deep regret that "he could not accompany him; but, having lost everything by the calamity of the 17th of May, he was not able to go, as he did not possess the means." 
               The ready lie produced the effect he had calculated upon; Harry generously shared his purse with the wily traitor, and invited him to join the expedition. Their supper was an unique affair, and the awkward attempts of the city gents to accommodate themselves gracefully to the inconveniences of eating under difficulties, provoked loud peals of laughter, in which they heartily joined. Bukey had provided camp tools and a full set of China for his master's use, but, after one or two trials, they were voted a nuisance and ignominiously abandoned for puter plates and tin cups. Harry and George, seated in state upon their convenient stools, yet found it no easy matter to eat. Their plates, amply supplied with bread, bacon and wild game, occupied their laps. Each held a cup of coffee in one hand, and knife and fork in the other. Harry leaned forward to place his cup on the ground while he dispatched some of the savory edibles, and, in the movement, his plate slid from his knees and the contents rolled in the unclean ashes. George laughed immoderately at the comical mishap, and, in so doing, spilled his boiling coffee on his outstretched legs. Springing to his feet with anathamas, not loud but deep, his supper went after Harry's, while he danced a lively accompaniment to the impromptu music of a general roar of laughter. Bukey, with distended cheeks and eyes which fairly snapped with mirth, respectfully slid behind the wagon and rolled on the grass. 
               "Come here, you grinning monkey, and prepare us another supper," ordered Harry, laughing, while George scowled angrily at the convulsed darkey. 
               "Yes, Mass'r, ob couse; but stop a little minnet tell dis chile kin brile anuther fessant. Yah, yah! fessants is mighty good food, but dey is a powerful sight more scrumptious widout ashes an things to be sua." 
               "Now I'll tell you what's a fact," said Bill, sententiously, "hit don't hurt good meat like this here to drap hit on the yearth: afore we git to Calforny we won't be so allfired nice an' squemish by a derned sight." 
               Thus speaking, or rather muttering, Bill extended a huge hairy paw and picked up the rejected morceau; and, after giying each a preparatory wipe on his buckskin breeches, proceeded to devour them with infinite gusto. 
               "He had dropped easily on his haunches in a tailor's position, and was carrying on the business of eating with a celerity of action only acquired by long experience in the free and easy habits of mountain and prairie life. He paid no attention tion to the smaller bones of the delicate bird, but crunched them between his powerful teeth in a carniverous manner that was quite disgusting to the refined tastes of the ci-divant fashionables, who were astonished by the monster appetite of their guide. 
               "This is 'bout the last trip I'm gwine to make cross the Plains. I've crost 'em, man and boy, a dozen times or sich a matter, an' hev larnt a heap uv nuthings, an' one of 'em is, allers to eat all I kin when I git a chance, fur onct when the Rapahoes tuk me prisoner I didn't git nothin' to eat fur seven days, an' part uv the time we didn't average more'n one good 'stantial meal in three days," said Bill, giving his greasy lips a wipe with the cuff of his hunting shirt, which was a la savage embroidered with beads in a gaudy and extravagant manner. 
               Having finished his supper, he loaded an Indian pipe with kinnekanik and betook himself to the care of the mules. 
               "What a beast that is! I move we have two messes, say you and myself in one, and that vulgar brute, with Haskins and Pilkerson, in the other," suggested George, as soon as the three persons named were out of hearing. 
               "I do not agree with you, for such a proceeding would give them mortal offense. The gaucheries of our guide are disagreeable, I admit, but we are about entering a new phase of life; one, too, in which his peculiar knowledge and skill will be invaluable, from his experience in border life, and familiarity with the country through which we must pass. It will be much better to submit to some minor inconveniences than to offend our savage guide and lose his services." 
               "Very well, just as you please," replied George, rather sulkily. He was not unwilling to give up the point, for he was acting a part (his hostility to Bill being only pretended) to blind suspicion until he consummated his ulterior designs. 
               At an early hour Grifford wrapped himself in his ample blanket, and, making a pillow of his saddle-tree, threw himself on the ground and slept, quietly dreaming of Daphne and future happiness. 
               His example was soon followed by the others, with the exception of the guide, who was on guard. He sat by the fire, smoking lazily until near midnight, when he rose and went through a variety of sluggish antics to shake off the drowsiness which had nearly gained the mastery over his heavy brain. He gazed around for a few moments stupidly, and then glided from the camp with a noiseless, cat-like step, and disappeared in the profound darkness. The sharp night air soon awakened him thoroughly. Approaching the mules, he re-picketed them on fresh grass, and examined carefully the long lariats by which they were tied. 
               "Hist! Is that you Bill?" queried a voice in low and guarded tones. 
               "In course 'tis," replied Bill, gruffly. 
               "Is all right?" 
               "'Taint nothin' shorter." 
               "I came out to talk with you about that little affair for which you were engaged." 
               "All right. Drive on; how much for the job?" 
               "Five hundred dollars." 
               "No go: 'taint 'nuff." 
               "Not enough? I think it is a very liberal price." 
               "Then you're mighty green, I kin tell you. I don't allow to be encivil about it, but you see my wages will be over four hundred, an' expenses paid to Calforny. It can't be did for less than a thousand." 
               "Well, I suppose you must have a thousand then, but mark this: no clue or trace must be left to implicate me in the affair. To avoid suspicion, I will pretend to be your enemy, and you must not speak to me hereafter, unless we are alone. You must also perform your duties well, and try to give Mr. Grifford reason to believe that you are true and faithful to his interests." 
               "I'll tend to all that," muttered Bill, while a demoniacal expression of ferocity spread over his countenance which would have been a warning to his companion, had it been light enough for him to observe it. As it was, he could only see the burly form and fierce, glaring eyes of the outlaw. "You needn't know nothing about it," he continued; "but I'll tell you what's a fact-speaking of security-what show hev I got to git the dimes when the job's did?" 
               "I pledge you my word and honor that the money shall be paid to you promptly." 
               "Your word and honor!-well! that's fat!" hissed Bill, with a contemptuous chuckle. If you can't git any better security than that, you had better drap the subject, fur 'twon't pan out." 
               George Denny, the midnight plotter-was no other-felt a strong inclination to knock his insulting comrade over the head with his revolver, but prudence restrained him. Swallowing the bitter dose of the ruffian's open contempt as well as he could, he informed Bill, in a confidential manner, that the money to pay him was to come from the purse of their victim. 
               "How much of the rhino has he got with him?" 
               "I do not know exactly," replied George, cautiously. 
               "Wall, now, you needn't think to come any of your gum games over me, I kin tell you. Ef you want me to fix his flint and run all the risk, as well as do all the work, you must go halves, sure; that's the talk." 
               George agreed to the proposition, for he well knew that Grifford had brought with him but two thousand in coin, while a large amount was represented by drafts and letters of credit which he secretly determined to appropriate to himself. He trusted to his own astuteness to conceal their existence from his companion. 
               "It's a bargain, then, is it?" demanded Bill. 
               "Yes." 
               "All right, Cap'n. The first thing in the morning you make a note, sayin' that, for vally received, you agree to pay me a thousand dollars on the death of our boss; an' that ef enny more money than that is to be found in his plunder, you are to gin me half on it." 
               The outlaw evidenced by his precautions that he was as sharp as the other, and fully determined that his security should be of the most binding character, and that it should place George completely in his power until the fulfillment of the sanguinary contract. 
               Denny, finding it impossible, to obtain better terms from the calculating ruffian, with whom he was leagued in crime, was obliged to accept his terms; Bill having told him plainly that if he did not, he would divulge everything to Harry Grifford. 
               The false-hearted traitor having consummated his object, albeit so little to his satisfaction, now returned to the camp, and was soon sleeping calmly by the side of the generous man he was plotting to destroy. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE DEATH OF MRS. LESCOMB. 
               The discovery of gold in California electrified the American people en masse, and gave a new impulse to the restless spirit of progression, which was already looking to the Great West, the Arcadia of modern times, with a steady, determined gaze. "Westward the Star of Empire takes its way," and the tide of emigration swept onward with feverish haste towards the land of golden promise. Men, women and children, from all parts of the Union, for a brief time, peopled the beautiful prairies and arid sands of the plains with a vast population. Every State and Territory, east of the Rocky Mountains, was represented in the immense throng which was hurrying on with resistless force to the new El Dorado of the Pacific. 
               Could the rocks and burning sands of Nebraska and Utah find tongues to speak of the wild and terrible scenes they have witnessed in their desolate wastes, a tale of horror of unparalleled misery and wretchedness-of utter destitution and despairing want-would be unfolded, sufficient to appal the stoutest heart. 
               Without law or moral restraints to govern them against the dictates of their own will, the reckless and dissipated soon become more vicious and criminal, and preyed upon the weak and defenseless, and make brutal sport of the necessitous and unfortunate. But we will not anticipate the trials and privations of the impoverished emigrant by descriptions a priori.
                
               "Thank God! we have reached pure water and good grass once more," exclaimed Captain Lescomb, assisting Herbert to unharness the mules and drive the thirsty, worn-out animals to the river's edge. It was the middle of August, and they had just arrived at Lawson's meadow, on the Humboldt river, after a tedious drive of forty-eight hours, without sleep or rest. They had just crossed a desert of seventy-six miles in extent, which was devoid of wood, water or grass, and the starved and weary mules were so nearly dead that it required much beating to force them into the water, for the want of which they were perishing. 
               The wagons, driven by the Captain and Herbert, were soon followed by five other teams, which approached even more slowly and painfully than they had done. After them came a number of pedestrians, male and female, so completely enveloped in dust that their features were undistinguishable. 
               "How do you feel now, dear mother?" inquired one of the females, approaching the first wagon. 
               "Very ill indeed," replied Mrs. Lescomb, coughing violently. "This horrible alkali dust has settled on my lungs and burns with an intolerable thirst and feeling of suffocation. Give me water, quick!" 
               Daphne hastened to obey, and the cool beverage relieved for a time the distress of the invalid. Without thought of herself, the affectionate girl administered to the wants of her beloved parent. Assisted by her brother, the invalid was removed from the heated limits of the covered wagon and placed upon a pallet in the shade. 
               "At last I am easy and comfortable," she murmured, and fell into a quiet sleep. Little did those who surrounded her, gazing affectionately upon her sunken cheeks and placid features, dream that it was the last, long sleep that knows no awakening upon earth. 
               She had withstood the hardships and privations of the journey thus far without complaint or murmur, but the last terrible drive had been too much for her enfeebled constitution. Captain Lescomb had filled a large keg with water and hung it upon the coupling pole of his wagon when they first entered the desert, but they had proceeded only a few miles when the bands burst and the life-giving liquid was lost in the thirsty sands. They durst not return to procure another supply, for there was no grass at the last camping place for their famishing cattle, and in their present condition it would be impossible to return and then succeed in crossing to the meadow. 
               The company had arrived in the morning, and, after eating lightly of food already prepared, for they were too much exhausted to think of cooking, threw themselves upon the ground and were soon wrapped in a sound sleep. 
               Unconscious of the condition of Mrs. Lescomb, Daphne and Oceana performed a rude toilet and sank into an uneasy slumber by her side. 
               Death is terrible at all times, but under no circumstances are the dread visits of the destroyer so harrowing and painful to the friends and relatives of the deceased, as when they are so situated that it is impossible to perform the sacred rites and ceremonies of the burial service. Who that has lost a dear and cherished friend, while crossing the plains, can ever forget the utter desolation of heart which oppressed them as they consigned the remains of the deceased to the insecurity of a tomb of sand, knowing that the grave of the departed would, ere one night could pass, become the scene of a mighty revel-that the earth which, watered with tears of sorrow, they placed lightly upon the dead, would be torn up with violence by famishing wolves, which would rend the body of their friend, limb from limb, and, with fierce, glaring eyes and horrible sounds, exult over their bloody feast. 
               We will not dwell upon the grief of the afflicted emigrants. Captain Lescomb, stunned by the unexpected blow of destiny, which had been dealt while he slept, gazed with tearless eyes and a bursting heart upon the calm features of the dead, and mechanically commenced making a rude coffin to protect her remains in the narrow resting place to which they must soon be consigned. One of the wagons was taken to pieces and soon fashioned like a coffin. 
               Daphne had been the first to learn that the gentle spirit of her mother had fled to Heaven. She kissed her cold lips, and, closing the staring eyes whose loving light was now quenched forever, she gently placed her rigid hands across her breast and sank sobbing by her side. The violence of her grief awoke Oceana, and together they mourned the irreparable loss they had sustained. 
               Oceana had also learned to love the mother of her friend with all the strength of her affectionate nature. The funeral was appointed to take place at four o'clock of the same day, and Herbert communicated the fact to their fellow travelers, expecting them to assist cheerfully in the mournful duties that now devolved upon them; but, to his astonishment, they refused to attend the funeral, or even wait for them. It required but a brief time to perform the sad ceremonies, yet all positively refused, with the exception of one Missourian, named Glenn. Nothing could exceed Herbert's indignation, as they coolly hitched up their teams and drove off, cracking their long whips and singing border songs. His blood boiled at their base and unmanly desertion, for they had received many favors from his own and his father's hands, and he had every reason to expect a different return from them. 
               Sadly the small party, consisting of six persons, proceeded to the barren hills which skirted the valley of the Humboldt, and, with streaming eyes and inaudible prayers, consigned the dead to a wild and desolate grave. Herbert and his father placed four wheels on the sides of the coffin, and interlaced the running gear of the wagon across the narrow vault, binding the whole together in the strongest possible manner with ropes and bands of iron, to protect the beloved one from the attacks of prowling wolves. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE DEATH OF A MURDERER. 
               Harry Grifford sprang from his hard couch on the morning after his first experience in camping out, and was not a little surprised to find that his slumbers had been sound and refreshing. He enjoyed the cool, bracing air of morning with a zest and pleasure hitherto unkown, for, like all fashionables, he had been quite a sluggard, seldom quitting his luxurious couch before nine or ten o'clock. 
               The sweet, balmy breath of spring which swept by, laden with the perfume of wild flowers, fanned his glowing cheek and soothed his restless spirit. 
               Previous to this time he had always regarded the exposure and hardships of an emigrant's life on the plains as a terrible ordeal, the bare contemplation of which would have prevented him from ever making an overland trip to California under any other circumstances. He had now fairly crossed the Rubicon, and was delighted with all he had yet seen of "Life on the Plains." 
               The camp was soon aroused, and ere old Sol had flung his first beams upon the vast prairie, the party were moving rapidly on its variegated surface towards the broad trail leading to the Pacific. 
               Grifford and Haskins rode side by side in silence for several miles, each apparently engaged in contemplating the wild and picturesque beauty of the scenery. To the former it was new and full of strange interest. 
               "The scenery is indeed very striking and beautiful," said Haskins, replying to the admiring looks of his companion, but yet it cannot at all compare with scenes we will pass on the upper Platte, as you will confess when you behold them." 
               "So it is said," replied Harry. "This is not, then, your first trip to California?" 
               "No, indeed; I am an old mountaineer, sir, and the scenes of prairie and mountain life are as familiar to me as the road from St. Louis to Independence. 
               "I am delighted to hear it. We are fortunate in having you for a traveling companion, as we are totally ignorant of the route, and in fact were obliged to depend upon an old journal and our wildlooking, half-breed guide for all information on the subject." 
               "You will be perfectly welcome to all the information I possess, and, as this is my fifth trip to the Rocky Mountains and Oregon, I think it will be sufficient to carry us through safely. After we cross the Wakerusha, we will strike a broad, level trail that leads northwest for a thousand miles. On this part of the route we cannot go astray, and it will only be necessary to know the best camping grounds, where wood, water and grass can be found sufficient for our use. The only real danger to be apprehended is from the thieving savages, who will not only steal everything they can lay their hands on, but will not hesitate to commit murder upon the weak and defenseless." 
               "We are well armed, and the Indians would find us rather rough customers," said Harry, pointing to his belt, which contained a revolver and bowie-knife. He also glanced significantly to his saddlebow, where hung a splendid rifle suspended by a sling. 
               "We are, indeed, well armed," responded Haskins, "and could easily repulse four times our number of the enemy if they should attack us openly, but they seldom dare to do that. All of our arms will be of no use to us in the kind of warfare they wage. I would suggest that it is all important to guard your animals strictly, or they will certainly be stolen or killed." 
               "I engaged Bill as guide and to take care of them, but now that you have kindly agreed to guide us through, I will make him our guard and night-herder." 
               "I hope you will excuse me, for the liberty I am going to take, in suggesting a different plan; but there is something in the appearance of the brutish-looking fellow that reminds me of scenes of bloodshed and murder. I would not advise"- 
               "Now, I'll tell you what's a fact, gentlemen," said Bill, galloping up and interrupting the conversation; "ef you don't ride slower nor this, these here mules will gin out afore we git to the South Pass." 
               "What makes you think so?" interrogated Harry, not very well pleased with the familiar manner of the speaker. 
               "I'll tell ye. I've crost the plains a heap uv times, an' I reckon nary chap ever got as far as the Forks that opened out as you hev this morning." 
               "We had no intention of keeping up this pace for any length of time. I am, however, obliged to you for your advice," replied Harry. 
               Haskins said nothing, but scanned the features of the guide with so much earnestness that he soon noticed, and became offended at it. 
               "What the devil are you looking at me so much fur, stranger?" he asked, gruffly. 
               "I think I have seen you before?" 
               "Wall! what of that?" 
               "Oh, nothing! only if you are the man I take you for, you had better keep out of the reach of my rifle." 
               Bill looked Haskins full in the face for a moment or two, and then burst out with a loud laugh. 
               "Who do you take me for?" 
               "I take you for a d-d rascal and horse-thief, or something worse." 
               "Take that back, mister, or overboard you go!" exclaimed Bill, drawing a revolver, and, riding close to the side of the mountaineer, he raised it menacingly. 
               "Not for any such man as you are," said Haskins, reining his mule against and jostling the other so suddenly that it was with difficulty that he could retain his seat. While thus employed, Haskins seized his pistol and wrenched it out of his hand. 
               With frantic curses, Bill drew a long knife and attempted to stab his antagonist; who, however, having anticipated his intention, dealt him a blow over the head with his pistol, which felled him to the ground. 
               Haskins then dismounted and proceeded to examine his fallen foe, who was now bleeding profusely. His actions were characterized by the sternest determination, and Grifford, seeing that he did not attempt to take any advantage of the prostrate guide, did not interfere with his singular movements. 
               "If it is him, there must be a long, wide scar on his left shoulder and breast," muttered Haskins, tearing open the embroidered hunting shirt of the fallen man and exposing his broad breast, which was covered with a mass of bristling hair. 
               "Thank Heaven! I have found him at last," he exclaimed, with wild excitement, as he pointed to a broad, red cicatrice, which extended from the shoulder nearly to his waist. 
               All his coolness was now gone, and he glared upon the senseless guide with the ferocity of a tiger. His hands clutched convulsively, until the nails pierced through the skin, while his teeth ground together with a fearful sound. 
               "What is the meaning of this terrible scene?" demanded Grifford, who began to fear that he had fallen in with a madman. 
               "I will tell you, sir; and then, after hearing my tale of deep wrong and sorrow, ask your own heart if you could blame me were I to tear the foul heart from that wretched brute, and cast it to the prowling cayotes." 
               "Eight years since I removed, with my wife and two children, from New York to the frontier. I was induced to take this step in consequence of reverses of fortune and the ill health of my little girls. My physician advised me to emigrate to the West. Packing up my little store of goods and chattels, I came into this territory and established a small trading post for the accommodation of the Santa Fe traders and to traffic with the Indians. For a few months I prospered beyond my most sanguine expectations; my wife regained her spirits, for the health of our darling children was restored. We lived a life of quiet happiness until the destroyer came and desolated our peaceful home. 
               "One cold, cheerless night, a little more than seven years ago, two men came to my cabin and asked for something to eat and the privilege of staying until morning. It was then past eleven o'clock, and I refused them admittance, as I did not like to entertain strangers. It was a wild, unsettled region, and it was well known that there were many reckless, desperate characters prowling upon the outskirts of civilization. But they would not be denied, and told such a cunningly devised tale of privation and suffering that at last I gave them permission to enter, and to sit by my fire and to eat at my table. 
               "They told their fictitious story with such piteous accents-such an appearance of truth, that I could not but believe them. In fact, it was corroborated by their forlorn and wretched appearance. 
               "They said they had lost their horses and all their provisions in crossing the Big Blue, and that it had been forty-eight hours since they had tasted food. A presentiment of coming evil warned me against them, and I steadily refused to allow them to remain all night, until my angel wife, moved to pity, begged me to keep them, saying, that on such a dreadful, stormy night, it would be impossible for them in their exhausted condition to reach in the next house, which was five miles distant. 
               "I went to bed, but could not sleep until a late hour. When at length I awoke, it was to a scene of such deep agony that it would have been far better for me had I also been numbered with the dead. A convulsive movement of my dear wife aroused me to behold her struggling with one of the monsters. A gleaming knife flashed before my eyes, and before I could stretch out my hand to arrest its fatal progress, was plunged into her heart. God! the remembrance of her sweet, imploring look has haunted me ever since. 
               "I sprang upon her murderer, and, crushing his writhing form against the floor, brained him with a billet of wood. I seemed to have the strength of ten men. As I rose, the other miscreant, the same who now lies before us, struck me with his knife, but fortunately it glanced on the scapula, and did not kill me as he intended. I grappled with him, and, after a fierce struggle, succeeded in wresting the knife out of his powerful grasp and dealt him a blow which is yet marked by that terrible scar. 
               "At that moment I first perceived that my little girls had been wounded by the foul murderers and were weltering in their blood. The eldest turned her eyes, those bright, beautiful eyes, now fast becoming dimmed by the shadows of death, towards me and faintly murmured my name. 
               "I flew to her side, and vainly attempted to staunch the blood which welled up from a wound in her neck. In a few moments she expired in my arms. I, who that morning was so happy in the love of my angel wife and dear children, was now a childless widower, a stricken, heart-broken man. Wildly I kissed their cold lips and called upon their names, by all the endearing titles of affection; but alas! there was no response,-the gentle spirits of my loved ones had fled to the eternal world. 
               "Stupified with grief and despair, I covered my aching eyes with my hands, now stained with blood, and gave way to the overwhelming agony of that dark hour. Soon my thoughts recurred to the wretch whom I had wounded, and I sprang to my feet to dispatch him. But he had disappeared. While I was vainly endeavoring to staunch the ebbing streams of life, he had crawled away and made good his escape. 
               "For more than seven years I have sought this monster of ingratitude and crime, and now that I have found him, my just revenge must be accomplished. 
               "Are you positively certain that this man is one of the authors of that triple murder?" inquired Harry, whose sympathies were powerfully enlisted in behalf of the speaker. His language and manner evidenced that he had received a good education and lived in a different sphere in former days, but now his dress was rough and uncouth, and he looked the hardy mountaineer to the life. 
               "Yes; I would stake my life upon his identity. It is true I only saw his grimed face by a flickering fire light, and it was also covered with a heavy beard; but the circumstances of our desperate struggle graved them on my memory in lines of blood, too deep for time to efface. I cannot be mistaken: that scar is also damning evidence." 
               "What do you intend to do?" 
               "To wait until he recovers, test him by direct questions, and, if I find that I am right, give him his arms, an equal chance, then kill him as I would a wild beast." 
               "But he may kill you?" 
               "It may be; but I trust and believe not. I must take my chances, however, for I cannot slay him in cold blood; it would look too much like murder." 
               The other members of the party now approached, and Bukey, at the direction of his master, showered the prostrate guide with water. 
               Bill soon recovered and raised himself from the ground. The bewildered miscreant glared around upon the bystanders, but his blood-shot eye avoided the cold, steady glance bent upon him by Haskins. 
               "Do you know now where we met before?" he demanded of the guide. 
               "No; I never seed you afore." 
               "Liar! Tell me when and where you got that scar," thundered Haskins, striding up to him and pointing to the livid mark. 
               "Oh, that," replied Bill, in a hesitating, uneasy manner, as he hastily fastened his hunting shirt; "I got that in a scrimmage we had with the Pawnees. 
               "That is as false as your own black heart. I will tell you who inflicted the blow that left that scar; it was me." 
               Haskins went on giving the details of the fearful tragedy, with a voice and gesture so fierce and unnatural, that the guide cowered and trembled with fear, while the spectators shuddered with horror. 
               "And now you must die," he uttered, hoarsely. 
               "Gentlemen, you won't let him murder me, will you?" said the wretch, appealingly. 
               "Murder you? No! Dog that you are-vile beast of prey, who murdered a woman and two helpless children for a few paltry dollars-here are your arms, take and defend yourself." 
               Bill seized his pistol and knife with a trembling hand, but instead of waiting the attack of his foe, he ran to his mule, severed the lariat, and, springing upon his back, attempted to escape. 
               Haskins ordered him to stop, but he dug his spurs into the sides of the mule and fled the faster. 
               "Your blood be on your own head, fool!" said the mountaineer, bringing his rifle to his shoulder. 
               For an instant he glanced along the iron tube, then a flash and report, and the half-breed, without a cry, fell to the ground, with a heavy squelch. The unerring bullet had penetrated his brain. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               A BOLD VENTURE-SUCCESSFUL RUSE. 
               Sadly and tearfully the funeral party retraced their steps to camp. Daphne leaned heavily upon the arm of her friend, who, with all a sister's tenderness, strove to console and cheer her. Through a long, dim vista of years, Daphne's thoughts wandered, and were busy with the bright memories of childhood; those halcyon days when all is joy and sunshine, when no thought of care of sorrow mingles with the pleasures of youth to mar its perfect happiness. By contrast, the present looked very dark and dreary, and her tears flowed afresh. 
               "Do not weep so wildly, darling," urged Oceana, passing her arm around the waist of her friend, as if to shield her from overflowing sorrow. "It is all for the best, and we should not murmur at the decrees of an all-wise Providence." 
               "I could have borne it without repining," sobbed Daphne, "had she been buried where I could have visited her grave and strewed it with flowers; but the thought of her resting in this wild, desolate place, where I can never visit her lonely tomb, is terrible." 
               "It is indeed, darling; but, then, the distance is not so great from here to our destined home, that it is impossible to remove our dear mother there, in a few months." 
               Thus, by the true eloquence of affection, Oceana evinced her sympathy for the bereaved girl, and, with sweet, gentle words, soothed her grieving spirit. 
               On their arrival at camp they found that another terrible calamity had befallen them. Occupied with their painful duties, they did not dream of danger during the brief time required to bury the dead. A marauding party of Indians, or renegade whites, had visited their camp and stolen their provisions, and, in fact, every portable article of value they could lay their hands on, and also driven off their mules. 
               Captain Lescomb announced the startling news with accents of despair. The extent of this misfortune can only be appreciated by those who have been placed in a similar situation. Five hundred miles from their destination, in a desolate, barren country, where beasts of burden or the necessities of life could not be procured even by gold-all powerful gold. All that time there were no trading posts on the Humboldt. 
               "They cannot be far off," exclaimed young Lescomb, his eyes flashing with fury; "and woe to the cursed miscreants, if I find them." 
               Thus speaking, he reached up to the brackets for his rifle, but that had also been stolen. 
               "Fortunately I have my revolver and knife in my belt; but, alas! I do not know in what direction to go." 
               "I'll tell you," shouted Glenn, the Missourian, who had nobly refused to desert a fellow traveler in distress; "I'll tell ye-we must foller the trail uv the cussed critters. It's my opine that the Shoshonies did this thieving job, fur here's the print uv their moccasins." 
               "Will you accompany me?" demanded Herbert. 
               "Sartin; I'm with you tell death. It's my opine we hed better leave the old man to take keer of the wimmen while we're gone." 
               Young Lescomb grasped the hard hand of his new friend and wrung it fervently. Peter Glenn was tall and muscular; of perhaps thirty years of age, and belonged to that class of men so abundant in the Western States, who are known by the name of hunters and backwoodsmen. 
               It required but a moment to make their hasty preparations. They then crossed the river to the low and swampy ground where their animals had been picketed, and, having found the trail, they followed it with rapid steps, Glenn taking the lead. Well skilled in woodcraft, and experienced in the habits of savages, he found no difficulty in following their course, even where the trail was so dim and indistinct that his companion could see no trace of footsteps. 
               "We must hurry on Cap'n, as long as we hev daylight, for 'twill be mighty onsartin whether we kin keep in the right track arter night or not," said the back woodsman, striding on at a tremendous pace. 
               Fully aware of the importance of their mission, they pressed on with unflagging speed until the shades of night began to settle around them. They had pursued a southerly direction, crossing wide plains and hills of sand, but, as yet, had found no streams or trace of vegetation, excepting the gnarled and withered sage brush, which abounded on all sides. The growth of this shrub in such immense quantities on the dry, sterile soil of the Great Basin, is a wonder of vegetable life. In some sandy localities, north of the Humboldt river, where it is asserted by the Aborigines and trappers that rain never falls, it grows and flourishes until it becomes like the chapparal of Mexico, in many places impervious to the rays of the sun, and impenetrable by human beings. 
               "We shall hev to hold on till the moon rises, fur it's onpossible to foller the trail any longer among these shadders," said Glenn, who had been walking for the last fifteen minutes, slowly and carefully, with his body bent almost to the earth. 
               The two pursuers now halted for the first time since they had commenced the arduous task of following on foot a party of mounted savages. 
               "Do you think we can proceed after the moon rises?" inquired Herbert, anxiously. They had traveled about twenty miles, yet so great was his impatience to overtake the foe that he did not feel in the least fatigued. 
               "I raley hope so, but in course it depends upon sarcumstances. Ef it doesn't cloud up I think we kin. 'Cordin' to my recknin' she'll rise about midnight; in the meantime you'd better take a nap, Mr. Lescomb, an' I'll stand guard." 
               "I could not possibly go to sleep now," replied Herbert; "so I will stand guard with you." 
               "By heavens! thar's a camp fire! We are nearer the infernal red-skins than I thought fur." 
               "Where?" demanded young Lescomb, springing to his feet, and looking in every direction, but without perceiving any light. 
               Glenn pointed to a faint reflection, which barely tinged the line of the horizon with a luminous appearance, and which had entirely escaped the unpracticed eye of his companion. 
               The Missourian now ascended a sandy knoll, where he remained for a few moments, reconnoitering the position of the enemy. In a short time he came back and announced the result of his observations. The Indians had encamped upon a small stream, not more than a mile from their present position. 
               "What do you think is their number?" 
               "Mor'n I wish thar was, by a dog-on sight; thar's 'bout thirty uv 'em, I reckon; least ways as clost as I kin judge at this distance." 
               "Do you think there is any chance for us to obtain our animals, and punish the thieving wretches?" 
               "I've a idear we kin, an' ef you will 'low me to sarcumvent the d-d critters 'cordin' to my own notions, I will endeavor to git our animals an' as much plunder as we kin carry." 
               "I will follow your lead right willingly, and perform any part you may assign me," replied Herbert, who had great faith in the skill and prowess of his companion. 
               They now proceeded slowly and cautiously, until they reached the creek, a few rods below the Indian camp. Here they fortunately found their mules picketed on a narrow strip of grass which skirted the banks of the stream. 
               Glenn, now enjoining his companion to keep perfect silence, and on no account to leave his present hiding place until he returned, dropped on his hands and knees, and was soon lost among the shadows. 
               After the lapse of half an hour, which, to the watcher, seemed to be lengthened into several hours, so great was his impatience, a low hist! fell upon his ear, and so noiseless had been Glenn's movements, that this was the first intimation he had of the return of his companion. 
               "Wall! I've been within twenty feet uv their camp, and thar's thirty red-niggers squatted round their fire, feasting on our stolen grub." 
               "If there are so many, had we not better try and run off the mules without attacking them? It looks like a forlorn hope indeed, for two men to give battle to fifteen times their number." 
               "I've bin studying a little plan which I reckon will whip 'em like a knife. We hev got ten shots, an' my plan is to make 'em bleeve we're at least fifty strong, an they'll run like skeart dogs." 
               "How can you do it?" 
               "I'll show ye," continued Glenn, pulling off his buckskin hunting shirt which was fringed with innumerable colored strings of the same material; he cut forty square patches which would contain each at double charge of powder. He then gathered up the four corners and tied them firmly with buckskin strings in the shape of musket cartridges. 
               At the edge of the water was an abundance of hard, blue, sticky clay; this he kneeded into round balls of about four inches in diameter, placing a cartridge in the center of each. The remainder of his hunting shirt and leggings were now used to cover the outside of these novel instruments of warfare. 
               Herbert assisted in preparing them, but without any very clear idea of their usefulness. 
               "Now you help me pack these guns, but be mighty keerful an' make no racket until we get the triggers all fixed, or the fat'll be in the fire as sure as a gun," whispered Glenn. 
               Slowly and noiselessly they crawled through the grass until they reached a clump of willows about twenty-five feet from the lurid glare of the Indian camp fire. Glenn now arranged his original petards in a row, from one to two feet apart, carefully connecting them by a train of powder. 
               "Now, Cap'n, pick your mark among the critters, and when I give the word, fire into'em. Make every shot tell. You ake 'em on the right, an' I'll tend to the left wing." 
               "All right!" replied the right flank of our gallant little army. 
               The Missourian took deliberate aim at one of the savages on the left, who seemed to be a chief, and Herbert, having done the same to another, they both fired at the word, and the two painted devils sprang high in the air, with yells of agony, and fell on their faces. 
               Glenn now fired his masked battery, which sounded for all the world like a volley of musketry, and, at the same time, discharged the remaining barrels of his revolver-every ball of which took effect in the body of a foe. Herbert did the same. 
               Taken completely by surprise, the savages attacked, as they supposed, by an overwhelming force, fled with terrific cries and yells-leaving six of their number dead on the ground. The detonations of sound, produced by Glenn's original invention, echoed and re-echoed from the rocks of an adjacent caon, quickening the flying steps of the savages. 
               "A perfect stampede, by the gods! Now be quick, Cap'n, an' tote all the plunder you kin down to the mules, an' pack it onto the backs uv the gentlest. Tie it tight with lariats, fur we may hev to run ourselves, ef they find out the joke we played on 'em," said Glenn, springing to the fire, which he soon extinguished. 
               Three sacks of flour and a few packages of hams and preserved meats were soon transferred to the backs of their mules. The other stolen articles and provisions had either been cached, or left in some other place. They also recovered their rifles and ammunition. 
               "It's my opine, we hed better be making, tracks now," suggested the back-woodsman, springing lightly on his mule. 
               The correctness of his opinion was soon verified, for, while young Lescomb was in the act of mounting his mule, a band of Indians rushed from their covert in the willows and discharged a flight of arrows at them. With hideous yells they bounded towards our gallant heroes, brandishing their tomahawks and knives. Had they had time to creep nearer before making an onset, they could have accomplished the death of the whites, but their yelling so like demons defeated it, for the mules, a class of animals whose fear of the savages is proverbial among hunters, being frightened by their noisy approach, started off at a tremendous pace. 
               Fortunately, neither of our friends were injured by the missiles of the enemy, who were soon left far behind. 
               In retracing their way back, they lost the course many times, and it was not until after daylight the next morning that they reached camp, where they were received by Captain Lescomb and the girls with heartfelt pleasure. 
               The emigrants had not slept during that long night, for, while the brother and his gallant comrade were absent on a dangerous mission, the father stood guard and the girls prayed earnestly for the success and safe return of the brave adventurers. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               MONSIEUR DUMOULIN. 
               After the fearful retribution was accomplished by the hand of the stern mountaineer-an act of justice in which Harry Grifford did not attempt to interfere-the body of the guilty wretch was buried by Pilkerson and Bukey, and the party moved on rapidly. 
               "How lucky that I had not given Bill this tell-tale note," muttered George Denny, drawing a slip of paper from his wallet and fiercely tearing it into small fragments, which he scattered to the winds. 
               He shuddered as he reviewed the terrible occurrences of the morning, which had resulted in the death of his unworthy accomplice; and for the first time in his life he felt a crushing sense of his own deep villany, and trembled with superstitious fear. He did not lack physical courage, and in moments of excitement was capable of bold and reckless deeds, but he was utterly destitute of the sterling qualities possessed by the truly brave. 
                
               He avoided as much as possible the company of his intended victim. Haskins preserved a moody silence while riding by the side of George Denny. He either disliked his companion, or his thoughts were busy with the events of other days, when his heart was light and happy in the smiles of his wife and children, whom he had loved so well. If his thoughts recurred to the tragic events of the morning, he contemplated them with stern satisfaction. 
               His hasty and determined action in taking the life of the guide may, perhaps, be condemed by some, who do not understand a condition of society where there is actually no law but that of the strong arm; but it would be approved, we venture to assert, by nine-tenths of the hardy emigrants, who know by sad experience the insecurity of life and property on the great thoroughfare leading to California. 
               George Denny exerted himself to amuse and interest his patron and friend, but there was so much constraint in his conversation that it warned him to keep silence, until he had recovered his own spirits, if he would avoid suspicion. 
               Harry Grifford pushed on, day after day, as fast as it was safe to travel. He passed train after train of wagons, until his became known as the "express train!" His demeanor towards his fellow travelers was characterized by such genuine kindness and urbanity that he entirely won the love and confidence of the rough-looking mountaineer; and George, for a time, gave up all idea of prosecuting his revenge. 
               Bukey looked up to his young master as a superior being, and loved and served him well and faithfully; while Pilkerson drove on cheerfully, performing all his duties, and dreaming of heaps of gold which were destined to become his property. 
               "Ah! is it possible zat I zee Monsieur Greefor?" exclaimed a pitiable looking object, who was seated at the base of Chimney Rock, and who sprang to his feet, with a glad cry of recognition, as the "express train" approached him. 
               "Yes, that is my name," replied Harry, who, at first, did not recognize the being who addressed him, although the voice sounded familiar. "Monsieur Dumoulin, I am happy to meet you, but sorry to see you in such wretched plight," he continued, scarcely able to repress a smile. The small figure of the Frenchman was encased in an old buffalo robe, which trailed in the dust. It was secured in front by rawhide thongs, and the upper portion had been pierced by two holes for his naked arms, and was in a tolerable state of preservation; but the lower portion was much torn, and his dapper feet and legs could be plainly seen through the numerous holes. 
               "Oui, monsieur; misericorde, o'est moi. Je suis vari happi you for to see. J'ai un grand faim. I have so moosh hungaire, you nevaire see." 
               Without waiting further explanations, Harry ordered a halt, and soon placed some refreshments before the almost famished Frenchman, who ate with furious voracity. 
               After he had appeased his hunger, his considerate host dressed him in a suit of his own clothes, and placed him on the mule formerly used by the guide. 
               Monsieur Dumoulin, overflowing with gratitude, expressed his thanks with great volubility, but in such a singular jumble of his own vernacular, slightly Anglicised, and English frightfully interspersed with French terms, that it was quite difficult to understand him. 
               Harry checked him in his grateful plethora of words by inquiring, in his own language, how he came to be placed in such a miserable condition. 
               Monsieur Dumoulin, delighted to be able to converse in his native tongue, proceeded to relate the following brief history of his misfortunes, which we give in English for the advantage of the reader: 
               "My partner and myself having joined a company of our own countrymen, en route for California, left the line on the first of May. There were eight of us, possessing two teams, with four mules each, and a complete outfit of arms, clothing and provisions. 
               "My partner and myself owned one-half of one team and outfit. Five days since a fierce quarrel took place between myself and one of the parties owning the other half of our wagon. The cause of difference was a mere bagatelle, and yet it led to the most disastrous results. We fought, not with our fists, like the canaille, but with our weapons, and I had the fortune to wound him slightly. 
               "His companion now rushed upon me, but received a knock over the head from a bludgeon in the hands of my partner, which felled him to the ground. 
               "The other party now interfered and tried to effect a reconciliation between us, but our antagonists refused to listen to them, and insisted upon an immediate division of our property. How was this to be effected? 
               "We could divide the mules by taking two apiece, and the provisions and outfit by taking half; but the wagon, what could be done with that? At last they determined to saw the wagon in two in the middle, and cast lots for the fore wheels. 
               "In vain I remonstrated against this proceeding. They overruled me, and I was obliged to acquiesce and submit to their insane proposition. 
               "Eh, bien! they divided our wagon, and, in drawing lots, had the good fortune to secure the valuable part; leaving us with the two hind wheels, half a box, the hounds, half a reach-pole, but no tongue. 
               "We knew not what to do. Not able to proceed or return, it was yet impossible to remain where we were for any length of time, as there was no wood or water in the vicinity. 
               "My partner returned to a place, forty miles distant, where we had noticed a clump of trees, for the purpose of getting a stick of timber that we might use for a tongue to our cart. I was left alone to guard our desolate camp. About midnight I was aroused by frightful yells, and, springing to my feet, found myself surrounded by a party of Sioux warriors. They were hideously painted, and laughed at my feeble attempt at resistance. To make a long story short, they took forcible possession of our little property, and even stripped me of my coarse traveling clothes, my watch and money. As they rode off, whooping and yelling, one of them, possibly more humane than his companions, threw mean old buffalo robe, which I afterwards fashioned into a garment." 
               "You had a hard time of it, Monsieur Dumoulin. I did not know that it was in the nature of emigrants, wild and reckless as many of them are, to be so vindictive as to deprive their fellow travelers of the means of pursuing their way across this uninhabited country." 
               "Tout au contraire, I assure you, Monsieur Greefor. Zis ze wus countree I nevaire see." 
               "I am not at all surprised at the Frenchman's story," remarded Haskins; "for I have seen the reckless depravity of human nature exhibited in colors a thousand fold darker than he paints them. On this same route, in 1846, there was a large emigration to Oregon that year, I saw two brothers-in-law fall out and fight desperately about a trivial difference of opinion. They both had families with them, all occupying one large, old-fashioned, Pennsylvania wagon, which was drawn by six yoke of oxen. They divided their property and cut their wagon in two. The one who drew the poorer part filled with rage against his relative, attacked him with a knife, and literally cut him to pieces; but before he died he had sufficient strength left to draw a pistol and shoot his assailant through the heart. Thus they both perished, leaving their distracted wives and helpless children to the care of strangers." 
               This is no fancy sketch. 
               Haskins related many incidents of a similar character, which had fallen under his own observation, tending to show that man, left to his own impulses, unrestrained by moral or civil law, or the influences of civilization, degenerates almost to the level of the brute creation. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               ASSASSINATION-MINERS' COURT-MYSTERY-EXPLANATION. 
               "Whoop, si lanti! hip, hip, hurrah! Wake snakes and come to judgment. Here we are and no mistake," exclaimed a stalwart miner, with wild gestures of delight, as he raised a ponderous nugget of gold from its resting place on the bedrock, and conveyed it to a sluice, through which a small stream of water was slowly gurgling. 
               The lucky miner deposited his precious load in the riffle-box, and watched its purification under the action of the water with childish delight. He danced a break down on the sharp stones, snapping his fingers with glee, and called loudly for his partners, who were digging a race a short distance above him. 
               "Look that, Captain, and you Mister Herbert; ain't that the beautifullest heap of the clean grit that you ever seed?" 
               "It is, indeed, a splendid specimen of native ore, and worth a great deal of money. Did you take it out of the drift you commenced yesterday?" 
               "Yes: outen that big crevice thar forenenst that ugly looking boulder. It's my opine thars right smart more whar that cum frum." 
               "I hope so," replied Captain Lescomb, rubbing his earth-stained hands with an air of intense satisfaction, while Herbert and his companion proceeded to pan out their day's work. 
               Captain Lescomb and his party, after many days of toilsome travel subsequent to their leaving Lawson's Meadow-long, weary days of suffering and privation, at length crossed the summit of the Sierra Nevada mountains and succeeded in reaching the placers of El Dorado county, a few miles from Coloma. 
               Even at that early date a host of adventurous spirits had taken up claims in the locality now known as Emigrant Ravine, and were very successful in taking out the rich auriferous deposits. 
               Captain Lescomb resolved to cast his lot among them and become a practical miner. He sold his team and bought the only log hut which the place at that time contained. It was situated upon a gently sloping bank at the edge of a boundles forest of firs and pines, not a very sightly or promising habitation, it is true, to those who had been accustomed to live in marble palaces; yet they hailed its humble appearance with pleasure, and resolved to be contented with its meagre comforts until more prosperous times. 
               Daphne and Oceana, although some-what awkward and inexperienced, applied themselves to the new duties which now devolved upon them with such determined good will and cheerfulness, that they soon became excellent housekeepers. 
               They adorned the rude rooms of the cabin with evergreens and wreaths of artificial flowers, draped its small windows with curtains tastefully looped up, and with their fairy hands fashioned a thousand little ingenious articles which gave them an inviting and cozy appearance. 
               Daphne still mourned the loss of her excellent mother, and her thoughts often wandered to the desolate grave among the sand hills of the Humboldt Valley, and tears would spring unbidden to her saddened eyes. 
               She had not received a line from Harry since his abrupt dismissal from her father's house, and, although she wondered at his long silence, yet she did not doubt his truth and constancy, or harbor in her pure mind a thought of ill against the being to whom she had given her love. 
               When she dwelt on the circumstances of their separation, his prolonged absence and the fact that he would not know where to seek them, it seemed so improbable that they should ever meet again that her spirits would be o'erclouded with regretful sadness. At such times a light arm would be thrown around her and a sweet voice would whisper words of consolation and hope. It was a beautiful thing to see those two young girls struggling together against the influences of poverty and sorrow. 
               It was a fair autumnal evening, and Daphne and Oceana having completed their preparations, started to walk from the cabin down to the claim where their friends were at work, to call them to too. 
               As they tripped along, arm in arm, pausing occasionally to admire the scenery which was wildly romantic, the eyes of many hardy miners, upon whom such a vision of loveliness produced a wonderful effect, followed them with unbounded admiration. 
               In the distance, further down the ravine, was quite a settlement of miners, whose white tents gleamed among the dusky mansenita bushes and huge, black looking rocks, like crested waves seen over the tops of intervening trees and hillocks. 
               The girls hastened on as soon as they perceived that they were attracting so much attention, and soon reached the spot where the happy miners lingered, talking about the rich prize they had secured and the prospect of obtaining more. Herbert was discoursing eloquently and scientifically in miner's phraseology in regard to the lead they had so fortunately struck; its favorable direction, the nature of the bed-rock and sub-strata of slate and quartz; how it pitched into the triangular crevice, and then branched off at a tangent, running into a little gulch a few yards distant, where he was convinced they would find a rich deposit. Success had given him confidence, for he it was who had suggested the idea of drifting into the bank. 
               Like all neophytes in mining, he had learned just enough to make him fancy he knew it all. 
               "To hear you talk so learnedly about shafts and tunnels, drifts, cayoting and sluicing, one would imagine you had spent years instead of three weeks in the mines. I regret to interrupt your lecture on this interesting subject, brother miner, but must inform you that your supper is getting cold, and will not be fit to eat unless attended to very soon," laughed Daphne, who, with her companion, had approached unnoticed, and overheard the speaker's inflated remarks. 
               Honest Peter Glenn was overjoyed with the good fortune that had befallen him. It was not a selfish feeling that irradiated his embrowned features with smiles of pleasure, as he staggered under his load of gold, but the happy thought, that he had been instrumental in assisting his friends to comparative wealth. To accomplish their restoration to their former state of affluence, the generous fellow would have labored and toiled the best days of his life, so powerful were his feelings of gratitude towards those who had freely given him their friendship and esteem. He was a rough diamond, but Herbert and his father, fully appreciating his noble nature, all uncultivated as it was, had received him in partnership on their arrival in California. 
               One hundred and twenty pounds of solid, glittering ore!-it was quite a fortune. 
               While the Lescombs were yet engaged at supper, Glenn, who was too much excited to eat, strolled down to the lower part of the ravine, where the city of Placerville is now situated. It was known at that time by the not very euphonious, but significant, name of Hangtown. As he approached the village of tents, he suddenly found himself in the midst of a scene of confusion and wild excitement. Men rushed to and fro with hurried, eager steps, talking, as they ran, of a dark and terrible crime which had been committed in the vicinity. The whole affair was enveloped in the deepest mystery. Glenn drew near one of the many groups of miners, which had been formed in an instant as it were, and inquired the cause of the sudden outbreak. It appeared that one of their number, a young man named Harrison, a general favorite, had been killed by one who was not only a stranger to the deceased but to the entire community. What made the affair utterly incomprehensible was the fact that no cause existed for the commission of the fell deed. Money could not have been the assassin's object, for the purse of the victim had not been touched. 
               "When did it happen?" demanded Glenn. 
               "About two hours ago." 
               "Hev you caught the murderer?" 
               "Yes; and his detection and capture is about the most singular part of the dark tragedy." 
               "Harrison and his partner (a Mr. Joel Brown) had been out prospecting for three days, and were returning to camp. They had got within a mile of home, when Harrison struck into a by-trail in pursuit of a deer, which had just bounded across the road. In a few minutes his companion heard a shot, and hastened on in the same direction. He had not advanced more than a quarter of a mile before he found Harrison, weltering in his blood, and the prisoner standing by his side with an empty gun in his hand. 
               "As Brown appeared upon the scene, another person, who it seems from his own representations had been a fellow traveler with the prisoner across the Plains, sprang through the bushes, exclaiming, 'Seize him, sir; he is the murderer of that man. I saw the shot fired, and was upon the point of shooting him down when you arrived.' 
               "Together, they bound the prisoner, who offered no resistence, and brought him here." 
               "Mighty strong sarcumstances, that's a fact. Didn't he say nothing about it, nor try to explain it?" 
               "Yes; he declared his innocence of Harrison's death in the most solemn manner; but then, you see, the evidence is overwhelming." 
               "What will be done with him?" 
               "A Miners' meeting will be called in the morning. He will have a fair and impartial trial, and if found guilty will be hung to the nearest tree," 
               The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, all the miners in the vicinity assembled en masse, to determine the fate of the accused. Stern resolve was depicted upon the countenances of the hardy sons of toil, but their every movement was characterized by a quiet dignity and decorum that was truly impressive. Capt. Lescomb, being the oldest resident miner, was appointed judge for the occasion. 
               A jury of twelve men was empanneled, and the prisoner ordered to be brought before the self-constituted tribunal of justice. He was led forth. His arms were firmly pinioned to his side, and his face was very pale, but there was no sign of guilt in the clear eyes that lighted up that handsome countenance, of in the bold, graceful bearing with which he confronted those who had been chosen to sit in judgment on his deeds. 
               "Great God! it is Harry Grifford!" exclaimed Herbert, springing to the side of the prisoner, who bowed his head in recognition. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               Herbert excitedly mounted a bench and addressed the crowd: "Gentlemen, there is some terrible mistake here. This man is an old friend of ours, the betro-the very soul of honor. He is a gentleman of great wealth and high station, and utterly incapable of committing a crime such as he is charged with. 
               "Gentlemen have often been known to commit crimes, as well as laboring men," remarked some person in the crowd. 
               "I thank you, my friend," said Harry, in a calm voice; "but let the trial proceed, as it is the only way to vindicate my character. It is useless for me to say to you that I am innocent. I trust I shall be able to prove it, although circumstances are so much against me as to make it appear almost impossible." 
               Captain Lescomb, pained and agitated by conflicting emotions, would fain have retired from his position, but the assemblage would not allow him to do so. He could not give any satisfactory reason for wishing to withdraw, without explaining the nature of his connection with the prisoner. This he shrank from doing, as he could not bear the idea of his daughter's name being bandied about upon the slanderous tongue of rumor, coupled with that of an accused felon. 
               Herbert announced himself as the counsel of his friend, who was now released from his humiliating bonds, and, placing himself by his side, made hasty preparations to defend him. 
               The Court having signified its readiness to proceed with the trial, the prosecuting witness was called and George Denny appeared and took the stand. He stepped forward with a careless, swaggering air, until he perceived the Judge and his son, but then his bold eye quailed, and, for a moment, he was thrown into as state of confusion. He soon rallied, however, by a powerful effort, and bowed obsequiously to his former associates. Captain Lescomb returned his salute by a slight inclination, but Herbert, without sign of recognition, bent upon him such a stern, searching glance of inquiry that he was not a little disconcerted, and the tell-tale blood rushed to his face in a burning stream. The informal trial now commenced. 
               George's testimony in the case was direct and pointed, and, being delivered with much apparent reluctance, told fearfully against the prisoner. It was, in substance, as follows: That he had been Grifford's traveling companion from St. Louis, which place they had left together about the first of June; that they had been acquainted for months previous to that time, and were on terms of friendship and amity with each other, that, on the day previous, they were riding along leisurely, in the vicinity of Emigrant's Ravine, conversing, as usual, on subjects connected with the mines and California life, when, having lost his saddle-blanket, he returned a short distance to find it. He succeeded in his object, and, while replacing it on his mule, distinctly heard a shot. He galloped back to the spot where the crime had been committed, and discovered the deceased, prostrate upon the ground, and Grifford bending over him, with an air of satisfaction, as if exulting in the death he had accomplished; the prisoner's back was turned towards him, and, being partially hidden by intervening ing bushes, he did not at first recognize him, and was on the point of shooting him down, when Mr. Brown arrived up-on the scene and assisted him to arrest Grifford. 
               Such was the brief but damning testimony produced against the young planter by his secret, deadly enemy, who, believing that the time had come for wreaking his long-deferred vengeance, seized with avidity the opportunity now presented to crush his hated foe beneath a load of guilt. 
               Herbert tried, in vain, to break down his testimony. He was fully convinced that the witness was a perjured villain, and yet, strive as he might, it was impossible to confuse him by the intricacies of a skillful cross-examination, or make him vary from the plain statements he made at first. 
               George Denny had studied his role too thoroughly to be caught in the meshes of a net which he had spread to snare another. His own life was at stake, and he played the dangerous game he had commenced coolly, and with a bold, reckless, but skillful hand. 
               The evidence of Joel Brown corroborated his in every respect, and the chain of circumstances pointing to the guilt of the prisoner seemed perfect in every link. 
               Herbert, who noticed with anxiety that the very favorable impression which had been made upon the jury, and, in fact, all the spectators, by the fine, commanding appearance and frank, open countenance of the accused, had gradually disappeared as the trial progressed, now rose and made a most eloquent and feeling speech to the jury. It was a masterly effort, and the glistening eyes and suppressed breathing of his audience attested that he spoke direct to the heart. But unfortunately, he had no rebutting testimony to offer, and human eloquence could not overbalance the weight and a force of the evidence given against his client. 
               The hardy miners, who had been appointed to exercise for the occasion the functions of the various officers of justice, all seemed inclined to favor the prisoner as much as possible until it seemed to them there could no longer be a doubt of his guilt. 
               A miners' or peoples' court, as usually organized in California, is entirely different from the celebrated tribunals of Judge Lynch, which were once so terrible in the sunny South, in the days of the Regulators and Border Ruffians. We do not mean such a class of men as those who are now thus designated by certain fanatics, but regularly organized bands of robbers, horse thieves and murderers, who in early days infested the lower Mississippi and the western frontier. The proceedings of the former were characterized by a dignified observance of the laws of humanity, and generally by decorum and good order. 
               The prosecution waived argument, and the jury, retiring from their seats, rendered a verdict of guilty against the prisoner. 
               Harry Grifford rose slowly to his feet, on being asked by the court if he had any remarks to make, or reasons to offer, why judgment should not be pronounced against him. His cheek was pale, but his bold, clear eye rather sought than avoided the public gaze, and, as it rested upon the form of his accuser, flashed with indignation, scorn and withering contempt. 
               "Gentlemen of the jury-I do not wish to appeal to your sympathies, but I must declare to you, in the most solemn manner, that I am innocent of the crime charged against me by this vile and black-hearted wretch," said Grifford, pointing toward his accuser, who kept his eyes obstinately bent upon the ground. "Unfortunately I am a stranger in a strange land having just arrived, after a tedious trip of two thousand miles across the plains, and on my first appearance among you, being accused of the most heinous of all crimes, look around me in vain for some means to prove that the charge is entirely unfounded. 
               "My accuser, a man upon whom I have heaped benefits, whom I admitted to my friendship and esteem, who has been fed, clothed and protected by me for the past six months, stands unblushingly before you, and deliberately perjures himself in swearing my life away. God only knows why he has done this, I cannot fathom his motives. Although aware that any statements I may make will not avail me without being fully corroborated, yet in justice to myself I will give the circumstances as they actually occurred on that fatal morning. 
               The principal witness and myself were riding together up to the time when he lost his blanket, Just before that occurred red, I had discharged my rifle at a hare, and, having left my bullet pouch in the wagon, could not reload it. At no time after that was he out of hearing distance. He swears he heard the report while replacing his saddle. Now, who fired the fatal shot? It is impossible that it could have been me, for the reasons just stated. I most solemnly declare that I never saw the deceased until he was shot, and fell to the ground, when I hastened to render him all the assistance in my power. Denny swears positively that I was 'bending over the deceased with an air of satisfaction, exulting in my crime.' How is it possible, gentlemen of the jury, that he could have perceived the expression of my features, when my back was towards him, and I was partially hidden by intervening bushes? When asked this question by my counsel, he endeavored to explain by saying that my gestures had led him to believe so; that my right arm was raised, and my hands clenched in a violent and threatening manner. This is all false. What motive could have induced me to commit this murder upon an entire stranger. Gentlemen of the jury, I did not even know the man, and could not have been actuated by any of the ordinary inducements which lead men to the commission of such a fearful crime. As there is a God in Heaven who rules the destinies of mankind, I swear by his sacred name that my soul is free from the stain of blood, and that I am innocent of the death of Harrison." 
               Harry spoke slowly and deliberately, and every word he uttered bore the impress of truth. For several minutes after he ceased speaking, there was a profound silence, so great was the impression produced by the clear ringing tones of his voice, and a deportment entirely free from all appearance of guilt. 
               Many honest hearts in that assemblage of pioneers fully believed him innocent, sympathised with him, and would have gladly released him, but it could not be. He had had a fair and impartial trial, and had been condemned by a chosen body of twelve intelligent men. By the stern decrees of the Miners' Law his doom was sealed. 
               The Judge arose for the purpose of pronouncing the dread sentence of death upon the young planter, but the thought of Daphne, and the agony he was about to inflict upon her gentle spirit swept across his mind; his lips quivered with uncontrollable emotion, his eyes filled with manly tears, and he was obliged to resume his seat. 
               "What's the good uv a sentence enny how? Hits nuthin' but a form uv the derned lawyers. He's guilty, and he's got to swing: so I move we tote him to the neardest tree and git thru with the job rite off!" exclaimed a rough looking hombre, who fully believed that Grifford was a desperate criminal. 
               This proposition found favor with a majority of the bystanders; all of whom were bound by the most solumn oaths to execute the sentences of the dreaded miners' law-a code which had been forced upon them by a state of society unparalleled in the history of the world. So many crimes had been committed in their midst, with impunity, that they had determined to visit the extreme penalty of their peculiar law upon all criminals. By its provisions, even petit larceny was punishable with death. 
               In vain Herbert and his aged father pleaded for delay. They were gently but firmly refused by their fellow miners, who now proceeded to conduct the prisoner to a gnarled oak, on the hill side; a tree subsequently celebrated for the execution of so many criminals, and which caused the town to be called by its ominous name. Their hasty preparations were soon made; for it required but little machinery to hurry a fellow being out of existence. A rawhide lariat, with a slipping noose at one end, the other thrown over a projecting limb, and the assistance of two or three strong men, were all that was necessary to effect their object. Already had the fatal noose been placed around Grifford's neck, and he had been informed that his time on earth was limited to ten minutes, which, he was kindly admonished by some of the more thoughtful, he had better spend in prayer, and make his peace with God, when a young and beautiful female appeared suddenly upon the scene, and, bounding forward with a wild shriek, threw herself, sobbing, into his arms. 
               "Harry!" 
               "Daphne!" 
               Burst simultaneously from their lips, as they were locked in each other's arms; an embrace in which there was agony indescribably deep and bitter. 
               "Oh, God! that we should thus meet after our long and painful separation." 
                
               "Daphne, look up, dearest, and tell me that you do not believe me guilty of this terrible crime." 
               "No! no! I never could believe it, were a thousand tongues to proclaim it," replied Daphne, shudderingly, as her eyes rested upon the cord which circled his neck. 
               Thanks, dearest one, I shall now die happier in the knowledge that you at least deem me innocent." 
               "Die! no! no! Harry, they shall not-they cannot take thy life; for you are guiltless, and it would kill me," exclaimed Daphne, incoherently, while her beauteous eyes wandered over the faces of the astounded miners with a fixed and stony gaze. "This is certainly a dark and horrible dream!" 
               "Come, my daughter, this is no place for you," said Captain Lescomb, advancing to lead her from the harrowing scene. 
               "My place is by his side, father. I cannot leave him to be murdered by these cruel men," sobbed the fair girl, clinging wildly to her bethrothed, with all the fond devotion of her true womanly nature. 
               "Time is up," said the sheriff, who was proceeding to give directions for the execution of the prisoner, when his attention was arrested by a melodious voice, which addressed the assemblage in tones of pleading eloquence, so earnest and impassioned, that, instinctively, they doffed their earth-stained hats, and, with bowed heads, listened respectfully to her touching appeal. 
               Daphne, animated by the energy of despair, had yielded to a sudden impulse which prompted her to entreat for time, that the prisoner might be enabled to prove his innocence. She urged this point with wild and cogent arguments, yet so feelingly expressed, that when she ceased speaking there was not a dry eye belonging to any one within reach of her voice. 
               "Gentlemen, I'll tell you what's a fact. It's my opine that the lady is right. I never seed sich a sarcumstance as this afore in all my born days, but I can't 'bleve that man is a murderer, and I move that we give him a few days time, just to give him a chance for his life," shouted our friend Peter Glenn, who had become too much excited to remain quiet any longer. 
               "A reprieve! a reprieve!" shouted many voices, and a call for a vote had just been made, when a horseman was discovered urging his way to the scene with furious haste. He was very pale, and his clothes were stained with blood. His forehead was covered with a bandage, and his appearance gave every indication of extreme weakness and lassitude. 
               "Thank God! I am not too late!" he exclaimed, as soon as he perceived that the prisoner was yet alive. 
               "Too late for what?" inquired a chorus of voices. 
               "Too late to save that man's life" he continued, pointing towards Harry, who instantly recognized one of his fellow travelers. 
               Haskins, for it was him, now advanced, and a hearty greeting took place between him and his young friend. The unexpected appearance of the haggard looking stranger on the scene of action created a striking sensation, and he was instantly surrounded by a crowd, eagerly demanding to know the meaning of his earnest language, and if he knew anything about the case. 
               "Yes, gentlemen, I know all," replied Haskins, "for I was a witness to the whole affair. Harry Grifford is innocent, and George Denny is the guilty one. Arrest him friends, and then I will give my testimony." 
               But George had taken the alarm the moment he perceived the mountaineer, and quietly disappeared. A party was dispatched in pursuit of him, but he eluded them and escaped. 
               Haskins stated as follows: I was a fellow traveler with Harry Grifford and George Denny from Independence to California. I never liked the latter, and avoided all intercourse with him as much as possible. About a month ago I observed certain suspicious actions of his, when he believed himself alone, which led me to think that he entertained designs against the life of Mr. Grifford. Since that time I have kept a strict watch upon him, never leaving them alone together until yesterday morning. 
               We had approached so near the settlements that I thought he would not dare to carry out his fell intentions. It may be thought strange that I did not inform Grifford of my suspicious and put him on his guard against a wily enemy. The reason I did not, was because I had no proof against him, and I knew that Grifford would be pained should an unfounded accusation be made against one who ate at his table, and called him friend. 
                
               
                   
                     "Daphne, look up dearest, and tell me that you do not believe me guilty of this terrible crime." 
                  
                
                
                
               I preferred to watch him closely, and frustrate his designs. Yesterday morning I left them together, and struck off into the woods for a hunt. I had not been separated from them but a short time when I experienced a singular feeling of uneasiness, and, taking a trail to intersect the main road, I hastened to rejoin them. 
               As I neared the junction, I saw George Denny deliberately raise his rifle to his shoulder and fire at some object which was hidden from me by a clump of bushes. On riding a little further, I distinctly saw a man fall bleeding to the ground. This man I have since learned was Mr. Harrison. In a moment after, Grifford raised the wounded man to an easy position and attempted to stanch the flowing blood. 
               The truth flashed upon me in an instant. George Denny had intended to kill Grifford, but by some strange chance had missed him, and shot Mr. Harrison. 
               Determined to secure the murderer, if possible, I galloped towards him, but, in leaping a small gulch, my mule stumbled and dashed me headlong against a tree, inflicting this ugly gash in my forehead. I remained there in a senseless condition until early this morning, when I crawled down to the diggings, and learned, to my utter astonishment, that Mr. Grifford was being tried for the murder of Harrison, and that the proof brought against him was so strong and conclusive, that he would probably be hung. I hastened here as fast as possible and fortunately arrived in time. 
               Harry was now formally restored to freedom, while the welkin rang with the shouts of the miners, who, delighted to find that he was really innocent, now showered upon him their hearty congratulations. 
               The Captain and Herbert wrung his hand in silence, while Daphne hung upon his arm and bowed her fair head to conceal the tears of happiness which glistened upon her lovely cheeks. 
               They were now conducted in triumph to their humble cabin, where Oceana received them with heartfelt joy. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               GEORGE DENNY'S LAST CRIME AND DEATH. 
               Two years subsequent to the events described in the last chapter, George Denny entered a gambling house in Stockton, and sauntered leisurely through the spacious hall. It was situated in the most public place in town, on a corner fronting two of the principal streets; was gayly decorated, brilliantly lighted, and dedicated to the worst of all earthly pursuits. 
               In this infamous temple the fell spirit of gambling reigned supreme, and vast sums of money changed hands nightly, as the reckless votaries of chance met and lost their hard-earned gold; some with a careless laugh or light oath, but the majority of them with blanched cheeks and quivering nerves. 
               A band of fine performers discoursed sweet music for the eager throng, who were, however, so intent upon their different games that the sounds of harmony passed unheeded by, and were drowned in the discordant din of horrid oaths, the clinking of coin, or the rattling of ivory checks, as they passed from hand to hand. 
               A bar occupied one side of the room, and was amply supplied with every variety of wines and liquors. Half a dozen supple waiters were constantly engaged supplying the demands made upon them for drinks from the different tables which were in full blast. 
               It was an exciting scene, and hundreds of poor, luckless miners, who only stepped in to see the elephant, being assailed by such a variety of temptations, would first take a drink, and then wander among the tables, gazing upon heaps of gold and silver with covetous eyes. Those who hesitated at first, counting the chances, would soon yield, and finally become the victim of sharpers. If they proved to be shrewd and hard to beat, they were urged to drink until they became came utterly reckless, when they were easily plucked. 
               The curse of California, the gambling mania, which infected all classes to a greater or less extent, festering and cankering the very heart of society, has desolated more homes, broken more hearts and caused more misery than all other evils combined that ever existed in the State. 
               After the failure of his attempt to sacrifice the life of his friend and benefactor, George Denny fled to the southern mines, and, under an assumed name, engaged in the nefarious business. 
               For a long time he was out of luck, and frequently visited his uncle or the monte pio, until his last disposable article was in pawn. 
               Bold and skillful, he still played on, and at length fortune favored him, and he gained immense sums of money. 
               After amassing seventy thousand dollars he resolved to quit the business forever, and was now on his way to San Francisco to invest his ill-gotten wealth in real estate. 
               He was watching the different games with a professional eye, when the sheriff of San Joaquin tapped him on the shoulder and informed him he was a prisoner. 
               "For what am I arrested?" he demanded, haughtily. 
               "For murder!" replied the officer, attempting to clasp a pair of hand-cuffs on his wrists. 
               "You are mistaken in the man, and I warn you not to approach me," said Denny, springing back out of his reach. 
               The sheriff again tried to secure the person of the active gambler. 
               "Touch me at your peril," hissed Denny between his clenched teeth, as he drew a revolver and pointed it menacingly, almost touching the breast of the sheriff. 
               "There is no mistake about it; I could swear to him among a thousand men. You are all right! Go ahead, Mr. Sheriff," exclaimed a well dressed miner, advancing towards Denny. 
               "And who the devil are you?" fiercely interrogated George, striking the last speaker in the face with his pistol. 
               "I never saw you but once, and yet I know you well," replied the miner, coolly wiping the blood from his cheek. "I am the partner of the man you murdered two years ago." 
               Brown and the sheriff now sprang upon Denny, and tried to wrest the pistol out of his hand, but he was too quick for them, and, dealing the latter a severe blow over the head, again released himself. 
               George struggled to escape, striking right and left with frantic energy, but he was completely wedged in, and found it impossible to penetrate the mass of human beings who surrounded him. Brown again pressed forward and seized him by the throat, when George fired, killing him instantly. 
               "Stand back, if you value your lives!" shouted the desperado, brandishing his pistol and making superhuman efforts to escape. He had almost reached the street, when he was confronted by a stalwart miner, one of the first victims of his proficiency in the art of cheating. 
               George attempted to rush by, but being instantly recognized, received a crushing blow on his head, which felled him to the floor. 
               The sheriff now took possession of the senseless body, and had it conveyed to jail. 
               A motion had been made by the miners to lynch him on the spot, but, as the injury he had received was a severe one, and might result in death, it was determined to wait until the next day. 
               At an early hour the following morning a lady and gentleman presented themselves at the sheriff's office, and requested permission to visit the prisoner. The lady, tall and commanding in appearance, was elegantly dressed, and kept her face studiously concealed by a thick veil, which she did not remove while in the presence of the officer; not even when he politely granted her request. But he thought that the voice which thanked him so earnestly, was very sweet and musical. 
               Her companion, an embrowned Italian of perhaps thirty-five years of age, supported her tenderly, but did not speak, unless addressed by the lady, and then his replies were in Spanish. In a few moments they stood by the couch of the murderer, who was groaning in agony, physical as well as mental, for he was yet suffering from the effects of the terrible blow he had received the night previous. 
               "George, are you awake?" inquired the female bending over him, and removing the counterpane from his face. 
               "Who calls?" responded Denny, faintly. He turned with difficulty towards the speaker, and his haggard eyes dilated with terror when he observed that it was Eugenia standing by his bed-side. 
               "It is your mother, George," said Eugenia, placing her hand upon his feverish brow. He shuddered at the touch of her white hand, and dashed it aside with violence. 
               "Great God! Is it possible, madam, that you, not satisfied with the evil you have already wrought, and the misery you have accomplished, visit me in this dark hour to exult over my downfall?" inquired the wretched man, his ghastly features quivering with agony. 
               "Not so, I assure you," replied his visitor, mildly. "I do not come to up-braid you, my son, for the crimes or follies you have committed, nor to exult in your misery. I have a different object in view." 
               "What can it be?" 
               "To save you from impending death." 
               "At what fearful price, madam?" demanded George, gazing upon her calm features with terror and uncertainty. 
               "I see you doubt my motives, but that shall not deter me from making you an offer of unconditional freedom." 
               "Are you sincere, madam? or are you only playing upon my feelings to excite bright hopes, merely for the purpose of crushing them again beneath a weight of dark despair?" 
               "I am sincere, George, in this offer to release you. Strange and unnatural as my conduct has been in days past, yet I would sacrifice much rather than see you die on the scaffold." 
               There was a very slight tremor in the tones of her voice while speaking, but it was sufficient to attract the attention of the prisoner and fill his heart with hope. 
               The Italian caressed his dark curling moustache, and watched Eugenia's every motion, but only spoke when she addressed him. 
               "To-night, at ten o'clock," continued Eugenia, "I will have the means of escape placed in your possession. Can you make the necessary exertion to liberate yourself from these frail walls, and will you be able to ride for thirty-six hours without cessation? If so, I will have horses in readiness one mile from town on the San Jos road, and this gentleman will accompany you to a place of safety." 
               "I will certainly make the attempt, and hope to succeed," replied George, rising to his feet and essaying to walk across the cell; but his brain reeled-he staggered forward three or four paces and then fell to the floor. 
               "I had anticipated this weakness, and came peepared for it. Take some of this cordial," said Eugenia, giving him a small vial which contained a colorless liquid, and directing him to take but a small quantity. 
               He swallowed a few drops, and instantly felt new life infused into his veins. In a few minutes his strength returned, and he felt like a new man. 
               "Take this precious vial, George, and guard it well, for your life depends on the subtle essence it contains. Whenever you feel fatigue or lassitude, moisten your lips, and it will restore your waning strength." 
               Surprised beyond measure to hear accents of kindness issuing from her lips, he raised his eyes and gazed fixedly upon the countenance of the mysterious woman who now stood meekly by his side. Those chiseled features had lost their glacial expression, and there were tears-yes, actual tears-trembling upon her long, beautiful lashes. 
               "Mother! Dear mother!" he exclaimed, springing forward; "is it possible that you weep for me?" 
               "Yes, my son," replied Eugenia, taking his feverish hand and pressing it kindly. "Can you forgive the unkindness and cruelty of the past? Can you forget the wrongs I heaped upon your innocent head in the days of helpless infancy? George, it is your unworthy but penitent mother who entreats your forgiveness. I do not expect that you will ever be able to regard me with affection, but a great change has been wrought in my feelings lately, and, as you are the only relative I have in the world, I would not be at enmity with you." 
               "Yes, mother, I freely forgive you," said George, whose feelings had been wrought up to the highest pitch of excitement by the scenes he had passed through, and the exhilarating effects of the cordial he had swallowed. 
               "Thanks, my dear son; you have relieved my heart of a fearful load that has long oppressed and borne down my spirits," murmured Eugenia, imprinting a kiss upon his damp forehead. "Cheer up, George. I shall take especial care that the future shall make amends for the past." 
               They now held a long consultation, to determine upon the best plan to effect his escape from the jail-an enterprise in which Eugenia's silent companion was to play a very prominent part. 
               "I must now leave you, George. My visit has been prolonged beyond the time usually allowed even to relatives of a prisoner," said Eugenia, offering her hand and preparing to depart. 
               "Wait, mother. Do not go yet." 
               "Certainly not, if you have anything more to say." 
               "I wish you to do me a favor." 
               "What is it, my son?" 
               "I have a large amount of money in this city on deposit. I cannot take it with me to-night, nor can I reclaim it hereafter, as I shall be a proscribed man, an outlaw, driven from the society of my fellow-men by my crimes. I wish to deliver this treasure to you to keep for me. Will you take charge of it?" 
               "Certainly I will, if it is your wish. What is the total amount?" 
               "Seventy thousand dollars." 
               "It is indeed a large sum. Quite a fortune in itself. You may rest assured that I will keep it securely for you until such time as you can take possession of it with safety." 
               Eugenia spoke with cold and measured tones, which gave no indication of the joy that thrilled through her frame when her son announced his intention to entrust his treasure to her care. 
               George Denny now sent for the cashier of the bank, and, on his arrival, made a regular transfer to his mother of a certificate of deposit calling for seventy thousand dollars. 
               The action of the Italian, while the assignment was being made, proved that he understood English as well as Spanish. He ceased playing with his dark mustache, and his small, cat-like eyes twinkled eagerly as he watched the proceedings, with absorbing interest, until the affair was fully accomplished, when a smile of triumph flashed across his swarthy brow, and wreathed his lips into an expression of intense satisfaction. 
               "Perfectamente! Adios, Seor!" he muttered, as they walked hastily from the jail. 
               In an hour from that time the money was drawn from bank, and Eugenia and her paramour were on their way to San Francisco. 
               The arch-hypocrite, in this last crowning act of infamy, had taken advantage of the faith and credulity of her son, and robbed him of the gold he had committed so many crimes to obtain. But, he was not injured materially thereby, for, on the afternoon of the same day a posse of miners and citizens, having learned from the surgeon who attended George that he had recovered, attacked the jail, and, taking the wretched prisoner from the custody of the sheriff, hung him without even the form of a trial. His last crime had been committed in the presence of so many witnesses that it was deemed unnecessary to waste time in convicting him. 
               "Shave, sah? Hav you ha'r dressed, sah?" insinuatingly urged the dark-skinned proprietor of a six-by-twelve cotton tonsorial establishment on K street, Sacramento, to a dandified-looking "culler'd pusson," who swaggered into his shop with a certain kind of you-can't-come-none-of-your-gum-games-over-me-for-I've-had-my-eye-teeth-cut sort of air, that was decidedly indicative of his own high appreciation of himself. 
               "Shave, sah? Ha'r dressed, sah?" 
               "'Spec not. I say, Bukey, how is you?" 
               "I'se ony jiss tol'ble. How d'ye find yusef?" 
               "Oh, I'm fat I say, nigga, I 'spec dat you don't recklemember dis chile, does yes?" 
               "Don't 'zactly knows as I does, sah?" 
               "My name is Pompey." 
               "Oh, yaas, yaas! I'se mighty glad to see you, Pompey," replied Bukey, shaking the hand of his old friend heartily, at the same time uttering a profusion of compliments. 
               "Well, den let's go an' do as he white folks does." 
               "How's dat?" 
               "When dey meet'der frens den dey go an' 'smile.'" 
               "Nuff ced." 
               They 'smiled,' and then entered into a free and easy conversation. 
               "When did you leave your young mas'r, Bukey?" 
               "Oh, he done got married' bout a year an' a half age, an' went back to Louisiana. He gub me my freedom, and ebber since dat time I'se been in business fur myself." 
               "Whar's de ole folks?" 
               "Captain Lescomb, Mas'r Herbert an' Miss Valencia is livin' at de Bay. De ole man an' Mas'r Herbert made a heap uv money in de mines, an now dey is mighty! rich." 
               "Eh, heh! dat's nice. Is dey gwine back to de States?" 
               "No; de ole man says dat dey won't nebber go back no moa. How's your Miss's, Pompey?" 
               "I ain't got no Miss's now." 
               "No?" 
               "No, sah! My Miss's fell in love wid an Italian at New Orleans a long time ago, an' he put on so many airs dat I could'nt stood it no how, so I luff'd her." 
               "Is ye engaged in business here, Pompey?" 
               "Not zackly, but I is in de musical line now, an' plays on de flats in de key uv fool miner. I'se got an' A. B. C. an' a checker game round on jaw street, jiss fur de amusement ob greenhorns." 
               "Does ye make a heap uv money?" 
               "Yes, hi-u; we git all dey bring in, an, sometimes make a big strike; but I must be a gwine, now. Drap over an' see me," said Pompey, patronizingly, as he bowed himself out of the shop. 
               Bukey never called upon him though, for he was killed two days afterwards by a Mexican whom he had cheated out of a considerable amount of money. 
               The honesty is the best policy, was fully exemplified in the history of the two negroes. Bukey pursued his laudable calling with unflagging industry, and soon amassed quite a little fortune. 
               Haskins, having quickly recovered from the effect of his injuries, under the kind care of the Lescombs, bade them good bye, and betook himself to the wilds of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, to engage in his favorite pursuit. The intrepid mountaineer is often met by prospecting parties, and sometimes by emigrants, but he is seldom seen in the settlements, as he only visits them to procure ammunition and supplies. It is said by those who know him best that he has killed more grizzly bears than any other hunter in California. 
               Peter Glenn is still in the mines. He has been talking of returning to the At-Atlantic States for years, but there is a fascination in the auriferous region that chains him to the golden soil. He has he made and lost his pile two or three times, being an inveterate speculator, but is firm in the belief that there is a colossal fortune yet destined to come into his possession. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               EUGENIA AT HOME-POLITICAL SCHEMERS. 
               The residence of Eugenia De Forest was situated on one of the most quiet and retired streets of San Francisco. Her dwelling was not one to attract particular attention, being plain and unpretending in outward appearance, but internally it was furnished in a style of Oriental magnificence. 
               It was 10 o'clock at night, a few days after her return from Stockton, and the, haughty mistress of the establishment was reclining on a sofa in her elegant boudoir, awaiting the arrival of expected guests. 
               She soon, however, rose with an impatient gesture, and walked to and fro the apartment. The admirable contours of her majectic from never appeared to better advantage. Again had all the mystic arts of the toilet been brought into requisition, and in the mellowed light, amid flashing jewels and rich apparel, Eugenia looked almost as young and beautiful as when she first captivated Colonel Denny. 
               She gazed upon the full length figures of herself, which were reflected from a number of French mirrors that extended from the ceiling to the floor, and her features became wreathed into a proud smile of conscious power. He thoughts reverted to the scenes of other days, and the many conquests effected by that fatal and deceptive beauty passed in review through her busy mind. It was not a pleasant subject to dwell upon, for her conduct had ever been faithless and heartless, and she dreaded the contemplation of the ruin and desolation she had wrought. The smile faded from her countenance, and an expression of anguish took its place. 
               Remorse gnawed at her very heart strings as the images of her son and husband presented themselves to her mind. The one, dishonored and made wretched by her crimes and wickedness; the other, expiring upon the gallows chiefly through her means. The dread souvenirs of the past crowded upon her thick and fast, and she tried in vain to drive them away. 
               Could the innocence and guilelessness of childhood have been restored to the lost and depraved woman, she would have gladly given all she possessed in the world in exchange, and blessed the power that could bestow such happiness. While yet immersed in painful reminiscences and harrowing memories, a number of visitors were announced, and Eugenia received them with smiles of welcome. No trace of sorrow or remorse upon those impassive features now. The consummate actress had her role to play, and she had never yet failed in anything she had undertaken. 
               After the salutations of the evening had been exchanged, Eugenia conducted them into another apartment, where a sumptuous banquet had been prepared for them. They followed with alacrity, and seated themselves round the festive board, like men who were accustomed to meet there frequently. 
               Strange, as it may appear to the uninitiated, or to those not familiar with California life, yet this was a political meeting. The house of the unscrupulous courtezan was the headquarters of an organized clique, which absolutely ruled the destinies of California. 
               This junta was composed of men of all classes, who met together at stated periods to mature their plans and concoct gigantic schemes of fraud and peculation. 
               In this secret rendezvous honorable incumbents of high and responsible offices, gambling politicians, ermined judges, and their base accomplices, the shoulder-striker and ballot-box stuffer, met on equal terms, and divided the spoils of their unlawful traffic. This clique wielded a tremendous power. They appointed the judges and inspectors of elections, and consequently were enabled to bestow upon their favorites any office in the State, from the lowest to the highest and most important. 
               Eugenia De Forest had become acquainted with the leaders of the Gamblers' League immediately on her arival in the country. Her services had been invaluable to them, as many of their most profitable schemes had emanated from her fertile brain. 
               The orgies of the night commenced, and her guests, who were perfect knights of the trencher, did full justice to the admirable cuisine of their hostess. The wine flowed free and fast, and countless bumpers were drank to the health of their Midnight Queen, who presided like a fallen angel over the nocturnal revel. 
               Amid scenes like these of excitement and dissipation, passed the life of the accomplished, but wicked woman, who often experienced, when alone, the sting of the "worm that never dieth." Her punishment had already began. It is more than probable that Eugenia De Forest will yet figure largely in the future history of California. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            DAILY TOWN TALK 
            Newspaper and Job Printing ESTABLISHMENT. 
             
               THE DAILY TOWN TALK 
               Is published every morning, (except Monday) and contains the Current News and Latest Intelligence of the day. 
                
                  Terms.-Twenty-five Cents per week. 
                  One Year $9 00 
                  Six Months $5 00 
                  Three months $3 00 
                
             
             
               THE WEEKLY TALK 
               Is published every Thursday Morning; contains FORTY-EIGHT COLUMNS of closely printed matter, and is the CHEAPEST PAPER PUBLISHED IN CALIFORNIA. 
                
                  TERMS: 
                  Single copy, one year in advance, $8 00 
                  Single copy, six months in advance, $2 00 
                  Single copy, three months in advance, $1 50 
                
               Ten copies to one address, $25 00 
               The proprietors would announce to the public that they have a large assortment of BOOK AND JOB PRINTING MATERIALS, And are prepared to execute anything in their line with the greatest dispatch, and at moderate rates. 
             
          
       
   
