
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). Virginia Graham .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6947
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               VIRGINIA GRAHAM, 
               THE SPY OF THE GRAND ARMY. 
             
            BY JUSTIN JONES.
             
            
               LORING, Publisher,  
                     319 WASHINGTON STREET, 
                  
                
               BOSTON.
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by Justin Jones, in the District Clerk's office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 
            
               Rockwell & Rollins, Printers and Stereotypers, 
               122 Washington Street, Boston.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            THIS romantic but "plain, unvarnished tale" was neither picked up on a battle-field, nor found in a dead soldier's haversack, nor abstracted from the collection of military souvenirs at Washington, West Point, or elsewhere; nor was it collated from the multitudinous Histories or Fictions of the ever memorable campaign which gloriously culminated in the reduction and surrender of the "Gibraltar of the Mississippi," nor from the many "Lives" or biographies, of the heroes who behaved so gallantly during the great siege. Nevertheless, we find the Mss. in our possession; and, as we know of no one to claim its paternity, we take the responsibility of being its putative father; and if any one of its living characters feels aggrieved in being thus exhibited for the edification of (he hopes) a million of readers, he asks their pardon, and holds himself in readiness to make such amends or explanations as may be demanded by them, and absolutely due from him. 
            
               J. J. 
               BROOKLINE, A. D., 1868.
             
          
       
      
         
            Virginia Graham 
             
             
            VIRGINIA GRAHAM. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               VIRGINIA THE VIVANDIERE. THE INUNDATED CITY. AN EPISODE IN MY OWN HISTORY. 
               Each night I fervently exclaimed, "God bless Virginia Graham!" 
               She was the Vivandiere of the gallant-th Regiment, Illinois Volunteers. I never, since she was revealed to me, went into a battle or a skirmish; I never went on a march, or on a foraging or scouting expedition; I never bivouacked for a night, or addressed myself to Somnus on the tented field, or in trench or barracks, without first invoking God's blessing on that bright and beautiful being, our brave, gentle, amiable Vivandiere. 
               I doubt not that there were others who entertained as deep an affection for her as I did, and would as willingly have risked their lives in her defence, but I am sceptical in believing that there was another to whose mind she was omnipresent. 
               On long, weary marches-during the monotonous hours and days in camp-in the din and heat of battle, or on the formal parade, she was either present to my eye or mind. And I knew not why. My brain never wearied in thinking of her, nor my eyes in gazing upon her. 
               Yet for all this I was married-married to one I most devotedly loved; and had parted from her, too, before the days of our honey moon had expired, to join the patriotic army of the Union; and stranger yet, whenever she was the subject of my meditation, the graceful Vivandiere would be certain to be her inseparable companion. 
               I enlisted as a private, but for doing my duty at the battles of Shiloh and Pittsburgh Landing,-which duty my colonel styled in his despatches gallant services,-I was honored with a second-lieutenant's commission, and before the Grand Army had concentrated around and near Vicksburg, I had won a captain's commission, and had command of the color company of our regiment. 
               Virginia, the Vivandiere, under an order superior to my own, quartered with my command; and that she might be constantly under such protection as I could afford her, she slept within my tent, which I divided into two apartments by a piece of canvas that was stretched entirely across the centre; and as a further protection, and to avoid all possibility of scandal, I permitted a negress-an intelligent contraband woman-Aunt Clemmy, as she was invariably called-to quarter with her. 
               Aunt Clemmy was an indispensable personage about the camp, for she contrived, with her own hands, to do the washing for all the officers of our regiment, and apparently with no extraordinary exertion. 
               We had taken her from a deserted plantation, near Corinth, at her own request; and she was often heard to say that she had "radder brac de boots and scrub de clothes ob de ossifers ob de Union army, dan wait 'pon Missus Talywanglee (her former mistress) in de parlor." 
               I have yet to describe the person of our Vivandiere. To say that she was the handsomest girl I ever beheld-notwithstanding I sincerely aver it-will convey to my readers no conception of her peculiar charms; and, perhaps, they may differ with me in many essential particulars as to those points which constitute genuine female beauty and loveliness. 
               To premise: Virginia Graham, I judged to be not less than eighteen nor more than nineteen years of ago; though anomalous as it may seem, she declared herself but a few weeks under twenty. 
               She was in the full bloom of womanhood, of medium height, and though not in the least degree masculine, her peculiar costume made her figure somewhat resemble the stately Minerva rather than that of the sylph-like Venus. 
               Her eyes were large, almond-shaped, blue as a cerulean sky and bright as sapphires, shaded by long, dark, silken lashes, and overarched by eyebrows that relieved a noble forehead of a small degree of its intellectual proportions. 
               Her features, in profile view, resembled the Grecian type and the Grecian standard of female beauty, but a front view of her face disclosed an inexpressible sweetness, and at the same time an animated, vivacious expression even in its calm moments, but greatly heightened when conversing or singing,-in both of which accomplishments she excelled-or while excited by gazing upon any imposing or merry scene. 
               Her complexion was fair, with a slight tinge of brown upon her cheeks, indicating an exposure to the sun and air of a warm climate. 
               She might have boasted of having possessed, but recently, long tresses of dark brown curls, floating luxuriantly over her neck and shoulders, but on entering her present vocation she had willingly parted with the surplus profusion, and now it was just long enough to curl naturally and thickly about her neck, and not requiring either net or comb to keep it in its proper place. 
               There was a dignified charm and simplicity in her whole demeanor that implied a self-relying determination neither to suspect or be apprehensive of evil. 
               The consciousness of possessing superior charms there was a total absence of, as was plainly denoted in her frank, genial countenance. 
               Her form was symmetrical in all its proportions. Her step elastic and graceful, and when occasion required she could be as fleet of foot as the most active pedestrians of the regiment. 
               Riding horseback like another Die Vernon, firing the rifle or pistol with the precision of a practised marksman, fencing with the small sword, or handling the musket like a drill sergeant, were not among the least prized or useful accomplishments of the field and camp, which our heroine possessed in a wonderful degree for one of her sex. 
               The Vivandiere's costume deserves brief mention. When in full dress she wore a richly-embroidered Zouave jacket of dark blue cloth, to which was attached a full kirtle just long enough to avoid the concealment of a pair of small feet and ankles, encased in high and well-fitting laced boots. This kirtle or skirt was of alternate stripes of red and white, running diagonally downwards from the waist, and terminating with a strips of azure blue, ornamented with silver stars, and encircling its entire lower circumference. The zone about her waist also corresponded with the termination of the kirtle. 
               This emblematical costume gave her the sobriquets of 'Little Union,' 'Stars and Stripes,' 'Goddess of Liberty,' etc., among the soldiers. 
                
               She wore a jaunty-looking straw hat-not unlike a style frequently worn by the maidens of the North-with tri-color ribbons streaming down the back from the crown, while in front the wing of an eaglet was gracefully set, and fastened by a circlet of tiny silver stars, in the centre of which was emblazoned the letter, worked in gold thread, denoting her position in the regiment. 
               La Vivandiere was always well armed. She carried by her side a light, well-tempered sword; a brace of small, effective revolvers, concealed beneath her Zouave jacket; and a richly-cased, gem-hilted poniard, suspended from the starry belt around her waist. 
               The never-failing canteen, which gave life and vigor to many fainting warriors, hung beneath her left arm from a stout green cord slung across her right shoulder. 
               When on the march, or on the battle field, she carried in addition to her canteen, a small, highly finished keg, of the capacity of half a gallon, and which vessel, no matter how freely its contents were dispensed, appeared never to be empty; indeed there was always a timely draught for the parched lips and throat of a wounded or fainting soldier. 
               I have thus described the heroine of my narrative as well as my limited command of language will permit, but it fails to do her justice; her strength of character, her power of accomplishing almost incredible things, and her many virtues, will be hereafter developed in the course of my narration of the perilous scenes through which she passed, and in many of which I was an humble participant. 
               During the hours off duty, I did not fail to observe that Miss Graham was the almost inseparable companion of a drummer-boy, much younger than herself-a lad of fourteen or fifteen-a fine specimen of boyish beauty, intelligent and no doubt agreeable, or he would not have been favored with so much of our heroine's society, to the envy of more than half the regiment, myself included. 
               Harry Robeson was the name of this fortunate youth, and as he was accounted the best drummer in the drum-corps, and as valiant a lad as ever broke away from a mother's apron strings, he was a universal favorite, both of officers and men, and his popularity gained him many brief furloughs, and other privileges which, as far as possible, were divided with his female friend and mentor, the sunbeam of our camp. 
               My thoughts have been so absorbed in Virginia while penning this introductory chapter, that I have forgotten to inform the reader anything concerning myself, except my position as commander of the color company of the-th Illinois Regiment. 
               My name is Julian Manly. I was born in the city of New-York, in the year 1842, and of course have attained the age of twenty-six. 
               In consequence of the financial embarrassments throughout the country, culminating just previous to my birth, my father was reduced from affluence to comparative poverty, and after striving diligently for the succeeding five years to recover a decent competency from the wreck of his fortune, he gave up despairingly, and removed to Galena, Illinois, where, after residing there about three years, my mother died in giving birth to a child. 
               I was then about seven years old, but old enough to feel keenly the blow caused by being bereft of one of the most indulgent of mothers. 
               The affliction which thus visited us was too much for my father, and after lingering for many months in a state well-nigh bordering upon insanity, he died, and was buried beside my mother. 
               Fortunately for us, helpless orphans, we were befriended by two families with whom both my father and mother had enjoyed a long acquaintance, even before his removal to the great West. 
               I was cared for by one of these families, sent to school, received an ordinary education, and at the age of sixteen was placed in the counting house of a lead mining company, where I was kindly treated, well appreciated, and remained until I had attained my majority. 
               The family which adopted my almost infant sister had removed from Galena within a year after my father's death, and as I afterwards learned, settled on the banks of the Ohio, near its confluence with the Mississippi. I had his name-Augustus Warland; and as my little sister had been christened Isabel-my mother's name-I supposed she would be called by those who adopted her-Isabel Manly Warland. 
               After writing two or three letters to Mr. Warland, about the time I had attained my majority, and receiving not a syllable in return, I resolved, before embarking in business, to go down to Cairo, and there, if possible, learn the whereabouts of my sister's benefactor, and hence, the darling object nearest my heart. 
               I embarked at Galena on a small steamer, and, after descending the Fevre River to its junction with the Mississippi, I transferred myself and luggage to one of the huge floating palaces that ply exclusively upon the great Father of Waters, and after forty-eight hours steaming was landed at Cairo. 
               I could not have arrived there at a much less inopportune time, for this embryo city was just then recovering from the effects of a severe inundation, which had driven the larger and better portion of the population into the interior, or hundreds of miles away. 
               However, I had journeyed nearly seven hundred miles for a purpose, and that purpose was not to be abandoned until I had exhausted all reasonable efforts. 
               No sooner had I landed, or rather disembarked from the steamer to a small row-boat, which conveyed myself and effects directly to the door of a hotel, than I sat about my enquiries. 
               The landlord; who had lived in Cairo but one season, and who swore most heartily that he would not tarry there another for a warranty deed of the whole city, never heard of any such personage as Augustus Warland, and didn't believe there was any one of that name in the place; and if there had been one there six months ago, it was not at all likely, if he possessed a decent modicum of common sense, that he was there up to that time; for, as he remarked, most solemnly and not jokingly, that the population of Cairo, or at least eleven-twelfths of it, was a floating one, and would continue to be until the projected levee was completed. 
               I looked in vain for the name in the little printed directory of the place, and by the special favor of the landlord, I spent a half day in examining the registers of his hotel from the day of its opening, embracing a period of twelve years, with the faint hope that within this period, at some date, Mr. Warland might have been a guest of the Steamboat Hotel. 
               The only discovery I made in this laborious search was, that no less than seventeen landlords had endeavored to "keep a hotel" beneath the roof which claimed me as a guest. 
               Some of these men had made the effort for three months only, others for six months; two or three had remained its proprietor for a twelvemonth, and one man had absolutely presided over the establishment for two long years. 
               If those autograph volumes did not indicate the floating character of the inhabitants of Cairo, I know not where to look for a more palpable indicator. 
               Exhausting the records of the hotel, I sailed over to the post-office, but the post-master was a new comer, and never heard of the name I mentioned; was sure that no letter with that address had come through his hands; and, moreover, he didn't care whether another mail should ever come into the city, for he had prepared his letter of resignation, and was going to vamose as soon as he could pack up his effects, and the dry land again appeared in the streets. 
               I made inquiries for the oldest merchants or professional men of Cairo, but I learned that a residence of one season was the rule, and a residence there for one or two years was the exception. Indeed, I discovered, as I believe, the oldest inhabitant after two days' inquiry and search. He had absolutely lived and practised law in Cairo for nearly three years. When he was at length discovered, and we met face to face, judge of my surprise when I found the oldest inhabitant-the patriarch of the town-to be a gentleman of about twenty-seven years of age. But he knew as little of the man I was seeking, as he knew of his predecessors at the bar of Alexander County, ten years prior to his admission to that hall of justice. 
               After tarrying a week in the inundated city-a period much longer than the reader will appreciate-without gaining even a clue to the whereabouts of Mr. Warland or his family, I repaired to an obscure village a few miles distant, where I continued my inquiries. I was about making up my mind that my errand must prove a fruitless one, when I accidentally fell in company with an old Dutchman, who seemed almost the personification of Irving's Rip Van Winkle, on his return to Kaatskill from the mountain where he had slumbered for twenty long years. 
               "Yaw-yaw-I know'd dat Mynheer Varland," said the venerable Teuton. "He lived in tish village petter ash dwo, dree year; den he goesh avay, an never comesh pack no more." 
               "Did you know him intimately?" I inquired. 
               "Yaw, as vell as I knowed any oder mans. He pought von leetel bony ob me vonce, and zwei huntret tollars he gif me vor dat bony; but ter bony vas von bretty animal, ah, almost ash bretty as de jungfrau-dat ish ter laty-vat I have seen ride him so many dimes." 
               "How old was the young lady?" 
               "Pout as old ash ter bony, and dat bony must have been nine or den year." 
               "What was her name?" 
               "Vell, I dinks dey called her-let me dink-vat ish dat in ter pelfry ob ter breach haus! Der tuyvel! can't I dink! Yaw, yaw-Pell!-dey called her Pell." 
               My heart almost leaped to my mouth at the mention of the name of Bell, although the Dutchman pronounced it Pell, and it was many moments before I dared to continue my inquiries, for I saw by the expression of the Teuton's countenance that some misfortune had befallen the family of which we were speaking. At length I resumed my interrogatories: 
               "Tell me and tell me truly-is Mr. Warland living?" 
               "Vel, I dinks he is, but I don't know." 
               "Do you know whether any of his family died during their residence here or since?" 
               "Vel, I knows noding-only I knows dat Mynheer Varland lost much proberty, and vent avay down de riber mitout stopping to pid his neighpors goot-pye. Dat's vot I knows-and dat ish all I knows, ash true ash dere ish a Gott in Himmel!" 
               To pursue my enquiries in that direction any further I perceived would be fruitless, and, perchance might give offence to the simple-hearted old man; so I bade him and the submerged city a final adieu, and after the lapse of three days was again in Galena, striving to forget my disappointments, and considering, with the aid and advice of my confidential friends, the kind of business I should embark in that would ensure the shortest, the safest, and the most honest road that leads on to fortune. 
               I was not long in deciding. Lead, that dull, heavy metal, I must transmute into gold, and with gold to find happiness. I chose, as did the sagacious Bassanio, and in less than two years I was part proprietor of a mine, which proved a mine of wealth to me. The product of our mine was in great demand, and when the rebellion commenced Uncle Sam was our best customer. I had amassed the sum of two hundred thousand dollars before I was twenty-five. 
               As I had done no real service to my country, save by making a few donations to our earliest volunteers, I resolved to make amends by giving my life, if needed, to the great cause of restoring the Union. After having put my affairs in good order, and employed a proper person to take charge of such business of mine as required attention, I enlisted as a private in the-th Illinois Volunteers. 
               It is generally believed that my merits as a military man gained me my position as captain. It is certain that it was never sought by me, and I would willingly have resigned it to any subordinate who could have performed the duties better or as well as myself. 
               Before the regiment marched I married Genevieve Langdon, a poor orphan girl, but highly intelligent and well educated. Her father had died but three months previously. He was, when in his prime, a lawyer of considerable note, and had a large practice; but he was said to be strictly honest in his dealings with his fellow-men, hence his poverty. But he has left three sons and two daughters, and if sterling merit is valuable he has left in them a more valuable legacy to their contemporaries on the stage of life, than if he had died a millionaire. My wife is one of them; and though I parted with her on the tenth day after the nuptial ceremony was performed, think not, reader, I appreciate her any the less. She is the bright jewel of my soul, notwithstanding the extraordinary interest I feel in La Vivandiere.
                
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE BATTLE OF PITTSBURG LANDING!-THE DRUMMER BOYS-A REMARKABLE INCIDENT-SHILOH! 
               I have stated that I was at the battle of Pittsburg Landing-the first great conflict of arms in which I was a humble participant. 
               Our regiment in an early part of the day had acted as skirmishers, but in the afternoon the division to which we were attached was drawn up in line of battle, and under our ever-victorious general we were led into the very thickest of the conflict. 
               Thrice we assaulted a much superior force to our own, and were repulsed with considerable slaughter. The fortunes of the day seemed to be against the Federal legions; but there were heroes on that sanguinary field, and our brave leaders resolved upon another onslaught with the almost forlorn hope of retrieving the losses we had made. 
               Steadily, in the face of a line of batteries belching forth a storm of grape and canister, we marched; and then came the order along the lines to "charge bayonets!" 
               With huzzas and yells that were heard above the roar of cannon, we charged upon the enemy's batteries, carried them at the point of the bayonet, and drove the artillerists and infantry that supported them from the position which they had so long and so obstinately maintained. 
               This portion of the rebel forces were compelled to fall back towards the river, where they encountered such a terrific fire from the gnnboats that they broke and rushed from the field in great disorder. 
               Our regiment encamped in a grove which skirted the field of our bloody operations. The calling of the roll by companies at the close of that day was indeed a heart-rending duty, especially in the company to which I was attached. 
               We went into battle eighty-four strong, and but fifty-two answered to their names. 
               My captain was killed outright, the first lieutenant had lost his arm, and our brave second lieutenant came near sharing the fate of the former; but I believe his life was saved by my bayonet, which I thrust through the heart of a rebel officer as his sabre was about to fall upon his head. 
               Of course these sad casualties made an early promotion from our ranks. The second lieutenant became our commander-our orderly sergeant was made first lieutenant, and I was promoted to the rank of second lieutenant. 
               Two drummer boys had been assigned to our company on the morning of the battle. They were neither of them present at rollcall, but in less than half an hour afterwards the elder of the two appeared with the younger astride his back. The latter had been wounded in the foot, and a cannon ball had passed through both heads of his drum, a matter which seemed to give him greater pain than his wound, which, though not at all serious, somewhat impaired his powers of locomotion. I observed tears chasing each other down the cheeks of the eldest boy as he bore his younger companion past my tent. 
               "Is your comrade's wound serious?" I asked. 
               The youth halted, and gazing upon me for a few moments from the depths of his large blue eyes, now bedewed with glistening drops, replied: "I fear that it is, for he cannot walk." 
               "Bear him into my tent," said I. "The hospital is full. I will ask the surgeon to come here as soon as he possibly can. You look as though ready to sink to the earth." 
               "I am truly much fatigued, for I have borne Harry nearly half a mile, and I am sure he's quite as heavy as I am." 
               "Come in-come in," I said. "We can't stand upon official dignity on a day like this." 
               "Thanks-a thousand thanks, lieutenant," replied the youth in a soft, feminine voice, at the same time a deep drawn sigh escaped him. 
               He entered my new quarters, and with my assistance we laid the wounded boy carefully down upon the green turf. I despatched a messenger to the surgeon of our regiment, requesting his attendance at my tent the moment he was disengaged. 
               "I think Harry's wound is not a very severe one," said the oldest, "perhaps I might dress it." 
               "Oh, little can you know of wounds. We had best wait a few minutes for the surgeon," was my reply. 
               We did wait, not only a few but a good many minutes; and when nearly an hour had elapsed, I was determined to endeavor to do something for poor little Harry, for I saw that delay made him extremely nervous. 
               "Oh, yes, I will help you," said his companion, as I suggested my lack of skill in surgery. 
               His foot had considerably swollen, which made it necessary for me to cut not only his boot, but his stocking from his foot. While I was doing this his companion had made quite a respectable bandage by sewing the parts of a handkerchief together which he had first torn into strips. 
               The stocking was finally removed, and as the last piece was taken off, the wound, which the stocking had stanched, re-opened, and a copious flow of blood came therefrom. 
               "Quick!" said I to my young assistant, "let me have the bandage." 
               He stepped forward-his eye fell upon the bleeding wound-he dropped the bandage, and staggering back fell fainting to the earth. I could render him no assistance at that moment, for to leave little Harry bleeding for many minutes would have endangered his life. So I proceeded to place, first, some lint on the wound, and then was proceeding to bandage it, when fortunately the surgeon came in, and I placed my little patient in his charge, and proceeded to look after his tender-hearted companion. As I feared, he was perfectly unconscious, and I began to apply restoratives, but not with their usual effect. 
               "What shall I do, doctor? Water, whiskey, or brandy does not seem to revive him." 
               He looked away from his work for a moment and gazed upon my patient. 
               "No wonder he does'nt revive. Unbutton that tight jacket-remove his belt-let him have a chance to breathe?" was the surgeon's quick reply. 
               I unclasped the belt, unbuttened his coat, removed a stiff leathern stock from his neck, and then proceeded to loosen a tight vest. Before I had finished this last operation, my patient began to breathe heavily, and made an effort at utterance. At that moment I leaped to my feet and uttered an exclamation of surprise. Before my eyes had profaned, my hand had assured me unintentionally that my patient was a woman!-a fairer and more symmetrical neck and bosom, never delighted the eyes of a sculptor. 
               "Doctor, what's to be done?" I ejaculated in amazed tones. 
               "Done? Why, bring her too, of course. You act as if you had never seen a fainting woman," he replied. 
               "I certainly never before saw one under such circumstances." 
               "Ah, lieutenant, if you had been bred to my profession-a mender instead of hacker of limbs-you would not express such wondrous surprise in finding a woman where you expected to find a man. There, that job is done and well done," the doctor continued, now addressing his young patient; "if you will be quiet a few days, my lad, I'll promise to set you right on your pegs again. Now, lieutenant, (turning to me) we'll resusciate this young damsel, who would be a soldier, in a few minutes. Ah! she is well nigh recovered already," he said, as he felt her pulse and gazed into her beautiful face. "I think with kind nursing from you, lieutenant, she will get along very well. I've had one similar case since the battle, and may find another before my night's work is accomplished." 
               "What?" said I, whispering, "you do not mean to say there has been another discovery similar to this?" 
               "Precisely, sir; in the-th Michigan cavalry, too. Oh! it's no rare thing in this war. Why, I'd wager my lancet-case against a jack-knife that there are a half score, aye, a score, of disguised women in Gen. Grant's command; and five out of six of these enlisted solely for the purpose of being near their husbands or lovers. Good night, sir; I'll call and see the boy in the morning." 
               With these words our active, hard-working surgeon hurried from the tent, leaving me quite in solitude, for the boy was snoring lustily under the influence of chloroform, while my damsel-drummer had not yet come to a realization of her present condition, or of the discovery which had been made. I almost trembled at the thought that she might reproach me for the liberty I had taken in exposing her sex, while in a state of unconsciousness, and had I thought it possible to have buttoned her vest again without her being conscious of it, I certainly should have attempted it, for I honestly desired that she might remain in blissful ignorance of my accidentally-discovered knowledge. 
               In a few moments she opened her large, lustrous eyes, and after gazing about the tent as if to recall her senses, she said: 
               "Yes-yes-I remember. How is Harry?-poor boy-I trust he's better?" and she gazed upon me with an anxious, inquiring look. 
               "The lad is sleeping quietly," I replied, and immediately added-"The surgeon has been here and dressed his wound. He pronounces the injury a trivial one, and says he will be able to walk again in a very few days if he can lie perfectly quiet." 
               "Oh, thanks to the doctor, and to you, too," she added, rising slightly from her recumbent position, and noticing, for the first time, the disordered state of her dress; and while she nervously drew together the vest to conceal the charms which had been exposed, she gazed upon me with a suspicious expression which almost gave me pain. 
               "I-I-that is-you-not I-I mean to say, madame, that you fainted!" was my stammering, blundering speech, which unwittingly betrayed my knowledge of her secret. 
               "Her face, which but a few moments before was of almost alabaster whiteness, was now of a crimson hue. She collected her scattered senses and burst into a flood of tears. I endeavored to console her, but I was too much agitated myself to afford her relief. 
               "Oh, sir!" she at length said, sobbingly; "pity me and do not betray my secret! I am but a poor helpless girl-an orphan-and-but no matter-I cannot impart to a stranger my hapless story." 
               "I have not sought to know your secret; and believe me, before you had swooned in a state of unconsciousness I had no thought of your being other than one of my own sex. In endeavoring to restore you the real fact forced itself to my knowledge. Pardon me-I could not avoid-" 
               "Oh, sir, pardon me for having given you so much trouble," she said, interrupting my speech. "I can repay you only with gratitude; but let me beseech you not to betray my sex!" 
               "You may rely upon me, be assured. Yet, if you will permit me to offer a word of advice, you will not object to my revealing this discovery to the commanding general, that I may obtain your discharge; and it shall then be my duty to restore you to your friends, wherever they may reside." 
               "You are very kind, sir; but it is my earnest desire to remain with the regiment. I cannot leave poor Harry Robeson. He is the best friend I have in the world. I cannot, sir, leave him." 
               "Perhaps, as he is wounded, I may also obtain his discharge," I suggested. 
               "It must not be," she replied, with an anxious, nervous look. "That he may remain with the regiment will be our earnest prayer." 
               There was something in her manner, and in the expression of her beautiful countenance, which convinced me that all my persuasiveness could not change her determination. Yet I ventured to describe the hardships she would be compelled to undergo; the dangers of the field, the march, and the bivouac; the almost certainty that, sooner or later, her sex must be discovered; and finally, and above all, the rude life she would have to lead among soldiers who were not fitted for the companionship of one so gentle, so fair, so intelligent and refined as she appeared to be. 
               "I know all-I have counted the cost-but my motives outweigh all," was her only reply to my strong suggestions. 
               "If it be your only desire to remain with the regiment, why not doff those unbecoming habiliments and don those of a fashion that will become a woman?" said I, suggestively, as an idea struck me which I thought she might possibly consider with some favor. 
               "Because there would be no service which could be assigned to a young, inexperienced girl like me. In an army women are wanted only for hospital nurses, for washing officers' clothing, or for other laborious duties, which I should not be competent to perform. 
               "You are quite right. It is a pity that our regiments, like those of France, are not accustomed to have Vivandieres. Such a position you may well be adapted for." 
               "Ah, yes! Indeed, I should like that position beyond all places else; but it is not to be for a moment presumed that such a character would be allowed in any regiment of this army." 
               "I am not quite so certain of that. Our general is an approachable man, kind and noble-hearted; and will oftentimes stretch a point beyond the prescribed regulations, when, by so doing, and without detriment to the service, he can bring happiness out of misery." 
               A ray of hope and gratitude illumined the transcendantly-beautiful girl, at the possibility that arrangements might be made by which she could remain with the regiment, don the garments of her sex, and be useful to soldiers in the hours of their extremest need. 
               "I perceive that the suggestion pleases you," I resumed, "and therefore, on the first opportunity the matter shall be brought before our generous-hearted general. Meanwhile, accept the hospitalities of my tent. To-night I shall be on guard duty, and may not have an opportunity to visit you before morning." 
               She expressed her gratitude in the strongest language, and I bade her "good night," for I knew that my presence, with the scanty accommodations for sleeping would much embarass my charming incognito. 
               The following day the ever-memorable battle of Shiloh was fought, which gave me no opportunity whatever to visit my quarters until late in the evening. 
               In the early part of the day both my captain and first lieutenant were killed, and I found myself in command of the company in which I was but a private twenty-four hours previous. 
               A desperate bayonet charge was made early in the afternoon, upon a strong battery supported by infantry, and it was our company's good fortune to be a little in advance of the line. We caused the enemy to retreat hastily, and captured a stand of colors. In this charge I received a bullet in the arm, but binding the wound instantly with my handkerchief, it gave me but little or no inconvenience. 
               The general, with his staff, rode up a moment afterwards, halted before my command, which I drew up in tolerable order and presented arms. He saluted, and congratulated me on our "great success," as he was pleased to term it, and concluded by saying- 
               "Young man, consider yourself promoted. Such gallant conduct shall never go unrewarded while U. S. G. commands." 
               With these words he hastened on to animate and urge forward the less precipitate portions of the charging line. At the point of the bayonet the rebels were driven far distant from the strong position they had occupied during the morning, and left us masters of the field. 
               The onset was a truly desperate one; we lost heavily, but it gave us the victory-a victory that dearly and forcibly taught our boasting foe that the "mudsills" of the North and West were fully the equals of the "chivalric sons of the South," in all that pertains to courage, energy and strategy. 
               Half famished and half exhausted with the fatigues of the day-for we had not rested or partaken of food since the morning-we were ordered to stack arms and bivouac on the field we had so gallantly won. Rations were served while guard mounting was going on, and then the troops found repose and rest on the battle-ploughed ground, with no other covering than the illimitable space above. 
               But my duties for the night were not done. A large detail was made to accompany our wounded to the rear; and another to bury the heaps of slain. 
               It fell to my lot to command the former for our regiment, and late in the evening we reached the camping-ground we had chosen on the previous night. 
               The moment that my last duty was performed I staggered faintingly and almost sick towards my quarters. I should have fallen to the earth at the threshold of the tent, had not my fair guest met me at the moment, and taking a firm grasp of my right arm, sustained me to a soldier's couch she had prepared for my reception. 
               She had anticipated my wants, and had prepared for me an invigorating beverage which had an immediate revivifying effect, and also some food that gave me strength. 
               "You are wounded," said she, with some alarm, noticing that I took off my coat with great care, and also the handkerchief which was bound round my left arm. 
               "But slightly," I replied. 
               "I will run for the surgeon." 
               "First, tell me how your little friend Harry gets on?" 
               "Oh, well," she replied; "he is doing much better than I anticipated. He manifests no impatience whatever, and obeys the surgeon's instructions so implicitly that he will quite recover in a few days," and she hastened off to the surgeon's quarters, whom she persuaded to come at once notwithstanding his hands were full of patients at the time. 
               The doctor was an adept in his profession. A removal of the bandage, an examination and probing of the perforation-the insertion of an instrument that brought forth the leaden sphere-the closing of the wound with a viscous salve-the winding about of a bandage, and the work was done. 
               "Does it give you pain?" he asked. 
               "None that can deprive me of a sound sleep for this night at least," I replied. 
               "Keep the arm in a sling for a few days; have the wound dressed daily, and, take my word for it, it will not trouble you long." 
               After a minute's conversation with the surgeon with reference to the casualties of the day, he took his leave, and I was again the only companion of Virginia Graham, alias Oscar Shelby, (the name I after-wards learned she represented on the musteroll,) and the sleeping Harry Robeson. 
               "I will go to the quarters of the drum-corps," said she. "Harry will sleep, I think, until morning, when I shall beg the privilege of coming to your tent to see him, and to thank you for permitting him to remain here." 
               "Ah, but you forget that I am captain now, and I have detailed you to be his nurse. You must not leave him." 
               I saw by the expression of anxiety and tenderness upon her countenance, that she would infinitely prefer remaining with him, but if I read aright she felt a little delicacy in remaining under the same canvas with me now that her sex was revealed. She was embarrassed, and she feared to cause me embarrassment. To reassure her, I spoke thus plainly: 
               "Give me your entire confidence, and believe me it shall not be abused. If you go to your comrades, at least as rude as myself, their very ignorance of your sex might compel your ears to be shocked by ribald jests or unbecoming language; and, although you may have kept your secret long and well, yet you run the possible risk of its being discovered. Here you shall be treated and respected as if you were under the care and protectorship of a brother instead of a stranger. The blanket shall divide our tent for the night. To stretch it across will require your assistance." 
               With my sound arm I unstrapped from my knapsack a piece of canvas, which we managed with little trouble to suspend from two sides of the tent, dividing the space, leaving a cosy corner for my guest. 
               While this little domestic arrangement of my temporary household was being made, she spoke not a word; but when all was finished, and she saw how admirably it was adapted to the peculiar circumstances, her heart, full to bursting, gave way to a flood of tears. 
               "Do not thus afflict yourself," I said, with a tenderness really felt. 
               "Ah, sir," she replied sobbingly; "these are not tears of affliction; they are tears of joy-of gratitude-gratitude to you, sir." 
               She bade me an affectionate "good night," and with a trusting heart sought that repose which she so much required after the mental and physical fatigue she had endured. 
               That night, in my inaudible prayer for my loved one at home, I did not forget the fair being whom Providence had thrown under my care; and before I was lulled into the land of visions, I made a resolution that I would assume protectorship over her while she remained with the army-that I would act towards her only as an affectionate brother would act towards his sister. 
               I had a dream-a sweet dream-that night. I would here relate it, did it not foreshadow, in many essential particulars, the sequel of this narrative. The effect of the vision upon my mind did not in any degree tend towards changing the course of conduct I had marked out; for, like the Hibernian, I fully believed that "drames always go by conthraries." 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               MAJOR JENEFER'S IMPERTINENCE-THE GENERAL'S MAGNANIMITY. 
               The quaking of the earth by the morning gun aroused me from a refreshing slumber; the reveille was beaten within a dozen yards from my quarters, and when I went forth to assume my duties I was not a little surprised to find my charming incognita-with a countenance gleaming with youth, beauty and even gladness-beating the drum as energetically as any boy of the corps. 
               She gave me a single glance, expressive of a grateful heart, and then resumed her military bearing. It was strange to me, as I now looked upon her, that I did not before penetrate the simple disguise which made her appear to the casual observer as of another sex; and I also wondered that her young companions of the drum could be so blind as to suppose that that easy, graceful form, those angelic features, those small hands with the taper fingers, those feet and ancles, so symmetrically fashioned, belonged to one of their own sex. I was sure such a secret could not long be kept, and for her sake I was more firmly determined that she should appear in propria person as soon as the first preliminary in my plan could be gained. 
               It was no part of my programme that she should again appear with the drum-corps; but I had forgotten that I had taken no steps to relieve her from her position; and, like a true soldier, she appeared at reveille to perform her duty. 
               The moment parade was dismissed I beckoned her towards me, and we entered our quarters together; but at the threshold I was startled, and an icy coldness crept through my veins, as the dark, basilisk eyes of the major of our regiment met mine, with an expression which seemed to say:-I have discovered your secret, Captain Manly-enjoy it while you can-there 'll be a brilliant denouement soon. 
               He was standing within twelve feet of me, and I was satisfied that he had gazed upon my incognita with libdinous eyes-an offence for which I felt that he deserved to have a bullet sent to his heart. 
               Jefferson Jenefer began his military career as major and was a major still, and there was little hope of his promotion, for he had been "jumped" twice. 
               He had served in every battle in which the regiment had been engaged, but his conduct had been such as not to have inspired the confidence of his superiors, nor had it been such as to warrant an enquiry therein. 
               He was one of those negative characters who never hold opinions of their own, and who are ever sufficiently careful of their actions as not to merit absolute denunciation. He never refused to obey an order, but if there was danger in its execution, he was sure to see that it was performed by his subordinates. 
               In battle, when dangers did not shower all about him, he played a most gallant part; but when it came to the "tug of war," our major was sure to be in the rear with a terrible attack of the colic or rheumatism. 
                
               On one occasion a chance ball had grazed the pommel of his saddle;-a sharp cut across the left wristband of his coat, he attested, was made by the same bullet. Nobody disputed him, but he was not believed. 
               Yet he was a man of good address, of prepossessing appearance, and evidently born and bred to be a gentleman; but he had mistaken his vocation when his doubtful patriotism led him to join the army; and the governor who signed his commission must either have done it from sheer favoritism, or he was most egregiously imposed upon by Jenefer's friends, or by Jenefer himself. 
               He had studied law at the university and was admitted to practice in the courts of Illinois, but he never practised at any bar where whiskey was not dispensed, and knew no law except the law of games laid down by Judge Hoyle. 
               In brief, he was a notorious gamester-an artful roue-an accomplished villain; though he possessed not sufficient courage to play the assassin, the burglar or the pickpocket. 
               Such was the man-although I then was not fully aware of the dark traits of his character-who had, as I felt sure, penetrated the veil of a mystery which other shrewd observers had failed to do. From that moment he was my most hated enemy, and I suddenly conceived the notion that through his diabolical acts I should be forced to endure much trouble. 
               That glance-that single, meaning glance-had given me the most torturing suspicions; and for several minutes a crowd of imaginary evils so pressed upon me that any but a complacent expression must have lingered upon my features, and it was noticed by my companion, for she said to me the moment we were within the tent: 
               "You look not well, Captain Manly." 
               I shook off my anxious forebodings, and replied: 
               "Oh, yes, I never was in better health; a refreshing sleep last night has quite restored me; and as for this trifling perforation of my arm, be assured it shall in no way interfere with my duties. I trust that you are equally well, for you looked the picture of health while beating the reveille this morning, a duty which I did not mean that you should again perform." 
               "But you are not angry with me for doing my duty?" 
               "Oh, no; rather am I angry with myself that I have not before this sought to relieve you. But how is Harry this morning?" 
               "His wound heals rapidly; I dressed it before reveille, and, as you perceive, he sleeps again," she answered, as she raised a little curtain which she had hung up before his couch. 
               "Sleep is good for him," I remarked; and then, after a silence of some moments, during which the major was uppermost in my thoughts, I asked: "Do you know Major Jenefer?" 
               "Only as privates know their officers," she replied. "Yet," she continued, after a moment's hesitation, "he spoke to me for the first time this morning, and very kindly, too, for he enquired after the health of Harry." 
               "Have you no suspicion that he has discovered your secret?" I asked. 
               That complacent expression suddenly gave way to a doubtful, anxious look; a slight tremor was perceptible, agitating her whole frame; and it was likewise indicated in the tones of her voice, when she said, after nearly a minute's hesitation: 
               "I certainly had none-but now, I feel that that man has indeed discovered that which I would conceal from all but you and little Harry, who know all." 
               "Beware of him," I remarked. "I know but little of him, but I feel that he is capable of working much mischief." 
               "I shall be guided in my conduct, Captain Manly, soley by you, for in you I repose all confidence. I feel that your friendship is real-that your sympathy is genuine -that whatever you do I shall regard as right and proper. Yet, do not sacrifice a single principle, a slight comfort, or burthen yourself with anxieties for me; for, as much as I stand in need of a protecting arm, I would not willingly monopolize a thought or a moment of time that could in any possible way be a disparagement to your comfort or advancement." 
               "I think that you would not-I feel that you would not," I replied, with emphasis; "and, to be as frank with you as you have been with me, I must say, with all sincerity, that it seems as if it were a selfish principle that incites me to look after your welfare and promote your happiness. It is a feeling which I cannot account for, though I am certain it is an honest one. I might mistrust myself were it not that-as you have already been informed-my heart is as fervently bound up with that of another as ever a lover's was for his mistress; and sooner than violate, in the slightest degree, the solemn pledge that I made to her at the altar, I would place this loaded pistol to my temple and blow out my brains." 
               "I believe you," she said, with earnestness, extending her hand, which I siezed and pressed involuntarily to my lips. I should have done the same thing had the adored partner of my life been present. 
               We now seemed to understand the true relations in which we stood toward each other; but I confess I was at fault in understanding myself so far as relates to the irresistible, unaccountable interest I had conceived in this adventurous, beautiful being, who had accidentally become linked, as it were, with my fate. 
               At an hour when I knew that the general commanding our division was approachable by officers of the line, I wended my way towards his quarters, and gained a ready admittance into his presence. As I passed in Major Jenefer passed out. His errand, I felt impressed, boded no good to me or my fair friend. His big, black eyes met mine with an exulting stare, and I returned it with a scowl of defiance. 
               The general, fortunately, was alone. I saluted him with an air of dignified respect, which he returned, and then bade me be seated on a camp-stool near him. 
               "Capt Manly," said he, "you were the last man in my thoughts," and as if he divined the purpose of my visit, he added-"Major Jenefer has been here." 
               "Yes, general; but I know not that this fact can have any connection with my mission here." 
               "Perhaps not, captain, perhaps not; but to be frank with you, I will tell you that his errand here has near relation to you." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "He has informed me that you have in your quarters a woman in the disguise of a drummer-boy. If so, you need not be told that it is contrary to the rules of the service; that it is a violation that cannot be tolerated, and must compromise the character and standing of every officer who dares indulge in it." 
               He spoke bluntly and earnestly, and for a few moments quite confused me; but reassuring myself, and taking time to frame a truthful and respectful reply, I said: 
               "Major Jenefer has, indeed, told you the truth; and perhaps he deserves commendation for being so prompt a tale-bearer." 
               "Be cautious in your language towards a superior officer," suggested the general. 
               "Pardon me, general; I only desired to say that he has shown more zeal and alacrity than myself in revealing to you the simple truth that a drummer-boy, who was accidentally thrown upon my protection at the close of our first day's battle, turns out to be a young, accomplished, and beautiful girl. The discovery was made in the presence of the surgeon of our regiment, who will attest to the circumstance. She had fainted and become unconscious while the doctor was examining the wound of a boy of not more than fourteen years of age, to whom she appears pears to be much attached. I undertook the task of restoring to consciousness the person whom I supposed to be a boy, but in loosening the wardrobe the interesting fact was revealed to me." 
               "This gives a new phase to the matter; but the major intimated that this disguised person had been a sharer of your quarters for some time; and that you were on such terms as could not fail to give good cause for suspicion of improper conduct." 
               "Then I charge him with being a prying, meddling busy-body-a slanderer-a--" 
               "Beware, captain; it were better for you to use these harsh invectives to the major's face than to me. I desire only to know the truth-confine yourself exclusively to the matter which brought you here. I will listen patiently." 
               This reproof served to appease my rising anger. I then commenced a narration of not only the prominent facts, but all the minor details, from the moment that the two drummers became an object of interest to me, not even neglecting to rehearse, as near as I could remember, all the conversation that passed between us; and also the wishes she had expressed after her secret was made known, and the resolve I had made to reveal the facts, in confidence, to my general, and intercede for her in that which I had suggested for her welfare, with her full acquiescence, while she remained with the regiment, or in the army." 
               The heroic man listened with evident interest to my simple story, and replied,- 
               "Your tale is quite romantic, captain; and as I make it a rule of life never to act without full knowledge of a subject, I shall at this time neither refuse nor grant your request. Without doubting the truth of your story, my caution impels me to summon hither immediately the surgeon of your regiment. Meanwhile go to your own quarters and send hither this drummer-girl. Let her come in the disguise which she has assumed. Furthermore, let me caution you against having any communication, either personal or otherwise, with Major Jenefer; for I perceive that your temperament is of that Hotspur nature which cannot brook an insult." 
               Thanking him for giving the matter as favorable a consideration as could have been expected, I saluted him, passed out of the tent, and hastened to my own quarters, with the intention of sending my fair one to the general without delay; but owing to a suggestion from her-after I had communicated the results of my visit-that she had better wait until after the surgeon's interview with the general; and also, because, in my absence, she had prepared a nice breakfast, that was then in waiting, I of course yielded. 
               Our breakfast of coffee, eggs, jerked beef and "hard tack," was discussed with a relish; the more so, perhaps, from the fact that the third member of my young military family was enabled to partake of it with us. Yes, little Harry was in the best of spirits to think that his companion and himself had fallen into such good hands, and into such comfortable quarters. 
               As soon as breakfast was over the object of my solicitous regard re-arranged her toilet with a little more care than drummer-boys are wont to take, and sallied forth towards the divisionary head-quarters. She stepped with quite a martial air, and there was that in her whole demeanor which savored of confidence in herself that she could not fail in the mission she had undertaken; although, for the first time, she was going into the general's presence; and also, in disguise, and fully aware that her long-kept secret had been divulged to him. 
               She had not been absent ten minutes ere I began to be impatient for her return. To pass away the time I chatted with Harry Robeson, whom I found to be an agreeable little fellow, and intelligent beyond his years. I ventured two or three times to draw him into conversation touching his affectionate companion; but quite in vain-he avoided that topic with the skill of a diplomatist. I looked at him many times with unusual penetration, lest I might be deceived as to his sex; but that was now impossible-I could not be deceived again; there was not in fact a feminine quality about him-he was boy from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot-coarse-featured, coarse-limbed, ruddy complexion and rough voice; but for all these he was a sturdy, fine-looking, noble youth; just such a specimen of our race as might make, twenty years hence, an able statesman, a general of an army, or the admiral of a fleet. 
               Fifty minutes elapsed-it seemed two hours-when my fair guest returned. I gazed into her countenance for the evidence of complete success in her mission, but I was puzzled-I could read neither failure nor success. 
               She handed me two official-looking envelopes. One was directed to me and sealed. The other contained no superscription, and was not sealed. I read the latter first. Its substance was, giving to Virginia Graham permission to remain in the army, attached to the-th Regiment Illinois Volunteers, as Vivandiere. 
               "Why, is not this all that you desired?" 
               "O, yes, but I almost feared that there may be some conditions in that letter to you which will render the position less desirable. I would not be separated from Harry; neither would I--" 
               She hesitated. 
               I broke the seal of my letter and read its brief contents. It was as follows: 
               
                  "To CAPT. MANLY.-To avoid scandal, the Vivandiere, Miss Virginia Graham, must be provided with quarters suitable for one of her sex. Otherwise the permission she holds to remain in the army must be revoked. I would suggest the propriety of obtaining some reputable elderly woman about the camp, (though I confess to my chagrin such persons are exceedingly scarce,) to quarter with her, or, what would be better still, a "contraband woman," who would be her protectress as well as servant. I am sure your charming protegee is a lady of good parentage and correct principles, but there is a mystery attached to her which, perhaps, better remain with her, as she has sufficient intelligence, I think, to guide her actions aright. If I was pained with any suspicions touching your own motives, I am now most happy to say that I am entirely relieved of them."
                
               This brief epistle was in the general's own hand-writing, and was marked "Confidential." There was a postscript attached which simply read-"The Vivandiere must be entered on the muster-roll. Rank, pay and rations, same as sergeant." 
               Without reading this note to her whom my commander had styled my protegee, I explained to her the conditions which it prescribed. They were precisely what my own sense of propriety had already conceived, though I scarcely knew where to look for a suitable person to be her companion; and it is due to her to state that she had likewise considered the subject, a fact which I subsequently learned from Harry Robeson. 
               "The conditions are by no means insurmountable," said I, after my brief explanation; "and as soon as battalion drill is over I will make it my business to make inquiries and look about the camp." 
               "You are too kind; but that trouble I can save you. There are several women in the employ of the sutlers, one of whom I have already in my mind, and who can be induced for a consideration to occupy my quarters at least for the night." 
               "Engage her at any price, and I will be responsible for the expense." 
               "You shall be relieved of all pecuniary liability on my account, for I have plenty of money, as you shall be convinced;" she replied, as she thrust her hand into a deep pocket and produced a handful of gold. "When this is gone I have more in as good currency as Uncle Sam can supply. Oh! I am so happy that everything can be satisfactorily arranged." 
                
               "But there is one thing you have not yet thought of." 
               "What can it be? Surely I have tried to think of everything." 
               "You must doff the uniform of the drummer-boy, and don that of a Vivandiere." 
               "Just as though a woman should have no thought of her dress," she said laughingly. "Why, it is contrary to the law of nature, captain. One of my sex might forget to eat until she was starving, and to drink until her tongue was parched for lack of moisture, but she could never forget, under any circumstances, her wardrobe. In my knapsack I have a scanty supply, as you shall soon be convinced." 
               She left me and retired to her corner of the tent, and in the course of twenty minutes re-appeared, attired in a dark, simple dress, which was extremely becoming. All appearance of boyishness had disappeared, and she now stood before me a beautiful being, just in the bloom of young womanhood. 
               "But that dress will not answer the purpose of a Vivandiere," I remarked, as I gazed upon her with admiration and pride. 
               Ah, but it must answer until an appropriate costume can be made for me, and I assure you that it is already fashioned in my mind; and if the proper materials can be furnished from the sutler's stores, I shall not be long wanting a dress that shall be becoming to my new position." 
               As she spoke she placed upon her head a straw hat, decorated with ribbons and the white wing of a dove, which gave an additional charm to a face already radiant with loveliness. 
               "I'll be back soon, captain. Good-bye, Harry. Don't be impatient if I should happen to be absent the whole of half an hour," she said, as she walked forth, now bearing herself with the grace of a sylph rather than with that martial air she had assumed when marching towards the general's head quarters an hour previously. 
               I could not refrain from following this strange, beautiful and fascinating being with my eyes until she had disappeared from my view by turning down one of the tent-bordered streets which ran at right-angles from the broad avenue on which my tent was pitched; but it gave me no pleasure to witness a hundred pairs of curious eyes also gazing upon her, and probably their owners wondering at the appearance of such a beautiful vision within the lines of that city of canvas, guns and gunpowder, and inhabited by beings almost exclusively of the ruder sex. 
               I little cared if she had passed in review the whole of our division, but I felt chagrined, mortified and angered, when I observed Major Jefferson Jenefer call about him a group of officers for the purpose of pointing her out, and without doubt to regale them with a surfeit of foul-mouthed slander at her expense and mine. 
               I stifled my rising anger with the thought that the poltroon major was beneath every gentleman's notice, and that those who gave ear to his irony or slander knew him to be a liar, a gamester, a puppy and poltroon. Yet I almost prayed for a sufficient provocation to serve as an excuse for a deadly encounter with him, being fully impressed that I knew him thoroughly-that I could read his profoundest thoughts-that his deepest intents I could discover. 
               From that hour I resolved never to go forth from my quarters without being armed, not only with sabre and dagger, but with a brace of revolvers. This resolve was made for the purpose of being well prepared for any emergency-especially for an appeal to the code of honor, an alternative which I seriously hoped might arise. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               SHARP SHOOTING-THE PERILOUS MISSION-DISAPPEARANCE OF LA VIVANDIERE. 
               The day following and the day succeeding brought no great changes either in the army of the Tennessee, or in my own little military family; for during those days a violent storm prevailed, and the rain fell almost incessantly in torrents, rendering a collision of the belligerent forces almost impossible, or skirmishing practicable, and caused the suspension of the usual camp parades and drills. Officers and soldiers, except those detailed for guard duty, kept quiet within their tents. 
               On the third morning the sun arose in unclouded splendor, and all was bright and cheerful again. 
               Orders were promulgated to prepare for an advance; that preparation signified the putting of arms and equipments in condition for a thorough inspection; the packing of knapsacks; the drawing of three days' rations, and the careful depositing of the same in haversacks. 
               These duties occupied all the morning. In the afternoon, parade, review and inspection of arms. Our hours for "off duty" that day were curtailed precisely sixty minutes, for "tattoo" and "taps" were beaten an hour earlier than usual, which clearly indicated that sometime during the night we should be aroused to strike our tents for an early march. 
               The routine of that day's duty was only broken by a slight incident, which, though in itself hardly worthy of note, has a distinct bearing upon the thread of our story. 
               Virginia Graham, the beautiful Vivandiere, on that afternoon, appeared in campfully attired in a chaste, picturesque costume, with the usual equipments of one of her calling; but in addition to that which seemed necessary to complete the character she had assumed, she carried in her belt a pair of silver-mounted revolvers, a short hanger, and a murderous looking poniard or dirk. These weapons certainly did not seem becoming to one of so much loveliness, although I could not help surmising that they were intended rather for ornament than use; for no one could have suspected that there was any danger in them while in her possession. 
               "Dunder and blitzen, Major Jenefer!" exclaimed Lieutenant Kreissman, one of our general's aids, who, with other officers, were passing away the hour after sunset in displaying their skill at pistol shooting; "look dere! dere ish a peaudiful beddycoad. She comsh dish way." 
               "Ha, ha!" replied the Major, "that is Captain Manly's agreeable companion. A day or two since she was a drummer-boy in jacket and pants; and now,-bless me!-she's metamorphosed into a camp-follower-a regular Vivandiere! I'll ask her to try a shot at the target, for I see she carries a fine looking brace of Smith and Wesson's latest pattern." 
               "Bistols! Mine Cot! Such a peaudiful laty wid bistols!" again essayed the Teutonic lieutenant. "She never will haf ter courage to bull der drigger." 
               "Ah! Vivandiere!" accosted Major Jenefer, "will you try a shot at our target? It is only fifteen paces, and is of the circumference of a dollar. There are shots all about it, but no one has penetrated it. You have a keen eye-a steady hand-and the handsomest brace of pistols in the army." 
               "Thank you for your invitation, Major Jenefer," she replied, as if she had not detected a vein of irony in his tones. "What! the target not hit?" 
               "Very nearly, however. I have a shot within an inch of its upper circle. Lieutenant Kreissman has one a trifle better, and Captain Desha one better still." 
               "And there goes one that beats them all," said the Vivandiere, as she quickly drew one of her pistols, and cocking it while it described a half circle above her head, she then fired. 
                
               The ball actually found the centre of the target, to the astonishment of all who were engaged in the sport. 
               "Mine Cot! Dat ish vot I calls tam splendid shooting!" exclaimed the Dutchman. 
               "A splendid chance shot," quietly remarked Major Jenefer. "It can't be done once in a thousand times." 
               "You have no faith, Major," replied Virginia, as she discharged another pistol. 
               "And you have missed," he replied, "your second shot is as wide of the mark as your first was close." 
               "I have four more bullets in this pistol, and one of them, I'm quite sure, will find that target's centre," said Virginia, and she discharged the four in rapid succession. 
               "All failures," exclaimed the major. 
               "If you will examine the target I think you will mend your speech," said she, in a slightly sarcastic tone. 
               One of the officers, whose keen eyes detected a little elongation of the dark circle in the centre of the target, took pains to make the examination. To his surprise he found that not only a second ball had followed the first, but that the entire six bullets from her weapon had entered the perforation first made; and after a little cutting into the tree on which the target had been placed, he produced a plug of lead some two inches in length, almost straight, and showing the lines where each successive shot was joined to the other. 
               This almost incredible feat, the author acknowledges, has been claimed for one or two other heroic sharpshooters; but, most probably, it was never before performed by any marksman, except by Captain Martin Scott, U. S. A.-who is now no more. His brother officers of that day stoutly maintained that he actually accomplished the feat, and that it must be received with more credibility than the "Coon" story which has so often been published. 
               "By dunder and blitzen; put I dinks she must have porrowed ter silver pullet of Dor Freischutz!" exclaimed the Dutchman, raising both hands expressive of his wonder. 
               "You have performed almost a miracle," said the surprised officer who had cut the united bullets from the tree's trunk. 
               "No, gentlemen; I have only shown you that a woman may be as dangerous with such a weapon in her possession as one of the lords of creation," replied Virginia, with her full, lustrous eye beaming with a sinister meaning upon the redoubtable Major Jenefer. 
               "Wolves and wolverines!" essayed a long, lank private, who belonged to a company of sharpshooters from Michigan, who rejoiced in the euphonious soubriquet of Longrange; I hev seen some sharp shewtin' in my day, but may I never pop another reb if I ever seed anything to beat that. With this ere shewtin'-iron," he continued, patting the barrel of a long rifle that looked as if it had seen no little service; "I hov sent bullets inter deer and wolves on the jump, and inter wild fowl on the wing, but I never plump'd zackly the same spot with two bullets. I say, young leddy, whar war you raised?" 
               "In Missouri," she replied. 
               "And whar did you l am to shewt?" 
               "In the army." 
               "I thort you must ha' been born with pistils in yer hands, and fed on peowder and bullets. If ever thar war a nateral sharp shooter you ar' one. Must ha' been born so, for I never seed but one gal who cud shewt a bar at a hundred yards, and that gal's my wife; and she's prouder than a general's aid that she can do it. It 'll take the starch right out on her when I cum to tell her what I've seed down here. If ever you're in a tight fix, call on Zeke Long range and he'll git you out on 't if he has to run his legs off thru shot and brimstone." 
               "Thank you for your good intentions, Mr. Longrange; "but I trust that no oc casion will occur for such a perilous enterprise on my account." 
               "Hillo! there cums our gin'ral!" 
               "Good evening, gentlemen," said the commander of the corps, as he answered the salute of the small group of officers and privates who had been practising at the target; "I have important business for an active, intelligent young man, who is willing to peril his life for his country's cause. The enterprise will be fraught with great danger; therefore I would not impose the task upon any one. It must be performed by the voluntary act of a patriotic and heroic heart." 
               No one appeared ready to respond to this proposition. All seemed to be suddenly struck into a brown study. They looked as if the halter of a spy was already about their necks. 
               My naturally repulsive nature made me resolve in my mind to respond to the general's proposition; and I was actually about to step forth, when Virginia's gaze met mine, with her finger on her lip, and an expression of entreaty upon her countenance, which clearly abjured me to forego my suddenly-conceived intention. 
               Her power over me was complete, and my resolution to be a hero, and perchance a martyr, dissolved in an instant. 
               "Well, gentlemen," continued the general, "I cannot reprove you for shrinking from perils greater than those we have already encountered and are liable to encounter any day; but a volunteer must be found for the emergency, for it is of the utmost importance. 
               He tarried for a few moments in silence, and then turning on his heel, walked away. 
               With an almost conscience-stricken heart, I repaired to my quarters. Virginia had preceded me. After indulging in reflections of an unpleasant nature for nearly half an hour, I determined to ask her why she had intimated to me that I must not respond to my commander's wishes; but on calling for her for that purpose, Harry Robeson, who had not yet quite recovered from his wound, informed me that she had left the tent immediately on my coming in. 
               This circumstance had nothing suspicious in it, nor did the fact that, when she returned shortly afterwards, her face was unusually flushed, and she was evidently laboring under a state of mental excitement only equalled by that on the occasion of my discovering her sex. I remarked, when she entered: 
               "Well, Virginia, I did not volunteer." 
               "Oh! I'm so glad that you did not, for you would have left your company in charge of your lieutenant, who, it is no disparagement to say, is not fit to command. Besides, Harry Robeson would have lost the care and protection of his captain, which he so much needs." 
               "Had I not caught your meaning glance at the moment of the general's call, I should have responded." 
               "Yes, captain,-I knew it-I saw it, and I rejoice that I prevented it. Another can better be spared than you." 
               It must be confessed that I felt a little piqued that she possessed such an unbounded influence over me, but my tongue could utter no words of reproof. Fate had, for some purpose or another, linked her destiny with mine, and with pleasurable emotions I awaited her decrees. 
               The next few hours both officers and privates were fully occupied in preparations for an advance. Before midnight orders were promulgated to strike tents. In repairing to my quarters I enquired for Virginia. Harry Robeson placed in my hands a sealed note, and as he did so tears flowed down his cheeks. 
               "Pray, what is the matter?" was my tremulous ejaculation, as with trembling hands I tore the envelope from the missive. 
               "She told me that she would return in a few days," he replied; "but, perhaps, the letter will explain." 
               It was written in a neat, delicate style of chirography; but to my consternation I read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR CAPTAIN.-The general's mission which you would have accepted has devolved upon me. I sought the position and obtained it, after impressing upon our valiant commander's mind that it was ordained by Fate that I should be the humble instrument of its fulfilment. When we meet again all shall be explained and my adventures recounted. Till then entertain not a blameful thought for the poor Vivandiere, in whom you have taken so great an interest, and for whom you have done so much. I go on my mission forthwith, and ere morning I shall be many miles from camp. A fleet horse, saddled and bridled, stands ready for my use at headquarters. Adieu, and believe in the grateful heart of 
                           
                              VIRGINIA GRAHAM."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Great God!" was my involuntary ejaculation on concluding this brief letter.-Thoughts of peril upon peril to that heroic and beautiful maiden, who had, doubtless, given herself as a martyr to her country. I wondered that our general should have entrusted any duty of a hazardous nature to a woman-especially to one so young and so lovely. I questioned his wisdom-his prudence-aye, even his humanity! I became indignant, and determined on the first opportunity to break the subject to him, notwithstanding it was too late to mend the matter. 
               Poor Harry Robeson! He was afflicted, but his sorrow found vent in a flood of tears. I, too, was afflicted, but the sorrow was pent up in my heart-a heart heavy with grief for the maiden's absence, and anger for the indiscreet general who had ordered it. 
               Still a ray of hope dawned upon my mind. I might be doing a gross injustice to the man in whom we thus far had almost unlimited confidence; that, perhaps, after all, he had only sent her to the rear with despatches to the commander of reinforcements daily expected; and that my preconceived apprehensions that the duty to be performed-to wit: that of a spy-might be entirely groundless. 
               Had not the general openly declared that the mission would be fraught with perils, my mind would have enjoyed comparative ease; but as it was, I must undergo constant mental torture, until my fears could be dispelled by her return, or undoubted assurances of her safety. 
               Before daylight the next morning the grand army was in motion. Our corps led the advance; and without describing our arduous marches, our frequent skirmishes, our great battles, which history has made familiar to the American mind, I will quietly encamp the victorious army of soldiers before the strongly-entrenched city of Vicksburg, with the single remark that the general of our corps at Pittsburg Landing and Shiloh, was now the commander of the grand army of the Mississippi. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               VICKSBURG-THE PICK AND THE SPADE-REBEL HAND-GRENADES AND YANKEE BULLETS-A NEW STYLE OF MAIL-BAG. 
               VICKSBURG!-the boasted stronghold of the rebels-the once-noted town of gamblers, slave-drivers, slave-stealers, thieves and lynchers-is situated on an uneven bluff of the Mississippi, four hundred miles from New Orleans, and fifty miles from Jackson, the capital of the State. 
               Its position for defence was deemed admirable, and in the hands of skilful engineers, and a brave, patriotic garrison, with adequate supplies, it might have defied all the powers of Federal resources, strategy and ingenuity. 
               But our brave general had well counted the cost; for, through some agency, which no one else understood, he possessed knowledge of every approach; of every gun mounted upon the formidable ramparts; of every pound of powder in their magazines; of every shot and shell within their works; every ration in their storehouses, and the number of troops in their barracks. 
               To ordinary minds these must have seemed too vast, too powerful to cope with or to overcome by the army who had actually fought its way through morasses, over bridges, amid storms of shot and shell, to the rear of the Gibraltar of the Mississippi, where it would receive the co-operation of a powerful gunboat fleet in its front. 
               Notwithstanding the great cause for exultation over the brilliant success thus far of the grand army of the Mississippi, I must confess that my spirits were sorely depressed. 
               Months had elapsed, and not a word of information had I received from Virginia Graham; and I should long since have mourned her as dead, had not our commander assured me that there was no cause for the anxiety I had manifested on her account. 
               Whatever information he possessed, he certainly thought it the part of wisdom to keep locked within his own breast. 
               Perhaps my extreme solicitude might have been greatly lessened had she not been kept constantly in my mind by the troubled looks and tearful eyes of Harry Robeson, who daily besought me for tidings of his good angel. 
               I could only bid the boy hope that she would re-appear at no distant day. He still occupied my quarters, and day by day my attachment to him increased; for I found him intelligent beyond his years, and as he had recovered from his wound he not only performed his duties as drummer-boy, but insisted on showing his gratitude to me by acting the part of an amanuensis, and in copying my company records, returns, &c. 
               As he was a good penman his services were of no inconsiderable value to me; for after the fatigues of the day, I was little capacitated to perform this part of a captain's duty. 
               The days, weeks and months that the army had beleagured the doomed city were those of toil, of suffering and of danger. Skirmishing with desperate detachments of the enemy, sent out to annoy us; sometimes battling with a host who vainly hoped to destroy us; and at other times replying to the cannonading from commanding bastions and from battlemented walls, made up the intervals which were not occupied with the pick and the spade in throwing up intrenchments in our slow approach. Sleep could only be obtained when the enemy were as exhausted as ourselves. 
               If our regiment held not the post of honor during this period of arduous labor and sanguinary strife, it certainly was not rivalled in its endeavors always to seek the post of danger. Our rifle pits were usually in advance of all others, and we finally succeeded, by days and nights of diligent digging, in making an approach almost directly beneath a formidable outwork, defended by ordnance of the heaviest calibre. 
               So near were we to this work of the enemy that they found no difficulty in occasionally treating us to a shower of stones thrown from the parapet, and by way of variety, a hand-grenade or two, which latter was at first a source of considerable mischief. 
               But our riflemen in the pits repaid them amply for this species of amusement; for whenever a stone-slinger or a grenade-thrower showed his head above the ramparts, woe be to him!-ten to one he would disappear without any voluntary effort on his part. 
               Our loss from these causes gradually lessened, although the enemy persisted in thus annoying us, to his own great loss; for we had so tunnelled the earth beneath the frowning battlements that the cavern served as a casemate for shielding our men, and the explosive missiles generally lost their intended effects. 
               Like so many active miners, we dug slowly into the bowels of the earth, for our grand purpose, as must be obvious to the reader, was to undermine and blow up a fortress, which stood, like many others, an impassable barrier in our victorious way. 
               To assault it would have involved too severe a loss to our conquering legions; to batter it down with such of our siege guns as could be brought within range would be but a fruitless endeavor; to attempt its destruction by shelling would have been but a waste of valuable ammunition needed for the reduction of the citadel itself. 
               Therefore, our patient but persistent general decided upon a slower, a safer and surer way to demolish a series of intrenchments which frowned upon the besiegers, like so many volcanoes, belching forth smoke and flame and tons of deadly missiles. 
               The most formidable; he determined, must be mined, and the lesser might then be more easily carried by assault. Those who carp at the use of the pick and spade, let them look to their results at Vicksburg. 
               We had prosecuted our work within a few yards of the spot marked out by our engineer for depositing the mighty agent which was to ensure death and destruction to all above, when a portion of the earth at the portal of our cave gave away. 
               Fearing that a greater mass might fall, and seal us up, as in a tomb, we all rushed forth and commenced clearing away the earth, and securing the arch above. 
               The rebels quickly discovered our plight, and being unable to bring even a musket to bear upon us, strove to annoy us by rolling down a variety of missiles into our midst, and among the rest, a score or two of hand-grenades, which produced several casualties. 
               Unfortunately, the atmosphere was so misty the riflemen in the pits could not discern them; they, therefore, for some little time, pursued their pastime with impunity, and we were compelled to expose ourselves until the damage which we accidently sustained was repaired. 
               No less than five times was I struck with the fragments of bursting grenades; but, fortunately, I escaped any serious wound. 
               "Dangnation!" exclaimed Longrange, as his eyes, nose and mouth were treated to a handful of gravel, thrown up by one of the grenades which had exploded near him. "Dangnation! I 'll not stand this ere kind o' fightin' no longer! Mayn't I gin 'em, capen, a crack or two of my rifle." 
               "It would be almost certain death to expose your head to their view," was my reply. 
               "I'll draw a bead on 'em without shewin' half a head. They can't hit me with one of them dang'd fiery snappin'-turtles. Just let me try; and if they hit me I won't ask to try again." 
               "No, that you wouldn't. If a plug of lead is lodged in your skull the army will lose a soldier that it can't afford to spare;-a soldier that's worth the lives of forty rebels." 
               "Thank yer, capen, for so bad a compliment. Dang me if I think a hundred on 'em is wuth a good sized polecat. But jest let me try and stop this ere meanest kind o' fightin', whar the pesky varmints have it all their own way, and I'll dig dirt for the next week without grumbling." 
               The sharpshooter manifested so much earnestness in his request that I finally gave him permission to try his luck, but warned him to use the extremest caution as to exposing his person. 
               He seized his rifle, and slinging his powder-horn and bullet-pouch over his shoulders, he mounted a steep embankment where he could just get range of the enemy's parapet, and stretching his long body upon the earth, waited for the re-appearance of one of the grenade throwers. 
               Before one of the latter had released the destructive weapon from his grasp, he fell backwards and disappeared. 
               A few rods beyond the spot where Long-range had ensconsed himself, he discovered a boulder, partly imbedded in the earth. It was perhaps thrice the size of a man's head. 
                
               To obtain it was a work of imminent peril, and no prudent officer would for a moment entertain a proposition from a soldier to undertake the risk of moving a single step towards it. 
               But Longrange took the fearful responsibility; and no sooner had he discharged his piece, than he crept forward on his hands and knees, seized the coveted prize, tore it from the turf in which it was strongly imbedded, and bore it to the edge of the embankment. 
               The rebels had discovered him almost on the instant, and hurled down upon him a shower of stones as a first greeting; then came half a dozen grenades, followed by three or four shots from riflemen; and, to make sure of his destruction for approaching into the very jaws of death, one of the casemate guns was actually fired upon him. 
               Strange to relate, he escaped with a whole skin; and again getting his long body into an inclined position, with his legs dangling over the edge of the embankment, and his head in the rear of the boulder, he deliberately proceeded to load and fire his piece whenever the smallest portion of a rebel became visible to his quick, keen eye. 
               One after another they would rush upon the parapet, let fly a lighted grenade, and without tarrying to watch its effects, would as suddenly fall back, unless accelerated in this last movement by the aid of the loyal rifleman's bullet. 
               At length a young looking soldier had the temerity to appear upon the parapet, and to stand at full length for some moments, surveying the scene. Longrange aimed his unerring rifle, and his finger was upon the trigger. A slight pressure of the finger would have sent a ball to the bold rebel's heart; but there was an uncertain monitor within him whispering not to fire. 
               He brought down his rifle and gazed upon the reckless young soldier; and he wondered that some trusty weapon other than his own did not cut his thread of life. 
               The youth held in his hand a grenade, but the fuse had either accidentally become extinguished, or he had himself extinguished it. After some hesitation he hurled it in the direction of the sharpshooter. It fell almost within reach of his arm; and with his face buried in his hands and resting upon the earth, he awaited the explosion; but Longrange was neither to be killed nor wounded by so wretched a war implement as a hand-grenade. 
               After waiting sufficiently long for the expected explosion, he ventured to raise his head sufficiently to take a look at the infernal machine. There it was, lying as dormant and harmless as the boulder which had been his shield from the enemy's bullets. 
               Without leaving his position, he managed, with the aid of the rammer of his rifle, to draw the grenade towards him, resolving to inspect its interior as soon as he could find opportunity. 
               Soon the mist which had veiled the earth since morning became dispelled, so that a score or more of sharpshooters from the comparatively secure rifle pits soon made it impossible for grenadiers or cannoniers to show themselves upon the parapet. 
               Longrange now withdrew from the position which he had occupied about an hour, and with the unexploded grenade reported himself to me. 
               "Thar's one o' them ere infarnal snappin'-turtles that didn't go off," said he, holding up the grenade to my view. 
               "Be careful, Longrange," I cautioned, "it may explode, even now. There's no knowing what infernal inventions our enemies may send among us that can possibly contribute to our destruction." 
               "I'll soon spile this for any harm it may do," replied the sharpshooter, as he dropped the grenade into a bucket of water. "I'll risk any vartue there is the dang'd thing now." 
               After allowing it to remain a few moments he drew out the water-soaked fuse and then proceeded to inspect its explosive contents. There was first taken out a slight quantity of wet powder; and then followed a strata of wax. 
               "Whoever made that grenade purposely cheated the rebels," I remarked. "Why, it appears as harmless as an empty canteen." 
               After the wax had been removed, he drew forth, to my infinite surprise, a sealed letter directed to "U. S. G., Major General, &c., &c., together with several other papers bearing the initials of his name merely. 
               "Ah!" I exclaimed, "this must have been thrown by some friendly hand." 
               "The youngster that throw'd it, capen, cum nigh tastin' one o' my blue pills, but somehow or nuther I couldn't pull trigger on him, and he got off with a hull hide." 
               "That's fortunate," said I, intent upon the superscription of the letter; "fortunate, too, that it has fallen into right hands. I'll away to the general's head-quarters as soon as it is dark. 
               "Major, I've been thinkin' that that thar chap what throw'd that new-fashioned mail-bag, I've sot eyes on afore, but whar and when is a poser," remarked Longrange, thoughtfully; "and mebbe, arter all, that's the rayson I didn't let my reb-killer bark at him! He was as good a target as I ever squinted at, but I hadn't a heart to fire, and I'm dang'd glad I didn't." 
               It now wanted but a few minutes of sunset, and an hour later it would be comparatively safe to go to the rear, but the moments sped like hours. Had I regarded hazarding only my own life, I should have exposed myself to the storm of shot that would inevitably follow any federal soldier who should attempt such a feat; but I felt that I possessed important despatches for our general, which had fallen into my hands in the strangest manner, and that my safety would ensure theirs. 
               No sooner did the grey shadows begin to creep over the wide plain I must traverse, than I emerged from our subterranean shelter, and with the speed of a prize-runner I rapidly increased the distance from the frowning batteries and loop-holes behind me. 
               I crossed the cleared space in safety, and reached a camp of artillery, where, making known my errand to the officer in command, I gained knowledge of the head-quarters of the general-in-chief, and also obtained a fleet steed to aid me on my journey, for I ascertained that I had nearly four miles further to travel before I should reach my place of destination. 
               With occasional halts to answer the demands of sentinels on my route, I met with no obstacles, and before "taps" were heard that night, I stood before the general's marquee demanding admittance on business of importance. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               IMPORTANT DESPATCHES-THE GENERAL-A PERILOUS ADVENTURE. 
               IT appeared that an assemblage of corps and division commanders was in consultation with their chief, and consequently a request was conveyed to me by the general's orderly that I must wait until the council should be dismissed. Thinking that it was probable I possessed despatches which might be of immediate service to the council in their deliberations, I tore a blank leaf from my diary, and wrote with a pencil thereupon these words: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "To MAJOR GENERAL GRANT. I am the bearer of despatches received this day from within the enemy's entrenchments. 
                           
                              JULIAN MANLY, 
                              Capt. Co. A,-th Illinois Vols."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               In less time than it required to write this brief note, I received a request from the general, desiring my immediate attendance. I followed the bearer into the marquee, and found myself face to face with our honored chief, surrounded by a number of the ablest generals who served under him. I saluted him, and without uttering a word placed in his hands the several papers. 
               "From whence did these come?" he asked, looking at the superscription. 
               "From within Fort Pemberton," I replied. 
               "By what means did you obtain possession of them?" 
               "They were taken from a harmless hand-grenade which was thrown over the entrenchment towards our advanced work." 
               "Know you from whom they came?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "Are you not aware, sir, that great caution is to be exercised in receiving anything that comes from the enemy in such a clandestine shape?" 
               "Yes, sir, and due caution was exercised in this case." 
               "But how do you know that each one of these envelopes does not contain some deadly material which may explode on breaking the seal?" 
               That was, indeed, a possible contingency which had not occurred to me, and I hesitated to make answer. In truth, a sense of embarrassment began to creep over me, lest I might be considered the confederate of an assassin. Before I could frame a reasonable reply the chief himself relieved me. Said he-- 
               "There is no danger to be apprehended in this case, for I recognize in the superscription the hand that penned it. For your good services in bearing these despatches so promptly to head-quarters, receive our thanks; and before returning to your quarters let me see you again. In thirty minutes I shall be at liberty to speak with you in private." 
               I saluted the chief and his subordinates and made my exit. 
               The half hour of my dismissal from the chief's presence, I passed in visiting the head-quarters of a cavalry regiment from my own State, in the immediate vicinity. Here I obtained newspapers of recent dates, and much information from my own city that we who were in the extreme advance had been several days deprived of. 
               Promptly, at the expiration of thirty minutes, I again passed the sentinels stationed before the chief's quarters, and was forthwith ushered into his presence. The council of officers had been dismissed, and he was alone. 
               He arose to receive me-greeted me cordially-and bade me occupy a camp-stool near enough to him to enable us to converse in whispers if we had desired. He bade me state the full particulars of the manner the despatches were communicated to us, which I did, giving Longrange full credit for securing that which he styled a new-fashioned mail-bag. I also informed him of the narrow escape the thrower of the grenade had from Longrange's rifle, and of his conclusions as to the reasons which induced him to forbear shooting him. 
               "Ah! how fortunate! It would grieve me less to lose a regiment of lives than that that noble-noble-youth-should perish," replied the general. "Let me now inform you that Vicksburg is nearer ours by a month than I felt it to be an hour since. The information I gained from those missives was of the most important character and hastened our deliberations to most unanimous conclusions. You may cheer the hearts of your brave comrades in front by telling them that it is not idle boasting in their general to say to them that if they but continue to perform their arduous duties until Independence day, they shall have a glorious holiday in celebrating it within the enemy's innermost walls. Yes, captain, on the Fourth of July, if I can read events, and the signs of the times, we shall enter the city triumphantly. But, by the by, captain, how progress the mining operations beneath Fort Pemberton?" 
               "We shall be allowed to lay down the pick and the spade in that direction in the course of three days," was my reply. 
               "'Tis well, for I have certain information tion that the enemy commences countermining to-morrow morning, but it will require ten days and ten nights of active digging of all the men that they can put on the work before can be reached the farthest point that it will be necessary for you to advance." 
               The chief was in most excellent spirits, and he communicated much information in regard to the operations within Vicksburg's walls and outworks that I had not dreamed of; and it was clearly apparent that he had occasional intercourse from a most intelligent source from within the enemy's boasted stronghold; otherwise such detailed information could not be procured. 
               For nearly an hour he continued, alternately informing me of many interesting matters that were new to me, and in plying me with questions. Suddenly he stopped, and consulting his watch he said: 
               "Do you propose to return to your quarters to-night?" 
               "I do, sir, most assuredly." 
               "You will need an escort, eh? If so, a squad of cavalry shall serve you." 
               "No, general, I have a fleet steed for most of the journey, and a nimble pair of legs for the balance." 
               "Just as you choose," he replied; "and now for a glass of wine, and I'll detain you no longer. Perhaps you prefer whiskey. I always keep a little for such occasions as these, but officers you know must drink sparingly. I have the reputation in some envious quarters of imbibing too freely for a general, but I'll venture to say that my defamers drink thrice to my once. One or two glasses per day suffices for my appetite." 
               I did not refuse the proffered glass, when I considered that I had a five or six mile journey to perform; and as he raised the glass to his lips he said: 
               "Here's health and success to you, captain; and, remember, when Vicksburg is ours you shall exchange those leaves for an eagle, or your commander will not possess that influence which his services entitle him to." 
               I thanked him for his flattering promise, and took this opportunity to make the enquiry of him which lingered on my tongue's end during our entire interview. It was the subject nearest my heart. I enquired for Virginia Graham-of her whereabouts-and if I could again receive from him assurances of her safety. 
               "Why, captain, I think you told me once that you were a married man, and had a lovely wife that you regarded with adoration," he remarked. 
               "It is true, general." 
               "Then why do you take an ardent lover's interest in this beautiful follower of our camp? Beware, captain, lest, when you return home, you will have to encounter the green-eyed monster, jealousy. 
               "I fear not that, for there is no earthly power that can estrange my affections from my beloved wife; but I confess that I have conceived a strange, unaccountable interest in that young girl; and to learn that any harm had befallen her would grieve me to the very soul. I would not hear it for the sake of little Harry Robeson, who plies me daily with questions concerning her that I have not the power to answer." 
               "Well, well, captain, I can inform you on one point; she is alive and well; will not that satisfy you?" 
               "Scarcely, general." 
               "Well, then, if no unforeseen event occurs within the next twenty days, I doubt not you will have the satisfaction of seeing her within our army lines." 
               I would have made further enquiries, but knowing well the temperature of our commander, I forbore; and after thanking him for his encouraging words I took my leave, mounted the horse which stood ready for me in front of the marquee, and galloped off at full speed. 
               I answered the challenges of the various sentinels as I proceeded, and soon reached the artillery camp where I had procured the animal which had borne me on my errand with such speed and safety, and where I resigned him to his owner. 
               The rest of the way must be traversed on foot, and although the distance was not one fourth of that I had travelled in the saddle, yet it was far more hazardous; for the stars had become veiled with thick murky clouds, threatening a storm, and created a darkness which, ordinarily, would have deterred a stouter and braver heart than mine to have encountered. But I well knew if I reached not my quarters before daybreak, they could not with any degree of safety be reached before the following night. I therefore nerved myself for the journey and passed the outposts of the camp just at midnight, and while the guards were marching the grand-rounds. 
               I had but a general idea of the route I was to travel, and there was nothing beyond an instinctive power to guide me. I had proceeded not more than a fourth of a mile when the wind began to blow furiously, and anon the rain began to fall, and increased until it seemed to descend in oblique sheets, drenching me to the skin. As I had to face this torrent, little progress could be made, and many times it caused me to face about to avoid its almost blinding fury. 
               At length I became so bewildered that I was at a loss to know on which quarter of the compass my slow progress was being made, and I was just resolving in my mind whether I would not bivouac on the drenched earth, when I stumbled headlong into what I supposed to be a ditch; but quickly did I discover my mistake, for the noise of the fall had aroused a sleeping tenant of the place, who immediately ejaculated: 
               "Dick! Dick, I say, what's the matter?" 
               The other lazily responded with an oath for disturbing him just as he had fairly got to sleep, and charged his comrade with having the nightmare. 
               The truth flashed upon my mind that I was in a rebel rifle-pit! and therefore had deviated from my true course several points of the compass. I of course stirred not, but lay like a log half imbedded in mud and water. The soldier who was first aroused had seized his rifle and come to the mouth of the pit where I was lying, and had he moved another step in advance he would assuredly have planted his heavy heel upon my breast; but, contenting himself with looking at the gloomy opaqueness before him, he turned and sought his repose again upon a heap of straw within a few feet of the mud-bed in which I was lying. 
               As profound silence was my only safe-guard then, I waited, perhaps, half an hour-it seemed two hours-to be assured that my sharpshooting enemies were in the sure embrace of the god of sleep. Then I had the satisfaction of hearing a stout pair of nasal organs breathe forth in concert. 
               Noiselessly I extricated my body from the wet, sticky soil, and once more stood erect. The storm-clouds had passed over, and bright stars once more began to twinkle in the heavens. 
               Without moving I strained my eyes in the direction of my unconscious enemies. At first nothing could be discerned, but at length I made out the outline of the soldier nearest me, and as his rifle was lying parallel to his body I ventured to appropriate it, partly as a trophy of this involuntary adventure, and partly to defend myself in case of necessity. 
               The barrel of the weapon was resting across his extended left arm, and it required extreme cautiousness to remove it. The moment I had laid hands upon the breech, and raised it from his arm, he started up as quickly as if I had removed a limb from his body-so sensitive does the soldier become by long and constant use of the weapon which affords him the power of self-defence. 
               He grasped the muzzle instantly with both hands, but I drew it from him in an instant, and in doing so I must have cut his hands with the bayonet, for he uttered a terrific shriek. 
               Without a moment's hesitation I drew back the weapon and made a fierce lunge at his body. I must have struck a vital point, for he fell back without a groan. 
               His comrade had become aroused, seized his rifle, and fired. The ball whizzed in fearful proximity to my right ear, and although I felt a smart, tingling sensation at the tip of that organ, I was not aware that the ball had perforated its edge until afterward. 
               After discharging his rifle he made a lunge at me with the bayonet, but, dark as it was, I dexterously avoided the blow, and the next moment he was a bleeding corpse beside his companion. 
               With my captured musket I leaped quickly from the rifle pit, and ran in the direction which I thought was the proper one. The rifle report had reached the neighboring pits, and I distinctly heard voices and the quick steps of men hurrying about apparently in a confused state. But I ran as rapidly as my rain-soaked habiliments would permit, and in the course of twenty minutes I had the immense satisfaction of reaching my quarters, and briefly relating that portion of my expedition touching my exploit in one of the enemy's rifle pits. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE ASSAULT-A DESPERATE HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT-A GRAND DISCOVERY. 
               THE fierce and bloody assaults-the dread sallies-the hand-to-hand fights on the ramparts and in the ditch-the heavy cannonading from iron-clads and mortar-boats, and from embrazures, parapets and the open field, which preceded the fall and capitulation of the rebel stronghold of the Mississippi, have been so graphically described by generals in their reports, and by scores of letter-writers, I shall not venture to describe them here. 
               Suffice it to say that our ever-conquering hero, with his able commanders and his indomitable army, here achieved the greatest single victory of the war. 
               But I have one incident to relate of that memorable occasion, which is intimately connected with the thread of my story, and will serve to elucidate a series of movements and circumstances connected with the army that, to say the least, seemed to us unaccountable if not mysterious. 
               Many of our movements seemed so averse to the plainest common sense in the progress of the reduction of Vicksburg, that several officers of intelligence and high military capacity, had questioned the strategic ability of the general-in-chief, while others actually denounced him as crazy-headed, fool-hardy, and totally ignorant of the science of war. But there were about him a coterie of military gentlemen who seconded his every suggestion, and zealously sought to execute his every order. There existed, in fact, such a mutual confidence and exact understanding between these officers and their chief, that open-mouthed clamors were silenced and unworthy suspicions were allayed, until the army, as a unit, had full belief in their general, although there was much mystery yet to be accounted for. 
               It was on the morning of the second of July, that the mine which had been so long preparing, and in which my command had taken so active a part, was sprung. Its effect was tremendous, for in one little moment an entire angle of Fort Pemberton was destroyed; and although the enemy had knowledge of our mining operations, and had in a degree prepared for it, yet the explosion was so effectual that more than a hundred of the defenders of the fortress were buried beneath the debris which an hundred casks of powder had thrown up. The concussion was almost stunning, and fairly shook the earth for miles, carrying terror and dismay may to every rebel heart within the walls of the beleaguered city. 
               A storming force, consisting of an entire brigade, were resting upon their arms, ready for an assault the moment that the grand effects of the explosion could be seen. The reverberations had hardly died away when the order was given to forward at double-quick. With weapons shotted and bayonets fixed, we rushed across the plain under an ill-directed fire from several of the enemy's batteries. 
               It was ordered that our regiment should take the post of honor and lead the brigade; and as my command was on the right of the regiment, of course we were in the advance; and as the field officers kept their appropriate places in the attack, I was the first officer, and, indeed, the first man, to ascend the ragged pile of debris made by the explosion, and the only accessible mode of getting into the fort. 
               Of course this point was the one of all others now to be defended; and if in the grand confusion which seemed to prevail we could conquer this portion of the garrison, the fort must fall into our hands. 
               Never shall I forget the storm of shot that was showered upon us, within pistol range, as we commenced the fearful ascent. Man after man fell by my side, and even in my rear scores of brave men bit the dust. Yet we faltered not, but poured upon our enemy volley after volley, still advancing as we fired. 
               It seemed as if my entire command must soon be annihilated before their spirited fire, they having the advantage of position, being enabled partly to conceal themselves behind the incongruous mass of stone, mortar and brick. 
               As yet not a bullet had touched my person, though my perforated cap and garments gave frightful evidence of the proximity of a score of shot. I seemed to bear a charmed life; yet I felt that I must fall in this storm of bullets before the van of the assaulting party could gain the inside of the intrenchments. 
               Twice we were pressed back or downward, but we promptly rallied, the broken ranks filled up, and we pressed upward again with almost superhuman energy, although the stones were slippery with the gore of our unfortunate comrades. 
               The defenders of that pass seemed as reckless and desperate in their defence as we in the assault. Here "Greek met Greek," and surely the "tug of war" was never more sanguinarily illustrated. 
               The parapet-or, rather, the spot where the parapet was before the explosion-was at length reached by myself and a half-score of the bravest of my command. In some way or another I was pushed forward, and found myself almost surrounded by a squad of rebels, whose bloody hands and bared arms and faces besmeared and begrimmed with burnt powder, made them look like so many demons ready to make sacrifice of me. 
               I was almost exhausted, but my desperate situation at that moment actually gave me strength and nerved my arm, so that at least I might sell my life dearly. With my good sword I kept them at bay for some time, when a stalwart officer singled me out, and with his heavy sword wrested mine from my grasp. 
               It was an easy victory for him now to run me through or split my head with his gory blade; and as he raised it for the latter purpose, a young soldier, seemingly of his own party, struck his arm so severe a blow that it dropped by his side. 
               "Traitor!" he cried. "Slay the traitor! He is but a traitor in our ranks!" 
               His order was about being obeyed by one of his men, when a ball from the rifle of Longrange, who had opportunely pressed forward to the front, penetrated his skull, and he fell a lifeless corpse. 
               Another seized the youth, and he was dragged to the earth. 
               I had regained my sword again, and now determined to save the unknown preserver of my life, if he were not already dead; and for some moments a fierce contest ensued over his prostrate form. I believe the ferocity of the tiger entered my breast, for I cut and slashed with a vigor far beyond my natural strength. Several of the company came to my rescue, and we drove the wretches back. 
               Meanwhile the whole brigade had clambered into the stronghold, and it was carried-the rebels throwing down their arms, uttering hellish oaths and groans of despair, while from our side the well-known shouts of victory fairly rent the air. Fort Pemberton was ours-the rebel flag was trailed in the dust, and the colors of our regiment were displayed upon the parapet. 
               I stepped back to where I had left the prostrate youth. He had raised himself to a sitting posture. 
               "Are you wounded?" said I, almost gasping for breath,-for now I began to feel a dizziness in my head, and an almost prostration of all my faculties. 
               "No, Captain Manly, I am quite well," was his reply. 
               His voice startled me. I looked in his face, but it was so begrimmed with blood and dirt that I failed to recognize him. 
               "In heaven's name who are you?" I demanded, as I attempted with a handkerchief to remove the stains of gore and dirt from his face. 
               "Don't you know me?" he said in a whisper. "I am Virginia Graham! but do not betray my sex here." 
               I could make no reply, but I felt a joy that I shall never forget. It was but for a moment, for my energies now gave way and I swooned at her feet. 
               When I awoke to consciousness I found myself lying upon a comfortable camp bedstead in the former quarters of the rebel commander of the fortress, who was now a prisoner. 
               She who had saved my life-still in the garb of a rebel soldier-was seated beside me. Before uttering a word, I scanned the apartment and saw that we were not quite alone; for seated at a table covered with maps and stationery, was a man in the uniform of a Federal general, and as his back was towards me, I failed to recognize him. 
               At this moment the beautiful eyes of the heroine met mine. Her sweet lineaments were no longer masked beneath the condensed smoke of powder, blood and dirt, but they were fair and clear as I had seen them when she was an invalid in my own quarters. 
               "You are better," she said in her own sweet voice; "and the doctor who left but a few moments since, says you are not wounded." 
               "Yes-yes," I answered, "I believe it was but a fainting fit. But no one can say I was a coward." 
               "The man who dares say it shall eat his words," said the officer, giving a vindictive blow of his fist upon the table, and at the same time reversing his position so that his eagle-like gaze met mine. "No, captain, no one will charge you with cowardice, either in thought or action." 
               "'Tis General Grant, Captain Manly," said Virginia. 
               He arose from his seat, came to the side of my couch, took my hand and resumed: 
               "We have met before on several occasions, and the last was that night of the drenching storm. You would have made a less adventurous journey had you accepted the escort I offered you." 
               "It was so dark I wandered from the true direction," I said. 
               "And stumbled into a rifle pit of the enemy," he added, with a chuckling laugh. 
               "Then you have been a prisoner?" ejaculated Virginia, slightly startled. 
               "O, no," continued the general, "not exactly a prisoner. The story, as I have heard it, runs thus:-He had been to my quarters bearing a certain despatch which somewhat mysteriously came into his hands through a harmless hand grenade. It was on a very dark night, and on his return a fearful storm arose, which so bewildered him that he went out of his way, and actually fell into one of the enemy's rifle pits, in which there lay two sharpshooters asleep. The noise, as may well be supposed, aroused them; but the captain, finding himself well imbedded in clay and water, concluded that the wisest thing to be done was to remain therein until the pitmen should again resume their naps. As he judged, a long half hour was required to produce that result, when the captain, very incautiously, I think, undertook to seize, and did seize; a rifle which was lying upon the arm of one of the sleepers. This of course aroused the pitman, and a fight ensued, which awoke the other, and as there was no other alternative than to kill or be killed, the captain believed the former to be the wisest course; so he killed them both, and bore off the coveted rifle as an evidence of his prowess. Do I relate the incident correctly?" asked the general. 
               "As near as I can recollect," was my reply. 
               "Well, there was no evidence of cowardice in that, at all events," he said, smiling. 
               "But there was extreme danger in it," said Virginia, almost shuddering as she spoke. "You certainly stood at least a double chance of losing your own life; and though the result was favorable to you, and might be called heroic, yet it was by no means discreet. But I had quite forgotten my duty in listening to this adventure of yours. The surgeon bade me give you this drink as soon as you awoke." 
               As she spoke she arose, and taking from a shelf a cup, bade me drink from it, after assisting me to arise to a sitting posture, for I was still weak from the extraordinary efforts I had made in the assault upon the fort. The draught produced, almost as soon as I had drank it, an invigorating effect, and with the aid of a little bolstering, I was enabled to sit upright. 
               "How long have I been sleeping?" I asked. 
               "Four hours," she replied. "The fort came into our possession at eleven o'clock. You became unconscious immediately afterwards, and, in fact, seemed like one dead until nearly four o'clock, when you seemed to recover, and then fell into a profound slumber." 
               "And have you been with me all this time?" 
               "With the exception of an hour and a half. My place was then supplied by little Harry Robeson, who, I am rejoiced to know, passed through the siege in safety; and I have to thank you for the kind care which he informs me you have bestowed upon him." 
               "Thanks are not merited where there has been a mutual good feeling, and where only kindnesses are reciprocated. The drummer-boy has done me so many favors that I am truly his debtor." 
               "Remberton will offer terms of capitulation to-morrow," said the general, as he recovered from a seeming reverie. "He has no dependence now for defence except his naked walls. Yes, it must be so. By the by, captain, did I not make certain promises to you the last time we met?" 
               "If you did you are certainly kind to treasure them so long in your memory, considering the thousand and one things you must necessarily carry in your mind." 
               "If my memory is not treacherous I promised that when twenty days should have elapsed, the person to whom you seem so much attached should be within our lines. Have I kept my promise?" he asked, glancing at Virginia significantly. 
               "Yes, general, this is the nineteenth day since I visited your quarters." 
               "I also told you that the fall of Vicksburg would be consummated a month earlier than it would otherwise have fallen had not those lucky despatches come promptly to hand?" 
               "I remember it well, general." 
               "And I promised you that we should celebrate our next national independence under the old flag, within the walls of Vicksburg?" 
               "Yes, general." 
               "And, finally, I promised that when Vicksburg was once ours you should have those leaves on your shoulder exchanged for an eagle." 
               "You were pleased to say so, general, but how excellent is your memory," I remarked. 
               "And I'll keep my word, or these stars shall be snatched from these brawny shoulders-mark that! As I before said, terms of capitulation will come to-morrow. The sun will not be more sure to rise. And now one thing more before I go, and deal with me frankly. I would know, since I have taken a deep interest in you both, why it is that you seem so devoted to each other; why it is, captain, you have evinced so profound a solicitude and anxiety in regard to this young lady; and why it is that she in her letters has been so prodigal in her enquiries concerning you. If you were man and wife I could well understand it; if you were brother and sister, or even cousins, it would not be mysterious, nor would it excite even curiosity; and as you cannot be lovers-for, captain, you have declared unbounded affection for your wife; and as you, Miss Graham, have frankly stated that you are the betrothed of a man you love and honor-how is it, and what is it, that has so attached you to each other?" 
               The general looked to me for a reply, and I looked toward Virginia for an explanation. She finally said, with downcast eyes and tremulous lips: 
               "He was so kind to little Harry Robeson when he was wounded; and he was also kind and considerate towards me when-when my sex was discovered." 
               "Can this be all?" resumed the general; "and who is this Harry Robeson?" 
               "Since you put the question direct, I will answer; he is my half-brother." 
               "This is, indeed, news to me; although I felt sure that he must be a near and dear relative," said I. 
               "What possible harm could there have been in acknowledging thus much in the outset?" enquired the commander. 
               "Since I have confessed so much, I will frankly tell you, but in strict confidence, that my name is not Virginia Graham; but bearing another which, for prudential motives I cannot reveal, I must rely upon your generosity not at present to seek to know it." 
               "We may then reasonably infer that your name is Robeson," said the general. 
               "It is not Robeson, although my half-brother bears it. Had I assumed his name, through that name I might have, long ere this, been discovered." 
               "I now understand," said the general, "and for the present will be satisfied with what I know; but there is still a mystery underlying all which I am sure will be developed at no very distant day." 
               "I know of none replied Virginia, "except that which lies in the fact that, for reasons best known to myself, I wish to remain unknown in the army, and also to remain undiscovered by friends who, I doubt not, have made some exertion to ascertain my whereabouts." 
               "Well, well, the captain and I must bide our time for a true revelation, if, indeed he is not possessed of it already," remarked the general, rising and consulting his watch. 
               "I certainly am no better enlightened than yourself, general," said I, with sincerity. 
               "It is time for your half-brother to return with Aunt Clemmy," said the commander, addressing Virginia. "I promised she should join you on the day we should meet, and be assured she will be here. I must now hasten to my quarters, for to-morrow promises to be an eventful, and, I hope, a happy day to us all. Good night, Captain Manly. Good night, Virginia. As you have requested it, you may again adopt the Vivandiere costume and rejoin your regiment." 
               My heart leaped for joy when I heard these last words of our hero. With me I felt she would be safe. How dangerous always seemed the maiden's position, even within our lines, when she was not at my quarters; and I ventured to express as much to Virginia as soon as our gallant commander had left the comfortable quarters which he had assigned me. I also ventured to ask her to relate all that had occurred to her during her long absence. 
               She replied that it was a long story, and in my present state of health would only fatigue me; but promised, at some future time, to fully enlighten me. I did not press the matter, for I felt sure that she had been in almost constant peril ever since the day she left our camp. How could it have been otherwise? Had she not acted the part of a SPY?-the most dangerous of all characters-and had she not sojourned constantly within the enemy's lines, and in their camps and forts? Of this one great, almost appalling fact, there could be no doubt, and the reflection greatly disturbed me. 
               In a few minutes after the general had retired, Harry Robeson, accompanied by Aunt Clemmy, arrived. 
               "Gorra bresse, Missee 'Ginia, how dis ole heart goes pit-a-pat to see yer 'gin wid dese ole eyes!" was the faithful negress's exclamation as she embraced her mistress, in spite of the jacket and trousers that Virginia still wore. "I'se drefful glad you turn up. Oh! dis war! it duz make sich mischief; but I guess de niggas won't hab de wuss of it." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               LA VIVANDIERE RELATES HER ADVENTURES WITHIN THE CONFEDERATE LINES. 
               MY military family now consisted, as before, of the Vivandiere, Harry Robeson and Aunt Clemmy. 
               On the morning following our re-union, the surgeon of my regiment called, and assured me that I had received no apparent physical injury; that I had been laid prostrate by fatigue; and only enjoined upon me to keep quiet for a few days. 
               I observed that a gleam of joy illumined the bright face of Virginia upon hearing those words; it was more than an ordinary expression of gladness coming from a sympathetic heart-a heart that beat in unison with mine. 
               How strange all this seemed when both of us well knew that no nearer relation than friendship could exist between us. I had confessed to her the ardent love I cherished for my beloved at home; and she had as frankly confessed to me that her heart long since had been given to one who was deserving of its warmest, its most fervent devotion. Who that one was I had never dared to ask; yet how earnest was my hope that he was worthy of such a treasure. 
               "You heard the surgeon's cheering words, and you must perceive that I am now quite well," I remarked, as soon as the professional gentleman had departed. 
               "Yet he said you needed a few days' rest," she replied. 
               "True; but that will not surely prevent me from listening to a narrative of your adventures," said I, burning with curiosity to know what had transpired personally to her during our separation. 
               "It is by no means interesting, besides it may fatigue you. You need quietness of mind as well as body." 
               "My desire to know will disturb the former more than any recital of yours can possibly do." 
                
               "Since you are so urgent, captain, I will commence my story, with the understanding that I may break off when and where I please," replied Virginia, seating herself near the comfortable lounge on which I was half-reclining, and after a thoughtful lapse of a few moments she begun thus: 
                
                  VIRGINIA'S NARRATIVE. 
                  "The circumstances which led to my soliciting a position fraught with peril, I need not describe. Suffice it to say that the commanding general needed a SPY; he believed you a proper man to brave the dangers of such a character; and I believed it too, but was determined, if possible, to prevent you from accepting such a trust, not only for your sake but for that of Harry Robeson; and after a night of thought and dreams I resolved to place myself at the disposal of the general. Something whispered in my heart that I of all others was the safest and most proper person of the entire army to personate the adventurous character,-ay, that I was ordained by a higher power than mortal man can possess, to be an instrument of communication between the enemy and our great chief. I sought an interview with him; briefly stated an outline of my plan to prevent discovery, which seemed to strike him as ingenious and judicious, yet he was extremely reluctant to grant my request; but finding me persistent he yielded, and promised me every possible facility for my great undertaking. He was also pleased to say, after a lengthy conversation, that I appeared to possess intelligence, shrewdness, cunning, and above all, discretion-traits absolutely indispensable for a successful spy. He plied me with many questions touching my health, power of endurance, and what course I should pursue in certain emergent cases. My replies must have been apt, for they appeared to meet his hearty approval. The truth is, I seemed intuitively to possess the power to frame all my answers to meet his ripe judgment. 
                  'Can you ride well?' he asked. 
                  'Yes, general, I can manage the most high-spirited and fleetest steed belonging to yourself or staff,' was my confident reply. 
                  'Are you fleet of foot?' 
                  'I have run a mile with my regiment at double-quick.' 
                  'Should you not fear to bivouac in the woods alone?' 
                  'With these goodly weapons in my belt I could fear nothing,' I answered, pointing to my revolvers. 
                  'Yes, yes, I think I have heard something laudatory of your skill with both pistol and rifle; but how would you succeed in crossing the many creeks and rivers that lie on the route that will be marked out for you; for, remember, you will find most of the bridges destroyed?' 
                  'Those I cannot ford I can swim.' 
                  'Can you climb a tree?' 
                  'With ease, if the bark be not too smooth and the branches too high.' 
                  'Enough. I am satisfied that you will be equal to any probable difficulty that you may encounter. In two hours be in readiness. Report at headquarters.' 
                  This order I obeyed at the precise moment. A fine looking steed, saddled and bridled, with pistols in the holsters, was pawing the earth before the general's headquarters, as if impatient to bear off his rider. 
                  At a short distance stood a detachment of cavalry-ten in all-which I understood was to be my escort. The general met me at the threshold. 
                  'All is ready for your immediate departure,' said he. 'I have drawn up more specific instructions than I have before given you, which you will not peruse or explore until you have safely passed into the enemy's lines. Here is also contained a cipher which you will use in addressing me, and a key to the language which I shall use in addressing you. Be wary, be brave, be discreet, and may a watchful Providence be thy shield in the hour of danger. Farewell. 
                   
                  As he pressed my hand I looked into his war-worn features. Tears were glistening in them, and also upon his cheeks. He turned from me after indicating that the cavalry officer who stood in front of the marquee had charge of my escort. 
                  Thus did I take leave of our heroic commander. In another moment I was in the saddle and in the centre of my escort, moving off at an eight mile gait to the southward. After a brisk ride of half an hour we drew up at a wayside inn, and the manner in which we were received by the landlord assured me that he was a unionist. 
                  I dismounted and was ushered into a room by a lady who presently placed before me a handsome silk skirt, a riding habit and a hat. I remembered that in my instructions a change of dress would be provided for me, and I was metamorphosed from a Vivandiero into a fine equestrienne. 
                  The lady, who assisted me, assured me that my new habiliments, to her taste, very much improved my appearance; and she took occasion to remark that as I was going into the land of rebeldom, she hoped that I would not, as other ladies had done, abuse the unionists as soon as I was among my own people. 
                  From this remark I inferred that she believed me a little rebel, notwithstanding I had appeared in 'red, white and blue.' 
                  I sought not to undeceive her, but thanked her for her kindness, and after partaking of some refreshment she retired from the room. 
                  I here took occasion to conceal in the lining of my skirt, the document which was only to be perused after reaching the place to which I was destined. I sewed up the rent made for this purpose before it was announced that my escort was in readiness for my immediate departure. 
                  Bidding adieu to the lady who had given me a word of caution, I took my place in the line as before, and we proceeded onward at a brisk pace. A white flag was borne in the van of the escort, which bespoke our proximity to the frontier of rebeldom. 
                  We had not proceeded more than three miles when the troop halted; and a few shrill trumpet tones caused to appear from the skirt of a wood several soldiers in a grey uniform. They were a detachment of the outer picket guard, and in a few moments an officer rejoined them, with a subordinate bearing the symbol of peace. 
                  The accustomed signal passed between the two parties, when, simultaneously, from each, advanced the two flag bearers with an officer and two soldiers accompanying each. They met in the middle of the plain with an apparently friendly greeting, and after a few moments our detachment returned, when I was informed that it was agreed that I should have permission to enter the rebel lines, where an escort would be provided to accompany me to the town of Calhoun, Missippi, where I could take the cars for Jackson, the Capital of the State. I dismounted and bade the officer adieu. 
                  The transfer was made without further ceremony, and I found myself for the first time actually under the protection of the rebels. 
                  You may be assured that my feelings were anything but agreeable in this change of my situation, though there was nothing like fear commingled with them. 
                  I was received with some show of courtesy at the quarters of an officer in a handsome uniform, and of gallant bearing, and although not more than twenty years of age he wore the badge of a lieutenant-colonel on his shoulder. 
                  He immediately acquainted me with the information, which I did not know before, that within twenty-four hours I should probably reach my home, though I could not precisely see how such a thing could come to pass, for I had thus far travelled in a contrary direction from that haven, and, moreover, it nowhere existed within the realm of Secessia. He also said that he should provide me with a safe escort to the railway station, when I should require no further protection. 
                  I thanked him for his proffered kindness, and I am quite sure that nothing akin to surprise was expressed in my countenance. I could not but observe that he scrutinized my features more closely than was agreeable, though I was not aware what it was that prompted him, until he commenced a train of remarks which savored more of flattery than wisdom, and more of affection than friendship. His language at length became so ardent that I was compelled to say to him: 
                  'Sir, you forget that we were but now utter strangers. Who and what you are I do not know. Who and what I am you are equally ignorant of. Therefore I beg that you will desist from addressing me in language more becoming a sister than a stranger.' 
                  'Lady,' said he, in the most respectful manner, 'pardon my presumption. I will be more discreet. In the first place let me inform you that I am a Lieutenant Colonel in the army of the Confederacy. My name is Frederick Lamar, the son of one of the most distinguished officials of the Confederate Government, and the proprietor of the largest plantation in Northern Georgia, and the owner of nineteen hundred niggers. Thus you will perceive I am a gentleman and no beggar. As for yourself, lady, this letter informs me who you are. Your name is Marietta Marland; you are the daughter of the late Brandon Marland; and though your father died without a large fortune, he left a name behind him to be honored; and, besides, he left a daughter whose marvellous beauty, in my eyes, far exceeds that of any lady I ever beheld, and she now sits before me. Inasmuch as I have been so frank, I beg you will not consider us strangers any longer; and as but a few brief moments is left me for an opportunity to express that love which you have kindled in my heart, oh, pardon me, if I improve them.' 
                  I would have checked my new suitor in his speech, for his fulsome flattery really disgusted me, but I deemed it prudent under the circumstances to listen to his ridiculous protestations, knowing that I should soon be beyond the hearing of his intemperate tongue. 
                  He had, as it seemed, fallen deeply in love with some fancied charms of mine at first sight, and the short time he would be in my company was his apology for his rash and hasty warmth in declaring it. 
                  I deemed it politic neither to encourage or discourage him, for it was possible emergencies might rise when a friend like Lieutenant Colonel Lamar might be of service to me. I therefore kept quite silent, as well as abashed, and so long as his familiarity was confined to his tongue I bore it with due patience. 
                  At length we were interrupted by the entrance of a subordinate who informed the colonel that the escort was in waiting. 
                  As his orders were peremptory in facilitating my journey, he had but time to gain from me a promise that I would receive a call from him whenever his good fortune should carry him to the capital of the State. 
                  With all the politeness he was probably master of, he led me forth to the escort, and after looking at the horse which was to bear me, and carefully scrutinizing the saddle, girths and bridle, he assisted me to mount, when we immediately set off through a mule path of the wood in which the pickets were posted. 
                  I assure you that it created in me no surprise that my name was Marietta Marland, for I had been addressed as Miss Marland from the time my previous escort had halted at the inn, as it appeared for my special commendation; and moreover, as I left it, I saw some articles of luggage bearing the name of 'Marietta Marland' which had been brought forward by the federal escort on the back of a mule, and which had been transferred with myself. Neither was I surprised on hearing that I was the daughter of the late Hon. Brandon Marland; or that my home was in the suburbs of Jackson, Mississippi; for I had been warned not to be surprised at anything which might be developed with regard to me on the journey, or when I had finally reached its termination. 
                  The officer of the present escort had made himself as agreeable as possible. He was an older and a more prudent man. Yet he was exceedingly communicative, and I adroitly drew from him a vast deal of information touching the movements of the several armies of the Confederacy,-their plans, their hopes and their prospects,-which would never have been conveyed by an adherent of the insurgent cause to one whom he entertained the slightest surpicion was tainted with loyalty to the Union. 
                  Nothing worthy of note transpired on the journey. Suffice it that it was a tedious one, and required nearly the whole of two days before we reached the railway station, when I was placed in the charge of the conductor of a train, and in an hour or two reached Jackson. The conductor procured me a carriage, and directed the hackman to drive me to 'Magnolia Villa.' 
                  To speak the truth this was the first time I had ever heard of 'Magnolia Villa,' and I assure you I experienced some strange, indescribable sensations, during my ride thither, which occupied some twenty-five or thirty minutes. 
                  But as I was yet to remain passive, and believing that the same power which had guided me thus far safely on my pilgrimage would not desert me now, I kept up a proper degree of courage, and awaited subsequent events with all due philosophy. 
                  It was the beginning of the twilight hour of a beautiful evening, when the carriage, which bore me, turned up a winding avenue shaded by magnolia trees, and bordered with a prolific box-hedge. 
                  At length a smooth lawn, dotted with parterres of flowers was just visible from the carriage window, and in a few moments a handsome but somewhat antique looking villa, with wide verandahs, and, almost concealed by vines, suddenly appeared to my searching view. 
                  The carriage halted-the door was opened by an aged negro, and I alighted, and was greeted by shouts and cheers by a group of negroes, who had hied to the spot on hearing the approach of a carriage. 
                
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE WELCOME TO MAGNOLIA VILLA-VISIT FROM OBADIAH TOMLINSON, THE QUAKER. 
               "'LORDY massa, Missee 'Etta, am dat you?' ejaculated a negress of some sixty years, who actually embraced and kissed me with as much affection as if I had been her own child. 'Am it ra'ly you? How you hab grown! Dese ole eyes neber speck to see you grow'd to be so fine a lady. Oh! if your poo' ole fader and mudder war only 'libe now, wouldn't dey leap out ob dar skin for bery joy? Wal-wal-glad you cum home 'gin; dough tings much change sence you went way off to dat bordin' school. But we hab kep de ole mansion, and all de ole niggas an' some ob de young ones, too. Massa didn't lose quite all he prop'ty 'fore he die. Why, Lor bress you, why don't you say sumfin? When you were a leetle pickaninny, not more dan five year ole, you would talk and laff all de time; but tirteen year hab made de diff'rence. Tirteen year dis bery monf you war sent 'way from dis ole nuss, and now you cum back an' not say a word to ole Aunt Rosy.' 
               'And are you Aunt Rosy?' I ejaculated with as much surprise as I dared assume. 'I certainly should not have known you.' 
               'Wal, it can't be hep'd. Cudn't speck you to 'member much, coz you lef' us 'fore you were five, six year ole.' 
               By this time some six or eight aged negroes and negresses, with half a score or more of grinning, shiny-faced pickaninnies, who had congregated, now lined the way from the carriage to the door, and absolutely made the welkin ring with shouts of joy and congratulations at my safe arrival home!
                
               HOME! I must confess I never felt so far away from home, nor never felt so little at home, as now. 
               It was quite certain my arrival had been anticipated, for I found a room already prepared for my reception, and tidy servants to wait upon me; and by the time I could attire myself in a wardrobe which I had never seen before, a nice, well-prepared supper was awaiting me. I confess that the strangeness which everywhere surrounded me did not particularly affect my appetite, for I have seldom partaken of a meal with a keener relish; nor did it affect my sleep, for I never slumbered more profoundly than I did on that night-too profound for visions of evil or of good. 
               When I arose the next morning I found that old Sol had preceded me for more than two hours, although I had been accustomed, during my camp life, to greet the first beams of the morning sun. 
               As on the night previous, I partook of a sumptuous repast entirely alone, with the same ready slaves to anticipate my every want. I had not yet seen a white person about the house, and from the remarks which dropped from the lips of the daughters of Africa about me, I arrived at the conclusion that I was the sole mistress and proprietress of Magnolia Villa, and all its animate and inanimate appurtenances. 
               After breakfast I sauntered forth into the gardens, and went among the negro huts, where I patted the little ones on the heads, kissed the infantile portion, and congratulated the older ones upon their looking so well, receiving from the latter in return many a 'Gorra bress you, Missee Marietta!' 
               I could not appear cheerful, nor could I converse freely; the truth is, that I was not quite 'at home;' but there was for me a mission to fulfil; and one of my important instructions was to receive information and not to impart it. 
               Under some circumstances my ramble would have been a delightful one, for everything about the villa was charmingly beautiful, and every face had a smiling welcome for the stranger. 
               My thoughts were too busy to assume my wonted cheerfulness, or to reciprocate sufficiently such kindly greetings; and it was absolutely a relief to me when I returned to the house and found myself alone in a prettily-furnished boudoir, made fragrant with climbing roses and honeysuckles, which half shaded the wide, open casement; and made musical with a pair of canaries in a cage that hung in the room, and whose warbling seemed like strains of sweet and joyous welcome to one whom they now possibly looked to for care and protection. 
               Oh! that I could only have banished from my thoughtful brain the idea that I was there in a false position! and I almost envied the real, bona fide possessor of so much that could not be otherwise than gratifying to the senses. 
               But what was she? This was a startling question; and it roused me to a full sense of my strange, austere duties. 
               My first matter of duty was to read the document of instructions which had been given me. As it was written in cipher, it proved no ordinary task; and it required no less than two hours to make myself mistress of its serious import; and as it governed entirely my subsequent acts, suffice it now for me to say that it commeneed by informing me that the character, which I had thus far been made involuntarily to enact, I must keep up for the present; and it assured me that it could do no harm to the genuine Marietta Marland, as that lady was quietly pursuing her studies in a Female Seminary of Kentucky, and under the protection of her aunt, a lady who was ardently devoted to the cause of the Union, and that it was impossible for her niece to return to her parentless home until my mission should be ended; and also that it was quite impossible that I could be recognized for any other than the rightful possessor of Magnolia Villa, inasmuch as I not only bore a strong resemblance to the genuine Miss Marland, but that that lady had not visited Jackson, since she was a child. 
               I read and re-read all that followed, and having committed every sentence to memory, I lighted a match to the paper and saw it burn to ashes. The only suspicious thing I now possessed was the key to the cipher, legibly marked upon a card. 
               Having an embroidered waist, with long sleeves, I employed an hour's time in interspersing the characters of the key, with a needle, so skilfully among the figures of both sleeves, that they appeared to form a part of the ornamentation; and I had but to cast my eyes alternately from one arm to the other to interpret any communication in cipher that I might receive. 
               I then destroyed the card, and felt that I was now divested of everything that could possibly incur suspicion. 
               I had scarcely taken this precaution when it was announced that 'Squire Tomlinson, the administrator of the Marland estate, and my guardian, had arrived to congratulate me on my return, and to consult me on matters connected with my welfare. 
               My first impulse was to send word that I could not see him until another day; but a second thought convinced me that I should be no better prepared to hazard an interview with him on the morrow or next day than at the present time. I therefore sent him word that I was glad he had come, and would be with him presently; and scarcely had my message been delivered when I hastily entered the parlor, attired only in a loose morning robe, there to see the strangest looking gentleman it had ever been my fortune to meet with. 
               He stood in the centre of the room, with a broad-brimmed hat upon his head, which he did not remove upon my entrance. 
               Six feet and two inches, at least, was his height; his figure was slim, and encased in oddly-fashioned clothes of drab; his features were sharp and gaunt, and his complexion and hair partook within a shade or two of the color of his garments. 
               I certainly must have expressed considerable surprise at his appearance; and I was not a little abashed when I beheld his grey eyes, shaded by drab eyebrows, scrutinize me from head to foot. He at length broke a silence of at least forty seconds' duration: 
               'Daughter look up! fear not! for I am thy faithful guardian and steward, Obadiah Tomlinson,' said he, as he raised himself still farther upward by attempting to stand upon his toes. 'Thou dost not recognize me? Verily, it is not strange, for thou hast not seen me, nor I thee, since thou wast of a yard in stature. Sit thee down, and I will sit me down likewise, for I have much to say to thee and much to show thee, which thou mayst not comprehend without my explanation.' 
               At the conclusion of this speech, he bent his lank body into an angle of forty-five degrees, and planted himself firmly in a straight-backed oaken chair, which looked as if it had been fashioned for his own convenience and after his own taste. 
               'Shall I not take your hat,' said I, venturing towards him, and with difficulty suppressing a laughable outbreak at his ludicrous appearance. 
               'Verily thou canst not take that which I fain would keep on my head,' he answered, waving me towards a chair near him. 'Thy honored father, thy sainted mother didst ever permit Obadiah to sit in their presence covered; and wilt not their only offspring emulate their benevolence?' 
               'Oh, most certainly, Mr. Tomlinson,' I replied, seating myself as he desired. 
               'Obadiah, if thou pleasest. They never addressed me in the worldly way. It pleased them to style me only as Obadiah, after the manner of the patriarchs.' 
               'I pray you to pardon me, Mister Obadiah-' 
               'Not Mister Obadiah, maiden, but plain Obadiah.' 
               'I will speak as you shall instruct me.' 
               'Ah, verily, in that the damsel remindest me of the paternal relation in whose arms I have often seen her. But I have come to thee to-day, Marietta, on business,-to give thee an account of my stewardship, as these books shall abundantly testify;' and he placed his hands upon a pile of folios upon the table beside him. 'Firstly, is the day-book, where all original entries are made; secondly, the journal; thirdly, the ledger; fourthly, the cash-book; fifthly, the merchandise and stock account; and lastly, the check, or bank-book. Likewise, have I drawn up a statement, on these five loose sheets of paper,-a full statement of thy temporal affairs, including a balance sheet which I am pleased to say will show thee that the estate is in a much sounder condition than when its management was entrusted to my hands. My stewardship comprises a term of nearly half a score of years; hence the voluminousness of these volumes.-Firstly, I will begin with the day-book, and show thee each original entry; secondly, the journal, in which every transaction is legibly and correctly recorded; thirdly, the ledger, which is a succinct compendium of the whole.' 
               'How long a time, think you, will it take to go through these books in the manner which you propose?' I ventured to ask, already tired of his business, and his tedious, methodical mode of speaking. 
               'If, maiden, thou wilt pay strict attention to me four hours per day, for nine days successively, I promise thee that thou shalt have full comprehension of thine own affairs, and a knowledge of the faithful manner in which thy humble servant hast fulfilled his trust.' 
               I could not help smiling at this absurd proposition, and frankly told him that such an infliction would end in sending me to the insane asylum. 
               'To whom, then, can I render up an account of my stewardship? Thou art the only surviving inheritor of the Magnolia estate.' 
               'I care not to whom,' was my careless reply. 
               'Verily, thou art the daughter of thy father. He was a careless man in all that appertained to the recorded transactions of his business. Else he might have been a millionaire, and thou the richest heiress in Mississippi.' 
               'If the father loved not book accounts, blame not the daughter for loathing them, too.' 
               'I would not blame thee, maiden; 'tis not Obadiah's way. Verily, I very much feareth that to heaven alone shall I ever be enabled to render up an account of this part of my earthly stewardship;' and he closed the book with a sigh, and with as much reverence as if it had been the Holy Bible. 
               'If it will please you, I will examine the statement and trial balance that you spoke of. From that I shall be enabled to gather all that is essential for a young, giddy girl to know.' 
               'Aye, verily, if thou wouldst but know the simple footing of years of labor,' said the Quaker, as he placed in my hands the balance sheet, from which I readily learned the heiress of Magnolia Villa possessed ten thousand dollars in stocks and bonds, five thousand in ready cash, thirty-five negroes, and the beautiful homestead. 
               'It is quite enough,' said I, returning the balance sheet, with an air of indifference. 
               'Heaven be praised if thou art satisfied; for it is but the savings from the wreck of a princely fortune; aye, verily.' 
               'What has become of the bulk of the great estate,' I asked. 
               'Oh, that thy faithful servant, Obadiah, had it in his power to tell thee!' he exclaimed, raising both hands. 'Thy honored father was truly an honest man,' and he had the credulity to believe that those with whom he dealt were honest, too; and, verily, many of them cheated, aye, swindled him out of his goods; and when the estate was placed in my hands for settlement, it was well nigh insolvent; and had I not been a faithful steward, I could not have rendered up so good an account as I have rendered up to thee.' 
               'For which, Obadiah, you have my thanks; and as you seem to be so trustworthy a man, I will consent to gratiry your desire that I should examine these books; but you must permit me to do it in my own way. You shall leave them with me, and whenever I am in the mood I will undertake the great task.' 
               This proposition did not seem to suit Broadbrim, and he made many objections, such as that he could not spare the books from his hands a sufficient length of time-that many things required explanation-that he could not trust them from his own safe over night, etc., etc. But the more objections he made the more strenuous I became, until I absolutely had to command him to leave them. 
               The truth is, I began to be suspicious of Broadbrim's honesty, from the fact that he boasted of it; and as I had sufficient curiosity to fathom his real character, I resolved to pry into the mysteries of the well-worn tomes before me. 
               He at length yielded up the point, but bade me, as I valued my own welfare, not to let them go out of my own keeping. I promised to keep faithful watch over them, and now only waited to be rid of his uncomfortable presence; but he manifested no disposition to leave. He seemed like one that had a weighty matter upon his mind, of which he would be relieved. 
               After my patience became quite exhausted I said to him: 
               'Well, Obadiah, is there anything more to be required of me? for I had proposed to myself to take a stroll through the grounds before the dinner hour.' 
               'I would fain stroll with thee, for I have that to say to thee which must greatly affect thy future welfare.' 
               'Indeed! then I would hear it now, and here.' 
               There was a pause for several moments, when he raised his grey eyes to mine, and said meekly: 
               'Marietta, thou art indeed a comely maiden, and it is not well for thee to be alone. I would resign my stewardship into hands more capable of performing its functions. I have a son-a comely youth-who would fain put on the armor of a warrior, and go forth to fight the barbarous Yankees, who with their great guns are invading the land of our fathers. But fighting is an abomination,-aye, an abomination in the sight of the Lord-hence I would have him grow up a man of peace. Thou hast the power to save him from becoming a slayer of mankind. Thy bright eyes and sweet smiles would deter him from going into the camp of the warriors, and, perchance be laid low by the Yankee Philistines. In brief, fair maiden, I would ask thy hand for him in marriage. He shall be as well endowed with the riches of this world as thou art-yea, verily, he shall increase the Magnolia estate fourfold. Wilt thou say yea to so eligible and generous an offer?' 
               'Why, Obadiah,' I replied, laughing heartily at the ridiculous proposition. 'This son of yours I have never seen, nor has he ever seen me. If marriage was ever so desirable sirable, I would never take a leap in the dark in that direction. But I have at present no desire for wedded life. I am not one of those romantic school-girls who, as soon as they have put aside their books, jump hap-hazard into the toils, troubles and uncertainties of matrimony. Oh, no, friend Obadiah, I desire freedom-freedom-for the next five years at least.' 
               'Art thou thus resolved?' 
               'Never was woman more sincere.' 
               'Then it behooves thy guardian to say that thou hast not resolved well nor wisely. Thou wilt be exposed to the snares and temptations of this wicked world; thou wilt be scandalized, though thou art pure as an angel. Reconsider thy purpose and believe in thy faithful guardian.' 
               'Urge me not-I am inflexible on that point.' 
               'So it seems, and I will obey; for it is not meet for me to urge the stubborn spirit; but I will venture to affirm that shouldst thou hold converse for an hour with my son Potiphar, thy heart would yearn towards him' 
               'Then I must beg of you, good guardian, not to permit Potiphar to venture near Magnolia Villa, lest my firm resolve be shaken,' said I, in a half-serious, half-jocose manner. 
               'Verily, it paineth me to see that thou hast much frivolty in thy nature,' said he, seeming a little vexed at the manner in which I had treated his last suggestion, and he arose to depart. 
               'I hope I have given no offence,' said I. 
               'It becometh not one of the house of Tomlinson ever to be offended. I am only disappointed that thou hast treated my favorable proposition with so much levity,' he replied, with all the dignity that he was master of. 'Should you need any funds, services or advice, send one of thy servants to Basswood Mansion-the time-honored home of the Tomlinsons-and thy wishes shall meet with a response.' 
               With these words he clasped his hands across his breast, raised himself upon his toes, uttered a profound sigh, and wheeling about with all the precision of a drill-sergeant he marched with long strides out of the house; and glad enough was I to be rid of him. 
               I summoned a house servant, and bade her take the account books to the boudoir, whither I followed, and soon found myself deeply absorbed in the mysteries of book-keeping. Though by no means an adept in the art, I failed not to discover that the books were kept in so slovenly a manner that, as the Quaker had suggested, there might be some things that would require explanation; and this was especially the case with the almost endless pages of 'The Magnolia Estate in account with Obadiah Tomlinson;' an account which, from the nature of the transactions noted, and his real duties as steward, satisfied me that he, more than any other person, had caused the estate to diminish from a princely fortune, to a moderate competency. 
               On the following morning, immediately after the breakfast hour, I received a visit from the 'comely young man' for whom my hand had been so urgently solicited by his father, and who rejoiced in the euphonious name of Potiphar Tomlinson. 
               As I was determined not to become Potiphar's wife, lest I should turn into something less desirable than a pillar of salt, I did not receive him with that cordiality, or reserve, or bashfulness with which young damsels are wont to receive their lovers. 
               'My name is Potiphar Tomlinson, Miss-Miss-Marietta,' said he stammeringly, as he introduced himself. 
               'I should have known you by your strong resemblance to your father,' I replied. 
               'Yea-yea-verily-I-I-believe I do bear a striking resemblance to Obadiah, my father; but some folks are pleased to say that I am the image of Abishag, my mother, who, although I, Potiphar, the son, says it, is a remarkably fine-looking woman.' 
               'Well, Potiphar, what is your business with me at so early an hour in the morning?' 
               'Bless me, Miss-Miss-Marietta; why, it's five minutes after nine o'clock, and five hours hath passed since I took the first sniff of the morning air. I-I-didn't come for anything very particular. Obadiah, my father, thought I'd better come-he did-and so I have-and how's thy health?' 
               'Surprisingly good, I thank heaven.' 
               'So I should think-thee looketh pretty well-I may say very well-better than any lady in Jackson, or anywhere else, so far as I know,' and he twirled his broadbrim so nervously that he dropped it upon the floor, and it rolled almost to my feet. 'Beg pardon, a thousand times,' he continued, following his tile; 'father Obadiah says, Potiphar, always wear thy hat; but I sometimes transgress his law, and am sure to get-get-into trouble, as I have this time. Some folks say 'taint polite to wear hats in presence of ladies, and I like to conform to what's polite in spite of Obadiah. Hope thee will excuse me;' and he seized his broadbrim and crowded it so hard upon the back part of his head that there was no danger of its falling off. 'Well, good morning, Marietta. Abishag, my mother, sent her love to thee, which I forgot until now-hopes thee will find time to come over to Basswood Mansion. Good bye. Oh! I forgot that Obadiah instructed me to bring to his counting-house the account books which he did leave here for thy perusal.' 
               'But I have not yet done with them. I find them more interesting than I anticipated.' 
               'Then thou wilt keep them until thou hast finished them. Of course, Obadiah, my father, meant so to instruct me. I will come to Magnolia again when Obadiah seeth fit to permit me. I am his only son, and my wish is to obey my father, and my mother, too, when her will runneth not in a counter direction.' 
               'I doubt not that you are a most dutiful son.' 
               'It gives me unbounded joy to hear thee say so-much more than if any other fair damsel had said it. Farewell. I shall come to see thee again-of that I assurest thee.' 
               'Do not give yourself any trouble, I pray you.' 
               'Oh, believe me, it will be an exceeding pleasure. Besides, it is meet that I should come, for I am a young man in search of-of-of-a-a-' 
               'His father's account books,' said I, spoiling an interesting speech which I did not care to hear. 
               He tarried no longer, but, in imitation of his sire, he crossed his hands on his breast, raised himself on tip-toe, and uttered a deep sigh; then turning right about on his heel, he strode off so quickly that the skirt of his long drab coat absolutely seemed to fly behind him. 
               This was my first interview with Potiphar; and I indulged in a hearty laugh as I saw him receding from my view at a forty-inch pace, down the Magnolia-bordered avenue. 
               No other incident worth noting occurred on that day; and as you, Captain Manly, must be somewhat fatigued in listening to my narrative, I will reserve the remainder for another occasion, when I will relate to you how I became, involuntarily, a great and much courted lady in Secessia; how I made myself useful to the person I was made to personate, by unmasking a hypocritical broadbrim, and divers other strange things which befel me. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE FAMILY COACH-A RIDE IN STATE-COLONEL LAMAR AND THE QUAKER-A BLOODLESS ALTERCATION. 
               "ON the following morning," said Virginia, resuming her narrative, "I intimated to Eliza, one of my semi-sable attendants, that I proposed to visit the town and make some purchases. 
               'Dat's right, missus,' she replied. 'Twill do dis ole heart much good to see de carriage o' massa and missus-bress dere dead an' gone souls-once more at de doo'. 'Twill look as if de ole times wus comin' back 'gin, for long is de day dat de fam'ly coach hab been seen in de town;' and before I could give her any instructions she darted out of the house with a sprightliness which I had not before seen her exhibit. 
               In a few moments she returned and informed me that she instructed the old family coachman to get himself and the coach in readiness for a drive. 
               I was not aware of the task I had imposed on the coachman, and on some half a dozen others who were called to his assistance, until, after waiting a full hour, I inquired of Eliza the cause of the delay. 
               'Ah, missus, dat ar' coach hab'nt ben out de coach-house for seben long year; an' I speck it hab to be cleaned, an' de wheels greased, an' de harness mended, an' de hosses combed to make dem look like what dey once was. Den Cuffee hab to brush up he libery, and Jo and Jim de footmen dar libery too.' 
               'Why, Eliza, I do not require liveried servants to accompany me to do a little shopping.' 
               'Dat's not de ting, missus,' she resumed, quite excited at an event that hadn't occurred for so many years; 'de ancien' spectability ob de fam'ly muss be kep up, an' when de folks in de town see de Magnolia coach agin, dey will say dat 'fairs up to de villa am all right again; and when dey see de new missus ob de house ridin' in it won't dey all be calling here as dey useter call! Golly, missus, dar'll be music at Magnolia Villa soon-dat's shuah!' 
               I couldn't precisely understand the philosophy of her reasoning; but I came to the conclusion that in some way or another the reappearance of the family coach, with the last of the house in it, was likely to create something of a sensation; and when finally the vehicle was in readiness and came up to the door, one glance convinced me that it could not fail of attracting attention, to say the least. 
               It was a ponderous looking vehicle-a huge barouche of an antique pattern-with faded silk linings-its leather top sunken and cracked-its ornaments dingy, and the carved and gilded escutcheon of the Marlands on either panel much effaced. 
               The horses looked as if they were hitched to a plough rather than to a pretentious coach, and the harnesses comported well with the rest of the establishment. 
               But that which most attracted my attention and excited my risibles, was the coachman, dressed in a full suit of buff livery, set off with silver plated flat buttons of the full size of an American silver dollar. 
               The garments looked a little rusty, and sundry filigree work about the sleeves satisfied me that the moths had made themselves somewhat acquainted with the texture of the fabric. Then his enormously high-crowned hat with an imposing black cockade, and his white wool curling profusely about his ears, together with a high white choker and a still higher collar, stiffly starched, altogether gave him an appearance of the effigy of an ancient nobleman's coachman, rather than a knight of the reins and whip of the present day. 
               He looked neither to the right nor to the left, but sat erect upon his box, the stiffest and most dignified specimen of humanity that ever ornamented the stem of a coach. 
               To make the whole thing as supremely ridiculous as possible, a pair of young negroes were mounted behind the coach, each encased in a costume improvised for the occasion. They stood there grinning like a pair of apes, at their new position, and were wondering to themselves why 'Old Cuffee put dem up dar to ride when dey wur only to perform the part of footmen.' 
               At first sight of this remarkable turn-out, I almost resolved to remand the whole thing, horses, coach, footmen and driver back to their respective places; but on reflection I came to the conclusion that it would be discreet,-at least for me,-not to venture on any innovations in the mode of doing things at Magnolia Villa; and, moreover, I succeeded in manifesting no symptoms of the surprise I felt; but finally placed myself with the proffered assistance of the two grinning apes, in the ponderous vehicle, and it rolled heavily onward down Magnolia Avenue, into the great highway leading to the city, as grandly as if it had been the State carriage of Jeff. Davis himself. 
               It is true that all the great dogs and all the little dogs saluted the carriage with their yelpings, as we passed; and also that all the men, women and children that we encountered en route stared at the single vehicle with as much curiosity as if it had been a grand caravan of living animals; and they all had a fine opportunity, for Cuffee, the coachman, could not or did not persuade the animals to move faster than a four mile gait. I more than half suspected that he drove the team much more moderately than was necessary, for the sole purpose of attracting all the attention possible to this unique and gay turn-out. 
               After a ride of thirty-five or forty minutes we entered the principal street of the capital of the State. My Jehu seemed to be perfectly at home in this embryo metropolis; and he appeared to take especial delight in driving by all the public edifices,-the State House, the Executive Mansion, the Lunatic Asylum, the Land Office, not slighting even the Penitentiary,-and finally drew up before the most pretentious dry goods store in the place; and as it was situated directly opposite the principal hotel, were were congregated a vast number of military gentlemen, with a sprinkling of State officials, and an occasional politician of note, it is not to be wondered at that the Magnolia turn-out attracted not a little attention from these gentlemen of leisure. 
               In fact I had no sooner made my purchases and stepped upon the sidewalk again, than at least two-thirds of the idle, curious crowd had crossed the street, and now stood gaping at the equipage I had made my entree to Jackson in. 
               As I approached the carriage some half dozen young officers vied with each other in endeavoring to show me all the civility that the place and circumstances could admit. One of them persisted in conducting me to the coach; another performed a better service in causing those who huddled about the vehicle to stand out of the way, and another absolutely came up and addressed me as Miss Marland, claiming for his presumption in speaking to me, to have been an intimate friend of our family; said he knew me well when I was a child, although the soft beard upon his chin attested that he himself had not been born certainly more than a quarter of a century. He introduced himself as Captain Clymer, of the 4th Mississippi Cavalry, and extended to me an invitation to visit his barracks near the bank of Pearl River, whenever it would suit my pleasure. 
               I of course accepted his invitation, and thanked him for his courtesy, and appointed the following day for the visit. 
               After making a few calls at the shops, I bade Cuffee drive homeward, but to make a diversion towards the military defences of the capital. I desired this more on account of making myself familiar with the topography of the place, for you must know that I was absolutely a stranger there. 
                
               We came to a point where the fortifications of the place were in progress, and where the chief works could be overlooked from the coach. I remarked to Cuffee as we halted, that everything seemed marvellously changed. 
               'Ees, missus,' he replied. 'Bery much change, skasely know'd um mysel. De sojers dey turn all tings downside up, so de Yanks can't come; but bressa God dey will come, shuah!' 
               'What, Cuffee, have you, too, turned traitor?' 
               'No, missus-I habn't got anything to turn traitor to.' 
               'Are you not satisfied with your treatment at Magnolia Villa?' 
               'Ees, missus. Golly, we hab eberyting we want out dar, but I was tinkin' ob de poo' niggas on de plantations. Dey hab nofin, 'cept pork and homminy and de hoss-whip.' 
               'Do you desire your freedom?' 
               'No, missus-wouldn't leabe Magnolia place for de world.' 
               'What makes you think that the Yankees will come?' 
               'Kase I dreamed dat dey wud cum, shuah-and when I dreams anyting, dat ting am shuah to happen.' 
               'If that is your belief you had best keep it to yourself, because evil will come by expressing it.' 
               ''Zackly, missus, but I muss tell my missus-she muss know ebery ting-my heart tells me neber keep anyting secret from missus, an' if I had to die for it she muss know it. Dey say de Yankees an' dere great king, Massa Abrum Linkum, am de poo' niggas bess frens, and missus know'd dat moss de massas in de souf am't de poo' niggas frens.' 
               Cuffee expressed himself with so much earnestness and sincerity of manner that I doubted not that he spoke the sentiments of his heart, but fearing that my apeish footmen behind might comprehend too much, I silenced him, preferring to sound him further when a more favorable opportunity offered, for the idea occurred to me that I might find in him precisely the person that I might need in certain possible emergencies. 
               After satisfying my curiosity as to the outline of the rebel fortifications, my lumbering vehicle was again in motion, and as we were homeward bound it seemed to move with much greater celerity than when proceeding towards the capital. 
               I experienced a great relief when I had alighted from the ancient coach of the Marlands, and had retired to my little boudoir where, undisturbed I could reflect on what I had seen and heard, and note that which was worth preserving in cipher. 
               On the next day I repeated my visit to the town, but I contented myself with a one horse vehicle-a modified form of the curricle,-driven by the disaffected Cuffee, minus his livery and the brace of footmen,-which mode of driving out the heiress of the Marland estate,-the last of the race-comported not exactly with his notions of dignity or propriety. But I silenced all expostulations, and suppressed all manifestations, in opposition to the independent stand I had taken to have my own way, and Cuffee succumbed to the powers that were with due grace and humility. 
               Nothing of interest occurred on this my second visit to the town, except that I made the discovery that every shopkeeper I visited appeared not only to recognize me, but to address me as Miss Marland. My credit I also found was well established, but having sufficient funds to meet all requirements I did not avail myself of it. 
               On my return, in passing the hotel I have before spoken of, I was not a little surprised to observe standing amid a group of officers, the gallant Lieut. Colonel Lamar, who was the officer of my escort after crossing within the lines of Secessia. 
               A slight salute of recognition came from him, and a tremor thrilled me to the very soul, for the thought that he must be in Jackson on important business, and perchance, in no agreeable manner connected with myself, gave me no little uneasiness. 
               I was the heroine of a plot, why may not he be the hero of a counterplot? was a question which quickly suggested itself to my mind. 
               I weighed all the probabilities and possibilities, and by the time I had reached Magnolia Villa I came to the satisfactory conclusion that ninety chances in a hundred were in favor of the plotter. 
               When evening came a carriage rolled up the avenue, and four officers, in full uniform, were presently ushered into the parlor. 
               I escaped therefrom before being observed, and hastened to my boudoir. 
               A servant quickly came bearing a card with the address of Captain Clymer. 
               Hastily arranging my toilet I descended, where I met my new acquaintance, who introduced me to three other officers, fine and gallant looking young men, all of whom apologized for making so unceremonious a call, inasmuch as they had formerly been frequent visitors at Magnolia Villa, and on intimate terms with members of our family. They all congratulated me on my safe return to the land of my birth, and to the home of my revered father and grandfather. 
               I bade them be seated, and after a few common-place preliminaries they commenced plying me with enquiries respecting the condition of affairs in 'Abe Lincoln's abolition dominions.' 
               Of course I represented things in as desperate a state as possible without infringing upon absolute truths, and without giving them any real information which might be of possible value to the cause. That my answers gave them much satisfaction was evident from the chuckling manner in which they were received, and the tenor of their comments. 
               'Your observation confirms our suppositions, Miss Marland,' said Captain Clymer; 'and the day is not far distant when their armies will be demoralized and disbanded. They have already reached the climax of their successes, and the farther they push their armies into the Confederacy the more total will be their defeat, and the more glorious will be our victory.' 
               'And hasn't it been good policy, captain, from the first, to entice these vandals as far into our territories as possible, that we may inflict upon them that punishment their audacity so justly merits?' asked a lieutenant of the party, 
               'Precisely,' replied the captain; 'and in doing this our generals have proved themselves skilful strategists.' 
               'Doubtless,' rejoined a third officer, 'and it was for this that we evacuated Bowling Green, gave up Forts Donelson and Clark, and Island No. 10.' 
               'Yes, and withdrew our armies from the bloody fields of Pittsburg Landing and Shiloh, after half annihilating and scattering the Yankee forces,' echoed the fourth officer. 
               'But now,' resumed Captain Clymer; 'we have reached the extreme boundaries of our strategic retreats; and soon our armies will strike blow after blow so heavily and so rapidly upon the barbarous Yanks, that they will sue for peace on any terms.' 
               'But why,' I asked, 'if the Yankees are not to be permitted to advance any farther into the Confederacy, why expend so much labor and money in fortifying a town so remote from their operations as Jackson?' 
               'Ah! Miss Marland-a natural-a very natural question for one to ask,' replied the captain. 'If that query has been put once it has been put a thousand times. It is not for the purpose of defence, Miss Marland, that those works were projected. They are being constructed only for the purpose of practice-to teach our young officers the art of engineering, and the privates skill in the use of the pick and the spade. And as you have accepted an invitation to visit the entrenched portions of the city, I propose to come for you to-morrow, and after inspecting the works you will readily comprehend my explanation.' 
               'Thank you, captain, a visit would undoubtedly be a source of much gratification to me,' I replied; 'but I have been debating in my own mind whether it is proper for me, a young lady, to manifest an interest in military affairs.' 
               'Perfectly-oh, perfectly, Miss Marland,' replied Clymer, quite enthusiastically. 'Our young ladies, in some instances, evince a more patriotic ardor than many of our young gentlemen. In times of war an Amazonian spirit is much to be respected and applauded; and every lady, who manifests such a spirit, helps to aid the right cause by animating those whose duty it is to take the field, and sacrifice their lives if necessary, upon the altar of their country.' 
               'I am glad to hear you say words so encouraging to those of my sex, for I have already conceived it to be my duty to do something more for our bleeding country than to remain at home, making pincushions and nick-nacks for the soldiers, or in picking lint for the hospitals. I am ambitious to be an attache of the camp, or the fortress, in some appropriate capacity.' 
               'I have no doubt, Miss Marland, that your fullest desires may be gratified. My distinguished relative, General Beauregard, has much influence with the powers that be at Richmond. When you have determined the particular position that would be agreeable to you, my services in your behalf may at least be commanded.' 
               'Thank you, Captain--' 
               The conversation was here interrupted by the announcement of Colonel Lamar. 
               'Col. Lamar! Can it be possible he's in town? What can have brought him from the army?' were the ejaculations uttered sotto voce by the lips of my visitors. 
               Any intended answer to these queries were for the moment suspended by the entrance of the colonel himself. I received him with as much cordiality as my ardor would permit, for I could not avoid entertaining the suspicion that his sudden arrival at Magnolia Villa boded no particular good to myself. 
               In truth I was not a little discomfited at the circumstance, notwithstanding the apparent impression I had made upon his susceptible heart while he journeyed with me into the land of Secessia. 
               It could scarcely be possible, I reasoned, that he could have gained leave of absence while performing the imperative duty of guarding the frontier from Yankee incursions, unless intrusted with business essential to the rebel cause. 
               He seemed quite reserved-asked me but few questions, and those of a common place nature, and mostly relative to the latter part of my journey. 
               My answers were of course quite as common-place, and tended to throw a Quaker-like spell upon the whole party. 
               My first visitors, after enquiring for intelligence from the army in the field, and gaining such information as could be elicted from Lamar, rose, and expressing each gratification at the visit, bade me good evening, and took their departure, leaving the colonel alone with me, to develope without interruption the nature of his business. 
               'I fear, Miss Marland,' said he, 'that I have made an untimely visit, and that my brother officers feel somewhat chagrined at my unexpected appearance here.' 
               'Your visit is by no means untimely, colonel; and I trust that my newly-made friends are not over-sensitive,' was my reply. 
               'You certainly had no reason to expect me so soon, but I must confess that from the moment that I parted with you at the Railway Station I regretted that-that' 
               He hesitated, and there was an ominous expression upon his young and happy countenance that gave me some alarm. 
               'Business of urgent importance, connected with your official duties, must have brought you to town from your post of duty,' I remarked, with almost tremulous accent. 
               'Yes-no, not exactly-that is to say-I beg pardon, I scarcely know what to say,' he stammered, as if embarrassed with something of serious import that he desired to relieve himself of. 'The fact is, Miss Marland,' he at length resumed, 'I have come post haste from my regiment, with but three days leave of absence, for the purpose of informing you that my superior officer has conceived a foolish suspicion in regard to your real character, and to gain such intelligence as will dissipate his unfounded surmises.' 
               'Why you quite startle me, colonel,' said I, regaining by a great effort my wonted self possession. 'Prithee tell me, of what a weak young girl like me can be suspected of.' 
               'He scarcely knows himself; but he professes great knowledge of human nature, and almost swears that, although he saw you but for a moment, that you are no Southern lady!' 
               'There is nothing very surprising in that,' said I, with a hearty laugh. 'He was not aware that, having lived a great portion of my life among the Yankees, and having been educated among them, that I should not have the manners or the appearance of a Southern lady.' 
               'So I told him; but he shook his head; he would not be convinced.' 
               'I am sorry that you did not bring this doubting, vigilant, suspicious officer with you,' said I. 
               'But one of us could gain permission to leave the regiment,' he replied. 
               'So you have undertaken this journey alone to satisfy your commander?' 
               'Such is the fact; and I shall enjoy a good laugh at his expense, when I can tell him that I found you domiciled at Magnolia Villa, the acknowledged daughter of the late lamented Honorable Mr. Marland.' 
               'Perhaps it would be judicious in you to examine the elder servants on the estate. I will summon them.' 
               'Nay, Miss Marland, it is unnecessary. My life upon your being none other than the heiress of the Marland estate,' he asseverated with considerable emphasis. 
               'A rather dilapidated estate, if the representations of Obadiah Tomlinson, our agent, are correct. I find that I am possessed of but the wreck of the possessions of a once opulent family, but as my wants will be limited it will serve me just as well as a large fortune.' 
               'Obadiah Tomlinson!' repeated Lamar; I know him-he's a miserly old Quaker-I ask pardon, he is the--' 
               'You need not fear to express your mind, colonel,' I interrupted, for I have reason to believe that he is not only a miser but a knave, and in due time he shall be exposed.' 
               'It has long been a matter of surprise,' resumed Lamar, 'that this man ever since he became an employee of your lamented father, has been accumulating wealth, while the estate which he represented has been dwindling away, and if you have been so fortunate as to have discovered a key to the mystery it will be a relief to those who have looked upon the decay of the great fortune that your father was once known to possess.' 
               'Whether I possess the key or not, colonel, I have in my possession this man's account of his stewardship, and having employed many hours in poring over his books, I have detected many glaring inconsistencies, of which I have taken note. When I become a little better satisfied with his malpractices, the whole matter shall be placed in the hands of an attorney. Bye the bye, colonel, can you recommend me to some legal gentleman, in whom I may place entire confidence both as regards ability and honesty?' 
                
               'I know a keen-witted, shrewd, intelligent and, as I believe, honest lawyer of Jackson, who would be glad to be retained in your cause; but as he is my brother-in-law I would prefer that some other person commend him to your consideration.' 
               'I will rely upon your estimate of this legal gentleman. If you will give me his address, I shall do myself the honor to seek an interview with him when I have progressed a little farther into the Quaker's record.' 
               'With much pleasure,' he replied, producing a slip of paper, on which he wrote, 'William Barnwell, Attorney and Counsellor at Law, No.-, Pearl Street, Jackson,' and placed it in my hands. 
               No sooner had I received the address, than a servant announced 'Obadiah Tomlinson.' 
               'Tell him that I--' 
               Before I could finish the sentence which would have informed Obadiah that I was engaged and could not see him, his gaunt, erect figure stalked into the room, and halting in front of the colonel and myself, he said: 
               'Verily, Miss Marietta, I did not know that thou hadst a man of war with thee, otherwise I should not have ventured into thy presence.' 
               'Had you waited at the door a moment longer you would have been informed that I was engaged,' said I, appearing to be offended at his intrusion. 
               'En-ga-ged!' repeated Broadbrim, thrice, misinterpreting my meaning. 'The daughter of my old friend engaged! and not to a man of peace, but to a son of Mars!' 
               'Sir!' said I, casting an angry look upon him, while my cheeks burned with a sudden suffusion of blood. 'I was engaged in conversation with Colonel Lamar, and I am desirous of continuing it without the presence of a third party.' 
               'Mar-i-etta! Mar-i-etta! I am thy guardian! it is my rightful prerogative to protest against thy receiving the attentions of those who smite with the sword! verily, in thus doing, I do but observe the parting injunctions of thy late father!' 
               'I suppose, then, that you would deny me the right to receive the attentions of any man?' 
               'Verily, that I should, without thou didst first ask and receive the consent of thy lawful guardian.' 
               'I did not ask for, nor receive the consent of Obadiah, that Potiphar, his son, should importune me with his attentions,' I retorted. 
               'My son! Dared he to lift his eyes to thine?' 
               'Most assuredly he did.' 
               'Then will it be my duty to thwack Potiphar thrice with a rod of birch.' 
               'You wouldn't punish your own son for daring to look a young girl in the face, especially as you had sent him to make love to me,' I ventured to remark. 
               'M-o-n-s-t-r-o-u-s!' drawled out Broadbrim; 'I sent him hither for no such unholy purpose, but to obtain from thee those precious books which never so long before hath left my custody. Thou didst decline to deliver them up, inasmuch as thou hadst not perused them to thine own satisfaction. Now, how canst thou say he came to make love?' 
               'Because his looks, his manner, his stammering speech all indicated it.' 
               'Verily, thou art deceived, maiden. Potiphar came for the books, and with that purpose do I now come, and not for the purpose of intruding between thee and the man of war, who weareth a sword at his thigh. But being shocked at the sight I did make bold to protest, for I am thy guardian and thou art my ward.' 
               'But not thy slave!' I retorted. 
               'Verily, maiden, thou art not of the race of Ham, but of Japhet, and therefore no one hast the power to enslave thee; but, nevertheless, the law doth authorize me to exercise that wholesome and gentle restraint over thine actions, that thou mayst not diverge verge from the path of rectitude; yea, verily, and the law is just.' 
               'I am afraid, Obadiah, that if you intend to keep watch over my actions, you will find precious little time for any other duty,' I remarked. 
               'Nevertheless, I have accepted the trust, and it becometh my dignity and honor to look after thee as a good shepherd after his flock,' he replied. 
               'Then, Obadiah, it becometh my dignity and honor to relieve you of all care, of all responsibility, regarding me; for I do renounce all allegiance, all obeisance, to your presumed authority. So, go your ways and trouble me no more.' 
               'Man of war! man of war!' cried Broadbrim, addressing Lamar; 'hast thou given attention to that which this bold maiden declareth?' 
               'I certainly have, and much do I admire her independence,' replied the colonel. 
               'Verily, thou must have bewitched her; and it is not well for thee and the maiden to be alone. I will therefore set me down in thy midst and be a witness of thy baneful councils,' said Obadiah, as he took a chair, and drawing it quite near to Lamar and myself, quietly ensconced himself in it. 
               In another moment we both arose, and leaving the parlor in full possession of Broadbrim, we repaired to the hall, and there resumed conversation. But the Quaker was not to he frustrated, and having recovered his surprise at my wilful conduct, he followed us hither. 
               'Verily, Marietta Marland,' said he, entering, 'thou art a perverse and undutiful maiden, and I will leave thee to thine own destruction; but ere I go I must request thee to deliver up to my keeping the books that were placed in thy hands, for the purpose of satisfying thyself that I have been a faithful steward of the estate.' 
               'When I have done with them, Obadiah, they will be restored.' 
               'Art thou not satisfied already?' 
               'No, Obadiah, not fully. There are many things which I cannot understand.' 
               'But which I have offered to explain to thee.' 
               'I have no doubt you might give a very plausible explanation, but I prefer to place them in the hands of a professional gentleman-a disinterested party-for a thorough investigation.' 
               Obadiah looked amazed, and for some moments was speechless. His face, too, became reddened with anger, and instead of preserving his usual erect and dignified attitude, with his hands clasped across his breast, he absolutely pulled off his broad-brimmed covering, and swinging it violently to and fro, he cried out in a loud voice, addressing Lamar: 
               'Son of Belial! thou man of the sword and gilt trappings! thy presence here fore-bodeth no good to this young damsel! Therefore, I do command thee to begone!' 
               'Son of a coward!' retorted the colonel, imitating the Quaker, 'thou man of the broadbrim, the drab suit, and the sneaking, hypocritical countenance! Thy presence here forebodeth no good to thee, and if thou dost not immediately depart, verily, I will tickle thy flesh with the sharp point of this two-edged blade!' 
               As the colonel uttered these words he drew his weapon and brandished it before the Quaker's eyes. 
               'Approach me not! approach me not! else thine own blood shall answer for it!' returned Broadbrim, suddenly producing a pistol from beneath his drab covering. 'I am a man of peace, but behold I am armed against the Philistine! Therefore, stand off, lest I do thee mischief!' 
               'I do not fear such a toy as that!' said the colonel, as by a dexterous movement of his sword, he struck the pistol from the hand of the Quaker. It fell upon the floor and Lamar picked it up, and ascertained that it contained neither powder nor ball!' 
                
               'Man of war, give me the weapon?' demanded Obadiah. 
               'Hypocritical knave!' demanded the colonel; 'you disgrace even the name of Quaker, under which you have avoided our proscription. But it shall serve you no longer, for before the sun sets I will make it my duty to report your warlike character to the Provost Marshal!' 
               'I ask thy pardon! oh man of the sword! I will even bend my knee to thee, which ne'er did'st bend to man before!' said the frightened Obadiah, as he knelt before the colonel. 'I was provoked, and in my wrath did'st offend thee. Verily, I wast possessed of the spirit of Belial whilst I did speak!' 
               'Your apology is quite sufficient, Mr. Thee-and-Thou!' said Lamar. 'Get up, and take thyself hence as quickly as thy nether limbs will carry thee.' 
               'Verily, it becometh me to obey thee,' said Broadbrim, rising; 'but I would fain bear along the account books with me, if the maiden pleaseth to consent.' 
               'When I have done with them they shall be sent after you, Obadiah,' I replied. 
               'I feareth much they will affect thy brain, shouldst thou study too long into their intricacies.' 
               'They have already puzzled me much, but I have told you that I shall retain an Attorney to assist me.' 
               'Put not thy trust in the man of Law. He will so lead thee into its meshes that thou wilt never be enabled to extricate thyself. I beseech thee to listen to him that thy late father didst place implicit confidence in.' 
               'Too much, I fear, Broadbrim; and, therefore, I will not accede to your wishes.' 
               'Verily, thou art an inexorable maiden, and much harm wilt come to thee for thy stubbornness. I now humbly take my leave. Good bye, thou man of blood.' 
               'Good bye, old Thee-and-Thou,' responded the colonel. 'Beware of carrying deadly weapons, lest your quakerish pretensions fail to avail you of exemption from the draft!' 
               'Thy advice shall profit me,' replied the Quaker, as he made his exit from the room. 
               'That fellow is an arrant knave-a consummate hypocrite!' remarked Lamar. 
               'He has taught me to believe so; and he shall be called to a severe reckoning,' I replied. 
               But in what manner I should proceed, considering the delicate position in which I myself stood, was quite indefinite. And the question more than once suggested itself to my mind, why I should interest myself so readily in the affairs of another. 
               But it was answered by the fervent desire I felt to make some amends for the unwarrantable but involuntary attitude which I was forced to assume. If I could be the humble instrument in restoring to the real heiress of Magnolia Villa that which had probably been wrested from her by a villain, she would at least forgive me for the imposition I had been made to practice. 
               The colonol, after a few observations touching the attorney he had recommended to me, arose to depart. I had so won upon his credulity and confidence, that I ventured to request of him to obtain for me a pass to Vicksburg from the general commanding at Jackson. He promised to do so, and after wishing me all success, and bidding me a kind adieu, he departed from the Villa, leaving me quite alone to meditate upon the course of conduct I would pursue, not only to bring the Quaker to a strict account of his stewardship, but also in relation to the mission I had from motives of loyalty and patriotism undertaken. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               A HORRIBLE CRIME PREVENTED. THE DOG GROWLER AND THE QUAKER'S COAT-TAIL. 
               "IT was nearly the hour of eleven before I retired to my chamber, and as I felt little disposition to sleep, I sat down at the open casement, where I could overlook the lawn in front, the shaded avenues, and the garden of flowers situated on the easterly side of the house. 
               The heavens during the evening had been veiled by scudding clouds, but now there was scarcely a speck visible, within the scope of my vision, to hide the deep blue vault above. The moon, nearly at her full, shone with her wonted lustre, and the stars vied with the queen of night in lending their brightness to the dull earth. So bright was it that I extinguished the light on my table that I might the better view the resplendent beauties of the night. So beautiful seemed everything about Magnolia Villa, that for the first time I really felt a slight touch of envy of its real possessor; but this did not drive from my thoughts the all-important plans which must be thoroughly digested before I could act with safety, and with a probable certainty of success. 
               I had meditated for a full hour, when my thoughts were suddenly diverted by the rustling of the branches and leaves of shrubs, apparently proceeding from near the centre of the flower garden. I should not have been attracted by this noise had there been sufficient breeze to have moved the branches of the trees; but a dead calm prevailed, and it seemed as still as death without. My eyes became riveted upon the spot, and after gazing for several minutes and observing nothing, and hearing nothing, I attributed it to some domestic or other animal that was prowling about. But presently I heard it again, and turning my eyes in that direction, I distinctly beheld the figure of a tall man standing forth in bold relief in the moon's rays before a clump of gladioluses, whose gorgeous flowers had on the morning previous attracted my attention. 
               The apparition slightly startled me, but as I thought that the figure was not wholly unfamiliar to me, and the casement where I sat being shaded by dark vines, and the projecting verandah above shutting off the moon's rays, I kept my seat, and fixed my eyes intently upon the object. 
               Presently it moved back a few paces, stooped, as if to gather something from the earth, and then again stood erect, facing towards the villa, as if watching for some object or other appearance. It then moved stealthily up the path, passed the gate and crossed the lawn until it was lost under the projection beneath me. 
               The thought was suggested to my mind that there was mischief afloat; and under ordinary circumstances I might have been too much frightened to act; but I, who had braved so many perils, was not to be itimidated by a midnight prowler, even about a peaceful residence. 
               I immediately rushed from my room and down the stairs, and from a window of the parlor beheld the prowling visitor upon the verandah, crouching over what appeared to be a pile of faggots, placed against the dry lattice-work of the verandah. I saw him take a match from his pocket, ignite it and light a small piece of candle, which he carefully placed in the centre of the pile of faggots, and then artfully conceal the flame by piling some brush around it, so that its rays could not give light beyond it. 
               The prowler's intent was no longer an uncertainty, and the wretch himself was known to me. As soon as he saw that his atrocious design must be accomplished without his further aid, he moved stealthily away. 
               My first purpose was to rush forth and extinguish the candle before it had ignited the pile about it; but at that moment I heard the growl of a large hound which was confined in a large kennel in the yard in the rear of the villa. I flew towards a back door, turned the lock, and in a moment more was beside the kennel. I called Growler by his name and forthwith unloosed him. He rushed forth, and leaping first towards the spot where the incendiary's work was so well begun, then turned in the direction that the wretch had gone. Being first assured that he had got the scent, he rushed forth with the speed of the wind. 
               Meanwhile, without making the slightest disturbance, I examined the incendiary's plan for firing the house. It was ingeniously arranged-the candle would have burned, perhaps, five minutes, when the flame would have reached the combustible pile around it, and under ordinary circumstances the villa must have been in flames before an alarm could have been given. 
               No sooner had I extinguished the candle than I heard the outcries of a human voice apparantly in distress. A pistol shot followed. I feared that the incendiary had killed the faithful animal, for neither his bark nor growl had reached my ears since he started in pursuit of the fugitive. 
               My mind was soon, however, relieved in regard to Growler, for in less than five minutes he re-appeared, bearing in his mouth a large portion of the tail of a coat, the cut of which, and its drab color was unmistakable. 
               It surely identified Obadiah Tomlinson, the Quaker! 
               The dog held it up before me. I patted him kindly on the head, and took it from his mouth. He then crouched down upon the verandah, as if he had resolved not to go back to the kennel, but to perform a sentinel's duty for the remainder of that night, a determination which I did not remonstrate against. 
               After brushing the incendiary pile from the verandah, I once more retired to the solitude of my chamber, and kept vigil until the dawn of day, when I was enabled to obtain an hour or two of sleep. 
               It had been my intention to re-visit the town on that day, but for prudential reasons I resolved to remain at the villa. I communicated to no one the occurrence of the preceding night, but after partaking of the breakfast, which was served me at nine o'clock, I repaired to the boudoir, determined to pursue the task of analyzing all the important entries in Obadiah Tomlinson's portly folios that was possible, and then forthwith to despatch them by Cuffee to the office of Wm. Barnwell, Pearl Street, Jackson, with notes of all the gross and glaring attempts at fraud which I had already discovered, or might discover, in my further investigation. 
               The task occupied my time diligently until two o'clock, and after writing a brief explanatory note for not being able to call in person until another day, I summoned Cuffee to my aid. 
               'I wish you to make a neat package of those books. Here are paper and twine,' said I. 
               'Ees, missus.' 
               'And when you have done that, harness the horse into the carriage, and convey them to the office of William Barnwell, No.-Pearl Street, Jackson. 
               'Ees, missus; Cuffee know'd whar dat laryer keep. But dese look for all de world like ole Tomly's books.' 
               'They are his books; but they must not go into his hands, but into the hands of Mr. Barnwell.' 
               'Golly! I un'stan', missus. I duzn't like to go to ole Tomly's house. Dat ole chap-I ax pardon missus, but I beliebe dat ole chap's no better dan some niggas.' 
               'What do you know about him, Cuffee?' 
               'Nuffin much, missus; ony ebryting hab gone wrong end fo'moss at Magnoly eber sence my poo' ole dead an' gone massa gib up de reins ob bizness to de Quaker.' 
                
               'By-the-bye, Cuffee, did you hear any strange noises about the premises last night?' 
               'Nuffin strange, missus; but I heard Growler bark, and when I seed him out ob de ken'l dis mornin' at daylight, I know'd some ebil sperits wur roun'.' 
               'Do you know where that piece of drab cloth came from, Cuffee?' 
               'He, he, he, yah!' laughed the negro, as he took the remnant in his hand. 'I axes pardon, missus, but I can't help laffin-he, he, he! Golly, if dat ar don't look jess like ole Tomly's coat tail, den I duzn't know a brack sheep from a white 'un.' 
               'How think you he lost it?' 
               'Golly, missus, dat am't so easy to tell,' answered Cuffee, as with glistening eyes he examined every part of the remnant. 'He, he, he!-golly! whew!-if I were only a Yankee nigga, I guesses I could guess.' 
               'Well, guess, Cuffee.' 
               'Lordy, missus, ony tink ob it; yah, yah, yah!' 
               'Don't be so boisterous in your mirth,' said I, checking an unusually loud outbreak of laughter. 'Let me know what you think.' 
               'I tinks, missus, or radder I guesses, dat dat 'ar coat tail hab been in Growler's mouf; he, he, he! yah, yah, yah!' 
               'But Growler was in his kennel last night when the Quaker left the house, was he not?' 
               'Ees, missus, Cuffee can swar to dat fack; but I tinks he muss come back, and de dog got out somehow or noder, and tinking ole Tomly no bizness 'bout here arter fooks hab gone to bed, so he tuk it into his head to fly at him, and bit off his coat tail. He, he, he, yah!'-dat's wot I tinks!' 
               'Did you notice a quantity of faggots near the verandah when you was brushing up around the house this morning?' 
               'Ees, missus, and I hab been 'cratchin' my wool all de mornin' to tink how dat' arbrush cum 'd dar. I axed eberybody, and eberybody didn't know'd no more'n I did.' 
               'Suppose, Cuffee,' said I, producing the piece of candle that I had secured from the incendiary's pile, 'that you had found this in the centre of a bundle of faggots lighted, and the bundle had been placed on the verandah near the light trellis-work; what should you think of such a circumstance?' 
               'Gorra, bress us, missus, you almos' fright ole Cuffee!' he exclaimed, his eyes starting from their sockets. 'Why, I should tink, missus-I should tink dat somebody was gwine to sot de house on fire and burn eberybody all up. But, missus, you don't mean for to go to tell dat do dog-dat ole Tomly-dat dem'ar sticks-dat-oh, lordy massy, missus-I-I-I-, 
               'I mean simply to say that an attempt was made to fire the house last night,' said I, interrupting Cuffee's confused words; 'and that the incendiary was none other than the steward of Magnolia Villa; and, moreover, had I not discovered the wretch's intention, the house and all therein might have been destroyed. It was I who let loose Growler upon the man who would have destroyed us, and he returned with his coat tail, a most corroborative circumstance of the evidence of my own senses, that the Quaker is the criminal.' 
               The negro was silent for some moments. The enormity of Tomlinson's premeditated crime quite staggered him; for he had been taught to look upon the man of peace as a pattern of morality, He had never liked his stern, rigid ways, but had never suspected him capable of the slightest wrong doing. 
               'I speek de world won't lass much longer, missus,' at length said Cuffee, quietly, as he proceeded to give the finishing stroke to his task of tying up the package of books. 'Lordy, missus, I wonder what ole Tomly wants for to burn us all up? If he be de debil hesef den I un'stan'.' 
               'I will tell you Cuffee. The mystery lies in these books. He wished to destroy them, because they prove that he has been an unfaithful steward.' 
               'Now I un'stan'. Golly, missus, you know eberyting.' 
               'I know too much for this dangerous man, Cuffee; and to place these books beyond his reach is now my purpose. Once in the hands of Mr. Barnwell, he will see that they are made secure from robbers or incendiaries.' 
               'Ees, missus, I go direc'ly,' replied the negro, as he hastened forth to harness the horse in a convenient vehicle for the purpose of taking the package to town. 
               Before he started off I gave him some words of caution in regard to the delivery of the books, and also charged him to make no mention to any person that which I had revealed to him. 
               In about two hours he returned, bearing a note to me from Mr. Barnwell, acknowledging the receipt of the books, and promising to exercise to his utmost all the legal ability he possessed in bringing the monstrous practices of the Quaker to light. He likewise informed me that he had seen Col. Lamar prior to receiving the books. 
               'Golly, missus, I rader guess ole Tomly won't be roun 'here agin to-night,' remarked Cuffee, after I had thanked him for performing his mission so well. 
               'What is there to prevent?' 
               'Kase de laryer send a constable arter him.' 
               'Arrested so soon?' 
               'Ees, missus. Massa Barnwell didn't low de grass to grow under his feet.' 
               'What disposition did he make of the books?' 
               'Lock 'em up in a big iron box.' 
               'Then we may hope to sleep securly to-night.' 
               'Ees, missus, you go to sleep-Cuffee and Growler will keep watch.' 
               'There will be no necessity for such vigilance,' said I. 
               'Bess not risk anyting, missus. Ole Tomly'll tink dat the books am still here, and he may send Massa Potiphar to burn them up or' teal em.' 
               'There's no danger to be apprehended from such a coward.' 
               'Dunno-bess be sartin-Potiphar bery much like ole man-don't like to truss none ob dat tribe now, no how.' 
               I made no further objections to Cuffee's proposition to keep watch, though it was scarcely within the bounds of probability that any further demonstrations would be made to destroy the books, as Tomlinson if arrested, would be informed of the charges preferred against him, and also that the books were in the custody of Mr. Barnwell. 
               'Cuffee,' said I, preliminary to broaching a new subject, 'how long have you been a slave?' 
               'Eber sence I wur a pickaninny.' 
               'Did you ever have a desire to be free?' 
               'Lor bress us, missus, I neber hardly dared to tink ob it.' 
               'But you have thought of it, and now answer me, frankly, would you like to be a freeman?' 
               'Freedom am a good ting am't it?' he enquired, evasively. 
               'I confess that I shouldn't like to be a slave; but you haven't answered my question.' 
               'Wal, 'spose wite man tink freedom am good ting for wite man, brack man tink freedom good ting for brack man.' 
               'Then I take it for granted that you desire to be a freeman?' 
               'I ax pardon, missus, but Cuffee wouldn't tell a lie to gain his freedom. I hope some day or oder to be free and dat am a fac!' 
               'How long since you entertained this hope?' 
               'Eber sence de bobalition war bruk out.' 
               'Then you expect to be liberated through the success of the Yankees?' 
               'Ees, missus-I can't tell a lie.' 
               'And you hope they will succeed?' 
                
               'If I answer dat, missus, won't somebody hang or shoot poo' Cuffee?' 
               'You may answer it only to me, and you may rely upon my word that no harm shall befall you.' 
               'Den, missus, I muss say dat I hab long wished to be free. I hab prayed a tousand times to be free!' 
               'And, Cuffee, you shall be free!' 
               'Golly, missus, don't say dat ar' widout you mean it; 'case I couldn't bear to beliebe that I should no longer be a slabe, and den hab it turn out oderwise-dat would break Cuffee's heart!' 
               'Keep your own counsel-be directed wholly by me-lisp not a word of our conversation to any human being, and I may serve you; but you must remember that freedom is not worth much to a negro in the South.' 
               'I know'd dat, missus.' 
               'And to enjoy your freedom you must get beyond slave-dealers and slave-drivers.' 
               'Ees, missus, dat 'xacly what I been taught to beliebe.' 
               'In the course of three days I intend going to Vicksburg, to visit a friend that I have there, I wish to take a faithful servant with me and if he serves me well he shall be free!' 
               'Golly, missus, won't you be 'fraid ob de Yankee shot and bumshell dar? Dey say de Yanks all aroun' Vicksburg-tousands ob dem!' 
               'I have little to fear from them, Cuffee; they would'nt harm a lady, nor you if we chanced to fall into their hands, especially as I have dwelt so long among them.' 
               'So I tink, missus; dey aint haff so bad as de grey sojers would hab us tink.' 
               Having thus elicited from the old negro his real sentiments, I was prepared to propose to him to accompany me to the beleagured stronghold of the rebels; and when I did so, old as he was, he danced about the room in such great glee, that I was compelled to admonish him, lest the cause of his jollity should be ascertained by the servants in and about the house, He was then as demure as I could desire, and during our further stay at Magnolia Villa no one could have suspected from his language or his demeanor that he entertained a first thought beyond the boundaries of the estate on which he was born and bred and toiled, till sixty summers had whitened his head. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               POTIPHAR IN GREAT TRIBULATION. OBADIAH'S CONFESSION. THE DEFENCES OF JACKSON. 
               WHETHER it was in consequence of a feeling of security, or because I had kept vigil the preceeding night, that I profoundly slept for twelve hours without awakening, I am unable to say; but ten o'clock had struck before I awoke on the morning subsequent to my interview with Cuffee. 
               As this was the hour I had ordered him to have the vehicle at the door to take me to town, and as he was punctual to the moment, I hastily made my toilet, partook of some slight refreshment, and took my departure. 
               As we rolled down the avenue I saw Potiphar Tomlinson approaching, and as he made signs indicating that he wished to speak to me, I ordered Cuffee to stop. I readily observed that his countenance betrayed great tribulation, and as he came alongside the vehicle he burst into tears. 
               'What is the matter, Potiphar?' I asked. He answered, sobbingly: 
               'My father-Obadiah-has sent me to thee-to say that-great is the trouble that hath befallen him-verily, he is in the hands of the law-ay, confined in a dungeon-and he begs of thee, for the love he bore thy honored father-for the love that he beareth thee-that thou wilt deign, like a good angel, to visit him in prison, and give him a word of comfort and consolation;-ay, verily, this is my errand from him to thee!' 
                
               'Be of good cheer, Potiphar,' I replied. 'I am now on my way to town and will visit him before I return.' 
               'Thanks, good lady; thy words hath almost turned my grief into joy. Verily, I shall go to my home with a much lighter heart than when I sat out to come to thee,' said Potiphar, seemingly much satisfied with my answer. 
               As he was disposed to make no further conversation we proceeded on to Jackson, and in less than half an hour afterwards, I had introduced myself to Mr. Barnwell, and was seated in his private office, explaining to him the discoveries I had made with reference to the books I had sent him, but I studiously avoided to make mention of the incendiary attempt of the delinquent. He said that he was quite amazed at the revelation, for hitherto no man in town bore a higher reputation for probity than Obadiah Tomlinson, and he further remarked that nothing less than the most undoubted testimony would ever convict him of embezzlement before a Hinds County jury. 
               'I will cause him to make full and free confession of his fraud, and also to make restitution of every dollar that he has wrongfully taken from the Magnolia estate,' said I, in reply. 
               'If you can do this you will have but little need of one of my profession,' said Mr. Barnwell. 
               'That confession and restitution, sir, I desire to have made to you; and as I am soon to leave Jackson on a visit to Vicksburg, I wish to leave with you full authority to act in the premises.' 
               'I accept the trust, and will act for you with as much zeal as if the property was to inure to me, instead of to my fair client,' was his reply. 
               He proposed drawing up a Power of Attorney for me to sign, but knowing that I could not append to such a document the autograph of the heiress of Magnolia, I made as plausible an excuse for declining to do so as possible. 
               I was about to leave the office, when he placed in my hands a letter. I opened it with no little curiosity, but finding it to be a brief note from Colonel Lamar, enclosing a pass through the lines to Vicksburg from the commanding general of that department, my curiosity was satisfied and my fears were allayed. 
               At my solicitation, Mr. Barnwell gave me a letter to the chief officer of the prison where Tomlinson was confined. I thanked him for his courtesy, and for the interest he had manifested in behalf of the heiress of Magnolia, and left his office. Cuffee was quite startled when I ordered him to drive to the Hinds County Prison, but he made no remonstrance or enquiries, and in a few minutes we had reached its portals. 
               Presenting the letter which the attorney had given me, I was readily admitted, and the jailor himself, with marked politeness, conducted me to the grated door of the cell, in which the culprit was incarcerated, and then walked to the farther end of the corridor, as if he designed to show me the favor of declining to be a listener to our conversation. 
               'Good morning, Obadiah,' said I, saluting him; 'I regret to find you in a prison. I have seen your son Potiphar, and by his urgent desire I am here.' 
               'I thank thee, lady, for thy kindness and consideration,' replied the Quaker humbly. 'I did desire to see thee, and therefore made my wishes known to Potiphar. Verily it breaketh my spirit to abide in the dwelling of the criminal, and my days are but few unless I am released.' 
               'And you sent for me believing that I have the power to set you free?' said I, enquiringly. 
               'In that thou speakest truly; for I have learned that it is at thy suit that I have been arrested.' 
                
               'I confess it and for sundry good reasons.' 
               'Thine ear, good lady, I fear hath been poisoned by my enemies.' 
               'Do not credit the thought, Obadiah. My eyes, and my understanding have revealed to me that you have been a most unfaithful steward. And the charges under which you are arrested are as well known to you as to myself.' 
               'Wilt then please state them.' 
               'Perjury in falsifying your sworn trust; embezzlement of large amounts of money belonging to the Magnolia estate; making false entries on your books; besides other venial offences which a legal investigation will bring to light!' 
               'In verity thy eyes and thy understanding hath deceived thee. Hadst thou permitted me to explain thou wouldst have saved thyself a world of trouble, and, also, Obadiah Tomlinson the disgrace and discomfort of being incarcerated like a felon in the prison-house of the guilty. But I forgive thee, fair and sweet damsel-I forgive thee! I will bide my time with patience, for justice wilt sooner or later proclaim my innocence.' 
               'Do you deny that you have wronged the heiress of Magnolia?' 
               'Verily, thou hast had mine answer.' 
               'Do you here declare that you are innocent of any malpractice whatever touching the estate entrusted to your keeping.' 
               'Ay, verily.' 
               'And I must leave the prison with your solemn denial?' 
               'Verily truth is mighty and ever prevaileth.' 
               'And you will make no confession of any wrong-doing?' 
               'To confess that I have been guilty of doing wrong would in verity be a sin, for a lie would rest upon my soul; therefore I will commit no sin, and say again I am innocent?' 
               'Lying hypocrite! knave! swindler! I have proofs as strong as holy writ of the charges I have preferred?' said I, becoming indignant at the manner in which my queries were answered. 
               'Verily, maiden, thou dost abuse thyself in such free use of thy defamatory tongue; but I will not be angry; I will grieve that thou art possessed of a wicked spirit! Thou hast dwelt too long in the land of the barbarians of the North, and hath learned their evil ways. As the favored offspring of my dear friend, the lamented Mr. Marland, it is my duty to correct thy headstrong, wayward and suspicious nature; and when I shall have been released from this vile durance I shall commence my teachings as becometh a friend and a guardian.' 
               'Do not deceive yourself, Obadiah, I am not to be thwarted in my purposes by your persistent denials of the charges which are alleged against you; and before I leave I give you warning that I shall go before a magistrate and allege a far greater charge against you than any which I have yet made. Night before last an attempt was made to ensure the destruction of Magnolia Villa by fire.' 
               'Thee amazeth me!' said Obadiah, with tremulous lips, and a guilty expression of countenance. 
               'Do I? You will be more amazed when I tell you that suspicion points to you as the would-be incendiary!' 
               'Heaven knoweth it would amaze me, indeed! But he that is conscious of having done no wrong hath nought to fear. It is the first intelligence I have learned that so base a crime hath been attempted.' 
               'Do you dare make denial that you did not attempt with your own hands to set fire to the Villa?' 
               'I dareth even to speak the truth.' 
               'Then confess; for with my own eyes I beheld you in the very act of heaping the faggots upon the verandah, and I also saw you strike the match with which you lighted the fragment of candle which was to fire the pile, when you had reached a convenient distance from the scene of your daring crime!' 
               'Monstrous! ay, verily, most monstrous!' exclaimed the Quaker, now a good deal agitated. 'Methinks thou art come from a madhouse, and deserveth pity rather than my scorn or anger!' 
               'What I have stated can be proved, I replied, quietly. 'The pistol that was fired at the dog, Growler, has been found, and can be identified as the one that has been in your possession!' 
               'I am a man of peace and I beareth not deadly weapons, Miss Marietta,' he replied in a subdued manner. 
               'You forget, Obadiah, the pistol that you flourished on a recent occasion before Colonel Lamar.' 
               'That was but the semblance of a dangerous weapon; for it contained no explosive material, neither did it contain a leaden sphere, which the men of war denominateth a bullet.' 
               'The pistol is not the only corroborative testimony which will be preferred against you. Know you this drab coat-tail?' said I, suddenly producing the remnant of cloth which Growler had torn from his outer garment. 
               Obadiah staggered back a few paces, and turned his eyes from the damnifying evidence. 
               'It will not serve you,' I continued, 'to deny that this was not torn from your garment in your hasty flight on the night of your nefarious attempt at arson and murder!' 
               For some moments the culprit was speechless. At length he came forward to the grating of the prison, his face looking the very picture of despair, and said: 
               'Verily, the Evil Spirit did move me to do unrighteous deeds. Forgive me, I pray thee, for I have sorely repented; and it is a great comfort to my erring soul that I was frustrated in my diabolical design.' 
               'Look to Heaven for forgiveness, wicked man! What could have been your motive in conceiving so great a crime?' 
               'I do most humbly confess that I did design to destroy those books which I did unwittingly leave in thy possession.' 
               'And in destroying a few paltry books you would have jeopardized the lives of all the inmates of the Villa?' 
               'So it doth seem to me now, but so horrible a contingency my mind dwelt not upon.' 
               'The destruction of those books, then, was your motive?' 
               'I do confess it.' 
               'And by their destruction, the evidence of many gross frauds would have been lost?' 
               'Even so; but, oh! Miss Marietta, forgive me, and it shall be well with thee. I will make restitution of much ill-gotten wealth, which will render thee the richest heiress of the country.' 
               'Do you promise this?' 
               'Ay, verily, if thou wilt let me depart from this vile prison in peace.' 
               'Will you swear it?' 
               'By Him who seeth in secret and knoweth my wicked heart, I will!' 
               'Then, in one hour hence, an officer shall come for you and take you to the office of Mr. Attorney Barnwell, who has my full authority to receive from you all the property, or the value thereof, together with interest, that you have wrongfully withheld from the heiress of Magnolia Villa. I shall not be present at the restitution; but mark you, if one dollar be wrongfully withheld, remember that I possess the power to bring you to the gallows! But if full restitution be made, I give you my word that the charges of perjury and embezzlement will be withdrawn, and you shall never hear more of those two great offences, arson and murder!' 
               'I humbly bow to the decree; and I shall count the minutes that interveneth before the time when I may acquit my sinful soul of that which the Mammon god hath incited.' 
               'Be assured that in the fullest confession and restitution lies thy safety. Farewell!' 
               These words ended my interview with the Quaker. The jailer, who had awaited my pleasure, came forward and conducted me to his office. I asked permission to write a note to Mr Barnwell, which the officer kindly granted, and then he voluntarily procured me a messenger to bear it to the attorney. 
               I left the prison with a much lighter heart than I entered it, for I had a decided repugnance in again meeting face to face with the consummate hypocrite. I had unmasked his villanies, and in doing so, I felt that I had done a great service in behalf of a wronged lady; and she, I felt sure, would at some future day forgive even a Yankee girl for playing her part a few days at Magnolia Villa. 
               In leaving the prison I saw at a distance two mounted horsemen approaching. As they drew nearer I recognized the faces of Colonel Lamar and Captain Clymer. The recognition was mutual, for they immediately halted beside the carriage and saluted me. 
               Cuffee also drew rein, and I was soon engaged in an animated conversation with the two officers. 
               Colonel Lamar finally remarked that he was on a tour of brief inspection of the defences of the city, and politely proffered the services of both to be my escort in and around the works. 
               My heart eagerly accepted the invitation, but my tongue gave a reluctant assent; and soon the curricle, with an officer riding upon each side, was rolling on towards Pearl River, where the inner line of defences commenced. 
               Both officers were communicative as well as polite; and without seeming to be inquisitive, I drew from them all the information which was not obvious to my own understanding, that I desired. For three long hours I bore the inspection; was introduced to many officers; heard many observations connected with the plans of operations to defeat the 'accursed Yankees,' which were not intended for any but rebel ears; and, in truth I was both pleased and instructed; and it was with a good grace, from a grateful heart, that I thanked the gentlemen for their exceeding kindness and courtesy before I finally parted with them. 
               I had treasured up in my memory a store of knowledge which must be retained, and lest I should be forgetful of some important details, I told Cuffee to drive me to the Villa with all possible despatch, for I had much to commit to paper, and some drawings to make, from the storehouse of my memory, before I could take that rest which my weary body seemed already to demand. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               AN UNEXPECTED VISITATION. A DILEMMA OVERCOME. MY DEPARTURE. 
               'IS this, indeed, to be my last night at Magnolia Villa?' I whispered to myself as I was almost irresistibly drawn from my boudoir, where I had spent two long hours in writing and drawing, and half an hour more in sewing the results of my evening's work in a garment of my wardrobe, which I thought would the least likely be scrutinized should any misfortune befal me. 
               'How beautiful!' I continued, soliloquizing, as I gazed upon the wide landscape, picturesque in all its aspects, spread out before me. 'If Eden was more beautiful, no wonder they called it Paradise.' 
               The moon was at her full, and seemed to shine with unwonted brilliancy. The starry constellations paled before her bright effulgence. The earth seemed a brighter green, and the sky a deeper blue, than they had ever appeared to my eyes before. The fragrance grance borne from the orange grove, and from the flowers and shrubs of the garden, made a more delicious compound of sweets than my senses had ever greeted. 
               Truly, Magnolia Villa was a charming place; everything about it was delectable; and is it surprising then, that I should have felt a slight reluctance in bidding it adieu forever? I confess that I did-I was almost charmed with the spot, and quite regretted the imperative circumstances which so soon must call me away, never more to feast my eyes upon its charms. 
               I am no believer in mesmerism, and I laugh at the mesmerist's pretended power, and the medium's gift to know of things that the eye cannot see, the ear cannot hear, the hand cannot feel. But an incident occurred to me that night which, to say the least, was a most remarkable coincidence. A thought of Colonel Lamar obtruded itself upon my mind-anon I almost felt he stood before me; presently his image was so seemingly palpable in my presence, that I advanced a step and extended my arm to touch him; but the vision was gone. 
               Almost on the instant I heard the gallopping of a horse, and in another minute the steed turned into the avenue leading to the villa. I gazed eagerly at the rider-he was an officer of gallant bearing. A few steps more, and horse and rider emerged from the shadows of the magnolia trees, and were bathed in moonlight. I could not be mistaken-I could see now-it was Colonel Lamar. 
               The distant city clock struck the hour of ten as he leaped from the saddle and stepped up to the front door and rang the bell. 
               One of the house servants answered the summons, and the suddenly-perturbed negress sought me, and informed me that Col. Lamar desired to speak with me, as he was compelled to leave for his post early next morning. 
               I think I had really more cause to be disturbed by this untimely visitor than the quaking negress. I could think of nothing else than that he had obtained some new revelation in regard to my humble self. But something whispered to me that I really had nothing to fear from this man, no matter what information he might have received. I must confess that, at each successive interview I had had with him, he won a greater degree of my favorable regard. It will be remembered that his first interview with me was of a character not to inspire me with any great regard for the man. Perhaps the abrupt manner in which I discouraged his first overtures, caused him radically to change his bearing towards me. Now, it was all that a modest girl could have desired-courteous, respectful, and not offensively gallant. 
               But not to digress farther, I hastened down to meet him, without a particle of fear agitating my breast. 
               'Pardon me, Miss Marland for calling upon you at this late hour,' said he in the most respectful manner: 'but--' 
               'Pray be seated, sir,' said I. 'If the hour is late, feel assured that I am in no way inconvenienced by your calling, and I bid you welcome.' 
               'Unfortunately,' he resumed, 'I am compelled to leave town for my post by the early morning train. My orders, which compel me to this haste did not reach me but half an hour since. You may deem it strange, that I have ridden here, post-haste, to announce this fact to you. Why? is the query which your heart naturally prompts you to put. In your great kindness you have caused Obadiah Tomlinson to be released from prison. Since then, until the past two hours, he was closeted with my brother-in-law, Mr. Barnwell, the attorney, where he made, on compulsion, a full restitution of his enormous peculations, covering a series of years, from the estate of which you are sole heiress. Notwithstanding this, Quaker as he professes to be, he now swears to be avenged, He has stated this evening to a friend of mine that he has by the last mail received a letter from Miss Marietta Marland, who he declares, is still pursuing her studies at the Female Seminary within the country of our enemies. This letter, my friend asserts, he saw and read with his own eyes. In a word, Miss Marland, he says you are an imposter.' 
               'And you, colonel, believe him?' I queried. 
               'Nay-I at once assumed that the letter is a forgery; but I felt it my duty to come here and acquaint you with the fact, that you may be prepared to deal with your enemies. When military power holds sway, even innocence is not safe. Suspicion, groundless though it may be, may subject you to a deal of trouble.' 
               'I thank you for your timely warning, colonel; but there is nothing that I am aware of that can be done but let events take their course, knowing that in the end my position is secure, and that my enemies will be confounded.' 
               I am aware that I said this with so much sincerity and coolness, that if there was the slightest suspicion lingering in the mind of the colonel, my last speech had entirely dissipated it. I imagined I saw that his heart was relieved of a weight that greatly disturbed him. 
               'As you remark,' said he, after a few moments reflection, 'there is nothing to be done, except in case any attempt be made to annoy you, summon Mr. Barnwell to your aid. I have already spoken to him of Obadiah's threats, and he suggested that if you adhered to your resolution to visit Vicksburg, that you should, by all means, leave in his possession the power of attorney.' 
               I think I must have blenched a little when he spoke of a power of attorney; but fortunately his eye at the moment was directed towards the carpet, and it escaped his notice. 
               'I am indeed grateful for the kind interest which you manifest in my behalf, at this particular juncture in my affairs; and as far as possible will avail myself of your timely advice,' said I, after a few moments' reflection. 'As for the hypocritical Quaker, I think, since he has been so thoroughly unmasked, he will not presume again to resort to any more diabolical expedients to annoy me.' 
               'Still I fear him, Miss Marland. His exposure will only make him more desperate. Besides, that smooth-faced son of his is as great a knave as his father; and if I am rightly informed, his sensitive nature is still smarting under a most severe infliction bestowed upon him from the lips of a certain young lady, to whose hand in marriage he most confidently aspired.' 
               'I fully understand, colonel,' said I, laughing, in spite of myself, as I thought of Potiphar's ungainly figure standing most awkwardly before me, and making love in a manner most ludicrous to behold. 
               'Then it is true?' queried the colonel. 
               'I confess it; but little did I anticipate that I should ever hear of it again.' 
               'It is quite a topic of conversation in town; and many a joke is made in connection, at Potiphar's expense.' 
               'I am quite ashamed to think of it,' said I, petulantly. 'To be made love to by a Quaker booby but a few hours after I had arrived here, and before I had exchanged a dozen words with the intruder, was a scene too ridiculous not to laugh at, and too serious to be made a jest of by outside parties. Why, I shall hardly be able to look a young gentleman or lady in the face, when I visit the city, without blushing.' 
               'But the jests cannot be aimed at you,' remarked Lamar. 
               'Still, my name will be coupled with this booby son of a knavish father, whenever the subject is mentioned,' said I. 
               I had hardly got these words out of my mouth, when the door-bell, violently rung, interrupted further conversation. At the same moment, Cuffee, who had been taking care of the colonel's horse, rushed in by the rear door, and almost breathlessly exclaimed: 
               'Golly, missus, ole Massa Tomly's come, and Massa Potiphar, and anoder gemlem dat Cuffee duzn't know.' 
               My heart almost leaped into my mouth. What could they be here for at this late hour of the evening? My peculiar position and Lamar's warning words, now gave me cause of real apprehension. That they had come to denounce me as an impostor-as a spy perhaps,-perchance to arrest me, was a thought which flashed suddenly athwart my brain. It was some moments before I could reassure myself, and regain my wonted composure. 
               'What can they want here at this time of night?' I demanded. 
               'Cuffee duzn't know, Missee Marlan'; but I spec mischief. Dar am alus de ole debble to pay when he's aroun'.' 
               Again the door-bell rung. 
               'Go, Cuffee, and see what they want.' 
               The negro obeyed the summons and opened the door, when in marched Obadiah Tomlinson, followed by Potiphar, and another man, who appeared to be an official of some sort, without heeding Cuffee's attempt to enquire into the nature of their business. 
               Colonel Lamar in the meantime had withdrawn to an adjoining apartment. 
               I arose and boldly confronted the knavish Quaker, and demanded the nature of their business, and why they had obtruded upon my privacy at the unreasonable hour of eleven o'clock at night? 
               'I will not desecrate the name of Miss Marietta Marland by giving thee that virtuous and much-honored name,' began Obadiah, straightening himself up at his full height, and crossing his hands upon his breast. 'My spirit doth prompt me to call thee Jezebel, but I will not. I will call thee Female! Deceiver! Impostor! Thou art not what thou seemest! Thou art no high-born damsel of the sunny South; but thou art, as I suspecteth, a she-wolf from the realms of the frozen North; and like a serpent, thou hast stolen into this Eden to the exclusion of the rightful proprietor of this fair domain.' 
               'Which you, vile slanderer and knave, came near despoiling her of,' said I, interrupting him, and speaking courageously. 'Hence! away! and never more darken these doors with thy hateful presence; or, as there is a law against embezzlement, robbery and arson, you shall answer for each of these crimes. Begone, I say!' 
               'This raving becometh thee not at the moment of thy downfall,' resumed the Quaker. 'I have here the startling proofs that thou art not what thou assumest to be.' 
               'Proofs from a robber-a perjured villain!' I replied. 'I heed none of your vile intrigues.' 
               'It were better for thee to listen to Obadiah, my honored father, Miss Marietta,' said Potiphar, in a soft, persuasive voice. 
               'Potiphar! Potiphar! beware of thy speech!' counselled the elder. 'Thou forgettest-this woman is not Miss Marietta Marland-she is a female of the Jezebel stamp.' 
               'Female of the Jezebel stamp,' resumed the obedient Potiphar; 'my father doth counsel thee well; for he hath a letter--' 
               'Ay, a letter from the rightful heir of the Magnolia estate,' added Obadiah; 'a letter that will confound thee, and signed by Marietta Marland, the genuine.' 
               'A forgery, no doubt,' said I; 'and as forgery is no worse than the many crimes you have committed, I have no doubt that you are a forger, as well as a robber and a house-burner.' 
               'Such grave charges will not serve thee, female; for lo, and behold! here is another veritable witness, who has just come from the country of our enemies, and from the seminary of learning, where he did have an opportunity of conversing with the real daughter of my old friend, to whom I have been a faithful steward for so many years.' 
               'Give heed to the witness, I do abjure thee, Miss Marietta-I mean Miss Jezebel; for he is a man of good repute, and the sin of lying doth not lie upon his pure soul,' said Potiphar, with a most sanctimonious air. 
               'What these good men have said, I will swear to,' said the third man of the Quaker's party. 
               'Therefore, false woman,' said Obadiah, 'I do command thee to follow us; for this good man hath authority to arrest thee and convey thee to that prison in which thou didst unjustly incarcerate me. Or, if thou wilt make amends for thy past deeds, and stay all proceedings with that man of law, Mr. Barnwell, and order him to restore to me those books of mine which he doth unlawfully hold, then I will be merciful to thee, and let thee go thy way, unmolested by the officers of justice.' 
               'Ah! then your errand here is to compromise matters with me?' I queried. 
               'Ay, verily; out of the kindness of my heart will I condesend to compromise with thee.' 
               'And is there no other alternative?' 
               'Nay, female there is none.' 
               'Then hear me base hypocrite,' said I, with a determined spirit. 'I will neither go with you, nor accept your terms. You have come here to frighten or to force me into compliance with your base scheme, to again get possession of the wealth you have, through a long series of years, embezzled from this estate. But you have signally failed. You nor your pretended officer have no right to arrest nor lay a finger upon me. And as I cannot bandy words any longer with the basest of villains, I command you to leave this house! There is the door-begone!' 
               'Officer,' said the Quaker, 'the female hath an obdurate spirit; therefore perform thy duty.' 
               The semi-official looking stranger advanced a step, and was about to attempt an execution of the command, when I said to him- 
               'Show your authority for this proceeding, before you advance another step toward me, I exclaimed, with considerable bravado for a woman. 
               'My authority is from this good man,' said the officer. 
               'Then you have no warrant?' 
               'None. I am an assistant provost-marshal, and was asked to come here to arrest an impostor-perhaps a Spy!' 
               'Then on your peril desist!' said I, with all the vehemence I could force into my utterance. 
               The officer quailed before me, and receded a step or two. 
               'Then, Jezebel, will I do what he lacketh the courage to do!' exclaimed Obadiah, advancing. 'Come, Potiphar, we will drag this imposter before the officers of the law.' 
               'Stand back!' I commanded. 'If one of you lay but the weight of your finger upon me, I will shoot you with as good a will as was manifested by our watch-dog, when he bore off, as a trophy, one-half of your coat-tail, on the night that you attempted to enact the part of a murderous incendiary.' 
               While uttering these words, I displayed a small pocket-pistol, which, at that moment was as harmless as a house-key. But the sight of it brought old Broadbrim at bay, and the next moment he had also produced a formidable revolver. Potiphar with hands and knees trembling, also drew forth a similar weapon. 
               Really, matters began to look quite threatening. But, knowing I had only cowards to deal with, and that I had a strong reserve within call, I stood undaunted before these anti-war men. I absolutely challenged each one of them to fight a duel with me at ten paces, by way of diversion, and taunted them for hesitating to accept the challenge. They stood amazed, wondering, probably, what manner of woman they had to deal with. 
               'M-o-n-s-t-r-o-u-s!' drawled out old Broadbrim. 'Verily, I suspect that this female hath a devil!' 
               'A-bom-i-na-ble!' added Potiphar, with a nasal twang. 'Father Obadiah, perchance the damsel's pistol hath powder and a leaden sphere within its iron tube. And it may be she has the recklessness to pull the trigger! I feel it to be a part of dis-cre-ti-on to turn our backs upon her and return to the city forthwith. We are not in sufficient force to cope with those who carryeth loaded firearms and is possessed of a devil! In the morning we may return with a force which shall overwhelm her and compel her to surrender!' 
               'Potiphar, thou counseleth well for one of thy years. We are, verily, men of peace; and though we have weapons of war in our hands, yet they are as harmless as the great guns of Manassas!' said Obadiah, as he turned mechanically upon his heel, and uttering a profane anathema and a pious groan, he made good his retreat, followed closely by Potiphar. 
               The official, who declared himself an assistant provost marshal, lingered for a moment, and said: 
               'I feel quite ashamed of the part I have played in this business, for I perceive there is some mistake here. I trust, lady, you will pardon me.' 
               'But did you not say that you had conversed with one that you believed was the daughter of the late Mr. Marland?' 
               'It is true,' he replied, 'I understood her to be such; but I must have been misinformed. If it please you I will call again to-morrow, and explain the interview which was referred to, and also bring some evidence that shall exculpate me in my attempting to place you in a false position.' 
               'Do so, and you shall be rewarded. Come to-morrow afternoon, and--' 
               Here the loud and angry yelping of a dog in the avenue leading from the villa, accompanied by terrific cries from human voices, cut short my speech. We hastened to the door, and could just discern by the moon's rays, Obadiah and Potiphar running for dear life, with the large watch-dog at their heels, while Cuffee, the negro, was standing in front of the door, convulsed with laughter. 
               'He, he, missus; de dog am arter anoder coat tail!' said Cuffee; guess he cotch 'em!' 
               'But will he not hurt them, Cuffee?' 
               'No, missus; only skeer dem a little, and get anoder coat-tail,-he, he, yah!' 
               The dog did not continue his pursuit beyond the terminus of the avenue; and he soon returned, having in his mouth that which Cuffee predicted he would obtain, one of the continuations of Potiphar's drab coat, which, after shaking with much seeming delight, he deposited at my feet. 
               The assistant provost laughed heartily as well as myself. He again apologized for his unwelcome visit, and assured me that the two quakers, as a deserving punishment, should be reported at head-quarters as suitable recruits for the army; adding that it was outrageous that such men should have so long avoided the conscription under the garb of quakers. He then bade me 'good night,' and disappeared down the avenue. 
               But what of Col. Lamar? He met me as I entered the hall, and confessed that he had been not only a listener but an observer of all that had passed, within the darkened room adjoining. 
               'The whole scene,' said he, 'was of so ludicrous a nature that I enjoyed it hugely. At one moment matters had culminated so nearly to a violent point, that I felt my interference to be almost necessary; but it was turned so quickly by the belligerents showing the white feather, that I desisted.' 
               'And I am glad you restrained yourself, colonel,' said I, 'for it would really have been quite awkward for you, as well as myself, to reveal to those men that you were here tete-a-tete with me, at this late hour. It would at least have made food for scandal-mongers.' 
               'You will acknowledge, Miss Marland, that I had a good excuse for seeking this interview, late though it was when I came; though I confess the desire to see you again before I left for my post, had not a little to do in impelling me hither.' 
               'I am under great obligations to you, sir,' I replied; 'you have done me a great service by the timely warning I had from your lips. It gave me just that sort of assurance necessary to effectually thwart their intentions.' 
               'And you made most admirable use of it,' returned the colonel; 'it is the first time in my life that one young lady may possibly be more than a match for three full grown men.' 
               With these words he took his hat, and after making regrets that he was compelled to absent himself while I was likely to be annoyed by the Tomlinsons, he bade me a kindly adieu, and took his leave.' 
               Before I retired that night my preparations were complete for my own departure. I imparted my intentions to Cuffee, and bade him have the lesser carriage ready to take me to the station of the Jackson and Vicksburg Railroad in time to take the nine o'clock train for the latter place. 
               This faithful negro, notwithstanding he had fairly danced with joy at the first intimation I made to him that he could gain his freedom by going to Vicksburg with me, was quite alarmed when I told him that I was really in earnest going to that city; for at this time this stronghold of the rebels was vigorously invested by strong forces of the federal army and navy, and stoughtly defended by all the resources which the confederates could concentrate on that immensely important point. 
               'Lor' massy, missee, dey hab de war down dar, de wuss kine;' said Cuffee, while amazement shone from his eyes; 'dey keep de big guns tundering, and de shells bustin, and de bullets whisslin, 'bout all de time night and day. Den dey do say dem Yankees muss take de city pooty soon; and den, Missee Marian' wot becum ob you den? Golly, I wudn't dar to go down dar for all de wurld. Sure to get killed wid a bullet, or busted wid a shell.' 
               'Oh! Cuffee, there is no danger for me there. I shall be out of the way of that,' I answered. 
               Notwithstanding his description of the dangers to be encountered, and that he was sure to get killed with a bullet or a shell, if he went down there, he finally persuaded me to let him accompany me, to see that I fell into no danger on the road, and that I should be exempt from the dangers of incesant bombardment while there. 
               Before leaving Magnolia Villa, I ought here to say, that I indited an explanatory letter to the veritable Miss Marietta Marland, explaining all that the reader knows of my actions, while in the assumption of her position, justifying my conduct on the principle that 'all was fair in war.' This letter I sealed, and placed in an escrutoire in the boudoir, in a place that she would be most likely to discover it, very soon after she had arrived at her home; an event which, I knew from certain indications, would be likely to occur in a very few days. 
               In departing from Magnolia Villa I must confess that I could not suppress a tear or two, for the servants (they did not seem like slaves) appeared to have become very much attached to me; so much so that many of them declared they never would leave my service if the 'Yanks' did conquer the confederacy, and set them free. That this was their determination I had more than the testimony of their declaration for. 
               However, Cuffee and I sat out on our journey, and in the course of four hours we found ourselves in the invested city, without meeting with any incident or annoyance on the route, except the frequent demand to show my pass. 
               A note in cipher instructed me where to find accommodations, which was in a part of the city, as remote from danger as possible, although there was no real safety anywhere. After I had become fairly domiciled, I sent Cuffee on his way rejoicing towards Jackson, for, during the twenty-four hours he was in Vicksburg, he was in constant trepidation lest his head should come in contact with one of those blazing 'dinner pots,' which were constantly flying over the city, to the terror of almost everybody. In fact, he declared he was homesick, and said he much rather preferred to be a servant at Magnolia Villa than a free man at Vicksburg. 
               As soon as Cuffee was gone, my hostess, who at once had taken me in charge as though I belonged especially to her, furnished me with a new costume, suited as she said, particularly to the atmosphere of the beleaguered city. 'I donned it at once, and all traces of Miss Marietta Marland, the heiress of Magnolia Villa, and boarding-school Miss, suddenly disappeared. 
               The events which followed I will not tire your patience to-night by narrating, to which Colonel Manly you have been such an excellent listener." 
               "I could listen all night," replied Colonel Manly; "why every step you took is fraught with the deepest interest. If I were only a novelist, I could write a romance that would astonish and charm the world. I am sure I shall dream of Magnolia Villa, to-night; of its ancient coach and coachman-of Cuffee and the footman-of Obadiah, and of Potiphar,-and of Colonel Lamar, who, if he were not a rebel, I could not despise him for being, really, a most ardent lover; and I am thinking that if it had not been for his impressible heart, his eyes would not have been so utterly blinded as to your real character and position at Magnolia Villa." 
               "Very possible; for I flatter myself that I was not wholly indifferent to him; but be assured my kindest of friends, his love ardor could have found no response in the affections of the soi disant Marietta Marland. Good night, colonel. Whatever dreams you may have, I hope that they will not make your sleep unpleasant." 
               "Thanks! Good night." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE SPY'S FIRST DAYS IN VICKSBURG-SOME REMARKABLE ADVENTURES. 
               FOURTH of July in Vicksburg! Never was our National Independence celebrated with more heartfelt joy and spirit by every true patriot, than that on which the seven-starred flag of rebellion gave place to "Old Glory,' with all its stars and stripes. 
               The booming of mighty cannon from ship and shore-the ringing of bells-the beating of drums-the shouts of our brave soldiers and sailors-the inspiring strains of patriotic martial music from a hundred bands-swelled into one grand chorus,-was indeed a fit sequel to the terrible, almost incessant thunderings of shotted cannon, bursting of shells, rattling of musketry, cries of the wounded, and all the noises which make up the pandemonium of bloody warfare, which had been the daily and nightly demonstrations within and without the walls of the doomed city for weeks, aye, for months previous. 
               I speak of this particular Independence day with more than a patriot's ardor; for none can know, save those who experienced the fearful scenes of that memorable campain, of the contrast that two days had produced. Yet our joys were not unmingled with sorrow; we could not forget those of our comrades who "slept the sleep that knows no awakening;" those who languished and suffered on beds of sickness; and those who were far away, who could not recall the siege and capture of Vicksburg without dropping a tear of sadness for the loved ones who were the victims of that grand national achievement. 
               When that ever memorable day had passed, and evening came, I was again unspeakably happy to be in the presence of Virginia Graham. 
               Our kind and attentive surgeon was there also. He was invited to remain, but he declined, saying that every surgeon in the army had pressing professional duties to perform, and that it was as essential for him to be as constant in the hospital as it was for a commander to be with his soldiers in the hour of battle. 
               "A braver or more skilful and conscientious man than Doctor Glenfield, our army can scarcely boast of," I remarked, as soon as the surgeon had retired from the room. 
               "Yes, and so kind and considerate; and how diffident he seems," added Virginia. 
               "He has informed me that I cannot be allowed to remain on the sick list any longer; and that he shall report me 'fit for duty' to-morrow morning. So, Virginia, I can well listen to the conclusion of your adventures this evening," said I, persuasively. 
               "A record of my experiences since I arrived in this city will not prove a very interesting one; but I promise you I shall be brief," said Virginia, after prefacing her narrative with a few unimportant particulars respecting her manner of entering the city, and the scrutiny with which her passport was examined, and the almost rude manner in which her form and features were scanned by provost marshals, detectives, and other police officials. 
               "On reaching the house to which my instructions directed me," resumed Virginia, "I was very kindly received by a middle-aged lady, who called herself Mrs. Ramsey, and, as I have before intimated, my 'Marietta Marland' costume was changed for one of much less pretensions, for ladies of high degree in Vicksburg condescended to wear the cheapest and most ordinary fabrics during the months of the siege. My coiffure, likewise, underwent a radical change, and, altogether I think, a complete metamorphose was effected in my personal appearance, and instead of resembling in any degree the highborn boarding-school Miss of Magnolia Villa, I more nearly resembled a country market-girl or a maid-of-all-work. Indeed, I had previously found that I was not to exercise any discretion whatever in matters of dress, nor had I as yet violated in any degree this part of my instructions. I had not only to be passive as to what I should wear, like a milliner's frame or block upon which she builds up her models, but I must occupy the quarters pointed out to me, and to heed such advice as might be given voluntarily to me by Mrs. Ramsey; in other respects I must be guided by my letter of general instructions, to be varied according to circumstances. 
               During the first three days I was employed in 'much ado about nothing,'-watching the passers-by from the window of my room, and in taking a walk with my hostess every afternoon and evening, to different parts of the city, until I understood its topography quite as well as an old inhabitant. 
               On the fourth day I was permitted to go alone, and as it was an extremely delightful day, and the horrid thundering strife between the besiegers and besieged had by mutual consent been suspended, I extended my walk much farther than usual, until I found myself in a street where there was a large barracks. I came upon it suddenly, and had either to pass directly by it, where there were groups of officers and soldiers idling away the hours in the esplanade in front, or turn and retrace my steps, a manuvre which could not have been done without attracting notice. 
               I resolved upon the former, and pulling a light green veil over my face, I resolutely marched on, and had neared the great gate when I heard an officer utter these words: 
               'This Spy is probably in Vicksburg now!' 
               The voice was not an unfamiliar one. I glanced toward the speaker, and beheld Captain Clymer!
                
               He was talking earnestly with a two-starred officer, in a handsome grey uniform, who was afterwards pointed out to me as General Pemberton. 
               My heart seemed to leap into my mouth. My gait I am sure was unsteady, and I was almost ready to sink to the earth when I heard these additional words: 
               'She is a young, stylish, handsome woman, about the size of--that young girl, there;' and he pointed directly toward ME. 
               These last words, however, partially reassured me, as soon as I had time to think that not one of those elegant, heroic-looking officers could imagine anything 'stylish' or handsome about 'that young girl, there.' 
               I was enabled, somehow or another, to move on; but for a few moments I almost felt that I had no limbs to sustain me. I dared not look behind, lest I should see a grey form following me, but kept on, solely as it seemed to me by the predominant power of volition over the physical means of locomotion. 
               At length I reached a street that run laterally from the one that I was pursuing. The moment that I turned into it I sank upon the earth, as if exhausted by physical exertion. In all my surprises I had never come so near showing woman's weakness, by fainting, as I did then. It was so sudden-so unexpected-that had I been confronted by a loaded pistol, it could not have amazed me more. 
               However the fright was over-the danger was passed, and my heart gradually found its proper place, and ceased to beat or thump with that unwonted power and velocity that so nearly annihilated me. Fortunately, there were no passers by, except a few negro urchins, who took little or no notice of me, during the ten minutes that my respiratory organs were becoming regulated. 
               At length feeling that I had strength to resume my walk, I arose, and in the course of fifteen minutes had found the way back to my lodgings, where in the privacy of my apartment, I viewed my figure and general appearance, to satisfy myself whether it were possible that any one, at a casual glance, could discern any traces in my present person, of the soi disant heiress of Magnolia Villa. 
               A brief examination convinced me that I had been frightened without any real cause; that it was really a very remarkable coincidence that 'the Spy' had been spoken of within my hearing. But I had absolutely seen Captain Clymer! and he had pointed at me with his finger! all of which was very natural, because I happened to be about the size of the spy, that was 'probably in Vicksburg now!' 
               This incident gave me such food for reflection, that I thought of nothing else during my long waking hours that night, and gave me food for startling dreams while I slept. 
               I was certain that there had been a developement at Magnolia Villa. Either old Broadbrim and his son had really 'found the hole where the fox went in and went out,' but had failed to unearth the sly animal; or that the genuine Marietta Marland had arrived at the paternal mansion only to discover that another Marietta Marland had been there before her, doing infinite service in exposing the wickedness of her guardian and steward, and in restoring to her that portion of her patrimony which had been embezzled by the unscrupulous hypocrite. 
               I had some misgivings that I had not acted with my usual prudence in bringing Cuffee to Vicksburg, and then let him return at his own urgent request to Jackson, even without cautioning him to say nothing concerning me, should he be questioned; but I consoled myself with the thought that he possessed more than the usual amount of negro shrewdness, and would put all eager enquirers after me on the wrong scent; for should it be made known to him that I was ever an impostor and a spy, his good wishes for the ultimate success of the Federal cause, would tend only to increase his regard for me. 
               I think I have alluded to the fact that I had written an apologetic letter to the rightful heiress of Magnolia, explaining all that I had done touching her affairs, which letter I had placed in such an exposed place in her escrutoire, that she could not fail to discover it sooner or later after her arrival. In re-regard to her I reasoned within myself as to what would be the probable views she would entertain of me, after everything had been brought to light connected with my performing her role in such an efficient manner, during my brief occupancy of her really enviable position. I felt if she was a true woman she would not lend herself to any scheme which could possibly place my life and liberty in jeopardy. If she possessed a grateful heart she would thank me a thousand times for what I had done. If she was of an affectionate, loving nature, she would regard me with almost the tenderness of a sister. 
               On the next morning, while pondering almost abstractedly over the matter which had so much exercised my mental faculties during the night, a rap at the door aroused me, and Mrs. Ramsey peered in and announced to me with a smile that I had a visitor below. The smile assured me that it was no one I need be apprehensive of. I therefore followed her down stairs to the hall, when, to my astonishment, the ebony countenance of my late travelling protector, Cuffee, met my gaze. 
               He threw several glances at me, but the blank expression of his countenance indicated that I was not the young lady he wished to see. 
               'Missus,' said he, addressing Mrs. Ramsey, and shaking his head; 'you 'member de young leddy, Missee Marlan' from Magnoly Villa-Cuffee cum wid her, tree, four, five day 'go?' 
               'This is the identical person,' said my hostess. 
               'Golly-am dat so-can't be,' said Cuffee, scrutinizing me more closely. 
               'Yes, Cuffee, Marietta Marland that was, but I believe I am somebody else just at present-who, I scarcely know myself.' 
               'Am dat you, missee, shuah?' asked the negro, approaching. 'Bress dese ole eyes, it am! Bress dese ole ears dat I hears you speak!' 
               'I thought you had returned to Jackson?' said I, enquiringly, though I was certain that I could have answered the query myself. 
               'Ees, missus! hab bin dare! cum back again! My young missus sent me,' said Cuffee. 
               'Your young mistress? What can you mean, Cuffee,' said I, pretending to be surprised at the revelation I knew it was certain that he would make. 
               'Anoder missus-bewful young leddy-jus from bordin' school--' 
               'Well, Cuffee, let's hear the worst.' 
               'Wal, missus, she cum to Magnoly, and she say she de ginnewine Missus 'Etta Marlan'; an' all de ole fooks say dar can be no mistake dis time; an' she look juss for all de world like her poo' dead and gone mudder.' 
               'And, therefore, I suppose they consider me an impostor?' 
               'Not zacktly dat, missus; dey say you wur her good angel, sent dere 'spressly to 'spose ole Tomly, an' make hib gib up de money dat b'long to my missus. Dat's wot I hear Massa Barnwell say, and dat's wat missus say, too. But ole Tomly he hab got de debil in him, and de quaker swore an oaf ob vengeance gin you-tole de Provy Marshal dat you wur a Yankee Spy, an' dat you had gone off to Vicksburg to see wot de rebels am doin' dar, and den wud go ober to de Yankees to 'spose dem.' 
               'And have you made this journey expressly to tell me this?' I asked. 
               'Es, missus, an' something more. I hab now to tell you dat Capen Clymer, Potiphar Tomly, ole Tomly's son, an' de Provy Marshal hab cum down here to 'rest you for de spy ob de enemy-dem wot's on de oder side-dat am, if dey can foun' you out, but I guess dey won't know you wid dem kine ob clothes on.' 
               'And you have come with them, I suppose?' 
               'I confess de fac, missus; dey made me come to pint you out weneber I cud sot dese ole eyes 'pon you; but neber fear Cuffee. My new missus tole me to do all dat I cud to lead dem 'stray, juss like a flock ob sheep, an' I allus 'beys missus. But dey am 'tarmined to cotch you if dey can-so you muss be on your guard. Dat's wot I moss cum for to tell you, an' to gib you dis letter dat my new missus gub me. Muss lef nobody see, 'case it might git de young leddy into trouble.' 
               'I fully comprehend, my good friend, and I will endeavor yet to reward you for all your trouble on my account.' 
               'Golly I knows dat, but I wants nuffin-I will hab nuffin-my missus will gib Cuffee eberyting dat he wants. But be keerful, missus, and dey won't fin' you, dats all-good mornin'!' 
               With these words, uttered with almost breathless haste, the faithful negro turned and shot out of the house with all the speed he could make. 
               I hastened back to my room, filled with all a woman's curiosity to know the contents of the missive which the negro had put into my hand. I broke the seal, and, in a neat style of boarding-school chirography, and boarding-school phraseology, I read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           'MY DEAR LADY,-I wish I knew your name that I might address you thereby. On my arrival at home I assure you that quite an excitement was created, and everybody-servants and all-stared at me with perfect astonishment; and all anxious to tell me that another Miss Marietta Marland had been there before me, and that she was a very kind and beautiful young lady; indeed, they complimented you so lavishly that, if I did not feel slightly jealous of you, I did feel a little envious. 
                           I had been in the house but a few hours, when, on going to my escritoire, I discovered your letter of apologies, explanations, etc. But what astonished me most was your account of your dealings with my guardian, and steward of the estate left me by my late lamented father. I had been led to believe that I was possessed of only a small competency, and when you intimated that I was a wealthy heiress, and that the great restitution of the property by Obadiah Tomlinson was brought about through your shrewdness and effort, of course I could not but feel the most heartfelt gratitude towards you. 
                           For the purpose of understanding the matter more fully, I sent for Mr. Barnwell, the attorney named in your letter. He came almost immediately, and was as much surprised to find another Miss Marland as I had been to hear of Obadiah Tomlinson's perfidy and crime. 
                           I showed him your letter, which explained the position of things in their true light. He corroborated in full your statement, and commended what you had done in my behalf in the warmest terms. But, you must not think it strange, if we were both exceedingly puzzled as to what your real motives could have been in coming to Magnolia Villa; and after unmasking a villain, and compelling him to restore that which he had unlawfully taken, to take so sudden a departure. Still more are we puzzled to understand how it was that you came into possession of my luggage, which it appears you brought safely to my home, and to find it precisely in the condition in which it was packed, before it preceded me on my departure from Kentucky for Mississippi, under a passport from the General of the Union army. 
                            
                           On the day after my interview with Mr. Barnwell at home, I went to Jackson and called upon him at his office, where I had the satisfaction of seeing all the papers pertaining to my affairs. While there, I was startled to learn that you was a Spy of the Federal army, and pained to hear that you were immediately to be pursued to Vicksburg, and if found, you were to be arrested, tried, and punished as a Spy! If the worst be true, believe me when I say that I hope and pray that you may not fall into their hands. 
                           On returning home, an old negro they call Cuffee, had, as it was stated, just returned from Vicksburg, after accompanying you thither. 
                           I questioned him closely, and after he became assured that I was, after all, his true mistress, he confessed that he had seen you safely in Vicksburg, and then spoke of you in such flattering terms, that I can believe you almost an angel, even if you are a Spy. He was greatly troubled in spirit when I told him of the rumors I had heard in regard to you while in Jackson. I suggested to him that you should, if possible, be forewarned, even if he had to return to Vicksburg. He was struck with the suggestion, and was eager to go at once. 
                           Before he was in readiness, however, an officer rode up to the door, and requested to see the negro, Cuffee. There was no possibility of avoiding him, so, Cuffee, putting the best face on the matter confronted the officer, who asked him several questions touching his journey to Vicksburg, all of which the negro answered promptly, and with no attempt, seemingly, to disguise anything; but studiously avoided knowing anything of your movements after you entered within the walls of the city, and especially in regard to the place where you made your quarters, 
                           The officer then requested my permission to let the negro go with him and others to Vicksburg, in order that 'the Spy' might be identified, in case any one were arrested, supposed to be her. 
                           I saw by the twinkle of Cuffee's eye that he was very desirous to go, not, however, for the purpose of lending aid to arrest her, but if possible, to assist her to escape. 
                           The officer allowed him thirty minutes to be in readiness, meanwhile I have had an opportunity to exchange a few words with him-to finish this letter-and as I intend to secrete it in the lining of his coat, I hope it may get safely into your hands. God bless you, whoever you are! and may you escape those in pursuit, will be the constant prayer of 
                           
                              Your grateful friend, 
                              MARIETTA MARLAND.
                            
                         
                         
                           P. S. I shall also pray that the time may come when I shall be permitted to see you, and in some manner recompense you for the great good you have done me.' 
                         
                      
                  
                
               "This was truly a most comforting epistle to me," resumed Virginia, after reading it aloud to Colonel Manly; "for my conscience had been somewhat troubled in being made to play the part of impostor as well as Spy. In truth, I should not, before I read that postscript, have liked to have had the little prayer which it contained answered. I should have wilted in the real Miss Marland's presence. But now a load had been removed from my heart, and I could have embraced this little feminine rebel, whom I had so successfully personated without ever having seen her, with a hearty good will. 
               I did not venture forth on the day of receiving this very satisfactory and consolatory letter, but remained alone in my room, considering the most effectual mode of obtaining the information I sought, and of baffling those who had been in search of the female Spy. 
               On the next day, however, having assurance that my disguise was complete, I ventured out, and after promenading for an hour or more through the thronged avenues of the city, an incident occurred which somewhat jeopardized my liberty and accordingly changed my tactics. 
               What it was and what its results were, the reader will learn by reading the following chapter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE VIVANDIERE RESUMES HER NARRATIVE. 
               "ALTHOUGH the sun rose in majestic splendor on the morning of the incident I am about to relate, it had not reached its meridian before thick clouds darkened the heavens, betokening an impending storm. 
               I had wandered at considerable distance from my quarters, approaching as near to the battlemented walls as safety permitted, and taking observations of whatever seemed to be of importance. 
               I saw that a storm was at hand, and had begun to retrace my steps when big drops of rain pattered upon the pavements. I hurried on, but the rain-drops continued to fall faster and faster at each step I took. That I should be drenched through, if I did not soon seek a shelter, was inevitable. 
               Every person that I saw seemed to be hurrying on to gain that which was so necessary for me, and soon the street I was traversing became quite deserted. 
               There were but few private residences indicating occupancy, and these looked so inhospitable that I refrained from asking for a shelter while the storm should continue. 
               At length I found myself opposite a small public house. The front door stood open invitingly, but I hesitated to advance towards it. A man observed me from the window, and seeing my plight came out and invited me to come in out of the rain. 
               I did so, and as I crossed the hall to go into the parlor to which he led me, I observed a number of soldiers, who were passing a comfortable leisure hour, some in playing dominoes and others in playing cards. 
               I beheld among them a familiar face. It was that of Potiphar Tomlinson! 
               I was startled. His eye had met mine. I had recognized him. Was it not possible that he had recognized me? How could I make my escape without being observed by him? 
               The rain now poured in torrents; and to go forth at such a time would at least have caused many wondering remarks. To remain until the storm was over seemed to be my safest course. I sat down and began to look over the papers lying upon the table. In doing so my eyes fell upon a handbill, which, I assure you created in me anything but pleasurable emotions. I took it up and read in big, staring letters: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           'TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS REWARD. 
                           The above sum will be paid to any person or persons who will cause the arrest of a certain Female Spy, now in Vicksburg, and bring her to the office of the Provost Marshal. Said Spy is about twenty years of age, of medium height, with handsome features, a fine, graceful figure, and walks with surprising elasticity and quickness of step. As it is possible she may appear in several disguises, all loyal Confederates will scrutinize all strange women who come under their observation. Said Spy was in Jackson last week, and is known to have come direct to Vicksburg. 
                           
                              (Signed) PROVOST MARSHAL.'
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               If I did not tremble myself, I am sure that this document rustled in my hands; and I was about replacing it upon the table when the gentleman who invited me in, and who I supposed was the landlord, entered the room. 
               'Just what I was looking for,' said he, taking up the handbill offering the $10,000 reward, which I had just dropped from my hand. 'I have my eye on one already that I think answers this description.' 
               'You will be very fortunate to get so large a reward,' I remarked, reassuring myself by a most resolute effort; although I thought I was the one his eye was really upon, notwithstanding the description was altogether too flattering to mean so indifferent a looking person as myself. 
               'Is the rain quite over?' I ventured to inquire. 
               'Not yet-I think it will clear up soon,' he said, going to the window and looking out. 'You can remain here as long as you please.' 
               I thanked him, and he left the room without any scrutiny of my person. 
               I felt relieved, though not perfectly satisfied that I should not be the victim that would put $10,000 in his purse. 
               Presently it ceased raining, and I arose to depart; but as I reached the door a fainting sickness suddenly seized me, for I again beheld the features of that abominable Potiphar Tomlinson, with his eyes staring full upon me. I almost gasped for breath, but I managed to move on with tottering steps, and gained the open street. 
               Had I been at a safe distance from that inn, I should have sunk down upon the first doorstep that came in my way; but my supposed imminent danger supported me now, and with great effort I tottered on, until, feeling assured that I was not pursued, I ventured into an arched passage-way, leading to the rear of a house which seemed to be unoccupied, and seating myself upon a box, soon partially recovered from the peculiar sensations which I had experienced. 
               Presently the fall of footsteps at the farther end of the passage-way startled me, and before I could attempt an egress a man stood before me, who said: 
               'My good woman, what do you want?' 
               'Sir-I am faint-faint from-please give me only a cup of cold water and a crust of bread,' I essayed faintly, scarcely knowing what to say. 
               'You must be hungry, indeed,' he said. 'Come this way; my master would never permit me to turn a hungry woman from his door.' 
               I thought it was a white man who had spoken to me, but on coming out of the passage way to the area in the rear, I saw that his complexion had a slightly yellow tinge, and his hair was of raven blackness and heavy, but he could have passed for a white man anywhere out of the slave states. Following him to the kitchen, he made known my case to an old negress, of almost charcoal hue, and then went away. 
               'Poo' chile-bery hungry-bery faint-want someting to eat!' said she, without seeming to address her conversation to me, while she went to the cupboard and brought forth bread, cake, and other edibles, and spread them before me. 
               'Poo' chile-eat away-I gib you cup ob tea in one lettle minit;' and she commenced the operation of steeping some tea. 'Oh, dis drefful war-make tea, coffee, eberyting so bery skurce. I wunner how poo' wite fooks libe?' 
               I tried to eat, but not a mouthful could I force beyond my lips. The tea, which was soon prepared, I sipped only, but, nevertheless, I soon began to feel its revivifying influences. 
               'Poo' chile,' resumed the motherly negress; 'I tink you are not bery hungry.' 
               'I am much better now,' said I, and I added my thanks for her kindness. 
               'But you no eat noffin,' she said with an enquiring gaze. Julius said you were almost dyin' wid hunger.' 
               'I was very faint; but not so much with hunger as with fatigue.' 
               'Poo' chile! Dese am drefful times, aint dey?' she enquired, suddenly changing the subject, while she kept busily on with her work. 
               'Distressing.' 
               'Hor'ble! Wunner wen dis war will be ober?' 
               'When the South is conquered-not before.' 
               'Poo' chile! tink you so?' 
               'I am quite sure of it.' 
               'When de Souf am conquered, eh, eh? Den wot will become ob all de poo' wite fooks?' 
               'Why do you not ask what will become of all the colored people?' 
               'Well, my poo' chile, de niggers can get along somehow or oder, any way; but de poo' wite fooks, dey am de ones to be moss consarned about-dey neber seem to get along when dere was no such ting as war. Somehow or 'noder, I allus did pity dem poo' wite fooks. Dey habs no massas nor missusses to look arter dem.' 
               'If the North conquers the South, the negroes will all be made free.' 
               'Den de niggas will hab to be pitied as much as de wite fooks. Wot can dey do widout massas and missuses? Wot am to become ob me, who alus had a good home, kine massa and kine missus, and kine missees, too? Good lor'! I wish dem Bobalish-unists wud stay at home, and not come down here to frighten fooks to deff wid dem big guns and dem dinner-pots full ob combust-upibles, dat dey keep firin' into de city!' 
               'But they are the friends of the negro.' 
               'Dey won't be so good a fren' to me as massa am.' 
               'They will emancipate you.' 
               'Dunno, zacly, wot dat is.' 
               'They will set you free.' 
               'Heaben forbid dat dis ole gal should eber be a free nigger. Old Aunt Chloe am well enough as she am; and I tell you wot 'tis, she'd radder be sold to a Texas planter dan to 'sociate wid common free niggers.' 
               'But you will have your liberty to go and come as you please.' 
               'Dat liberty I hab now.' 
               'But you cannot then be subject to be sold like an ox or an ass.' 
               'I can't be now. Massa would no more tink ob sellin' ole Aunt Chloe than he would tink ob sellin' his wife and chil'en.' 
               'That is because you are useful to him.' 
               'I shall be sorry wen de day comes dat I shall not be useful to him. Why shouldn't I be useful to him? He treats me kinely; gibs me eberyting I want; lets me go ebery-whar I want to, an' takes de bess care ob me when I'm sick. Who will do all dat for ole Aumt Chloe when she habs no massa? Arnswer me dat.' 
               That was truly a difficult question to combat satisfactorily to a mind imbued with the kindliest feelings towards a kind master and mistress, and which had never known the want of anything that could add to one's comfort. 
               'I am glad you are so well provided for, and I have no doubt that you richly deserve it; but for all that, there is a higher and nobler destiny for your race in this free republic than in being subject to the whims and caprices of masters and mistresses.' 
               'Dunno noffin about dat. Neber know'd what that higher and nobler destiny was. Hab heard much talk 'bout gibin' us our freedom and all dat; and wot a bery fine ting 'twould be; but neber heard dem say zacly wot's gwan to come ob us; wot we gwan to do when we get our freedom; how we am to be better off dan we am now.' 
               'You will be independent and work for whom you please,' I suggested. 
               'Ah, poo' chile,' said the negress, shaking her head. 'Dat's jess what de poo' wite fooks hab, independence to do as dey please, and dat's wot de matter. It makes moss ob dem so poo' dat dey can't hardly get nuff to eat to keep dem from starbation. We culud people don't want no such liberty as dat; if you Yankees aint gwan to better our condition when you take away our massas and missusses, you had better lef us alone.' 
               I found that it was no use endeavoring to make a proselyte of this really intelligent and benevolent-hearted black woman. The great point with her was, I soon learned, that if the emancipationists could not really ameliorate the condition of the blacks by freeing them, and demostrate clearly how it was to be done, there was great danger that, instead of doing for them any practical good, it would work nothing but evil. 
               I then presented the matter in a moral and religious aspect, but with no better result, for she replied in these terms: 
               'If it be de will ob Heaben dat we shall be free, de A'mighty wud'nt send fightin' men and big guns down here for dat purpose pose, and eider kill us or friten us haff to deff. You tink dat de Yankees am doin' God's service. Now if dat be so, ob course we shall be better off in dis world. It shuahly can't be doin' God's service to make us wuss off. Dat am't common sense. But tell me, poo' chile, how it happens dat you am such a good fren to dem dat wish to do so much good to de negroes?' 
               This query took me rather by surprise. I had quite forgotten my real position, and I hesitated. 
               'Golly, poo' chile!' she said, quite startled; 'if any ob de sojers or wite fooks hear you talk so in Vicksburg, dey'd put you in prison, shuah!' 
               'What do you suppose they would care for what a poor girl says? Besides, I have not uttered a word disloyal to the confederacy. I sometimes talk to hear myself, and sometimes to draw others out-the same as I have you now.' 
               'Dar can be no harm in dat, shuah. But in dese times we all hab to be very keerful what we say or do.' 
               I arose to depart. 
               'Hab sum mo' tea, poo' chile?' 
               'No, I thank you. I am greatly obliged to you for what I have already had. I am not faint now, and shall be enabled to reach home without stopping again.' 
               'How far do you lib from dis, poo' chile?' 
               'Less than a mile.' 
               'Are your parents bery poo'?' she asked, quite concerned. 
               'We manage to get along quite comfortably.' 
               'Hab dis loaf ob bread to take along wid you,' she said, taking one from the cupboard. 
               'No, I thank you.' 
               'Jess for de small chil'en.' 
               'I happen to be the smallest.' 
               'I tank de Lor' dat sum ob de poo' wite fooks hab got no leetle chil'en,' she said, in an almost prayerful manner. 
               This conversation was brought to a close by the return of the negro man whom I had met in the passage way. He seemed a good deal excited, and I thought by his manner that he was not a little disappointed to find I had not yet gone. 
               'Wot's up now, Pomp?' enquired Aunt Chloe of the dignified slave, whose complexion was so near that of a white man. 
               I thought that while she spoke the man was gazing at me with a scrutinizing eye, but was not quite certain; for to tell the truth, I scarcely dared to look him in the face. I kept my eye upon the negress. 
               'Dar's sumfin de matter, Pomp, shuah. I can see it in dem eyes. Now wot am it?' 
               'The soldiers are arresting women,' he replied. 
               I did not move, but I felt as if an icy dart bad struck to my heart. 
               ''Restin' women! Wer-wer-wat dat for?' stammered out Chloe. 
               'Every strange woman that is found walking the street, if she cannot give a satisfactory account of herself, they drag before the Provost Marshal,' said the negro, with an accent which I felt was meant more for my ear than Chloe's. 
               'Lor' massy, Pomp! Wot hab de women ben doin' now?' ejaculated the negress. 
               'They are after a spy.' 
               'Wer-wer-wat?' 
               'A spy-a Yankee spy.' 
               'Wel, wel; wot de women hab to do wid dat, Pomp?' 
               'She's a female spy.' 
               'It arnt possible, Pomp?' 
               'If not a female, she wears female clothes.' 
               'Wel, why don't dey cotch her?' 
               'That's what they're trying to do, aunty; they have had a dozen or more up, but they have had to discharge them all. She appears too smart for them, and as she has given them the slip thus far, I hope she will escape altogether.' 
               'Be keerful, Pomp!' warned Chloe, 'dey'll hab you up afo' long, if you don't bridle up dat tongue ob yours. De bess way am, if you can't say sumfin good ob dem, don't say noffin at all. Am't dat de bess way, poo' chile?' 
               I scarcely dared to make any reply, for it was only with difficulty that I could even keep my teeth from chattering. I merely said 'yes.' 
               'Lor' massy, poo' chile!' exclaimed Chloe, as if a new and astounding thought had penetrated her brain; you muss not go into de street now; dey will 'rest you for a strange woman. You take dat chair agin, and sot yousef down.' 
               'Yes; whoever you are,' said the negro, significantly, 'go not into the street now.' 
               I obeyed Chloe's advice and resumed my seat. 
               'No harm can surely befal me by going out,' I ventured to say. 
               'Do not trust yourself,' he replied.-'Whether you are innocent or-or-a spy, you will be certain to fall into their hands.' 
               'Ob course you will, poo' chile,' added Chloe. 'Whateber Pomp says am gospel trufe. Pomp alus knows.' 
               'And let me say to you, young woman,' remarked he who was called Pomp, 'it would be better for you if you were miles distant from this vicinity.' 
               'I do not see the force of your remark,' said I. 
               'Suppose this house should be searched for a person answering your description?' 
               'Then I suppose they will do with me as with other women they have taken before the provost marshal,' said I. 
               'No, dey won't do no such ting,' remonstrated Aunt Chloe, spiritedly; 'not wile de poo' chile am in dis house.' 
               'Then find some place to secrete her, and quickly, too; for the hunters are after their game, and they will not fail to scent it here.' 
               'Why, why, wot you mean, Pomp!' 
               'I mean that this girl is in danger of falling into the hands of the--' 
               A ringing of the front door bell, and heavy footsteps heard in the passage way, cut short Pompey's speech. 
               'Dis way chile! dis way-quick!' said Aunt Chloe, in hurried but almost inaudible tones, as she seized my hand and half dragged me across the floor, into an entry, and then up the back stairs to a small bedroom, which Chloe informed me was her room. 
               'In here-quick!' she urged. 'Now if you don't keer bout habin' dem sojers cotch you, de bess ting for you to do am to disguise yousef into a culud gal. Dar's one ob my ole wigs up dar; an' in dar am plenty ob ole dresses blongin' to me; an' dar's a piece ob burnt cork dat I sometimes use wen I tink I look a leetle faded. Den if you git into bed and make bleeve you bery sick, I'm shuah dey'll all make fools ob darselbs and go way tinkin' bery much so. Don't be 'fraid, poo' chile. I'll hab dem sa'ch all ober de house, up stairs and down, afo' I'll 'low dem to cum in Aunt Chloe's room.' 
               With these instructions, hastily uttered, Chloe darted from the room, and, no doubt, was busily engaged in her laundry occupations when Pompey finally admitted the intruders into the house. 
               I hastily metamorphosed myself from a comely white girl into a dingy, shiny-skinned mulatto wench. Before my toilet was quite complete I heard quite a loud voice saying- 
               'I know she must be somewhere secreted in this house. Every nook, corner and crevice, as well as every room, must be carefully searched.' 
               'Can't say dat she aint hidin' somwhar roun' de house,' I heard Chloe say. 'Wite fooks do sech strange tings sence de war begun. If she am here widout leabe, I hope dat you will find her, and Chloe will help you do it.' 
               'Oh, we shall find her; she can't escape us. No one can leave the house without falling into the hands of a sentinel;' said the same voice, which seemed slightly familiar to me. 
               'Don' speak so loud, massa, 'case my poo' long loss sister's chile am quite sick wid a feber, an' de doctor say she musn't be disturbed till she gets to be conwalesent,' I heard Chloe caution as she came in the vicinity of her sleeping apartment. 'Step sof'ly,' she added, 'case de doctor say dat sleep am de bess medesin dat she can hab.' 
               'Which is your room,' asked the person whom the negress was guiding around. 
               'Dat, dere; bess not go in dar; please not, massa,' pleaded Chloe. 'I'll lef you jess look in, but you musn't make de leastest bit ob noise.' 
               The door stood a little ajar, and I could hear them softly approaching it; and presently I could distinctly hear the heavy respirations of one who seemed to stand directly over me. 
               This was a painful moment to me. I felt my heart almost in my mouth, and the blood seemed to freeze in my veins. Yet I kept as rigidly still as if I had been a block of marble, instead of an agitated frame of bones, muscles and nerves, as I was. I held my breath for a long, long time, as it seemed to me, and when I did again respire, I felt no longer the presence of one I conceived to be a dire enemy. 
               After the lapse of a few moments, I ventured to open my eyes and to gaze about the room. There was surely no one there then. The tramp of footsteps on the stairs, in the entries, and in the rooms, soon ceased, and all the noise that could then be heard was the sound of human voices talking in the kitchen; and one of the voices I was quite sure was that of Chloe. 
               Feeling that all immediate danger was passed, I strove to quiet my excited nerves, and as I was greatly fatigued by exertion, I soon fell asleep. 
               How long I slept I know not. My first return to half consciousness brought my eyes in the glare of a lamp held by a sable hand. 
               'Wake up, poo' chile; slep' long nuf;' were the words that greeted me from my black protectress. 'De sojers am all gone 'cept one, an' he aint no 'count any way.' 
               'Thanks, my good woman, for your kindness,' said I; 'and it shall not go unrewarded.' 
               'You muss get up an' go now-it's moss mornin'.' 
               'Can it be possible? How long have I slept?' 
               'Ten, leben hour, Now am de bess chance to 'scape, 'fore dey send another sent'nel to guard de door.' 
               'Do you mean to say that the house has been guarded by soldiers all night?' 
               'By one sentinel at a time, only. De lass one I hab got down stairs in de woodshed, an' he am ob no more use dan de logs ob wood dat am scattered 'bout him. He am bery fond of whiskey but he am too drunk to drink any mo'. Come poo' chile, hurry up! Dar aint much time to lose.' 
               I was wide awake now, and proceeded, at Chloe's request, to wash the smut from my face, and to put on a grey uniform, which she had procured for me. 
               I had so often donned the blue jacket and trowsers, that Chloe was quite astonished to see how kindly I took to them. She had not forgotten the cap, nor belts, for I perceived that it was intended that I should at once become an active rebel soldier. 
               I followed her down into the kitchen, thence to the wood-shed, where I beheld a confederate soldier lying at full length on the floor, in a beastly state of intoxication. 
               I gave one glance at his features. That glance startled me-for the drunken soldier was none other than one of my discarded lovers,-Potiphar Tomlinson. 
               His gun was lying near him with bayonet fixed, which weapon Chloe said I must take, and stand guard in front of the house, until I saw a clear opportunity to effect my escape; adding, that at four o'clock, the relief guard would make their grand rounds. 
               'What o'clock is it now?' I enquired. 
               'Jes' twenty minutes to four,' replied Chloe. 'Golly, you'd better hurry, or you'll hab to pass you'sef off for dat poo' sent'nel in de wood-shed.' 
               The force of her remark was all the more to be seen, when the thought occurred to me that Potiphar Tomlinson was well-nigh six feet in stature, while mine was no more than an ordinary sized woman's. 
               Taking a hurried adieu of Chloe, I passed through the passage-way, and without, at first, looking either to the right or left, commenced pacing the fifty-feet beat, being the width of the premises of the mansion which had thus afforded me protection from those who were so vigilant in their endeavors to apprehend the Female Spy. 
               It was now daybreak, and after I had twice paced my beat, I ventured to cast my eyes up and down the street, to see what obstacles there might be in the way of my making a successful desertion from my present post. The streets were clear of pedestrians, but there were two or three market wagons moving slowly through it, which to avoid, I thought it best to remain until they were lost to sight. They presently, one by one disappeared by turning into other avenues. Now was my chance for escape! and not wishing to be encumbered with a musket, I brought it from my shoulder, and was about to rest it against an ornamental shade tree in front of the house, when my quick sense of hearing detected the measured tramp of soldiers approaching, though nothing moving was visible to the naked eye. 
               I listened intently for a few moments, when, to my utter consternation, a guard of soldiers walking in single file, and commanded by a subordinate officer, turned into the street from an adjoining one, running at a right angle, and came tramping directly towards me. 
               Quickly I again brought the musket to a shoulder, and almost simultaneously I heard a neighboring clock toll out the hour of four. 
               Here was another dilemma! But I knew something, by observation, of guard-mounting, and nerved myself up to the hazardous exigency. Before I had twice paced my beat they were within ten yards of me. I straightened myself up to my utmost height, almost standing on tip-toe, brought my musket to a charge, and cried out, in as masculine a voice as my organs of speech would permit: 
               'Who goes there?' 
               'Grand Rounds!' was the reply. 
               'Advance, Grand Rounds, and give the countersign.' 
               A sergeant advanced towards me. Our muskets crossed, and he whispered hoarsely in my ear,-'Death to Spies and Traitors!' seeming to emphasize the word 'Spies.' 
               Why I did not drop my musket and sink to the earth has ever been a wonder to me. But something nerved my arm, gave courage to my soul, and put me in full possession of my faculties. 
               There was nothing for me to say or do but to fall in the rear of the relief guard, while another was placed sentinel over the suspected house. 
               When detection then and there seemed imminent, why was it that it was not immediately discovered that I was not the tall, gawky-looking sentinel that had been posted there? And if I was detected without being apprised of it, why was it that I was placed in the rear of the guard like any other sentinel who had done his duty, instead of finding my two wrists encircled together by iron 'bracelets,' and a special guard detailed to take me before some high officer, or to the guard-house? 
               My theory was simply this:-that the sergeant that now led us was not the same one who had commanded the preceeding relief, and that the privates were not the same; or if any of them were of the guard just relieved, they were too stupid to observe serve the marked difference between the sentinel who had actually been posted and the sentinel thus relieved. This theory added to my courage, and it might possibly be of advantage to me on reaching the head-quarters of the guard. 
               In the course of seven or eight minutes we had passed through the great gate leading to a series of prison-looking buildings, which constituted the chief barracks of the citadel. 
               We entered the dark and gloomy-looking guard-house, and were immediately dismissed. No one took any particular notice of me, for all appeared too anxious to get to their respective quarters. I noticed, however, that two or three of them, separately, forthwith marched out of the great gate, halting, however to give the countersign to one of the brace of sentinels guarding it. 
               What should prevent my passing out, too? I had the countersign! I could not forget those words which grated so harshly upon my ear:-Death to Spies and Traitors!' 
               I immediately acted upon the suggestion. With a resolute heart and a bold determined air, I, too, bent my steps towards the barrack gate. The sentinel challenged-I whispered, with emphasis, 'Death to Spies and Traitors!' and passed into the open street, after performing the part of a confederate soldier for one hour. 
               I took what seemed to be the shortest route to my own quiet quarters, and just as the first rays of the rising sun were gilding the spires, towers and frowning walls of the 'Gibraltar of the Mississippi,' I entered the street on which the house of Madame Ramsey stood, and in a few minutes afterwards stood beneath its hospitable and really loyal roof.' 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               MORE SURPRISES-A TERRIFIC BOMBARDMENT-MORALS OF THE BELEAGUERED CITY. 
               "YOU grow wearisome in listening to my narrative, Colonel Manly," said Virginia to me, as I drew a long breath of relief on learning that she had so signally outwitted the hunters that had been so closely on her trail, and was once more in a comparative place of safety, though still encompassed by dangers. 
               "No, Virginia-far from being wearied," I replied; "your many hair-breadth escapes border on the marvellous. If any person but yourself had related to me such a series of adventures, occurring in so short a space of time, I should have required much more credulity than I possess to have entertained them for truth a moment." 
               "I have no motive, Colonel Manly, to impose upon you anything of so absurd a nature that it cannot, by any possibility, be true." 
               "And I, Virginia, believe it to be impossible for you to tell me an untruth; and I assure you that I have been so intensely interested in your narrative thus far, that I am still more anxious to hear of your subsequent career in the enemy's stronghold. But do not continue the recital if you feel in the least fatigued." 
               "Fatigued!" she repeated; "just as though a woman could tire of talking. If you will listen I will relate one more series of incidents which shortly after befel me, for you must know the nature of my mission necessarily led me into many awkward and perplexing situations, and sometimes most dangerous ones. 
               For the two following days after my recent narrow escape, I kept myself closely confined to my quarters, employing my time chiefly in writing and drawing. Besides, I had other reasons for keeping close, not the least of which was to be prepared for an undertaking dertaking that I felt necessary for the grand accomplishment of my mission within the enemy's stronghold. 
               On the third morning Mrs. Ramsey, who, in fact, was my only attendant, and I might say my confidant,-although we seemed to understand each other without much conversation-came into my room and placed in my hands a parcel containing clothing, saying, simply, that, although the clothes had come a day later than agreed upon, all possible despatch had been used to get them ready. This apology was entirely superfluous, for no agreement had been made with me in reference to any clothing. 
               She also placed in my hand a sealed envelope, without any address, which, as soon as she retired from the room, I opened. It contained a brief note and also an unsealed envelope. The former was as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           'DEAR GEORGE,-A situation as clerk at the general's head-quarters being now vacant, I have no doubt you can obtain it if you apply between the hours of 11 A. M. and 2 P. M. Enclosed is a letter from a high source, which will serve as your credentials. 
                           
                              (Signed) Your friend, 
                              STEPHEN CLEVES.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The unsealed letter was in the following terms: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           'DEAR GENERAL,-The bearer, George Temple, is a young man of excellent character, and from one of the first families of Virginia. He is exempt from active service by reason of having lost an eye at Bull Run. He is desirous of still serving in the good cause in some capacity, and as he is admirably qualified for any clerkship's position, I cheerfully recommend him to you, knowing how difficult it is to secure the services of really competent clerks. 
                           
                              (Signed)-- JOHNSON, 
                              Major-Gen'l C. S. A. 
                               
                                 TO MAJOR-GEN. P--, Com'dg C. S. A. forces at Vicksburg. 
                              
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Although I had never heard of Stephen Cleves, I knew whose hand penned the note signed by this name. This was sufficient guarantee that these documents had fallen into the right hands. I then examined the parcel that madame had left, and found it comprised a complete suit of light clothing, suitable for the season, and just adapted for a smart, dapper-looking young clerk. There were also cap, boots, neck-ties and gloves, likewise a curly wig, and a small, indescribable article, made of green silk, with narrow ribbon strings, which would have exceedingly puzzled me to have divined its use, or to have given it a name, had not the unfortunate George Temple lost an eye at Bull Run. 
               Which eye? As it fitted the left eye best I determined the left eye it should be. 
               George Temple! I had never heard exactly that name before, but it was one that I must become familiar with, and by no means so far forget it that my lips would hesitate to utter it when necessary, or hesitate in making answer to it when called upon. 
               When I had again thoroughly metamorphosed myself, and stood before a full-length mirror gazing at the reflection of 'George Temple,' a rather fine looking young man, with a slight downy moustache shading the upper lip, and with a redundancy of curly brown hair, and a green blind over the left eye, I could not avoid the thought that I possessed one great quality essential to the successful versatile actress; and that was the ability to get myself up into any shape required, although this last change I had but little to do with. 
               I contemplated this individual in the mirror for a considerable length of time. I think I never admired him so much before. If it hadn't been for the disfigurement of the patch over the left eye, I think he would have been quite irresistible to any susceptible young damsel. 
               Full of confidence, and with as little show of vanity as possible, I, George Temple, sallied forth into the beleaguered city, and wended my way towards the fine looking building which I had learned previously was the head-quarters of the general to whom was entrusted the holding of the grand key to the navigation of the Father of Waters. 
               I passed many soldiers and civilians on my way, whom I thought gave me more than a casual glance; but it was reserved for the ladies to stare at me as I passed by, and to receive their scrutinizing gaze long after I had passed them. 
               For the soldiers and civilians I cared nothing (for I had my credentials in my pocket); but I must confess that I was not a little annoyed at the sharp and curious glances I received from the ladies. I know they wondered, and asked themselves what manner of man I was? and I felt that I could almost see upon their countenances a suspicion that I was not of the sex which my habiliments indicated. 
               However, I gave little heed to their quizzical stares, and continuing on soon found myself before the edifice occupied by Genral P--as his head-quarters. 
               I boldly pushed my way through a large number of officers, of high and low degree, privates, civilians and servants, all waiting either to gain an audience of the ruling power in the citadel, or to get their business done through subordinate officials of that same power. 
               Like all others, my progress was arrested by sentinels guarding the door; and even before I was permitted to cross the threshold I had to make known my business, and even give up my papers to an officer whose business it was to communicate between applicants seeking an interview with the commanding general and the general himself. 
               As good luck would have it, the officer soon returned and bade me follow him. He conducted me up one flight of stairs into a room where there were several officers writing at desks, and one other officer to whom I was introduced as the person who had just sent up his application and credentials for a clerkship. 
               'The general will see you, Mr. Temple,' said he. 'Walk this way.' 
               Through an entry-way and an ante-room, and into a large, square, elegantly furnished room I was ushered, and into the presence of a fine-looking man, a little above the medium height, dressed in the full uniform of a major-general of the confederate army. 
               In other parts of the room were several officers, apparently of his staff, arrayed in full grey uniform, with all the glittering stripes, stars, bars and buttons that their respective ranks would entitle them to wear. 
               The general was seated before a desk, and upon it, I readily perceived, were my credentials, lying open. 
               He turned his head slowly around, and gazed upon me for a few moments, when he arose, approached and said: 
               'Are you the George Temple mentioned in certain letters I have just received?' 
               'I am the person, sir, to whom they allude,' said I, evasively. 
               'Your credentials could be no better, and if you desire you can have a vacant desk at head-quarters.' 
               'I shall feel grateful to you, sir, for the position,' I replied. 
               'It is no sinecure-it is work, early and late; though there will be some days when there will be little or nothing to do.' 
               'I am willing to work, sir.' 
               'Then we will consider the place yours; and as you will be an attache of my personal staff, I will give you the rank of lieutenant, with the usual pay and emoluments of that position. To-morrow morning, at nine o'clock, you will report at these head-quarters, ready for duty, when you will receive your commission.' 
               As he appeared to have no more instructions to give, and turned his attention to another visitor, I took a general survey of the apartment with my one eye, and was about to retire, when my attention was arrested by several elaborate drawings, framed and hung upon the walls. I was not long in discovering that they were topographical views of the citadel, fortifications, and general surroundings of the city of Vicksburg. Of course they interested me, and perhaps I tarried longer before them than was discreet, for I heard the new-comer say, in a half inaudible tone: 
               'Who is that young stranger, general?' 
               'Oh, that is a new attache of my personal staff. His name is Temple-George Temple-he is from Virginia, and brings good testimonials.' 
               'Pardon me for my inquisitiveness,' said the other. 'Since I have held the office of provost marshal the habit has grown with me of being over-curious and inquisitive. By-the-by, general, that female spy still eludes our vigilance. We have exercised our best efforts, but all of no avail. When we thought we had her almost within our grasp, by the strangest and most ingenious stratagem, she escaped us.' 
               'Yes,' replied the general; the circumstances I have had related to me. One must possess the cunning of Old Nick himself to play such tricks successfully. See to it, marshal, that she is not much longer at large,-for a successful spy in our midst at this juncture of our affairs, may do us incalculable mischief.' 
               'Be assured, general, our efforts shall not be relaxed; and if she remains in Vicksburg twenty-four hours longer she shall be in our power.' 
               'Be careful, marshal, that she does not leave the city.' 
               'Every precaution, general, has already been taken.' 
               Their conversation was here interupted by the entrance of another officer, to whom the general immediately gave audience, and the provost marshal retired. Fortunately my back was turned toward him, or he might have discovered that I was in a state of perturbation too marked not to be observed. 
               No sooner had he gone than I turned my single eye from the maps or diagrams that I had been examining, and attempted to move from the spot. My limbs absolutely refused their office; I seemed to be fixed to the floor; a cold chill thrilled through my veins, and a violent tremor seized me. The thought that I should sink upon the floor added greatly to my trepidation. I made a desperate effort, and moved foward far enough to reach a seat standing against the wall, which I threw myself into. I dared not look around me for fear that I should encounter the gaze of some one or more of the officials in the room. Whether I was observed or not I cannot say; but after the lapse of a few minutes, the strange sensations left me, and, making a determined effort I arose, left the room, passed the sentinels unchallenged, and gained the street. 
               I must confess that I was greatly annoyed at myself, while contemplating how seriously I had been affected, in a situation where there had been no really imminent danger. Coolness was an indispensable quality in the performance of a mission like mine, and hitherto I had been in several really perilous positions, when that quality had carried me through successfully. To lose my self-possession now, when I knew that I was hunted in every direction, would only serve to embarrass me in the prosecution of my duties, and also render me more liable to detection. 
               I therefore firmly resolved, let what might happen, I would not again be taken by surprise; and if possible, I would so discipline my mind that no event, however perilous it might seem, should disturb my equilibrium. To this task I devoted myself for several days, and it is even wonderful what progress I made. It demonstrated to me the fact that coolness and courage may be acquired by schooling the mind to these essential qualities,-essential, especially, to one in my peculiar position. 
               What had I to fear now? was the question which I asked myself as I walked carelessly lessly along the most crowded thoroughfare of Vicksburg. I had an appointment at the head-quarters of the commanding general. He had my credentials, and could satisfy the most skillful detective with a word. 
               In twenty-four hours I should have the promised commission in my hand, and commence my toils, with pen in hand at the vacant desk. 
               Who would think of searching for a spy among the officers of the personal staff of the general? Surely I must be free from scrutiny there. 
               I had not thought of procuring a proper uniform for the position which I had attained until after I had reached my own private quarters. To Mrs. Ramsey I imparted the fact that I had received an appointment on General P--'s staff, with the rank of lieutenant. She seemed much pleased, if I could judge by the satisfactory twinkle of her eye, as she left me to my own solitude. 
               The day passed and evening came, when another parcel arrived, directed to 'Lieut. George Temple, C. S. A.' On opening it I found it contained a complete uniform, (including cap and insignia,) corresponding in fabric, style and ornament exactly with those which the gentlemen wore whom I saw at head-quarters. 
               To substitute these for the garments that I had worn throughout the day was but the work of a few moments; and, strange to say, they fitted me admirably, although I am quite sure that no tailor measured me for them, unless he had done it while I was asleep, and this was impossible, for I had not slept a moment since leaving the commanding general's office. 
               I had no sooner donned this uniform than I heard loud voices and the tramp of many feet below. On opening the door I heard Mrs. Ramsey say: 
               'There is no person here now that answers your description. Three days ago there was a young mustee here, of about the age you mention; but she was incapable of the work, and I discharged her.' 
               'What's a mustee?' asked a coarse voice. 
               'A person born of a white father and a quadroon mother,' was Mrs. Ramsey's reply. 'But she was as white as most white women.' 
               'Was she good looking?' 
               'Ah! that she was-a beauty, sir; and that's what spoilt her for my work.' 
               'Do you know whither she went?' 
               'She obtained a pass to leave the city, and I know that she packed her trunk for a long journey.' 
               'She has deceived you, or you, madame, are deceiving us,' remarked the coarse voice. 
               'Sir!' exclaimed the indignant Mrs. Ramsey. 
               'Oh! I beg pardon, madame; I intended not to reflect on your honesty or loyalty; but in times like these we have many unpleasant duties to do; not the least of which we have to perform here to-night; and that is to search your house.' 
               'I can make no objection, sir, to that,' replied Mrs. Ramsey, with more emphasis than she had spoken before: 'but I beg you won't disturb the young officer in the room at the head of the stairs, as he is busily engaged in writing.' 
               'Officer? What young officer?' 
               'Lieut. Temple, a newly-appointed clerk at Gen. P--'s headquarters.' 
               'Is he quartered here?' 
               'For the present, I believe.' 
               'I know who you mean-I saw him at the general's quarters this morning. He has a patch over one eye, I believe?, 
               'The same.' 
               I listened no longer, but closing the door softly, I immediately sat down at the table, and commenced writing a letter to my friend, Stephen Cleves, who had done me great service, in assisting me to obtain the appointment I had that day received from the gallant general commanding this important post. 
               This letter I left unfolded in such a conspicuous spicuous place on the table that any curious visitor might read it when my back was turned. Presently some one rapped at my door, and who should appear on the threshold but the provost marshal whom I had once before seen on that day. 
               'Good evening, lieutenant; I did not intend to disturb you, but I am in search of that confounded female spy,' said he. 
               'Walk in, marshal; you cannot disturb me now,' I replied, in a familiar manner, rising from my seat and approaching him. I have just finished all the writing I have to do this evening, thank fortune. Come in, and your friends with you. I have no entertainment to offer you; but concerning this spy you are after,-you did not seriously expect to find her here beneath this truly loyal roof?' 
               'There was a girl here a few days ago that answered the description very nearly,' said the marshal; 'but she appears to be among the missing. Nevertheless, I must search for her, even where I know there is not a ghost of chance of finding her.' 
               While we were thus conversing, some three or more of his subordinates entered the room, and saluting me a la militaire, began gazing about with curious eyes, though I pretended not to see them. I am sure the contents of that brief letter upon the table was perused by them all; and before they left, I was satisfied that the provost marshal's eye had likewise thoroughly scanned it. 'If you can give me the slightest information, lieutenant, in regard to the girl who left here a few days ago, the general, as well as myself, will be greatly indebted to you.' 
               'Unfortunately, marshal, she left before I came.' 
               'Ah! sure enough; I ought to have known that, from what the general said this morning. Well, we may yet light upon her when we least-expect it. Good evening, lieutenant. Should you by any chance come in contact with one answering to this description in any one particular, scrutinize her closely,' and he laid upon the table a handbill, offering a reward for the Female Spy, which on examination, I found to be identical with the one I had seen at the tavern but a few days before. 
               This being done, he left the room, followed by his posse of deputies. 
               After this interview, and what I had experienced previously, I think I might have laid claim to such Protean proficiency as to defy policemen, provosts, and detectives. Indeed, the results of the two severe tests I had been subjected to on that day, reassured me. They gave me that additional courage and self-possession necessary to carry me safely through the probable exposures which I should be daily liable to. 
               It was not my intention to leave my quarters again on that evening, but no sooner had I resumed my writing than a terrific bombardment from the river in front, and from the many batteries in the rear of the city, commenced. The roaring of heavy ordnance, the whirring of cannon balls through the air, and the bursting of bombshells even within the citadel itself, created a terrible consternation among the people as well as among the soldiers; and thousands of men, women and children were seen hurrying to and fro, as if endeavoring to find a shelter from the monstrous projectiles that were hurled from big-mouthed cannon and mortars. 
               There had been several bombardments since I made my advent into the town, which resulted in a few casualties, but nothing had been seen to compare with this. It seemed as if the whole army of besiegers had concentrated around the city, within easy range, and were now belching forth from the throats of a thousand pieces of cannon, every species of deadly projectile used in the Union army. The scene became sublimely grand, but I assure you it was also frightfully dangerous to be above ground in almost any part of the city. 
               To make the scene still more grandly terrific, the confederates, from their parapets, casemates, bastions, and wherever a gun could be brought to bear, now opened upon their besiegers the most terrific fire that had as yet been heard in Vicksburg. Houses actually trembled with the rapid concussions; the earth fairly quaked, and the air was filled with hellish sounds; while below, in the very bowels of the earth, might have been seen the nearest approach to a literal pandemonium that ever was beheld by mortal eyes. 
               Yes,-rude excavations of large extent had been made beneath the crust of the earth for the purpose of protecting the inhabitants during any severe storming or bombarding of the city. 
               Many women and children, of high and low degree, were huddled together, while the storm of shot and shell raged without: 
               Dimly lighted by tallow candles, or kerosene lamps, they threw but a sickly light upon the heterogeneous multitude thus hurriedly assembled. 
               Vice and virtue here stalked together-wealth and poverty stood on a par. Money was no more a king here than cotton was king in the Carolinas. Education, refinement, and all that tends to make inequalities among mortals, were just as good and no better, in this hell beneath Vicksburg than ignorance, coarseness, brutality and all that tends to debase humanity. 
               You may think that I have exaggerated the state of things in the caves of Vicksburg; but I do assure you that these eyes have been witnesses of scenes that this tongue would not describe, lest it should excite your incredulity still more. 
               I was not a burrower under ground, on the night of the bombardment I speak of; but have conversed with those that were. Yet I do not purpose to tell you of scenes that others have experienced, but I shall recur to life underground in Vicksburg in the course of my narrative, and state only those things that came under my own observation. 
               I have stated that I did not intend to leave my quarters on the evening of the great bombardment, and should not have ventured forth amid the dangers that everywhere surrounded one, had not a monstrous shell struck low in the roof, directly above my room, and carried away so large a part of it, that I could sit in my chair and observe the stars directly above my head, and watch the course of those fiery meteors, sent from mortal engines to work the destruction of this doomed city. But not long did this afford me any attraction or comfort; and knowing that I should be quite as safe outside, I donned my cap, fastened my sword-belt about my waist, examined my revolvers and went forth amid such of the excited populace who dared to brave the imminent dangers above ground. What befel me you shall quickly hear. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE BELLIGERENT QUAKER-THE THREAT-THE TABLES TURNED-THE COMPACT. 
               THE consternation excited in the city of Vicksburg by the vigorous and terrific bombardment of the federals, was not confined alone to the populace, but extended even to the soldiery, who seemed to be as much panic-stricken as those who did not bear arms. However, to their credit be it said, there were bold spirits enough to man all the guns that could be made available in returning the fire of the dread Yankees. Whether or not this fire of the beseiged had any effect in lessening the terrific storm of the besiegers, it certainly was effective in imparting courage to thousands of all classes and conditions within the walls of the doomed city. 
               The confusion that reigned supreme in the streets, and in the caverns and arches under ground, and the general lax of discipline, during this warring of artillery, enabled me not only to examine a portion of the inner works of the citadel, but enabled me to gain almost precise information as to the real strength of the main outer defences, which once overcome, would very soon eventuate in the surrender of the city. 
               For two hours I traversed the line of inner and outer defences, carefully noting the strength of the batteries, estimating the number of artillerists engaged, and even computing the amount of ammunition visible, and in several instances, looking into magazines, which were opened many times during the bombardment. All of this was accomplished without being suspected or even questioned; for I wore the staff uniform, which I found to be a pas sport to any point. 
               The greatest danger which I incurred was from the bursting of shells, sometimes in such proximity that I trembled even after the danger had passed; and more than once did I avoid the blazing meteors by throwing myself flat upon the ground, or by dodging into some friendly arch, or behind some wall close at hand. 
               Towards eleven o'clock the fire of the besiegers began to slacken, and when the clock struck the eleventh hour, the thundering of heavy ordnance, and the flying of shot and shell through the air entirely ceased. 
               But there was yet no peace within the walls of the fated city. Fires were raging in several quarters, and lurid flames darted up into the smoky atmosphere, making the entire canopy of heaven appear as the dome of Hades. 
               Soldiers and civilians waged war against the fiery element with more zeal, courage and effect than they had fought the enemy. But, throughout that dread night, at least, it seemed as if Vicksburg had become the abode of Satan and the spirits of the damned, for crimes and outrages were committed of such a diabolical nature as might have made even angels weep. Thieves, vagabonds, courtezans, and drunken soldiers held high carnival during the conflagration, the lax of discipline and consequent reign of terror. 
               But for all this, the terrible, evil day of the doomed city had not yet come. A series of military operations were in progress to bring about the fatal period when the 'Gibraltar of the Mississippi' must inevitably change masters. 
               In returning to my quarters that eventful night, between the hours of eleven and twelve o'clock, I was compelled to pass through a street where a conflagration was raging, and which was choked up by fire-engines, hose-carriages, firemen, soldiers and civilians. I elbowed my way slowly through the thronged thoroughfare, and was about congratulating myself that no serious impediment existed between that place and my lodgings, when I was startled by a rude hand which was laid heavily on my shoulder. 
               Instinctively I grasped one of my revolvers, and turned to look the familiar intruder in the face. I was compelled to look upward, when I beheld the tall, gaunt form and the unmistakable features of Obadiah Tomlinson, the father of Potiphar, standing before me! 
               My resolution not to be startled at anything certainly failed me this time, for I had not the courage to raise my revolver and send a leaden messenger to the old hypocrite's heart. In fact, I dared not make any demonstration to rid myself of him, lest I should attract the attention of others near by, to whom the quaker might denounce me, if, indeed, he had discovered the person who had caused such a change in his worldly affairs at Jackson. 
               'Why am I thus rudely assaulted?' I at length asked, in as brusque a manner as I dared assume. 
               'I beg thee wilt forgive me if I seemeth rude,' replied Broadbrim; 'for verily that is not the way with us men of peace. I would speak with thee apart from this multitude of men of war and fire. Yea, I conjure thee to follow me.' 
                
               'Whither?' I demanded. 
               'Thither!' and he pointed to the entrance of a dark alley-way near by, which appeared to be unfrequented. 
               I assented, and without hesitation followed his footsteps, and we were soon hidden from the gaze of any one in the street. 
               'I will lead thee no farther,' said the quaker, turning round and facing me. 'Dost thou not know me?' 
               'By your dress and speech you seem to be of the persuasion called Friends,' was my reply. 
               'I can be thy friend or thine enemy, as thou pleaseth,' said he. 
               'I know not how your friendship can be of service to me; and as for your enmity I fear it not, for experience has taught me that it is unsafe in these perilous times to go unarmed.' 
               All these words the click of a revolver in my hand gave a significant meaning to. 
               Almost at the same moment he displayed a similar weapon, and a sharp 'click' assured me that the quaker was at least equally well armed. 
               'Verily!' he exclaimed with a hissing voice and with great earnestness; 'verily, thee seest before thee a desperate man. I know thee well despite the disguise which thou assumest. Through thy machinations I am reduced from affluence to poverty. If I choosest to do so I can denounce thee as a spy of the damned Yankees, and thou wilt be hung. But I will not if thou wilt be guided by my directions.' 
               'Who do you take me for?' said I, boldly. 
               'For an impostor-a she-devil in the garb of a man of war. I have followed thee from Jackson, and have been on thy track for many days. Escape is now impossible, unless thou givest heed to that which I shall request.' 
               'Your threats I despise,' said I brusquely. 'But I will hear your proposition, and treat it as it deserves.' 
               'It is but to place thy signature to a document which a man of law, an honest attorney, hath drawn up for me.' 
               'Beware of the man of law, lest he lead thee into intracies that will bewilder thee,' said I, remembering his advice at Magnolia Villa. 
               'I sought thee not out to bandy words with thee, but to obtain thy name to this document, in the presence of one or more witnesses.' 
               'What is the tenor of the document?' 
               'It is but a confession of thy appearing at Magnolia Villa, as once before I didst rightly charge thee, in a false guise; and there didst assume the rightful name of the heiress of the estate; and then and there and at Jackson, didst, by thy devilish arts, force me wrongfully to do that which hast well nigh ruined the name and fortune of the Tomlinsons. Yea, verily, thou didst take from me more than one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, besides other property in bonds, mortgages, lands, &c.' 
               'And caused them to be bestowed on the rightful owner, who, I hope, is now in the full enjoyment of her great fortune at her beautiful villa,' said I, without evincing the slightest fear. 
               'That is a point that neither thee nor me can adjudicate upon; but the high courts of Mississippi will decree which is the wronged party.' 
               'Why, that is all settled now.' 
               'Not if I can get thy signature to this plain and honest confession.' 
               'I will take three days to consider it,' said I, desiring to put an end to the interview. 
               'Nay, damsel; it must be signed this night, or thou wilt be placed in the hands of the provost marshal.' 
               'I suppose that document will exonerate you from the great crimes of perjury and incendiarism?' 
               'And what possible harm can that do thee?' 
                
               'It will make me quite as great criminal as thyself. By such an act I should not only wrong the rightful heir of the Marland estates, but proclaim myself a liar and a perjurer. Was it not enough to have saved you from an ignominious punishment, by keeping my faith with you in not furnishing to the authorities the damning evidence of your attempt to commit the great crime of arson?' 
               'Verily, thou dost not well understand me. The restitution of all that worldly wealth which thou didst force me to make, through fear of condign punishment, is irrevocable. The heir of Magnolia Villa hath her full rights, and I am bereft of all power to disturb them. But be it known to thee that, through some source or other, the matter of incendiarism hath become promulgated in the city of Jackson. In verity, I am suspected of that indiscreet act; yet, to my knowledge, no one has yet preferred charges against me. But I would not live in bodily fear. I would be exempt from all suspicion, and return to Jackson and to Basswood Mansion, where I can hold up my head, and be no longer a disgrace to the name of Tomlinson. Thou canst aid me to do this by signing the paper which I have here with me.' 
               This speech furnished me with the key to the Quaker's motives. He had confessed too much. To be exonerated from the suspicion of arson, which he said was resting upon him, could not relieve him from that which was patent to everybody in Jackson: that he had embezzled and long held that which was not his own; in fact, that he was a swindler, an arrant knave,-and would be so considered, even if he had power to allay all suspicion of his other crimes, acted or premeditated. Then what his hope, his purpose, in ferreting me out? It was to obtain my confession for an ulterior object,-perhaps, by some crooked means, to gain back his lost plunder, notwithstanding his declaration that the restitution he had made was irrevocable. This process of reasoning gave a cue to my speech, and I said: 
               'I respectfully, but most peremptorily, decline signing any paper whatsoever, not expressed in the language of truth; and, moreover, I will sign no paper to implicate myself in any wrong-doing, either at Jackson or elsewhere.' 
               'Is this thy fixed determination? he asked solemnly. 
               'As fixed as yonder bright star,' I replied, pointing to the heavens. 
               'Verily, thou shalt rue it.' 
               'I fear thee not.' 
               'I will denounce thee to the provost as the Female Spy that he and his posse are diligently in search of; and I will claim the reward of ten thousand dollars for thy delivery up to him!' he exclaimed with hissing emphasis. 
               'And I will denounce thee as a perjurer, an incendiary, and a swindler, to the first magistrate that can be reached.' 
               'Thy punishment will be the gallows,' 
               'Thine will be the penitentiary for the remainder of thy days,' said I imitating him. 
               'Thou hast no testimony against me.' 
               'All that is necessary-the pistol; that bit of your outer garment; the books; Cuffee;-besides circumstances sufficient to leave not the shadow of a doubt.' 
               'The evidence furnished by a Yankee Spy will avail thee nothing.' 
               'The evidence furnished by an acknowledged liar and swindler will avail thee nothing. Therefore, Broadbrim, act wisely and you may escape hanging,' 
               'Verily, thou art a she-devil!' he said, angrily. 
               'I am a match for any quaker in rebeldom,' I said, laughingly. 
               'Or any imp of hell, as I verily believe.' 
               'Then beware how you cross my path!' said I, threateningly. 'We now fully understand each other. If I am arrested you surely shall be. We stand or fall together.' 
                
               'Another besides me may cause thy arrest?' said he, inquiringly. 
               'It matters not. If I am arrested, I shall take no pains to discover by whose and what means, but shall attribute it to information given by Obadiah Tomlinson, and shall act accordingly.' 
               He was silent for a few moments, and then said: 
               'It doth appear, most unaccountable of women, that, on the whole, it will be the part of discretion to keep each other's secrets; though I did hope that thou wouldst assist me in regaining, in part, at least, my lost honor.' 
               'You have most wisely concluded,' said I, in response; 'and as it is late, you had better go your way and I will go mine.' 
               'Tarry, but for one moment. I would make one more request of thee, and it shall do thee good to grant it.' 
               'Be brief, and I will listen.' 
               'Verily, misfortunes never come singly. My son, Potiphar, is in great trouble.' 
               'Is it possible? Why, I saw him but a few days ago.' 
               'Alas! he is now in the hands of the Philistines.' 
               'What mean you?' 
               'He hath stepped beyond the bounds of moderation and discretion, and hath been deprived of his liberty.' 
               'The English of which is,' said I, 'that he became intoxicated, and committed some breach of military rule, and he is now a prisoner in the guard-house.' 
               'Thou hast divined the truth. It mortifyeth my spirit much to know that the son and heir of the Tomlinsons hath contracted the vile habit of imbibing too much of the inebriating beverage, vulgarly denominated whiskey. It hath brought grief upon him and upon Obadiah, his father. To be brief, he was found intoxicated, when he should have been on guard at the post of duty. For this offence the men of war have deprived him of his liberty; aye, they have even threatened to cut the thread of his life by firing many leaden spheres into his young and vigorous frame.' 
               'How think you I can possibly aid him?' I asked. 
               'Because I knoweth that thou wilt have the ear of that great son of Mars, General P--, who art all-powerful in Vicksburg.' 
               'Before I consent to do what I can for the relief of Potiphar, tell me how you became possessed of the knowledge you seem to have in regard to me.' 
               'Verily, I have keen eyes, and when once they have dwelt on human features, they seldom fail to recognize them afterwards. Then I have a keen scent. The bloodhound in search of a fugitive nigger art not more sure of his prey than I of mine. I have hunted thee night and day and have brought thee to bay at last.' 
               'But not with the result you anticipated,' I remarked. 
               'Nay, the hunted hath turned upon the hunter this time. But thou wilt promise to give aid and comfort to the distressed Potiphar?' 
               'Be assured that I will do all in my power consistent with my own safety, to obtain the discharge of the indiscreet Potiphar, with the condition that you will never in any manner attempt my betrayal.' 
               'I do promise-nay, I do swear-that thy secret shall be kept so long as thou keepest mine.' 
               'I shall trust you, for I know that for you to act otherwise would tend to your own condemnation. So farewell, Mr. Tomlinson, and when you see me again you will be kind enough not to let your penetrating eyes recognize the soi-disant heiress of Magnolia Villa.' 
               'Farewell! we part as friends should part; and let me caution thee to be discreet in all thy movements, for there be many watching eagerly for thee.' 
               'I shall heed your advice. Farewell.' 
               He turned upon his heel and made long strides up the alley-way, into the street, where he was soon lost among the multitude that still thronged the space before the buildings which were still burning. 
               As for myself, I sought the shortest route to my quarters, and arrived there without further obstacle. The remainder of that night I slept soundly in a room of a partially unroofed dwelling, and dreamed only of bright stars, bursting bomb-shells and conflagrations. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE SPY'S FIRST WEEK AT REBEL HEADQUARTERS-HIS LOST EYE IS MUCH RESPECTED-A STARTLING PROPOSITION. 
               "ON the following morning," resumed our heroine, "I attired myself in the regulation uniform of the commanding general's staff, and at nine o'clock, precisely, sought admittance to that officer's apartment at head-quarters. I was informed by an orderly that the general would not be in for an hour, but that his chief of staff, Col. Winnet, was present in his private room, to whom I could make my business known. I accordingly expressed a desire to see him, and was immediately ushered into the presence of a fine looking gentleman, in a military undress, who was quietly perusing a newspaper and enjoying a fragrant cigar. 
               He turned his head as I approached him, and no sooner had he obtained a full view of my figure, than he quickly arose as if to greet me. But his countenance fell as he gazed into my features. 
               'Have I the honor to address Col. Winnet, Chief of Staff?' said I, saluting him in a most respectful manner. 
               'I am Col. Winnet, Chief of Staff; but if you think there is any peculiar honor in addressing this individual, the sooner you dispel the thought the better,' he replied, in a hearty, brusque manner. 
               'I am George Temple.' 
               'The deuce you are! You lost an eye at Bull Run. Take a seat, sir. Have a cigar. Make yourself as comfortable as possible. The general told me all about you; you are to become one of our military family; your commission is ready; can't congratulate you, sir; may congratulate ourselves; plenty of work; poor pay, and our prospects of raising the siege d-d poor.' 
               I took the proffered seat, but declined the cigar. 
               'Don't smoke, eh?' he ejaculated, with a look of surprise. 'Well, you'll soon learn. Smoking is epidemic in the army; but few escape the habit. Here, my young friend, is your commission as first lieutenant, which I was directed by the general to present to you,' and he placed in my hands the credentials of my rank, for which I thanked him. 
               'I will now introduce you to the gentlemen of the staff who are present,' he continued, 'good fellows, all of them. This way, lieutenant.' 
               This part of my induction into office, I must confess, I would gladly have avoided; but, putting a little resolution into my demeanor, I permitted him to lead me into the large business room of the department, and introduce me to eight or ten officers of various ranks, in his brusque, off-hand style, not forgetting to inform each one that I had 'the honor of losing an eye in the victory of Bull Run.' 
               I was greeted by all with much cordiality and proffers of friendship. Whether to attribute this to the lost eye, or to anything prepossessing in my appearance, I was at a loss to decide. 
               Having gone through with the formality of introduction to my brother officers of the staff, or to such of them as were present, I was immediately led to a vacant desk, which the chief said he had orders to assign to me, and was instructed in the particular duties I was expected to perform, the major part of which were copying, or condensing into one document, the daily reports of the several general officers in command at Vicksburg, to be despatched to the War Department at Richmond. 
               I readily comprehended the nature of my task, and as I was a rapid penman, and wrote a plain, legible hand, I felt satisfied that not more than three hours would be required to accomplish the work on each day. 
               I sat about the duty as if I was not altogether inexperienced, and although I worked leisurely, at two o'clock on that day the document was finished. I submitted it to a superior officer for examination. He pronounced it correct, and complimented me upon the neatness and legibility of my chirography, and the admirable arrangement I had adopted for condensing the several reports. 
               'If this does not satisfy the officials at the war office, nothing will,' was his remark, as he countersigned the document, enclosed it in an envelope, and bade me address it to the Secretary of War, C. S. A., Richmond, Va., and send it at once to the post office. 
               I may as well admit that I had taken, in short hand, very brief notes of valuable information contained in this condensed report, which I knew would give quite as much satisfaction to the besieging general outside the walls of Vicksburg, as to the officials of the war office at Richmond. 
               Day after day I went through the same routine of duty, treasuring up scraps of valuable information, which I determined should not be for the exclusive use of the Confederate War Department. 
               But this was not my only source of information. On each day officers and civilians were constantly arriving and departing, communicating intelligence freely, making suggestions, and even discussing with the general and the high officers of his staff, matters touching the weak and strong points, not only of the citadel, but the fortifications which environed it. 
               My ears were always attentive on these occasions, although I diligently plied the pen in the meantime. Before I had been there a week I had treasured up more knowledge in relation to the defences at Vicksburg than was known to any person outside of the general's quarters. 
               It had been a week now since I had met with any adventure scarcely worth noting, which was quite remarkable for me. In fact, I began to look upon my daily duties as by no means desirable on account of their monotony. I needed more excitement. I had previously been subject to so many strange adventures, that life seemed tame in comparison. However, this 'piping time of peace' was not to last long. 
               If I remember rightly, it was on the eighth day after receiving my confederate commission, and while I was quietly writing at my desk, when, among the many frequenters of the office there appeared a fine looking military gentleman, who desired an immediate interview with the commanding general. Before turning my gaze I had a presentiment who the new comer was. 
               I looked up as he halted near my desk, and beheld my former good rebel friend, Colonel Lamar. My eye met his, but there was no apparent recognition between us. It was but a single glance, for I turned my gaze towards the paper over which my pen was now moving mechanically. I felt something more than a slight throbbing in the region of the heart, though I assure you it was of a far different nature from that which often sets a maiden's heart in motion when exchanging glances with some handsome, fascinating young gentleman. 
               The truth is, I had another fright and my cheeks absolutely tingled with the sudden effusion of blood which they received. I felt very much as I did on another occasion, on receiving an unexpected visit from the colonel, when I was strongly impressed with the idea that his visit had some unpleasant relation with the spy, who, still undetected, was giving the rebel leaders so much uneasiness. 
               While endeavoring to overcome the unpleasant sensation which affected me, I heard heavy footsteps approaching, and then the voice of the general cordially welcoming 'Col. Lamar.' 
               'What news from Jackson, colonel?' he at length asked. 
               'Nothing important; but I am convinced that Marietta Marland, the young lady we were speaking of when I was last here, is entirely innocent. In fact, it is impossible that she could have any connivance whatever with the spy who successfuly usurped her place, and who so completely hood-winked us all. What success here in ferreting her out?' 
               'None, whatever,' replied the general. 'Indeed, the provost marshal and all his detectives have lost all trace of her. It is now thought that she must have escaped from the city, notwithstanding the extreme vigilance that has been exercised.' 
               I began to breathe more freely on hearing this last remark; for it was presumable that the great efforts which had been made to apprehend the spy would now be relaxed, perhaps abandoned altogether as a hopeless case. 
               Their conversation was now lost to me, for they moved on towards the private room of the general, into which they both entered. 
               My day's work being now completed, I prepared to leave the office, when I again met Lamar face to face, as he was retiring from his interview with the general. He almost halted as I raised my hand to give him the accustomed military salute; and as he returned it he gave me a look which seemed to penetrate my very soul, and then hanging his head, as if in deep thought, passed on. 
               In another moment I was saluted by an orderly, with a summons to the private room of the general. 
               I was startled without his observing it. Surely, I thought, my time has come at last. Col. Lamar had accomplished in one moment more than the whole detective force of Vicksburg had been able to accomplish in three weeks. I did not even entertain a doubt of this fact; and if there had been the remotest chance of an escape, I surely should have attempted it. Hope even fled from my bosom; but I determined to put a bold face upon the matter, and to hold out even against fate to the last extremity. 
               With this resolution I appeared before the general as if nothing had occurred to cause the slightest perturbation within me. 
               The moment I entered his presence he greeted me with his usual manner, and bade me be seated; and as soon as I obeyed he arose and locked the door. 
               Surely he meant to make sure of me! but I was rather puzzled at his really pleasant and smiling face. 
               'My business with you, lieutenant, is of of such a private nature, that we must not be intruded upon,' said he as he resumed his seat, 
               'Caution is certainly commendable in these perilous times,' I remarked. 
               'The lack of it has already caused us many disasters. The chivalric sons of the South are too reckless, too impetuous, to cope successfully with the cool, obstinate, prudent, and persevering Yankees. If we possessed half their cunning and prudence, combined with our Hotspur courage, we might defy them; aye we might invade their territories, instead of their invasion of ours. Moreover, we, in estimating our strength have invariably underrated theirs. In equal numbers, the Yankees are a match for any people on the face of the globe, and the sooner our Hotspurs acknowledge this, the more able we may be successfully to engage with them in the open field, and in strategic operations.' 
               'We beat the invaders handsomely at Bull Run,' I ventured to suggest. 
               'Yes, that was a victory; and because it was a victory it tended to weaken us and strengthen them. If we had profited by that victory Washington would have been ours. But, because we were victorious on that day, we puffed ourselves up with the belief that we could not fight the Yankees without whipping them ever afterwards. That was our mistake. Had we lost that battle instead of the Yankees, it would have taught us the same lesson that it taught them, and we should have profited by that lesson as they did. So, my young friend, it sometimes happens, in military operations, that a victory may be accounted as a defeat, and such do I account the battle of Bull Run.' 
               'It certainly had the effect to make a more perfect union among the people of the North; for after that battle they arose in their might, and brought against the confederacy an almost overwhelming power,' said I, wondering as to what purpose was intended by the general's expressing his sentiments so freely to a humble subaltern of his staff. 
               'Precisely,' he resumed; 'the North needed just such a check to arouse into action all the dormant energies and resources of that enterprising people. It enabled them to bring even to the walls of Vicksburg a mighty army and a powerful naval fleet, which, to successfully resist, we must employ every means that force and strategy can suggest. That which we most need at the present juncture is information, not only of the real strength of the enemy's hand forces, but of their progress in intrenching and mining; of their weak points and strong points, and of the character and numbers of their reserves. To obtain this information I have sent several spies to their camp, but they have either found it impossible to transmit information within our lines, or they have been detected, or, perchance, they have deserted to the enemy, and thus become treacherous to their several trusts. The latter I more than suspect. 
               'What peridly!' I exclaimed. 
               'Monstrous!' he added. 'It is now my desire to send another spy within their lines, and I have been on the look-out for some days to find a shrewd, intelligent, active, faithful young man, with sufficient intrepidity and patriotism to undertake the perilous duty. I think I have discovered my beau ideal of a spy at last, and if he will but volunteer,-for I would not urge any one to perform so perilous a task,-and should he be successful, he will be generously rewarded and receive the thanks of a grateful people.' 
               'Such an one, general, as you have described must be a rare individual,' said I, looking up and meeting his scrutinizing gaze. 
               'It may be so; but he to whom I refer is none other than yourself,' he replied, with serious emphasis. 
               ''I!' was my ejaculation. 'You do me too much honor, general; you flatter me far beyond my merits.' 
               'Leave us to judge of your qualifications for the enterprise, and you shall be entitled to accept or reject so important and perilous a mission.' 
               'I must have a little time to consider of it,' said I, in a thoughtful manner. 'To be a successful spy--' 
               'Is honorable!' 
               'To fail as a spy--' 
               'Is ignominy, and if detected leads to an ignominious death!' said he, interrupting me. 'I would have you understand, before committing yourself to such an enterprise, that it is beset with a thousand dangers. The chances of failure are more than the chances of success. Still, I am impressed with the belief that you would be successful. I could suggest a disguise that would defy detection, if detection depended upon your general appearance.' 
               'Pardon me, general, if my curiosity leads me to ask you the character of the disguise you would select for me.' 
               'A female disguise!' was his reply. 'You have a light complexion, small hands, a smooth skin, and a figure that would not look awkward or unbecoming in female attire. By shaving off that moustache, and improving your coiffure slightly, I can imagine that you would pass current anywhere as a damsel of no little attractiveness.' 
               'But my voice, general, would betray me,' I remarked, in decidedly masculine tones, for I had cultivated the guttural notes of my throat to such a degree, that I flattered myself my utterance was quite manly. 
               'You can very easily acquire the art of speaking in a higher key,' said he, forcing his own utterance up to a falsetto, by way of example. 
               'Yes, sir, I think that would not be very difficult, for I always could sing like a woman. But the idea of becoming a spy; that is what staggers me!' 
               'It is enough to stagger any one; and I would not have you accept it if you entertain an idea that it is dishonorable, or if, through fear, you are prompted to decline it. In warfare, between civilized nations, spies are resorted to as essential to military operations; and the shrewdest, the most discreet, and the most observing, are usually selected for this position. I could find a thousand fit to command a regiment, where one could be found to act well the part of a spy. Therefore, I consider the duty honorable whenever necessity demands it; and Heaven knows that we, in this beleaguered city, are in such strait now as would make any expedient justifiable that can possibly afford us relief.' 
               'Can it be possible there is any immediate danger of the city's falling into the hands of the besiegers?' I inquired, in a concerned manner. 
               'The danger is imminent, though that information must not go beyond this office. If our brave defenders understood the military position as well as I do, it would produce a panic among them that nothing could allay. Still, I have hope; first, through obtaining information of the enemy, and, secondly, through the safe admission of supplies, of every description that we now stand desperately in need of.' 
               The conversation that followed related chiefly to the manner in which the expected supplies were to be introduced into the city, the details of which may be inferred from events which soon after occurred. 
               The great confidence which the general appeared to repose in me, instead of elating, absolutely depressed my spirits. I felt almost like a guilty thing in receiving from his lips that which should have been given to one thoroughly loyal to the confederate cause, instead of to one whose stern duty it was to betray it on the first opportunity. However, a moment's reflection satisfied all conscientious scruples, and I listened attentively to the end. Then, with a zealous ardor that took him almost by surprise, I said, 
               'The mission you propose, general, I will accept.' 
               He gazed at me a moment with unaccountable interest, as if he felt that the sacrifice might be too great should anything serious befal me. 
               'Do not decide too hastily,' he continued. 
               'I have weighed the matter fully in my mind,' was the answer, 'and am prepared to go as a spy into the enemy's lines.' 
               'Do not too slightly estimate the perils.' 
               'I have considered all.' 
               'I had proposed in my own mind to give you until to-morrow morning to consider it.' 
               'My answer will still be the same.' 
               'I applaud your resolution, but I would have you reflect-aye, reflect seriously.' 
               'I have already determined, general, and only await your instructions.' 
               'I did not anticipate, lieutenant, that you would come to a decision so quickly. If you are of the same mind to-morrow morning at ten o'clock, the instructions pertaining to your enterprise will be given you; and such preparations as will aid you and add to your safety will have been made at that hour, so that you can depart without delay, for the exigency requires immediate action.' 
                
               The interview was now brought to a close, and the general dismissed me from his presence with some congratulary remarks, and some most excellent advice for my adoption after reaching the encampments of the enemy. 
               No sooner had I passed out of the general's private room than I again met, face to face, my rebel friend, Col. Lamar. He gave me a most searching glance, as he leisurely passed by, but there was no sign of recognition in that look. As he entered the doorway that I had just come out of, I had some little suspicion that his interview with the general had something to do with the proposition that had been made to me. However, the second time of meeting his gaze on that day, threw me not into that intense state of trepidation that his first did, and I went on my way rejoicing, thinking-oh, how strangely-that instead of having been detected as a Federal Spy, I had been selected as the most proper individual in all Vicksburg to become a Spy of the Confederates!
                
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               MY NEW DISGUISE TESTED-I KEEP MY PROMISE TO OBADIAH TOMLINSON-I MYSTIFY THE REBEL COMMANDER. 
               A DOUBLE SPY! That was my character now. I possessed the confidence of the two great contending generals. One of them, of course, must be betrayed. Was ever man or woman placed in such a position? It was no dilemma, however-there was nothing perplexing about it. My best energies had been given to one great cause, and my heart was in it still. 
               And because a strange circumstance-a remarkable coincidence-had placed in my hands the power to do the real enemy a tenfold mischief, should I not use it to the fullest extent? Should I throw away the great advantage to be gained by not accepting the position of a rebel spy? Should I not be a half-traitress to our own loyal commander by such a course? And would not he forever despise me for such inexcusable imbecility? Moreover, my love of my country, in whose service I actually was, must outweigh my own petty scruples, and, indeed, all considerations whatever. To serve her with all the zeal and power I possessed, was not only my desire but my duty. 
               Such was the tenor of my thoughts as I wended my way towards my private quarters; and on arriving, I sat about making my own individual preparations for a new and startling adventure. My chief work, before again appearing at the general's headquarters, consisted in condensing in as brief a space as possible the results of all my operations in Vicksburg, together with much information I had received while performing my duties for the past few days, and from the commanding general's own lips. I had previously made miniature copies of the topographical views of the citadel, its fortifications and outworks. So minute were these, that they were on a scale of not more than one-eighth of an inch to a foot of the original diagrams. But they were distinct and comprehensive. These I concealed by carefully sewing them in the lining of an under garment; and so skilfully was it done that I flattered myself that my work would defy detection. 
               It was a late hour of the night before I accomplished the task I had given myself to perform. Then I retired to rest to dream of strange adventures, of encountering strange characters, and of doing such extraordinary things for a mortal, that they might have astonished the genii of the wonderful lamp. 
               I arose at my accustomed hour, and after partaking of breakfast, and intimating to Madame Ramsey that it was altogether probable I should be absent for several days, I betook myself straightway to head-quarters, and shortly after arriving there was closeted with the commanding general. 
               He greeted me with cheering words and smiling looks, although I thought I detected something akin to regret, when I gave a most decisive affirmative answer to his enquiry whether or not I adhered to my determination of the afternoon previous. 
               'It is then for the best,' he remarked. 'In this dark hour of our struggle the most desperate measures and the greatest of sacrifices must be made. I feel that you are the chosen one to perform a great work, and if you should be entirely successful, I am sure our country will honor you if the government should fail to reward you adequately. My instructions will be brief, because circumstances must, in a great measure, govern your actions.' 
               With this speech he produced a foolscap sheet from his desk, and read therefrom the precise objects of my mission, together with some instructions how to avoid some obstacles which would most probably beset my path. 
               'As I propose that you shall leave our lines under a flag of truce,' he resumed, 'it will be a necessary part of my plan that you do so disguised as a lady who is desirous of joining her friends at the North, from whom this cruel war has so long separated her. I have had provided for you a complete disguise; and if you desire to test its effectiveness, array yourself in it and let me decide how it becomes you. Meanwhile, I will prepare for you a written passport, and also provide you with a cipher and key, with which you can safely transmit any intelligence that you may deem of service to us.' 
               He forthwith showed me into a small anteroom, where was exposed a wardrobe well suited for a lady travelling during the summer months. 
               Without hesitation I commenced the operation of transforming my outer self from a counterfeit officer of the confederate service to a genuine woman, supposed to be a man in disguise. 
               This, as you will readily presume, was an easy task. I took to the crinoline as naturally as if I had never tampered with the habiliments of the other sex; and in the course of half an hour I had made my toilet. My downy moustache had disappeared; the green blind had given place to a very delicate white patch; and the short, wavy curls of a genteel young man were now visible beneath a luxuriant coiffure, and pendant thereto, a flow of curls that the fairest damsel might look upon with envy. 
               A hat, quite becoming for the times; a pair of No. 6 1-2 kid gloves which I did not severely strain in encasing my hand therein; an embroidered handkerchief; a parasol, and a ladies' travelling bag, containing a few female indispensables, made up the lighter equipments of my costume. 
               For the purpose of testing my metamorphose, I left the ante-room by a door which led into the main hall, and after the lapse of three or four minutes I gave a most lady-like tap at the door of Gen. P--'s private apartment. 
               He did not respond in his accustomed brusque manner by singing out, in a loud tone of voice, 'Come in!' but as if he recognized that the tapping came from none but delicate female hands, he came to the door himself, and bowed me into his room in the most suave and respectful manner. 
               'Have I the honor of addressing Gen. P--?' I asked, in good contralto tones. 
               'Yes, madam, at your service; be seated,' he replied, offering me a chair, bowing all the time most politely, which convinced me that he had no recollection of ever having seen me before. 
               'You do not recognize me?' said I. 
               'Beg pardon, madam, I cannot precisely place you;-the fact is, I have the worst memory in the world-can't remember faces; and yet--' 
               'You certainly have not forgotten that I called upon you but a few days ago?' 
               'Upon my life, madam, I cannot quite recall the circumstance,' he replied. 'It distresses me to know that I have such a poor memory. I hope you will pardon me if I confess that I don't remember that I ever set eyes on you before in my life?' 
               'Strange-most unaccountable-not more than a week-yes, less than a week; the day on which you received the provost marshal on that female spy business,' I remarked, with a view of assisting his memory. 
               'Lady I have not the remotest idea who you are; but if you will state your business or the object of this call, perhaps that which is so obtuse to my brain may be sharpened a little.' 
               'You remember the day that Lieutenant Temple entered upon his duties at this office?' 
               'Perfectly well, madam.' 
               'May I ask if he is still employed in this office?' 
               'He is, madam; that is, not exactly at the desk, but in another and I hope more lucrative capacity.' 
               'Can I have permission to see him?' 
               'Really, madam, not just at present. If you will call again to-morrow, or the next day, perhaps it may be possible for you to see him. Are you a relative of his?' 
               'Yes, sir, a very near relative.' 
               'A sister?' 
               'Nearer than that.' 
               'You surely cannot be his wife; for I am very certain he is not married? 
               'No, sir, I am not his wife.' 
               'Well I could take my oath that he is neither your son nor your father,' said the general, facetiously. 'Ah! how stupid I am! I might have comprehended at a glance-a lover. You are his affianced.' 
               'No, general, I am none of these; and as it is quite impertinent for me to undertake to mystify you any longer in this silly manner, I have the pleasure of introducing myself as George Temple that was- as your humble servant, the confederate spy, that is! and only await that my commanding general shall bestow upon me a name fitted for such a unique specimen of the feminine gender as I must appear to be.' 
               'Can it be possible?' he ejaculated, gazing at me with surprise and pleasure. 'How my eyes have been deceived. Why, you'd defy the severest scrutiny. You absolutely look more like a female now, than you did like a male. It would puzzle Old Nick himself to see anything masculine in you. Not a bad looking young woman either do you make. I must warn you against showing off any of your blandishments either among my subalterns, or among those of the enemy, or they'll be making love so closely to you as to throw you off your guard.' 
               'Never fear me, general; I shall be so prudish and dignified in my demeanor that they will find precious little attraction in me. But I propose, as soon as I have crossed the lines, to improve the first opportunity to get myself into a uniform of blue, and reserve the crinoline and petticoats for my return.' 
               'I can have no doubt of your ability to rival Proteus himself, after this evidence of your skill in changing yourself into what you are not.' 
               'The disguise you have furnished, general, happens to fit my style,-that is all; and not any particular merit on my part, except in the matter of coiffure, and this slight improvement over my left eye.' 
               'Nothing could be more perfect. You will certainly pass the lines without the remotest suspicion.' 
               'Which I am ready to do at your earliest order. Indeed, the hours have hung so heavily upon my hands ever since I left this apartment yesterday, so eager am I to do something that may help the cause of our bleeding country.' 
               The general then placed in my hands a purse of gold, and a paper written in cipher, containing additional instructions, and then asked me if there was anything else I desired, or any favor to solicit that he could grant. 
                
               I at once bethought of the promise I had made in making my peace with Obadiah Tomlinson. 
               'Yes, general,' said I, 'there is one favor that I would ask of you; and that is to pardon a poor weak-minded soldier, who was direlect in his duty while acting as sentinel before a private residence in this city which was suspected of harboring a spy of the enemy.' 
               'Ah! I remember the case you speak of. It was a very flagrant one. He had not only deserted his post, but was absolutely found dead drunk, with his uniform, and even his musket taken from him.' 
               'Did it not occur to you that he might have been drugged, for the very reason that you have named?' 
               'It certainly did not; but it is possible that such might have been the case. If such can be shown to be the fact, he shall at once be pardoned.' 
               'It may not be susceptible of proof, but this much I know; he has the reputation of being a very temperate man, and was never before known to be intoxicated in his life; and I have other reasons for believing that he is not flagrantly blamable, which, if I had time, I could undoubtedly substantiate. And it is, certainly, a strong circumstantial evidence in his favor that his gun and uniform were taken from him, showing most conclusively to my mind that another party-an enemy of his or to the country-must be the guilty party.' 
               'I certainly did not entertain this view of the case,' replied the general. 'Your reasoning is good, and I think I can promise you that he shall be liberated and restored to the ranks as soon as to-morrow. I will but take a little time to review the matter, and if the facts already known sustain the impression now received, your request shall be granted.' 
               'Thanks, general, I can now enter upon my new duties with additional satisfaction. I have nothing more to ask, except, what is my name?' 
               'Oh, you will find that on portions of your wardrobe and on your passport. If I recollect right your full address is, "Stella Clarke, Lexington, Ky."' 
               'Stella Clarke. I must remember that.' 
               A few moments more of conversation ensued, when the general rang his bell, which summoned an orderly to his presence. 
               'Say to Colonel Winnett that I desire his presence here for a few moments.' 
               The officer named soon appeared, to whom the general introduced me as Miss Clarke; 'a lady,' he added, 'who wishes to pass our lines into the enemy's country.' 
               The colonel, whom I had several times come in contact with in the office, scrutinized me with his keen eyes as closely as courtesy and good breeding would permit. 
               'I am at your service, general,' said the colonel. 
               'I desire that you should procure a carriage,' resumed the general, 'and accompany her to the outposts, and, through a flag of truce, gain permission of the enemy to allow her to pass within their lines; and also with the request that she may proceed, without delay, to her place of destination.' 
               'And what if the object of the flag of truce be refused?' suggested Col. Winnett. 
               'Insist upon it; and if they still refuse make such terms for affecting your purpose as you may deem judicious. Only I caution you not to appear to be over-anxious about it in the presence of the enemy. If all reasonable effort fail, of course you must return with her to these headquarters. But I do not anticipate any such contingency.' 
               The colonel saluted and retired. In the course of fifteen or twenty minutes he returned, and after bidding adieu to the commanding general, I was escorted by the colonel to the courtyard, where a close carriage stood in waiting. I observed a new trunk upon the rear of the carriage, with 'S. C.' Lexington, Ky.' marked distinctly upon it. 
                
               Col. Winnett immediately handed me into the vehicle, gave a few words of instruction to the driver, and it rolled out of the courtyard into the street, and thence on through several avenues towards the suburbs of the city, occasionally stopping to answer some challenge of the several sentinels posted on the way. 
               At length we reached the outposts, when my affable and polite escort alighted, and enquired for the officer of the guard, to whom he made known his errand. 
               A white flag was now unrolled, and placed in the charge of a sergeant, who, flanked by two privates, advanced some twenty or thirty paces to the front, and waved the emblem of peace. 
               A similar movement followed on the skirt of a wood, beyond the intervening plain; and I could soon discern, with the naked eye, the truce flag of the federals fluttering like a dove in the wind, as if always ready to meet the peace signal of the belligerents. 
               Col. Winnett, with the lieutenant of the guard, now advanced to where the flag of truce halted, and then the whole party moved onward, while an equal number of the enemy was approaching from the opposite outpost to meet them as nearly as possible in the centre of the plain. 
               The conference lasted but a few minutes; but a longer delay was made in the despatch of a messenger to the federal camp, bearing the request of the commanding general, made through Col. Winnett, to grant the safe transit to the federal lines of Miss Stella Clarke, a lady of Lexington, Ky. 
               Nearly half an hour elapsed before the return of the messenger. Then, after another brief conference was had, the driver of the vehicle was signalled to move forward to the centre of the field. 
               As soon as the vehicle stopped, I was assisted out by Col. Winnett, who introduced me to the federal officer, Lieut. Kilham by name, by whom I was received in a very courteous manner, and who, the moment he saw me, despatched another messenger to camp to bring a horse for my use, and gave my trunk in charge of two privates, to convey to his quarters, there to remain until further orders. 
               Col. Winnett bade me, I thought, rather an affectionate adieu; and he seemed to look upon my departure from rebeldom as really a sad event, and wondered that I took the matter so coolly. 
               In a few minutes, an easy, ambling horse was placed at my disposal, and I rode into the very midst of the Yankee encampment, at an hour when all had an opportunity to feast their eyes upon so interesting a curiosity as a lady who had just come from within the walls of the beleaguered city, which they had such an intense longing to look into. 
               I was informed, on arriving at the lieutenant's headquarters, that it was expressly stipulated with the rebel colonel that I should, before being allowed to proceed on my journey northwardly, be taken before the general commanding all the land forces before Vicksburg. 
               As you may readily suppose, I did not make any very serious objection to this arrangement. Indeed, I expressed my wish to appear before that officer with as little delay as possible; and informed him that, if the distance was not far, I would go at once. 
               He replied, saying that it was too long a tramp for a lady to take; and if I would accept the hospitalities of his tent until a vehicle could be procured, he would himself accompany me. 
               While means of transporting myself to headquarters were being procured, my trunk-or, rather, the trunk-arrived. As I had never seen the inside of it, nor having the slightest suspicion of its contents, I had just woman's curiosity enough to open it, the key of which having been given me just prior to my departure from the citadel of Vicksburg. 
               It was a well and neatly-packed article of baggage, and evidently done by a lady's hands; and on lifting up layer after layer of linen, silk, etc., etc., I came to the conclusion, without removing a single garment, that it contained simply a well-appointed wardrobe for a young lady. I noticed the initials of my new nom de guerre on the first article that presented itself, and subsequently ascertained that each article was so marked. 
               I certainly was impressed with the idea that great dispatch must have been made in fitting me out; or else I was made involuntarily to appropriate the wearing apparel and trunk of some bona fide demoiselle, and assume her name and position. This latter suggestion would never have occurred to my mind, had I not a very vivid recollection of my journey into Secessia, the character I was made to assume, and my adventures at Magnolia Villa. 
               But before satisfying myself on this point a wagon halted before the tent. I hastily locked the trunk, and was in readiness to leave just as the lieutenant appeared at the entrance of the tent. 
               'Will you have your luggage go with you, or shall it remain with me subject to your order?' asked the officer. 
               'If it will not inconvenience you, I prefer to have it go with us in the wagon,' I replied. 
               'There was no stipulation made in regard to luggage,' he resumed, 'and it can remain here if you desire it. But I should advise that it go with you, that is to say if it is all right; for you know ladies travelling conveniences are no more regarded in these times than those of any stranger of the other sex.' 
               I fully agreed with him, and it was at once put aboard the vehicle. The officer then handed me into the carriage and got in beside me, while a Jehu, who had unmistakably Celtic features, drove off at a brisk pace. 
               'My companion, or escort, kept perfectly silent until we had passed the outer guard of the encampment. The roads begun to be shockingly bad, and we made but slow progress. 
               'Driver!' he sung out at length, 'I hope you are sure of the way?' 
               'Be jabers, it's not the rough roads that one forgets yer honor, but the smooth ones,' replied Pat. 
               'Then you have been over this road before?' 
               'Yez, yer honor.' 
               'Recently?' 
               'This blissid mornin', yer honor.' 
               'How far is it to Gen. Grant's headquarters?' 
               'If it was a smooth road, yer honor, it would be about five mile; but, indade, it is a very rough one; therefore it is about tin mile.' 
               'That's good Irish logic, said the lieutenant, addressing me. 
               'He's practically right, but theoretically wrong,' I replied. 
               'At this rate of travelling, I think we have a good two hours' journey before us, he further remarked. 
               'I fear it will prove a tedious ride to you, sir,' said I. 
               'Not in the least. I was only concerned on your account.' 
               A long silence succeeded this last attempt at being conversational. At length he drew himself up, and said: 
               'Pardon me, Miss Clarke, but I wish to know how long you have resided in the beleaguered city?' 
               'A little more than three weeks, sir.' 
               'Then you were inside the walls during the great bombardment last week?' 
               'I was, indeed.' 
               'You must have had a lively time?' 
               'It was lively.' 
               'It must have been terrific?' 
               'Horrible!' 
               'The spectacle in the evening was magnificently sublime.' 
               'Grand.' 
               'The whole city appeared to be in flames?' 
                
               'It did appear so,' 
               'The whole canopy of heaven was blazing with light?' 
               'A fearful illumination.' 
               'The thunders of our cannon caused the earth to quake.' 
               'And our hearts quaked, too.' 
               'With fear?' 
               'With terror.' 
               'But this war is a stern necessity.' 
               'An awful calamity.' 
               The conversation, which continued, was nearly after this pyrotechnic style. As it seemed to me, Lieut. Kilham was either bent on pumping me in regard to the situation of the rebels within the walls, or he took this method to break the ice for a more interesting tete-a-tete. But he succeeded in neither, for I was determined to be as reticent on vital points to all who should attempt to quiz me-except the one great chief to whom I should unbosom myself-as that one prominent personage has the reputation of being with the politicians. 
               For two long hours we were slowly dragged over stones and through deep ruts, until at length the beating of drums, and the sounds of a clarion, indicated to us that we were approaching a military encampment. 
               Our Hibernian Jehu, encouraged by the cheering indications, began to belabor his jaded team until he forced them into a very respectable trot, and in the course of ten minutes after, we came to a halt before a large marquee which, from appearances, I judged to be that of the federal general commanding the besieging forces. 
               My social escort alighted, and after politely escorting me from the vehicle, sent a request by an orderly for a few moments' conversation with the general-in-chief. 
               Fortunately, at the time, the conquering hero had no other occupation than puffing a fragrant Havana, which, however, he laid aside on being told there was a lady in the case. 
               Lieutenant Kilham escorted me to his presence, introduced me, stating the circumstances which brought me into the lines, and not being invited to tarry, he graciously retired, leaving me timidly confronting the man on whom our great hopes for the reduction of Vicksburg seemed to centre. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               MASQUERADING BEFORE THE COMMANDING GENERAL-THE AGREEABLE SURPRISE. 
               I WAS alone in the presence of the great American general. 
               'Be seated, Miss Clarke,' said he, as his rigid mouth relaxed for a few moments into a pleasant smile. 'I never permit a lady to stand in my presence whenever a three-legged stool can be had;' and he politely placed at my disposal a portable camp-chair, the best looking one in his not too luxuriously furnished tent. 
               Without any further preliminary remarks, he proceeded leisurely to examine my papers, which had been previously placed on his table. Having satisfied himself, as I supposed, he returned them into my hands, without volunteering any opinion as to their genuineness. 
               'I trust that you find my passes and other papers sufficiently correct?' I remarked, enquiringly. 
               'They appear to be,' he replied. 
               'Here is the key to my trunk, which came with me, and which the lieutenant who escorted me hither informed me would probably have to undergo an inspection.' 
               'We are compelled to exercise extreme cautiousness,' said he, receiving the key. 
               'When can I proceed on my journey, sir?' I asked. 
               'To Lexington, Kentucky? It is a long journey,' he said, evading my direct question. 'Facilities for travelling, especially for a lady, are not good. In the course of two or three days I may be enabled to furnish you comfortable transportation, and perhaps an escort.' 
               Before I had an opportunity to express my thanks, he summoned an orderly, and bade him give his cook orders to furnish a lunch for two persons. Then turning to me, he said: 
               'Your luggage shall be examined immediately by a trustworthy woman, to whose care I must commend you, until you can leave the camp. Excuse me-I will return directly,' and he left me alone. 
               I now had the opportunity of taking, with the aid of a pair of scissors, from their place of concealment, the condensed despatches and other papers which I had prepared at my private quarters in Vicksburg, for the information of the general in whose tent I was now seated. 
               It was evident that he had not recognized me. The patch over my eye, which I had not removed; the style of my coiffure; the dress which I wore, so different from the one he had last seen me in, together with other trifling changes, had made me appear as a stranger even to him. Indeed, had I been so disposed, I believe that I might have acted the confederate spy successfully; but as I had no inclining that way, it was best to undeceive him without loss of time. 
               The 'reticent' man soon returned, and as he came in, his eye lingered upon me for some moments, and then he resumed his seat without uttering a syllable. He appeared to be in deep thought; but whatever might have been the subject he was considering, I quickly changed the current of his cogitations, by placing before him the papers I have spoken of. 
               He glanced his eye hastily and eagerly over them, and then looking up into my face, he asked: 
               'My dear young lady, how came these papers in your possession?' 
               'I brought them from Vicksburg.' 
               'Then you know their author?' 
               'As well as I know myself.' 
               'She is a friend of yours?' 
               'An intimate one,' 
               'I hope she is well?' 
               'In perfect health.' 
               'And enjoying her freedom?' 
               'As well as any one can enjoy it in a besieged city, under martial law.' 
               'This intelligence, my dear Miss Clarke, gives me great joy. I feared something serious had befallen the person from whom these papers came. In truth, I have been thinking of her almost every moment since you entered my quarters.' 
               'Perhaps I remind you of her, general. It is said that we very nearly resemble each other.' 
               'Ah! that is it; you do remind me of that remarkable young lady; and it is a compliment to any young lady to be told so.' 
               At this remark I burst into a merry laugh; pulled the unseemly patch from my eye, and exclaimed: 
               'I will masquerade no longer! Don't you know La Vivandiere, general?' 
               He started up as if he had received an electric shock; and if his sense of propriety had not forbidden it, I am sure he would have embraced me with as much ardor and joy as if I had been his own daughter. 
               'Well, well, Miss Virginia-you have played it handsomely on U. S. G.; and the woman who can deceive him may pull the wool over the eyes of Old Nick himself.' 
               'I have pulled it completely over the eyes of your great antagonist in yonder citadel, general.' 
               'Then you have come in contact with him?' 
               'Not only that, but I succeeded in getting that position on his staff, with the rank of lieutenant; and I am now within your lines by his sanction and authority.' 
               'I cannot quite understand that.' 
               'I am a rebel spy, under rebel authority!' 
               'Impossible!' 
               'Here are my certificates in cipher, and here is the key which will enable you to read them; and by the same key you may peruse the general's instructions which have been given me for my guidance;' and I gave him a small packet of papers which I had received at rebel headquarters. 
               'I will read them at my leisure,' said he; 'meanwhile I am anxious to learn the state of affairs within the city if you are not too much fatigued.' 
               'Pardon me, general, if my anxiety for my friends leads me first to enquire after their health.' 
               'I know of but two for whom you seemed to entertain a special regard at the time you left. They are both well and in good spirits, for I saw them this morning; and if it is any satisfaction to you, I will inform you that I never come in contact with either of them without being obliged to answer a whole volley of questions concerning you. But you may see them yourself, and afford them the great relief they seem to crave.' 
               'Nay, general, I must not see them yet.' 
               'Not see them?' 
               'Not until my mission is fulfilled.' 
               'Your mission has already been fraught with greater success than my most sanguine expectations had led me to believe was possible.' 
               'I shall not consider my duty as a federal spy complete until Vicksburg falls into your hands.' 
               'What! you do not propose to return to the city?' 
               'Most decidedly, general.' 
               'And you have the courage so to do?' 
               'I trust that I have.' 
               'Even after all that has taken place?' 
               'I have counted the cost.' 
               'But I fear you have not considered the hazard of re-passing their lines.' 
               'There is not that hazard which you imagine, general,' said I, spiritedly. 'Am I not a confederate spy? and when I have passed your pickets will I not be received by the enemy's general almost as the expected deliverer of the city?' 
               'Ah! Then you propose to keep up the character of a confederate spy?' 
               'Only with your full approbation, general. My plan is, that I shall be known and recognized here only in my present incognita; and that I shall be detained in your camp for some two or three days, as you shall determine. Then, I desire that you shall make it known to one of your subalterns that you have very reluctantly decided, for prudential reasons, not to permit me to resume my proposed journey northward, and send me back under a flag of truce as a suspicious character.' 
               'In that case I shall be compelled to consider you in the light of a prisoner, instead of allowing you the freedom of the camp.' 
               'Precisely the suggestion I intended to have made. You will now understand why it is that I would forego the unspeakable pleasure of meeting with those who are so dear to me.' 
               'Your proposition is so startling that I must not decide too hastily. I must consider, after you have opened your budget of rebel information, what course will be advisable. I admit that your plan is plausible; and that your skill in strategy might puzzle older heads than mine; but it may yet appear that it will not further advance our cause to allow you to run the risk of placing yourself again within the jaws of the rebel monster.' 
               Our conversation was here interrupted by the entrance of a pair of contraband servants with the luncheon which the general had ordered, and after spreading it upon the table they retired. 
               'I have decided,' said the general, as soon as we were again alone, 'that you shall be my table guest while in camp; and your quarters at night shall be with some discreet woman, whom I will select to look after your safety and comfort. Will this arrangement be agreeable?' 
               'Perfectly,' I replied, and thanked him for his kindness. 
                
               He then bade me be seated at the table, and partake of the inviting refreshments which had been prepared. As I had eaten nothing since early in the morning, and then sparingly, of course I did not hesitate to comply with his request. The cold chicken, sandwiches, biscuit, and a delicious cup of coffee, partaken of freely, soon satisfied my somewhat voracious appetite. In this gastronomic exercise I think the general will bear testimony that I did full justice to the edibles, and fully vied with my host, who is considered a good trencher man. 
               The servants were again summoned, and without making any observation, or casting any curious glances at my humble self, cleared the table, and bore away the fragments, dishes, &c. This I regarded as an evidence of the discipline exercised at the head-quarters of the commanding general. 
               'I must now learn the business in hand for the afternoon,' said he, as he rung a small bell before him. 
               An orderly appeared. 
               'Ascertain of my chief-of-staff if there is any business requiring my attention for the next hour,' he ordered. 
               The orderly soon returned, and said there were two corps generals, a brigadier, and a surgeon-general, who solicited brief interviews. 
               I was politely requested to retire into a side compartment of the marquee, until he could give audience to the gentlemen in waiting. 
               'Unless their business is pressing and important, a few minutes will suffice to despatch them; for I am almost impatient to learn the information you possess,' he added, as he showed me into a small room of his tent, separated from the central or reception apartment by a couple of American flags, which served as hanging curtains. 
               Here I had an opportunity to re-arrange my toilet, more for the purpose of making my disguise more perfect, than to add to my comeliness; for it was possible that I might come in contact with persons that I knew, whose keen and curious eyes might penetrate the garb which I wore. 
               Less than half an hour elapsed, when I was summoned to the audience room. The last of his visitors had just gone; and it was evident that whatever communication he had made, the general was deeply affected thereby. 
               'I am sorely troubled, Virginia,' said he, taking my hand, and leading me to a camp-chair. 'Be seated. The surgeon general has just been here, and brought me the sad intelligence that Colonel B--, a personal friend of mine,-and a braver officer never drew sword,-has received a severe wound in the leg from the fragment of a shell, and Doctor--is of the opinion that the limb must be amputated. But the doctor is skillful, and it anything can be done for my unfortunate friend, he will do it. By-the-by Dr.--is a friend of yours, I believe?' 
               'I have great reason, at least, to be a friend of his; but I imagine that he cannot be a very devoted friend of anybody,' I replied. 
               'He certainly is very reserved in his conversation and manners. But I like him, nevertheless; for he is not only the most skillful surgeon in the army, but he is so kind and devoted to all his patients, that one cannot help almost loving the man.' 
               'I owe him a deep debt of gratitude, certainly, for his care of Harry Robeson, after the battle of Shiloh, and hope to repay him some day,' I remarked. 
               'I have done all that lies in my power for him; and he to-day holds the highest medical appointment that is in my province to bestow,' said the general. 
               I was pleased to hear my host speak thus of the doctor's promotion, as he could only have gained it by meritorious conduct and skill; for he, in fact, was troubled with too much diffidence to strive to push himself forward in the great press for honor and emolument. Sometimes I had thought that he was actually stupid, or that he was frequently afflicted with that peculiar disease known as 'brown study.' Indeed, he sometimes did not appear to observe anybody or anything, unless it was a ghastly sabre cut, a bullet hole in the body, a mangled limb, or a cracked skull; then no man's skill or kindness ever shone more brightly. I think he said more on his first visit to Harry Robeson than he said during his score or more of visits afterwards. 
               'He is a man of very few words,' I remarked to the general, who seemed himself to be greatly embarrassed about something. 
               'Very-very, was the reply, and he gazed intently upon a cigar-holder filled with fragrant Havanas, I have no doubt; and even went so far as to take one out and hold it to his nose with as much satisfaction as if it possessed the concentrated odors of all the spices of Arabia. 
               'I almost wonder, general, that you do not smoke,' I ventured to remark, suggestively. 'It seemed that you always had a cigar in your mouth at Shiloh.' 
               'What! smoke in the presence of a lady?' he ejaculated. 'No; I am not really so ill-bred as that. Begin your story, and I may forget all about the weed.' 
               'But I shall insist upon your smoking,' said I, taking a match, igniting it, and handing it to him. 'The smoke of a good cigar is highly agreeable to me.' 
               'Not offensive-not in the slightest degree?' 
               'Just the reverse, general, I do assure you.' 
               'Then I will smoke; and when you think there's quite enough of the fumes of tobacco in the tent, remind me, if you please. Now proceed with your narrative, and let me have all the important particulars from the time of your leaving camp until you most unexpectly appeared here to-day.' 
               I began my narrative as I began it to you, and related it substantially as I have related it to you, omitting only some long colloquial passages which I have given to add a bit of humor to my narrative, and some scenes which could possess but little interest to him, because wholly outside of the purposes of my mission. 
               For an hour and a half, at least, I continued to describe that which you already know, without a single interruption from my attentive listener; and the only manifestations that he made when I related anything of unusual or startling interest, consisted in either sending out from his mouth more frequent volumes of smoke, or blowing the curls and rings that he constantly made, farther upward. When the narrative seemed to flag, or lack vitality, he would gently brush off the accumulation of white ashes from the burning weed, or gaze at it, as he occasionally held it, delicately and gracefully, between his thumb and dexter finger. 
               I did not keep any account of the many cigars he consumed into smoke and ashes during my narration, but I observed quite a diminution of the number from the cigar-case when I had concluded. 
               'So you perceive, general, said I, 'that I have not been without adventure during my sojourn in Secessia.' 
               'I should judge not,' he replied. 'Why, it's a romance from beginning to end; and if I had read what I have heard, I should say that Baron Munchausen had turned up again.' 
               'Call it romance, or what you will, general, it is not fiction,' I replied. 
               'Oh, think not that I am so incredulous as not to believe the truth of what you've uttered; for no person could have invented such a story.' 
               'And now to convince you, general, that I have not been idle, read the papers that I have placed in your hands, and examine the drawings that accompany them.' 
               This he proceeded to do, and with my assistance in giving explanations, and assisting him to read the ciphers; he soon mastered the documents. 
                
               'These papers contain information of the utmost importance,' said he, after a thorough perusal and examination. 'Their value cannot be over-estimated. You have done for the country a great, a very great service. To-night I must call a council of my generals. They will be astonished to find me in possession of information that they have all supposed was unattainable.' 
               'But will they not also be curious to know how it came into your possession,' I suggested. 
               'Have no apprehensions on that point. If U. S. G. determines not to gratify them they know him too well to attempt to get at his secret. They must be satisfied of the fact that the information I am in possession of will hasten the fall of Vicksburg by sixty days at least. Such service shall be well rewarded. 
               'If my erratic efforts have proved so valuable, I am amply repaid in the glorious satisfaction I shall feel in having done my part in assisting to bring this fratricidal war to an end.' 
               'Few there are who hazard their lives for so small a recompense. The meanest subaltern in the army is better paid than that.' 
               Our interview was here brought to a close by another demand for the great commander, contained in a note which an orderly brought in and placed in his hands, which, after perusing, he consulted his watch, and said: 
               'It is now half-past four; we dine at five I will be back at that time. Meanwhile, those few books, autographs, etc., upon the side table may serve to interest you.' 
               He lighted a fresh cigar, gazing in the meantime upon me with a curious but complacent expression, and then retired. 
               I examined the titles of the books, looked over the autographs of generals and admirals, brigadiers and commodores, colonels and captains, and a few distinguished civilians, and a group, consisting of a lady matron, with two or three children, which, I doubted not, were a part, or the whole, of the general's family. 
               But the pictures which most interested me bore the striking likeness of yourself, Harry Robeson, and our good surgeon. Then, to my no little surprise, there was a very good photograph of myself, one which had been taken at least three years before, but certainly bore little resemblance to the person who looked at it, in her new character of 'Stella Clarke, the confederate spy.' 
               It puzzled me not a little to think how it was possible that this picture should have come into the possession of the general; for the half dozen that had been taken from this particular negative I had given to my dear friends at home, not even reserving one for myself. However, it was in such distinguished company I did not care to disturb it, and dismissed the thought from my mind. 
               Hearing now the strains of martial music from without, I could not repress a curiosity to see what the occasion was. An aperture in the canvas served me, and by standing in a chair I had an uninterrupted view of a large, though rough plain. Standing within twenty paces of the tent, were a group of officers, consisting of the general and his staff, and one or two corps or division commanders. 
               At a distance of perhaps a hundred and fifty yards I beheld the van of a column of troops approaching,-the band playing that dear old national air, the Star Spangled Banner. It was a joy to hear its familiar, inspiriting strains again, after having my ears so long agonized with 'Dixie' and other insipid airs, which were used to animate the souls of the Southern chivalry. 
               Onward came the column, advancing steadily and majestically,-cavalry, artillery and infantry,-with tattered ensigns waving proudly above their heads, with clarions sounding and drums beating, as if it were already a conquering army approaching to do homage to their chief. 
                
               It was, as I learned afterwards, but a single division of the grand army changing their position, and making it convenient to pass the general's headquarters en route, and give him the accustomed salute. 
               From my narrow aperture I glanced at each officer and each platoon as they wheeled in front of the chief and his staff; but that which attracted my most earnest attention was the regiment which led the infantry. 
               Mounted on a magnificent war-horse was yourself, looking as proudly and dignifiedly as the steed which bore you; and without flattering you in the least, I must say that you looked the very personification of a fighting colonel; and when you saluted the general and his staff, you did it so gracefully that I felt a pride rising within me that I had the honor of your acquaintance and your confidence. 
               And it was not by any means the least of my gratification to observe, riding directly in the rear of you, my dear little friend, Harry Robeson, looking the very picture of health." 
               "Yes, little Harry is now my confidential clerk," remarked I, at this point in her narrative. "I found that his acquirements were such as warranted me in giving him a much better position than that of drummer-boy." 
               "You did right, colonel, for Harry is as well-bred and well-educated a boy as I happen to know, and I thank you for promoting him." 
               "I have been thinking, Virginia," said I, "what would have been my feelings had I known that your eyes were peering upon that highly flattered individual, my humble self, when we passed in review?" 
               "I suppose you would have thought that woman's curiosity knew no bounds." 
               "I should have felt like committing a very great breach of military discipline in the face and eyes of the general himself. My first impulse would have been to leave the column, dismount, and rush into his marquee without so much as saying, 'By your leave, sir.'" 
               "And for that, colonel, you would deserve to be cashiered, at least. And what would have been your second impulse?" 
               "My second? Why, before I could have had a second my judgment would have come to the rescue, and saved me from making a first-class donkey of myself." 
               "How fortunate, then, that my presence there was unknown." 
               "As matters have transpired it is so; but, Virginia, anxious as I am to hear the results of this last adventure, I think it had best be postponed until to-morrow evening, for I perceive that your voice is getting husky, and you really look fatigued." 
               "As you will, colonel. To-morrow evening I shall, without doubt, conclude my experience both as a federal and confederate spy." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               AN INTERESTING INTERVIEW-MY SLEEPING QUARTERS-THE SUSPICIOUS ATTENDANT-A STARTLING DISCOVERY-A GENUINE REBEL SPY. 
               ON the subsequent evening, our small but interesting military family re-assembled, when Virginia Graham, "La Vivandiere"-alias Marietta Marland, alias George Temple, alias Stella Clarke,-resumed her narrative as follows: 
               "During the passing in review of the infantry brigade of the division to which I have alluded, before the general and his staff, my eyes fell upon the redoubtable Major Jenefer; and, as if he were aware that there were at least one pair of female eyes fixed upon him, he straightened up his awkward figure, and attempted to sit gracefully upon the tall, raw-boned rozinante which bore him, and which did not seem in any degree proud of his obese burden. His eyes seemed bent directly on the aperture of the marquee, through which I was looking. It was the first pair of human eyes that I thought had caught sight of mine, and I instinctively drew back, as if in that gaze he had recognized one he had before seen. 
               Whether real or imaginary, I could not repress for some minutes an unpleasant sensation which crept over me. I had conceived a perfect abhorrence of this man; for his countenance indicated coarseness, heartlessness, even brutality; and the idea that such a character possessed more than ordinary powers of penetration, really pained me. However, I soon recovered from the shock; and for a time thought no more of the major and the incident. 
               The rear of the column at length passed by, and the general rejoined me, in company with his chief of staff, to whom he introduced me as 'Miss Clarke,' and spoke causally of my having come from within the enemy's lines that morning. This officer-a very gentlemanly appearing and thoughtful man,-addressed to me a few common-place remarks, and then, excusing himself, sat down to read several documents which the general placed in his hands. 
               Meanwhile servants appeared, and soon spread upon the table a more substantial meal than that which the general and myself had partaken of in the earlier part of the day. Plates were laid for three, and we were soon seated at the table, all discussing the edibles and bibibles, interspersed with a discussion by the two officers, in regard to the general appearance and probable effectiveness of the division that had passed in review; and it gave me no little pleasure to hear an emphatically expressed opinion of the chief of staff, coincided in by the general, that Col. Manley's regiment deserved higher commendation than any other in the whole division. 
               The general gazed at me for a moment, and then said, enquiringly,- 
               'I presume, Miss Clarke, that you did not take much interest in gazing upon a body of Union soldiers?' 
               'I assure you, general, that I did not let them pass unobserved,' I replied; at the same time, casting a glance at the aperture in the canvas, made expressly for a lookout. 
               'Then we would like your oppinion as to which regiment deserves the greatest need of praise?' querried the general, quizzically. 
               'The first regiment of the infantry brigade,' I replied without hesitation. 
               'That was acting Col. Manley's, if I mistake not,' said the staff-officer. 'So you perceive, general, that we cannot be mistaken in our judgments when so readily confirmed by a lady.' 
               'But how far one from across the lines can judge of Yankee soldiery impartially may be questionable,' said the general, fixing his eyes upon me with a peculiar expression. 'I ask pardon for making the suggestion, Miss Clarke, but it does not appear to me that it is not quite natural that you should have shaken off all prejudice.' 
               'But, general, I made no comparison between federal and confederate troops,' said I, spiritedly. I was not called upon to do that.' 
               'True, true; but the idea was uppermost in your mind, was it not?' said he good naturedly and half-jocularly. 
               'If it were, I assure you that the confederate troops, in regard to discipline and courage, are not to be despised,' was my reply, as if he desired me to commit myself, as inclining slightly to the rebel cause, for the purpose of hoodwinking his staff-officer; and if that was his purpose, I was resolved to gratify him. 
               'Far be it from me to underrate their prowess or fighting qualities,' he resumed; 'nevertheless, we mean that they shall have no more important victories to exult over. Our troops now may be regarded as veterans. We have felt the enemy's strong points, and know how to deal with them. In war, as in law, there is nothing like appreciating the full strength of our adversaries.' 
               'And yet you seem less sanguine of success than the confederates,' I remarked. 
                
               'They will not even admit that there is a possibility of failure. You may succeed in the reduction of Vicksburg, and hem them in much more closely than they are now; and yet they declare and feel that it will only make them less easy of conquest, for it will be the means of concentrating their widely scattered forces, and enable them to strike more heavy blows than ever. And to my mind there is some sense in this, for there will be fewer points for them to defend.' 
               'And fewer for us to assail,' replied the general; 'besides, by losing their great outward strongholds, they lose their means, in a great degree, of supplying themselves with subsistence and munitions of war.' 
               'Then they will fight all the more desperately to capture them from you,' I suggested. 
               'When an army is reduced to that condition that it has to fight desperately, woe be to it! Desperation only precedes inevitable destruction. And I am more than half inclined to believe that is just the condition of Pemberton's forces inside the defences of yonder doomed city.' 
               'You would not think so if you could hear their generals talk, and could witness the activity of the troops.' 
               'I have no doubt we keep them in a very lively condition most of the time; they won't languish from ennuyee while this siege lasts,' said the general, facetiously. 
               'If you allude to the shells which are so frequently thrown into the city, general, and could witness the panic they produce among women and children, you would not consider it a matter for joking.' 
               'I imagine they produce a greater panic among those who bear arms. But I perceive, Miss Clarke, that you entertain too much regard and sympathy for our enemies to dwell among us. I am apprehensive that your loyalty is greater for the "bars" than for the "stripes." In that case it will be my duty to send you back to rebeldom.' 
               'I shall feel it to be no disgrace,' I replied, assuming an indignation which I of course did not feel. 
               'What say you, colonel? Is it the part of prudence to permit such an intelligent specimen of dimity, fresh from our foes, to go at large within our lines? How do we know that she was not sent here to gather information to carry back whenever an opportunity may present itself?' 
               'We certainly cannot be too cautious,' replied the staff-officer, who had been intently listening to our conversation, at the same time keeping his great black eyes fixed upon me as if I were a rebel wonder. 
               'Send me back! send me back!' said I, with as angry a look as I thought best to assume. 'It will be far more agreeable for me to dwell with those who are not so cautious as to suspect a helpless woman of being a spy.' 
               'Be not angry,' said the general; 'I meant no offence; you must consider that a commanding officer's duties are inexorable, whether they are in accordance with his wishes or not. My purpose is to show you every civility consistent with safety, and if after to-morrow I decide to permit you to go north, or to send you back whence you came, I trust that you will regard it as the act of the general and not the man.' 
               I made no reply to this, but sat apparently in sullen silence for a few moments, when the general and the staff-officer arose and left the tent together. 
               The latter gave no further expression of opinion than that which I have mentioned; but I could judge from his looks that he thought the general had reasons for suspicion, and that he undoubtedly entertained the same opinion. 
               They had not been absent more than fifteen minutes, when the general returned, followed by a middle-aged woman, who was introduced to me as the person to whom I must look for sleeping quarters during my stay in camp. I was immediately conducted by her to a small dwelling-house, within a hundred yards of headquarters, and which was exclusively occupied by those of my own sex-women who did washing, mending, and other necessary work for the officers of the commanding general and his staff. 
               On entering the house I was introduced to a coarse-featured woman, somewhat younger than the one who conducted me thither, and who appeared to be 'second in command' of this laundry and tailoring establishment,-for be it known that there were as many grades of rank in this establishment as in a fully officered military company, and each officer was as exacting in commanding respect from an inferior as in any military organization. 
               This coarse-featured woman, I noticed, had a coarse-toned voice, and her manners seemed decidedly vulgar when compared with her superior in the laundry and patching business. 
               This woman, I thought, eyed me very curiously after I was introduced as a lady from Vicksburg, who desired to go north, and who would remain in camp for a day or two. And during some thirty minutes after I had seated myself, I did not observe that she had once withdrawn her gaze from me. 
               Finally, I asked the privilege of retiring, when this woman volunteered to show me to the apartment-the best in the house-which had been assigned to me. It was a small room, neat and clean, with a comfortable looking cot occupying perhaps one third of it. 
               'This is the best room in this yeer house, an' it's kep only for sich ladies as is sent hyar from headquarters,' said she, as she very familiarly seated herself in one of the two chairs in the room. 
               'I feel thankful that I am to be so well lodged,' I replied; 'for I have much need of immediate rest and sleep.' 
               'La, me, you needn't mind me,' said she, understanding my hint; 'I wanter hev a little chat with you 'bout Vicksburg, wile yore undressin'. I lived thar once myself,-hev a brother thar now-don't know as he's a rebel or not. Do you know him?-his name's Calhoun Peckerson.' 
               'I never heard the name before in my life,' I replied emphatically, with the hope of discouraging her inquiries. 
               'Then you couldn't hev alus lived thar, I kinder reckon.' 
               'No.' 
               'I hyar that the people over thar ar in a desperate strait. An' I reckon they'll fare worser 'fore they fare better. Dyin' at a rapid rate, I hyar, from starvation; now you've had an op'tunity ter know?' she said with an enquiring glance. 
               'I have not had that opportunity,' said I, emphasizing each word. 
               'Beg pardon, young lady. Reckon yer don't wanter let on 'bout rebel 'fairs. But, la! you needn't mind me; I never tell nothin that's told me. I can be mum's 'n iron post. I ony wanter talk while yer undressin'; then I'll leave yer ter the embrace of Morphiss an' pleasant dreams.' 
               But I had no idea of disrobing myself in her presence, and took no heed of her last suggestion. 
               'I ax pardon, young lady; but I do so wanter hyar some news from the city. Oh, dear! heigho! I wished this blamed war was over. I shouldn't keer much which side gets whipped, if peace only'll come agin.' 
               'It appears that you haven't much patriotic ardor,' said I, scarcely knowing to what her persistent talk tended. 
               'Not enough to buy a box of yaller snuff.' 
               'And do you dare to talk so among the federals?' 
               'Reckon not. I've said enough ter you to be 'rested fer treason; but I know you come from 'tother side, and wouldn't repeat a word I said to yer for the world' 
               'You are not sure of that, are you?' 
               'La, yes; you hevn't ben over 'tother side o' the lines without feelin' a lettle sympathy for 'em; now hev yer?' 
               'Well, I confess to a certain degree of compassion for the rebels,' I replied, thinking that if I had discovered a traitorous woman she should be exposed. 'But as I am now with their enemies, I suppose I must either remain silent or talk against the confederates.' 
               'I reckon that ar's my case to a dot,' said she, assuredly; 'and I hope never to go to to Vieksburg if I can't go that without follerin' in the wake of this yeer northern army; for I'm a reel Southern woman, an' hev alus ben waited 'pon by niggers, an' now I hev to wait on these yeer yankees, who strut about with their blue coats an' brass buttons an' gold shoulder-straps, as though they'd aluse worn 'em. An' that's that tobacer-smokin' gin'ral, who sets under that tree yender, from mornin' to night, talkin' with officers, givin' orders, and smokin' all the time. Now, a real general, a gentleman general, should be more dignified, and stand on his rank, an' not set thar lookin' more like a hostler or woodchopper than the chief of this yeer great army. But la! you won't let on any o' this yeer conversation; for if you do, like's not it'll hang us both. 
               'If you are so disgusted with these Yankees, why don't you gain permission to be sent across the lines?' I questioned. 
               'Ah! my young lady, you've got me that. That's what I can't explain to no human being about hyar-not even to you. I wish I could-then you wouldn't perhaps, be so shy on me. I aint a dangerious cretur; and I know what's right an easy as I know what's wrong.' 
               'How do you know but there is some eaves-dropper listening to us now?-There appear to be cracks and crannies, key-holes and rat-holes in this house, which might convey our words to some distance.' 
               'La me! that's no danger. Except the old woman,-an' she's partly hard o' hearing'-there aint another in the house who cares a fig about either side,' was her reply. 
               Concluding that I had heard quite enough from this coarse, repulsive, and probably traitorous woman, I gave her another broad hint that I desired to retire to bed, and that she would gratify me by leaving the room without further urging. 
               'La me! I'll go if yer 'sist on't,' she replied, 'though I had hopes that we might hev sympathy enough atween us to be willin' to pour out to each other the feelin's of our bosoms, seein' as both of us hev lived in Vieksburg.' 
               'I am too much fatigued to-night for conversation, even if I were disposed to confide in a stranger. I must know more of you before I can speak freely my sentiments. Perhaps a more favorable opportunity may offer, when you can give me proofs that you have not been trying to deceive me in order to draw from me sentiments that might lead to my great injury.' 
               'I hope so,' said she, rising;' but neither on us haint said nothin' to-night that one could make any thing of, hev we? At any rate, we agree not to say nothin?' 
               'I agree to that,' said I construing, however, the latter sentence of her speech literally. 'So good night, madame.' 
               'Good night, my young lady. Sorry yer so modest as to be afeered to go to bed afore me. Lord knows what might happen if there was a man in the case.' 
               With these words she retreated through the door and closed it after her; and I took the caution to bolt it on the inside, and to look around to see if there was any other ingress to the room except by a ladder through the windows; and I took pains to see that these were securely fastened. 
               I confess, I cannot tell precisely why, that I had a horrid suspicion of this woman; and I determined if another morning dawned upon me, to say at least enough to the general to cause him to be as suspicious as I was myself. 
               Before I blew out my light, previous to lying down, I examined my revolver to see if it was in perfect condition for any emergency, and placed it under my pillow. It was not the first time that I had slept with war material enough beneath my pillow to cause the quietus of at least six persons if skillfully handled. 
               My thoughts were too busy of this strange woman to drop to sleep very readily. Strive as I would to dismiss her from my thoughts by attempting to concentrate them upon other and more exciting topics, she would quickly intrude herself and remain uppermost. 
               At length, however, I persuaded myself to sleep; and then I was visited by visions of a most startling nature. Thrice I awoke at the denouement of some terrible scene, in which this woman each time was the principal actor. And at one of these waking intervals, my mind was so excited that it conjured up her apparition before me in such a palpable form, that I clutched the weapon of death beneath my pillow. And at another I imagined I heard her hateful step approaching the door and then striving to open it. 
               I, however, persuaded myself into the fullest belief that I need entertain no apprehension from her; that neither she nor her apparition were prowling about in the dead hours of that night. 
               Towards morning I fell into a profound slumber-so profound that the morning gun, fired within a few yards of my window; nor the beating of tattoo; nor the bustle incident of turning out of the soldiers of a whole division; nor the dress parades, with bands playing served to awake me. And when I did awake, the sun had been four hours in the heavens. 
               I arose immediately, and after my ablution and attiring myself, I felt quite refreshed, and unbolted the door, to go immediately to the general's headquarters for breakfast. 
               The first person I confronted on opening the door of my room was my real visitor of the evening, and my imaginary visitor during the hours of the night. 
               'Good mornin',' she saluted. 'Yer must hev been fatigued, fact, ter sleep so long. Why, I've been up and drest these three hours or more. Hope yer sleep well, and hed pleasant dreams, too. Wot's yer hurry? I'm goin' ter make up her bed now, and kind o' put things her rights hyar. Don't you feel in the mood for a little talk this mornin'?' 
               'Not until I have had my breakfast,' I replied. 
               'La, yes; I forgot you hadn't hed any breakfast. Mess with the general, I hyar. Good place over thar to pick up scraps o' information. Lives well, too. I'd like to mess there 'casionally, myself; but he's too stuck up for sich as me; but I hev seen the day, and hope to see it agin, when I could look down on him. He's no great shucks, any way, 'cordin' to my idee. Come back agin when yer've got your rations. I do so want ter hev a reel good, downright chat with her. Keep your eyes peeled when yer over thar, and yer ears wide open, and prehaps ye'll hear somethin' vallyble. Come back, won't yer?' 
               'I cannot promise for you must know that I am but little better than a prisoner in this camp,' I replied. 
               'Then make good use o' the faculties nater has gin you--' 
               I tarried to hear no more, for while the woman talked I took pains to scrutinize her more closely. A hitherto vague suspicion of one point in regard to her had become a little more definite; so much so that an irrepressible curiosity impelled me to find out; and the way to do that was through the general. 
               On reaching the marquee I found him engaged in giving orders to several aid-de-camps who stood about him, and who, one by one, were soon dismissed from his presence. 
               'And now, Virginia, my treasure, the army's treasure, the country's treasure, we can take our breakfast undisturbed,' said he, in uncommonly fine spirits, as he rang the bell for servants to bring in his morning's repast. 
               'You appear to be in a flattering mood, general, this morning.' 
               'By Jove! I have reasons to be. Everything is working well, inasmuch as we are drawing the cordon more closely around the monster's neck every hour-we'll strangle it soon. Thanks for your services, Virginia. By-the-by, how did you rest among our laundry people last night?' 
               'A portion of the night I rested well.' 
               'You were treated with due consideration over there, I trust.' 
               'Passably well,' I replied. 
               'Passably well? That's not according to my instructions. Madame--is a faithful woman, and I presume all her subordinates are equally so.' 
               'Do you know her chief assistant?' 
               'What, that woman with coarse features, coarse voice, and rather a masculine look?' 
               'The same.' 
               'What of her?' 
               'My word for it-she's not to be trusted.' 
               'Indeed! and what are your inferences?' 
               'That she is a thorough rebel.' 
               'And if a rebel, she must be something more, or she would not be an employee so near my quarters.' 
               'To be plain, general, I have strong suspicions that she is a rebel spy!' 
               'By the great shield of Mars! I'll have her arrested and all her effects seized within an hour.' 
               'It will not be needful for me to appear against her, I trust?' 
               'By no means. If she is guilty it can be established without your testimony.' 
               'And if innocent I should not like to sleep under the same roof with her again; because, of course, she will regard me as the person having informed against her.' 
               'I will see to that matter personally.' 
               The servants having now appeared with quite a sumptuous breakfast, smoking and hot, the conversation was dropped, and we sat down to discuss that, which we did in a most satisfactory manner, conversing in the meantime on subjects quite irrelevant to that which was uppermost in both our minds. 
               As soon as we had satisfied our appetites, the servants removed the dishes, etc., and likewise themselves, in a manner remarkably quiet. The general then said: 
               'Fortunately, I have no pressing business on hand this morning, and I will at once order the arrest of this woman; and if, after a preliminary examination I find that there are grounds sufficient for calling a court martial, I'll do so at once.' 
               'I am almost certain, general,' I added, that an examination of her person alone will disclose more than I learned, or have only a suspicion of.' 
               Whether or not he understood the full significance of my last remark, I could not divine. At all events he did not ask for an explanation, but, lighting his cigar, he went forth from his tent with the air of one bent upon some great purpose. 
               He met at the entrance his chief of staff, and after holding a brief conference with him in low tones, they both walked away. 
               For two hours I was the sole occupant of the marquee; but the time passed not heavily, for I found a few attractive books, besides several northern newspapers, which I employed the time in reading. 
               At the expiration of this period, my distinguished host returned. He had evidently had some peculiarly interesting business, for he never appeared so excited before in my presence. 
               'I feel vexed with myself-I feel vexed with my officers-I feel vexed with everybody around me,-except you, Virginia, except you!' were the exclamations with which he greeted me.' 
               'I trust nothing serious has happened,' said I, with an enquiring look. 
               'To think that a spy has been directly in our midst for several weeks, and nobody keen enough to discover it but you! Why, I am ashamed of myself and of my subordinates, too.' 
               'Then the woman at the laundry was, after all, a spy?' I questioned. 
               'Not only a spy, but a man in the disguise of a woman!-quartered under the same roof with a half dozen women-and stupid women they are too, not to have discovered the gross deception that was so long played upon them?' 
               'Then all my suspicions are fully confirmed.' said I. 
               'Yes, Virginia, for I remember of your saying that an examination of her person, would disclose more than you had actually learned, but were suspicious of. It's the most remarkable case I ever had come under my observation! and it's all the more aggravating to think that this person had won the confidence of all for her fidelity and loyalty. And there's no knowing how much harm this spy has done us, though he swore most stoutly that he had never obtained an opportunity to convey the least intelligence to the enemy. However, whether true or not, it's pretty certain he'll do us no more mischief. A drum-head court-martial tomorrow, and an execution next day, will be the grand finale of his career?' 
               'So soon?' 
               'With such characters we must deal summarily, or there would be no safety!' 
               The remark gave me a shudder, but it escaped his notice; and I suppose it did not for a moment occupy his thoughts that I too had played the spy far more effectually than the one I had been the means of unmasking; that I too, had placed my neck many times almost within the hangman's noose to aid him in carrying out plans that would assist in saving the Union; and that before many hours I should again repeat the perilous experiment. 
               After a few more remarks denunciatory of himself and those around him, and complimenting my own shrewdness in most laudatory terms, he lighted his cigar, calmed down into his usual serenity, and conversed only of irrelevant and more agreeable things. 
               The only incident of that day worth mentioning, was the passing by the marquee, of a strong detachment of soldiers, escorting a rebel to prison! 
               One glance at his face was sufficient; I recognized in him, the hard, coarse-featured woman who had conversed with me in my room on the night previous. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               MY DEPARTURE FOR VICKSBURG-AN UNEXPECTED DETENTION-MAJOR JENEFER'S GREAT EXPLOIT, AND WHAT CAME OF IT. 
               MY mission in the camp of the nation's brave defenders was now completely fulfilled, and I signified to the general, my host, that it was unnecessary to lose more time; and that I was prepared to be sent to the enemy's lines at his earliest convenience. 
               This was the morning following the important discovery I had made; and I felt that to remain there another day, I might be subjected to hear too much of the execution of a spy that was undoubtedly predetermined, or, perchance, be witness of the disagreeable scene. 
               Breakfast being over, the general approached me, and taking both my hands within his, while a tear shone in his eyes, he said: 
               'God bless and protect you, Virginia!' 
               He said no more, but took his cap and hastily left the tent. Understanding his purpose, I immediately prepared for departure. In a few moments the chief of staff, with a sorrowful countenance, came in and informed me that it was his painful duty to communicate to me the order of his commander that I must prepare to be sent back to Vicksburg forthwith. 
               'I have anticipated his wishes, colonel, and am now ready; but I trust you will not consider the duty you are charged with a painful one.' 
               'It is always painful to thwart the wishes of a lady,' said he. 
                
               'Do not, I beg of you, feel grieved on my account, for it matters not greatly whether I return to my friends in Vicksburg, or proceed North to join my friends there,-for I have friends among the federals as well as rebels.' 
               'Then the general must have intimated to you his decision?' 
               'Not a word, I assure you. He hasn't the courage to say an unpleasant thing to a lady; he delegates that duty to his subordinates,' said I, in a satirical vein, which I think the officer did not much relish, for he replied by saying: 
               'I am myself inclined to the belief that his courage would sooner fail him before one woman than before a whole regiment of rebel soldiers.' 
               'I wonder if he really thinks that I am a rebel spy?' I asked, changing the subject. 
               'If he thought that he would have put you under arrest, and subjected you to much great rigor than you appear to have suffered during your brief sojourn here.' 
               'Oh, I have not suffered in the slightest; he has treated me as a lady should be treated, I have in no manner been inconvenienced, except in not being allowed to continue my journey as I purposed. And that does not trouble me half so much as to be regarded by him as at least a dangerous character.' 
               'You must forgive a general officer if he does appear severe or over-cautious in his acts. It is a merit rather than a demerit in a military commander.' 
               At this point in the conversation, a vehicle rolled up towards the marquee and stopped; and the next moment the same officer who had escorted me hither appeared at the entrance. 
               'Lieutenant Kilham, Miss Clarke,' said the staff-officer, introducing the young officer. 
               'We have met before,' I remarked. 
               'Yes; you are the same lady that I had the honor to escort hither,' he replied, with an obsequious salute. 
               'And now are to have the trouble of returning her whence you found her.' 
               'Here are your instructions, lieutenant,' said the staff-officer, placing in the hands of Kilham a written document, which he forthwith opened and read. It was evidently somewhat of a surprise to him to learn that instead of my being permitted to proceed on my proposed tour North, I was to be sent, by a flag of truce, back to the inside lines of rebeldom. 
               'All ready, yer honor,' shouted the driver. 
               I bade the chief of staff an off-hand farewell; was politely assisted into the vehicle by my escort, who after taking a seat beside me, told the Irish Jehu of a remarkably slow coach to drive on. 
               'I regret your misfortune, Miss Clarke; but stranger things than this happen every day,' remarked the lieutenant. 'In times of war it is best never to be surprised at anything, however eccentric it may appear.' 
               'I have learned the lesson,' I replied, 'and have no regrets to make.' 
               'Indeed! I had supposed that your disappointment must be very great on learning the decision of our general.' 
               'It is perhaps better that I should return,' I replied, carelessly. 
               'But the danger of residing in a beleaguered city. It is hardly a fitting place for a lady.' 
               'I apprehend that there is but little safety anywhere in this vicinity.' 
               These words had hardly escaped me, when I beheld coming towards us three mounted officers. 
               We were moving at a snail-like pace over the deep-rutted road, which gave an opportunity for the officers to scrutinize us closely, while we were passing each other. Who or what they were I had no curiosity to know, and turned my head to look in another direction, when I heard a voice, in a tone of command, give the order- 
               'Halt!' 
                
               Our vehicle came to a stand-still, when the detestable Major Jenefer reined up beside the vehicle. 
               'Who have you there, lieutenant?' enquired that officer. 
               'A lady, major, who is to be sent to the rebel lines, under a flag of truce.' 
               'By whose order?' 
               'By order of the commanding general.' 
               'It cannot be.' 
               'Read my written instructions,' said the lieutenant, handing him the document he had received from the staff-officer. 
               'The general is deceived!' exclaimed Jenefer, handing back the paper, after glancing his eye over it. 
               'That is a matter for me not to inquire into,' said my escort. 'I have my orders, and I intend to execute them.' 
               'And I have the best of reasons for believing that this female is a rebel spy. Indeed, I know that she has been in our camp before, and bore a name other than that mentioned in your instructions.' 
               'That is no business of mine,' replied Lieutenant Kilham. 
               'It is the business of every loyal officer to arrest any person suspected of being a spy; and I shall take the responsibility, at least, of ordering you back to the general's headquarters, there to await until I can have a brief interview with the general.' 
               'And I shall take the responsibility of obeying his superior orders in preference to yours,' smartly replied the lieutenant. 'Drive on, Patrick.' 
               'Yes, yer honor,' said Jehu, as he attempted to put his hard-worked steed in motion. 
               He was, however, frustrated in the attempt, for one of the other officers immediately seized the horse by the head and held him fast. 
               'Lieutenant, you will please consider yourself under arrest,' said the redoubtable major. 'Your sword.' 
               'I know not by what authority you thus prevent me from obeying instructions superior to any that you can give;' said Kilham, 'and in giving up my sword, I do it under protest, as all of you will bear witness.' 
               He unsheathed his weapon and handed it to the major. 
               'Driver, you will now return whence you came. We will be your escort; and remember, that it is I, Major Jenefer, who takes this responsibility; and as for the lady,' he continued, glancing significantly at me, 'she well understands why I intercept her and her escort in the very act of escaping by the general's sanction.' 
               'You will undoubtedly be well repaid for your trouble, said I, sarcastically. 'Who knows that this act may not gain you an "eagle," an insignia you can never hope to win by deeds on the field of battle?' 
               'The general knows how to reward faithful service,' replied Jenefer, pompously, as if he already felt the perch of the eagle on his shoulder straps. 
               'And he knows how to degrade and punish those who intermeddle with his affairs,' I added. 
               'He will thank me for undeceiving him; and he will reward me for placing in his hands one whom I believe to be a dangerous character.' 
               Jehu had now, by considerable tugging at the reins, and making what a sailor would call a number of 'tacks,' got his horse's head turned in the opposite direction, and the whole cortege made a retrogade movement, the escort led proudly by the gallant son of Mars, who imagined that he had performed a feat which must redound to his honor and secure his promotion. 
               It was evident that Jenefer had really discovered 'La Vivandiere,' notwithstanding the guise I had put on before leaving Vicksburg; and because I was now to be sent into rebeldom, he inferred that I was a bona fide rebel spy, and that I had imposed upon the general now as I had done before in the characters of the drummer-boy and La Vivandiere. 
                
               In reflecting upon the matter it did not much disturb me; indeed I was really impatient to see the denouement of the little play he was enacting, which would soon occur at headquarters. 
               At length the cortege drew up before the marquee of the commander, who happened at the time to be quietly sitting, apparently in a thoughtful mood, and smoking the inevitable cigar, beside the trunk of a palmetto tree near the entrance to his quarters. 
               'What is the meaning of all this?' he sharply inquired, as Major Jenefer, after dismounting, approached and saluted him. 
               'I have intercepted a dangerous character, general, who was about to be sent into the rebel lines under instructions from you. 
               'Well.' 
               'In doing so I was obliged to put under arrest Lieutenant Kilham.' 
               'Well, go on.' 
               'As I said, this woman has been in our camp before, wearing the disguises of a drummer-boy and also that of a Vivandiere.' 
               'Well, is that all!' 
               'Believing her to be a spy of the enemy, I thought it would meet your approval if I caused her return, that you might be undeceived in regard to her character, &c.' 
               'What proofs have you?' 
               'None-other than what I have stated.' 
               'And you intercepted the carriage, arrested an officer bearing my instructions, suspected the lady of being a spy without any proof, and caused the whole cortege to be returned whence they came?' 
               'I hope the facts justified me in so doing,' replied Jenefer, beginning to look wildly, and acting nervously. 
               'What facts?' 
               'Those I have told you.' 
               'But you have not substantiated any one of them.' 
               'I can take my oath that the female named as Miss Clarke in your instructions, is none other than--' 
               'Bah?' interrupted the general. 'No oaths from your mouth can make you other than a cowardly, sneaking intermeddler; and for the high-handed act of intercepting an officer bearing orders from me, I order you to be placed under arrest, and to be suspended from rank until I can give this conduct of yours, so unbecoming a military officer, further consideration.-Meanwhile, I advise you to keep that reckless, unruly tongue of yours quiet regarding this matter, or any other that relates to the business of your superiors!' 
               The chief-of-staff received the major's sword, and a file of soldiers was detailed to escort the crest-fallen major to the guardhouse, there to reflect on the unexpected results which had so quickly followed his great achievement of that morning. 
               'I trust that this officious fool has not given you any great inconvenience,' said the general, stepping up to the vehicle and addressing me kindly, 
               'He has caused me a little delay only,' I replied; 'and a longer ride-over these rough roads than I could have wished. But the result of the incident has well repaid me for all that; for a more impertinent, insolent fellow never wore the insignia of an officer.' 
               'Well, he shall give you no more trouble! and I trust you will reach your friends without further molestation,' said the general, saluting me, and turning to resume his thoughtful attitude and cigar beneath the shade of the palmetto. 
               Meanwhile Kilham had recovered his sword, and Jehu again started off at quite a brisk pace. 
               In the course of two hours we had reached the outer pickets. Lieut. Kilham alighted and produced the order from the commanding general, that the lady he accompanied should be sent back to the confederate lines in the same manner that she came. 
               Before alighting myself, the flag of truce was unfolded and displayed on the federal side, which was soon responded to by the white flag of the enemy. The meeting of the representatives of each signal was had equi-distant between the two picket lines, as nearly as could be determined. 
               While these necessary formalities were going on, two horsemen hastily rode up, and one of them inquired of a soldier, as nearly as I could understand, for the two wounded soldiers who had been shot while doing picket duty. I thought the voice of the inquirer sounded familiar, and on a second look I met the eyes of Dr.--, our much esteemed surgeon,-the surgeon-general of whom I had heard such high commendations at headquarters. 
               Whether he recognized me or not, I am unable to say; but there was that in his countenance which clearly betrayed to me that I affected him in some degree. I was either very like some one he had seen before, or he had penetrated my disguise. He fixed his gaze upon the earth, and there stood for at least two minutes, as if his mind were puzzled by some abstruse question that he could not unravel. He turned away without venturing to scrutinize my features again, as if he had dismissed the matter from his thoughts, and he and his assistant followed a guide, as I supposed, towards the place where the wounded men lay. 
               The conference between the federal and rebel officers was now concluded, and the report soon came that I had permission to enter the lines of the latter. 
               The carriage then conveyed me to the neutral ground, where my luggage was taken from the vehicle and put in charge of the picket officer, who said he would be responsible for its safety, and that it would be sent immediately after me. 
               I was forthwith escorted to the rear by another officer, who, at my request, and after some delay, succeeded in procuring a conveyance for me to the city, where, he kindly informed me, I would be received by the proper authorities for examination before I could be allowed to be entirely at liberty. 
               After a ride of two or three miles, the vehicle stopped before a public building within the city, where I was assisted to alight by an officer in a police uniform, who escorted me up the steps of the edifice, where I beheld the ominous sign- 
                     'PROVOST MARSHAL'S OFFICE.'
                  
                
               In another moment I stood before that much dreaded officer, the provost-marshal, whom I had met several times before, and who had made such diligent but ineffectual efforts to secure the 'Female Spy' of the federals. 
               He gazed at me for a few moments without speaking, and then asked for my papers. 
               I showed them to him, and after a critical examination he pronounced them 'all right,' but in such a hesitating tone that I feared there was a terrible suspicion lurking in his brain, almost ready to assume a more dangerous form. 
               To dissipate it, I resolved upon a stroke of policy that should settle all his doubts. 
               'It is my desire, sir, to see, as soon as possible, Gen. P--. I have an important message to bear to him.' 
               'A written message?' 
               'A verbal one.' 
               'His headquarters is but a short distance. A vehicle you will hardly consider necessary. If you will permit me I will escort you thither, so that you can obtain an audience at once. My office enables me to intrude upon him even in his private hours. If you should go without me you might not obtain a ready admittance.' 
               'You are very kind, sir,' said I, 'and I will accept your offer, providing it will not be too much trouble. Though I could possibly find my way with your direction.' 
               'It is best that you should have my company,' he replied, signifying that he was ready to go at once. 
               I knew the way as well as he did, and could have gained admittance to the great military officer of the city ss easily as he could. But I made no objections to his going; indeed, I thought it might be the means of entirely obliterating any lingering suspicion that he might entertain in regard to me, had I proceeded alone. 
               The distance was so short that three minutes' brisk walk brought us to the citadel headquarters. After passing the gate sentinel, he proceeded in another way from that generally taken by visitors, and, indeed, by members of the general's own staff. It was a secret mode of ingress, uninterrupted by sentinels, and so private that no one could well be observed going in or going forth. 
               I took note of this passage as we passed along, for the purpose of availing myself of it should it ever become necessary. 
               We soon reached the general's apartment, and I was ushered into his presence by my dread escort. I was received with great cordiality as 'Miss Clarke,' which seemed to satisfy the vigilant officer, and he quickly retired. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               INTERVIEW WITH THE COMMANDING GENERAL-A SERIES OF COINCIDENCES-VICKSBURG UNDERGROUND. 
               I HAD fully prepared myself for the role that I was to enact before the commanding general of Vicksburg, and its defences (said Virginia resuming her narrative, after a brief pause). I had determined not to speak falsely, nor tergiversate more than was absolutely essential for my safety. I felt keenly the peculiarly discreditable position in which I had been placed, not, as you are aware, from my own choice; and my justification for my conduct I could only find in the consciousness of having thus far served my country to to the best of my ability. 
               'I rejoice at your safe return,' said General P--, after having greeted me warmly. 'Ever since you left the city I have had no little anxiety on your account. Be seated-you look fatigued.' 
               'By your leave, I will first divest myself of these feminine habiliments, and assume my own proper character once more,' said I. 
               'Certainly. I shall feel more at ease when you appear in your own character-I always was embarrassed in woman's society. You will find your garments just as you left them, in the ante-room,' he replied. 'No one has been in there beside myself. Make all haste possible, for I am impatient to learn the particulars of your adventure.' 
               'I assure you, general, it has not been entirely successful, as you shall soon learn.' 
               With these words I entered the little room, and once more unsexed myself, by substituting my uniform of grey for the more natural and agreeable dress of Miss Stella Clarke When I had finished and looked in the glass, I found to my, chagrin that the moustache I had removed was very much wanting to give me that masculine look which seemed quite necessary. It would not, of course, be prudent for me to apply the false one, for that would betray to my superior officer that I had not shaven it off at the time I transformed myself into a woman. The old patch, however, that I had first worn over the eye that I had 'lost at Bull Run,' and the boyish carelessness with which I let my locks fall around my ears and over my forehead, supplied in part the deficiency. 
               I was again 'George Temple,' and in that character once more appeared before the confederate general. 
               He looked at me for a moment, and then said: 
               'Why, lieutenant, you look almost like a lady in disguise. Oh! I see-your moustache is missing. Well, that will grow again, with careful nursing.' 
               'I shall not wait for that,' said I, 'a moustache must be supplied at the nearest barber's, which will answer until nature is generous enough to give me one.' 
               'I suspect many avail themselves of this source for their hirsute appendages,' he added, facetiously, as he drew up a chair directly opposite his own and bade me be seated. 'Now, lieutenant, your story. You have been into the enemy's lines?' 
               'Yes, general.' 
               'And have seen the Yankee army, and the great Ulysses himself, perhaps?' 
               'I certainly have; for I was a guest at his table during the time I was in the Yankee camp.' 
               'Then you were really in the lion's den? That is something, surely; and therefore I shall not yet consider your adventure quite a failure, after all. What manner of man is this great Yankee commander?' 
               'Of medium stature; square built; with not very prepossessing appearance; but he has an eye like a hawk, and his compressed lips indicate that he is as stubborn as a mule; in fact, his whole physiognomy shows such energy, perseverance, determination, WILL! that you might whip him once a day for twenty-nine days, and he will then prepare himself for a fight on the thirtieth. So long as he has anything to fight with he will not consider himself conquered.' 
               'What is the character of his staff?' 
               'Fighting men, all.' 
               'Is it true, as has been stated, that most of his staff officers are Indians?' 
               'I assure you, general, that it is not true; he has one educated and accomplished Indian chief on his staff, who would do credit to any military body; the rest of his military family are Yankees, all.' 
               'How happened it that you were so favored as to be a guest at his headquarters?' 
               'He detained me there while making up his mind whether to allow me to proceed on my proposed journey North, or send me back whence I came.' 
               'You were then a prisoner?' 
               'Not a very close one; but he took very good care that I should not make any observations beyond the immediate vicinity of his camp.' 
               'And finally decided that you were too much of a rebel to allow you to go at large on his side of the lines, and therefore sent you back?' 
               'That appears, general, to be the state of the case.' 
               'Then you must give me in detail all the incidents from the time you passed our outer pickets until you returned; and the nature of the observations you made.' 
               In response to this request, I commenced to rehearse such portions of my adventures as could not in any degree compromise or disparage the cause I had at heart; and of all that I told him I did not depart from the truth; and in all his subsequent inquiries, I gave him truthful answers, leaving him no wiser, and perhaps less wise, than he was before. Nevertheless, he seemed highly gratified that at least one of his spies had visited the enemy's camp and had returned in safety 
               Before concluding our interview, which lasted until the twilight hour, he informed me that he would relieve me of the arduous duty he had assigned me; but that he would retain me on his staff for special service only, and that I might consider my rank from that day to be that of captain; and that he should send my appointment to Richmond, with honorable mention of my services, on the next day. 
               I thanked him for the honor thus conferred upon me, stating that I had as yet performed no service warranting such an advancement. However, he thought otherwise, and it was not for me to refuse to be the recipient of favors, when they would most likely aid me in prosecuting my real mission within the defences of Vicksburg. 
               This concluded our interview. Before leaving, however, I enquired of him if he had any duties for me to perform on that day, when he very graciously told me that I could be master of my own time, except to report to him, personally, every morning at ten o'clock; furthermore, he was kind enough to say that although a good worker, I was a better counsellor and strategist; and if there was anything to be done requiring extraordinary nary abilities, my services would be called into requisition. 
               I bowed my profound acknowledgments for the undue compliments he had paid me, and saluting him, I left his quarters and sallied forth into the street, not, however, before slyly improving the opportunity in passing through the corridor of the building to affix to my upper lip the identical moustache that had rested there before assuming the role of 'Stella Clarke.' 
               In passing along the street leading from headquarters I accidentally met the provost-marshal. He saluted me familiarly and with a smile, and passed on, although an hour and a half previously, he had escorted 'Miss Stella Clarke' to the presence of his commander-in-chief. 
               A few rods farther on I turned abruptly into another street, running at a right angle, and almost stumbled into the arms of Obadiah Tomlinson! He recognized me in a moment, and at once detained me and declared that, notwithstanding the great wrongs which had been done him through my especial agency, his heart was too full of gratitude to me for the great good I had done him to complain. 
               'Yea, verily,' said he, thou hast been the means of perpetuating the house of Tomlinson; for had Potiphar been subjected to kneel down before seven men of war, with muskets in their-hands, and leaden spheres in the muzzles of the same, pointed at his breast, and if at the word of command, they had pulled the fatal triggers, he would have been deprived of his precious life; and the only way of perpetuating the honorable name of the Tomlinsons would have perished forever. Thou didst prevent this great calamity, and a leaden weight was removed from this heart. I can only thank thee, for I have neither money, goods, nor chattels to spare; but I can keep thy great secret locked securely in this bosom. Verily, thou needs have no fear of me.' 
               Not desiring to prolong this interview, I begged him to excuse me then, for my time was precious; but that I would see and speak with him on a more favorable occasion, and in a less conspicuous place. 
               Again I passed on, thinking that it was a somewhat singular coincidence that I should have met the provost and the quaker in a walk of less than a hundred rods; but judge of my great astonishment when, in less than two minutes afterwards, I met, face to face, Col Lamar, walking arm-in-arm with Captain Clymer. 
               The former, on seeing me attracted the other's attention towards me, and as we passed, both saluted in the most respectful manner, which I returned. 
               Whether to attribute this politeness to my being a representative of the general-in-chief's military family, or to the possibility of Col. Lamar's being in the secret of my mission from General P--, I am unable to say; but I was assured of one fact: that they in no manner coupled me with the soi-disant heiress of Magnolia Villa, or rather with the audacious female spy, who had dared to come within the sacred precints of the great stronghold of rebeldom, to expose the resources, the strength, and the strategic intentions of its chivalric defenders. 
               The curious coincidence of my coming in contact with no less than four different characters, being a major part of all the people I knew even by name in this strange city, somewhat disconcerted me, and caused me to step more briskly through the streets in my route to my private quarters, which as soon as I had reached, and was welcomed by my strangely interested hostess, I breathed more freely, and recovered my usual equanimity. 
               I retired early to my room, and there alone gave my mind up to a review of my quixotic adventures of the past three days. I could scarcely realize the various events as they presented themselves to my mind, one after another; and why, I asked myself, in recklessly placing myself in so many hazardous arduous positions? I had passed through all with perfect safety, and without compromising myself in any degree or sense. It seemed as if in the utmost of my perils, some power was sure to intervene to protect me, without the least voluntary act on my part. 
               My greatest achievement, as I viewed it, was the unmasking of a dangerous confederate spy in the federal camp; and yet it was accomplished without an effort. I must confess that I felt weak enough to drop a tear of pity for the poor unfortunate whom I had caused to be given up to an ignominious fate; deservedly, too, according to the stern, inexorable decrees of war; and if deserved, I, too, merited a like fate. The only difference between us-he had been detected-I, thus far, had escaped. The truth is, the undetected spy is a hero; the detected spy is the basest of criminals! according to the military code in times of war. The startling difference between the two was so wide, that I determined to be more cautious in the future than I had in the past. 
               I was awakened from a deep slumber on the following morning, by the terrible reverberations of artillery and the bursting of shells within the city. I quickly arose, dressed myself and went forth into the streets, to behold the fearful panic that an early and an unusually terrific bombardment was producing. 
               Men, women and children, but partially clad, and many more with but their night clothes wrapped around them, were hastening on towards the several entrances to caverns which had been dug in the earth for the protection of the inhabitants whenever the enemy seemed inclined to furnish them with a hundred or two tons of brittle iron in the shape of shot and shell. 
               Desiring myself to find a secure place from these devastating missiles, and having an irrepressible curiosity to witness the subterranean scenes which had been described to me, I fell in with one of the moving throngs, and soon found myself at the portal of what appeared to be an extensive cellar, and which I was told had been used for storing pipes of wines and liquors, crates of crockery and other merchandize, but which now was only alive with human beings. 
               Beyond the cellar, which was dimly lighted by lamps suspended from the ceiling, there were quite extensive excavations of earth, but recently dug, for the purpose of affording further protection to the inhabitants during the perils of bombardment. 
               Mingled with the throng I observed quite a number wearing the grey uniform of the army, and several wearing, besides, the insignia of rank from lieutenants up to colonels; so that my appearance there could not be regarded as anything singular, for all who were off duty readily availed themselves of the shelter without any fear of incurring the censure of cowardice. 
               A feeble glare of light revealed the countenances of the various groups of refugees, as I wandered about from one section to the other. Many told of anxious souls and bleeding hearts; of disease, famine, fear and despair. Many expressed doubt, anger and revenge. Many gazed with a vacant look or savage stare. Others looked bold and defiant, as if the work of devastation without had no terrors for them; and there were still others, (but they were comparatively few) who assumed a cheerful visage, as if the appalling scenes they had hidden from view would soon emancipate them from the reign of terror that they could not escape from. 
               I sympathized with all, but especially with those last, for I felt that their hearts beat in unison with mine as to the hoped-for result. 
               I wandered about, jostled here and there by rude men, and I am sorry to say by rude women too, until, becoming fatigued, I sought a place where I could rest my weary body and soul; for I was pained, disgusted and sickened with what I saw. 
               Pride of birth, wealth, education, high position, were all humbled here. All castes were on a level in this subterranean retreat. The beggar vied with the affluent aristocrat; the courtezan with the fine lady; the laborer with the professional man; the ignorant with the learned; the criminal with the honorable; the vicious with the virtuous. All were here for one common purpose-personal safety; and no one was more privileged than another in availing himself of the securities which this underground shelter afforded. 
               In the least thronged part of this cavernous dwelling, and in the rear of a group of well-behaved people of both sexes, were seated upon some straw matting a gentleman of perhaps thirty years of age, in a military undress uniform, and a lady of some ten years younger. The dim lights of the extensive cavern did not enable me to scrutinize their features as I passed and repassed them. They were conversing with some earnestness, though in suppressed tones; but a few words caught my ear which at once interested me and excited my curiosity to hear more. I therefore passed and repassed them again-a matter that they probably thought not strange; for others, in their restless, uneasy wanderings, were doing the same thing. 
               That this couple were not lovers was apparent from the formal and altogether too respectful manner in which the gentleman addressed the lady, and also from the entire absence of coyness on her part, and the easy, unhesitating manner in which she appeared to reply to him. That they were not man and wife was evident from the fact that he seemed too dignified in her presence, and too deferential towards her. For the same reason I judged that they were not brother and sister. 
               The first words that excited my curiosity were dropped from the lips of the lady. They were these: 
               'Tomlinson and his son are somewhere in Vicksburg now. 
               It was a sweet voice-but it was not the voice, but the expression that struck me. In repassing, I heard him say: 
               'Nevertheless, she is a spy, and will be dealt harshly with if--' 
               The last word my ear did not catch, but the words of the sweet voice, more penetrating in reply, I distinctly heard. They were: 
               'I hope not.' 
               Walking on a few yards, I retraced my steps, but walked very slowly. I know it was very impertiment and unladylike, but a spy, as well as a detective, very quickly falls into the habit of listening when most people would be entirely indifferent, and gazing where others would not feel any interest in looking. This time I heard the gentleman say: 
               'If leave of absence can be obtained, Marietta, I will accompany you back to Jackson;' and then followed the lady's reply: 
               'It is unnecessary, cousin; Cuffee is a very safe escort.' 
               What a revelation a few detached sentences of an animated conversation was here made to me. Is it a wonder that my curiosity was excited? Is it a wonder that I attempted to gratify it as far as prudence at least would permit? 
               And now for some time I paused in my walk, and leaning up against the side of the cavern, endeavored to gaze on the lineaments of a countenance whose possessor I felt an irrepressible, irresistible interest in. I could see but indistinctly-imagination supplied the rest-she was beautiful. 
               Again I ventured to walk that interesting path-for all the horrors of the place had now vanished. This time I must have been for a moment the object of their particular observation; for as I drew near, their conversation ceased; they turned up their heads as I passed; and then my quick, sensitive ear heard the gentleman say, although he spoke in a whisper: 
               'That officer wears the insignia of the general-in-chief's staff.' 
               He arose as he spoke, and followed me a few paces. I turned, and we met face to face. He saluted me. 
                
               'I ask pardon,' said he; 'you are Captain Temple of Gen. P--'s staff, I believe.' 
               'That is my rank,' I replied. 
               'My name is Marland-Major Marland-also an attache of the General-in-chief. We have never known each other, though I have frequently seen you at headquarters. I desire the pleasure of a friendship with one who stands so high in the estimation of our general, with Colonels Winnett, Lamar and others.' 
               'I am very proud to make your acquaintance, major,' said I, taking his proffered hand. 
               'Come, captain, share our mat,' said he, drawing me towards the place where he had been sitting, or rather reclining. 'I will introduce you to my cousin-devilish pretty girl, too,' he added, speaking the latter sentence in a whisper, directly in my ear. 
               'Miss Marland, Captain Temple. I am proud to say, cousin, that he is of the same military family as myself, although his duties and mine have so led us apart, that we have never before met,' was the major's mode of introduction. 
               The lady arose, bowed and curtseyed in a graceful, modest manner, and then resumed her seat upon the mat. 
               I could do no less than accept the major's kind offer, and, a la Turque, I imitated his example, and we three were soon engaged in quite an animated conversation. 
               'Miss Marland, captain, is recently from Jackson, where she resides,' said the major, inclined to be social; 'and I have just been telling her that for a lady to come to the beleaguered city just at this time, is more valorous than discreet.' 
               'It certainly is not a very desirable abode for any one just at the present time,' I replied. 'I think the inducement must have been a strong one that tempted you hither., 
               'It was a strong one,' she replied. 
               'I'll tell you confidentially, captain, with my cousin's permission, that her visit here has something to do with that Female Spy we have heard so much about of late,' said the major. 
               'Indeed! a deal of trouble she has given us too,' I remarked. 
               'The truth is-and I suppose you are aware of the fact-we all thought we had her in our clutches the other night, but she contrived to slip through our fingers, and is probably beyond our reach by this time,' added the major. 
               'I am heartily glad of it!' exclaimed the undoubtedly veritable Miss Marietta Marland, with a toss of the head. 
               'Just hear my madcap-coz talk, captain. Why, if any of our provost marshals or detectives heard her expressing such disloyal sentiments, I could not answer for her liberty.' 
               'I'd plead for her life even to the scaffold,' said Miss Marland, with unaffected earnestness. 
               'You must have some great motive in being willing thus to interest yourself in behalf of so bold a criminal as this female spy?' said I, with a surprised look. 
               'I owe her a debt of gratitude which I can never repay,' replied Marietta, enthusiastically. 'She has been my good angel, whatever mischief she may have wrought to the confederacy.' 
               'I suppose, captain,' said the major, seriously, 'it is a fact that the unknown personage called the Female Spy, for some strange reason or caprice, assumed the character and position of Marietta Marland, this lady, (while the latter was at a boarding school in the land of our enemies,) and through her shrewdness and energy, absolutely caused the restitution of a great fortune, in the hands of a swindling steward, who claimed it as his own, and caused it to be restored to its rightful owner. Am I not right, cousin?' 
               'It is true-every word,' was Marietta's reply; 'and it as well known in Jackson as any event that has occurred there for a twelvemonth. Now, is it strange, captain, that I should feel interest enough in this benefactor of mine as to hope that she has escaped from the punishment usually meted out to spies?' she added, appealing to me. 
               'Not only not strange, but quite natural,' I replied. 'But what could have been the spy's motive for thus interesting herself in your affairs?' 
               'I know of none other than that it was to divert suspicion from her real character,' replied Miss Marland. 
               'But why was it that she was not recognized as an impostor when she assumed your name and character?' I asked. 
               'I had grown from childhood into womanhood since any one of the servants or neighbors had seen me, having been sent North at an early age to complete my education. Altogether, however, it is a great mystery; and I have an irrepressible curiosity not only to unravel it, but to meet with this culprit benefactor of mine.' 
               'Should you meet her it would be your duty to expose her,' I suggested. 
               'I would not do it,' she replied with resolute emphasis. 
               'The authorities might compel you,' said Major Marland. 
               'I'd die first,' she answered, as if she meant it. 
               'It is to be hoped, then, that you may never meet with her while this war lasts,' said I. 
               The last words had hardly escaped my mouth, when a tall, dark visaged man, attired in a civilian's garb, and whom I had observed as he walked to and fro, apparently in a state of absent-mindedness, and seemingly not taking notice of any one or anything that was going on, suddenly halted and confronted the little group of which I was one. 
               We all instinctively arose at the apparent rudeness. 
               'The lady will oblige me by walking with me to the provost-marshal's office,' said the stranger, in the most imperturbable manner. 
               We all started as if a bombshell had been thrown into our midst. 
               'Sir! did you address me?' essayed Miss Marland, with consternation depicted upon her countenance. 
               'I said the lady!' he replied, with emphasis and coolness. 
               'Are you not a stranger to this lady?' ejaculated the major, his face crimson with anger. 
               'Undoubtedly,' was the reply. 
               'Then, sir, I claim to know by what authority you make so rude a request?' demanded the irate major. 
               'I deny any rudeness, sir. I made a request that she should accompany me to the provost-marshal's office, and now I order her to accompany me thither.' 
               'I demand your authority for this unaccountable procedure.' 
               'I have authority, but am not compelled to show it to whoever is pleased to ask it.' 
               'I demand it in behalf of this lady, whose kinsman I am!' exclaimed the major, kindling with rage. 
               'There must be some mistake here,' I interposed, as the real state of the case dawned upon my mind. 'You I suppose to be a detective?' 
               'It matters not what I am,' replied the stranger. 'I know my duty and must exercise it. The lady must go with me. If you and this other officer choose to go with us, you can have the privilege. The distance is but short; the bombardment has nearly ceased for to-day, and there will be but little danger.' 
               The major was somewhat appeased by this last speech, but seemed not quite ready to acquiesce in the demand. 
               'It is useless to resist,' continued the stern stranger, 'for with one little signal I can summon twenty assistants to my side.' 
               'By all means let us go there,' counselled Miss Marietta; 'I can see no harm to result from it; for if this man has conceived the idea that I am a suspicious personage, we can there convince him that he has made an egregious blunder. He has probably mistaken me for another.' 
               'Your fair cousin counsels well,' said I to the major. 
               'To avoid being a party to any unnecessary tumult in this dismal place, I'll waive all objection; but I shall hold this stranger, whoever he may be, to a strict account for his unexplained conduct,' said the major. 
               'You shall have all the satisfaction you may require,' said the disturber of our somewhat interesting conversation, in a manner that indicated that he could not easily be disturbed. 
               He led the way, and with Marietta, escorted on either side by her fiery cousin and myself, we emerged from the subterranean retreat, and wended our way towards the provost-marshal's headquarters, a place I was already somewhat familiar with. 
               Having arrived there, we found the chief absent, much to the chagrin of the supposed detective, who expressed his regret at the circumstance, for he should be compelled to detain the lady in custody until his chief returned. He then informed us that he had the best of reasons for suspecting, at least, that she was the famous female spy who had given the general-in-chief so much trouble. All that we could say to the contrary had no effect upon him. Under this state of things I hurried off to Gen. P--'s headquarters, for the purpose of explaining to him the great and unfortunate blunder which had been committed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               THE REAL SPY INTERCEDES FOR THE LIBERATION OF AN INNOCENT PARTY ACCUSED OF BEING A SPY-THE GRATITUDE OF MY NEW FRIENDS-A SUCCESSION OF SURPRISES. 
               IT was certainly a remarkable concatenation of circumstances that led to my again being the champion of the heiress of Magnolia Villa. 
               The clock struck ten on that eventful morning when I reported myself to the rebel general at headquarters. He was in a state of great mental excitement in consequence of the early bombardment, and its terrific nature, driving the population to every place of refuge that was available, and doing considerable damage to the defences and principal buildings within. He was engaged in receiving reports from the several commanders of the different points of defence; and in every case the report was not of that nature likely to produce agreeable emotions in the breast of the great rebel commander. 
               Finding it a most unfavorable moment for presenting to him the facts in regard to the arrest of Miss Marland, I waited impatiently for the most propitious opportunity for so doing, employing the time in walking to and fro, listening to the conversation of new comers, and looking over the various papers and reports which lay promiscuously upon the table. 
               At length the last visitor disappeared, when I seized the opportunity to ask a few moments audience with him. 
               'Be seated, captain,' said he. 'I'll listen to anything that will distract my thoughts from the disasters of the morning' 
               'I wish to intercede for too immediate liberation of a lady who was arrested this morning by one of the provost's detectives.' 
               'Arrested for what?' 
               'On suspicion of being a spy.' 
               'I believe a score or more have already been arrested on the same grounds, but in every case, they readily proved that there was no ground for suspicion.' 
               'And there is none in this case.' 
               'What are the circumstances on which they ground their suspicions?' 
               'None; unless they are afforded by the fact that her name is Marrietta Marland.' 
               'Why, that is the name of the lady that the notorious Female Spy assumed.' 
               'Precisely; only this happens to be the genuine Marietta Marland; and she was with her cousin, Major Marland, at the time of her arrest. But the stupid detective would not be reasoned with. He took her to the provost's headquarters where she is now held until the chief of that office returns to investigate the matter, and be satisfied that his subordinate has made a most egregious mistake.' 
               'These false arrests are very annoying; they give me a deal of trouble,' resumed the general. 'He suspects her of being the Female Spy, does he?' 
               'So he declares.' 
               'Do you know, of your own knowledge, that she is not the spy?' 
               'I can make oath of it, if necessary.' 
               'Then I am satisfied. You shall have an order for her immediate release,' said the general, seating himself at the table, and hastily penning an order, addressed to the marshal or either of his subordinates, to liberate the suspected party; and without sealing it, placed it in my hands. 
               I expressed my thanks, and hurried back to the provost's office. I found the major pacing to and fro in no enviable state of mind. 
               'Where is your cousin?' I asked. 
               'These brave men, clothed with a little brief authority, desiring to make it impossible for their prisoner to escape, have caused her to be taken from this room, and probably thrust into some cell, or dungeon,' said the major, with bitter sarcasm. 
               'She shall not remain there any longer,' said I, producing the order for her release, and reading it to two or three subordinates in the room. 
               'This is all regular,' said one of them; 'and it comes from a source not to be questioned. The lady shall be at once released,' and he left the apartment for the purpose of producing the prisoner and permitting her to go at liberty. 
               'You have won my eternal gratitude and friendship for this good service, Captain Temple,' said the elated major, seizing both my hands and pressing them warmly. 
               'The service is but a trifling one,' said I 'A word or two with the general, and the thing was accomplished.' 
               'You must have a mighty influence with him to obtain this order of release before any investigation whatever could take place,' said the major. 
               'He has entire confidence in me, and relied solely upon my word that the lady was not the noted Female Spy.' 
               At this moment Marietta appeared, accompanied by the officer, who politely gave her into our hands, at the same time expressing his regrets that the detective should have made such a mistake. 
               It was evident that Marietta had been weeping violently; and even now the bright pupils of her beautiful eyes were bathed in tears which also glistened upon the long lashes like dewdrops on the petals of a flower. 
               'It is all over now, Marietta; but it was a cruel fright; and hang me, if I don't have satisfaction of that blundering detective, I'm not worthy to wear a sword,' said the major, his wrath by no means appeased. 'You might have had to stay in this prison-house all day, and perhaps all night, too, if it had not been for our kind friend here-Captain Temple. He obtained your discharge from no less a personage than the general himself.' 
               'How much, sir, I have to thank you for,' said she, enthusiastically addressing me. 
               'Not so much as you imagine,' I answered, my conscience telling me that I was, after all, the prime cause of her morning's mishap. 
               'Indeed, sir, I imagine nothing,' she returned. 'You have done me a great favor, for every minute that I was under duress and suspense was torture to me. Therefore, for each moment that my torture was shortened, I owe you a debt of gratitude.' 
               I did not observe until then how beautiful-how very beautiful-Miss Marland was. She was as fair as a lily and as bright as a diamond; and her features wore an expression of more than human sweetness-it was seraphic; her figure, too, was graceful as that of a sylph, and her voice was as musical as the most melodious of warblers. The thought of my being once told that I resembled this lady absolutely excited my pride. Had I been that which I represented-a spruce young officer-I am sure that Cupid would have expended one of his arrows while my gaze was fixed upon her almost marvellous loveliness. I surely should have embraced her, as I would have done a beloved sister, had not my costume forbidden my taking such a liberty. In truth, I never before realized how awkward it was to be encased in habiliments made only for the opposite sex; for I had conceived a regard for this lady that I never before felt for any of her sex, except my mother. 
               I knew that it was impertinent to thus scan her features, and only withdrew my gaze when I saw the tide of crimson suffusing her cheeks; and had I been observed by the major,-who was exchanging at the moment some pretty tart expressions with one of the provost force,-I am quite sure he would have resented it. 
               Our unfortunate business at this office having terminated favorably, as I knew it would, we walked away together, the major animadverting strongly upon the unnecessary officiousness of all police spies of government, while Marietta was profuse in her expressions of gratitude for my kind, unsolicited interference in her behalf. 
               On nearing one of the large squares of the city, where a regiment of soldiers was encamped, I deemed it prudent to take leave of my newly made friends, and repair to my own private quarters. On intimating such an intention, the major said, with much warmth and earnestness,- 
               'I protest, captain, you must not leave us thus abruptly; we must be better acquainted.' 
               'We shall meet frequently, I do not doubt,' I answered. 
               'That is by no means certain. I may not get another day off duty for a fortnight; and your duties at headquarters may prevent you from having an opportunity of visiting my regiment, which at present is guarding a line of works in the outer defences. So I insist on your accompanying us. What say you, cousin?' 
               'I hope Captain Temple will be persuaded,' replied Marietta; 'and as you have promised to dine with me, I hope the captain will consent to make one of our little dinner party. You know, cousin, that my dear Aunt Crawford gave me a carte blanche to invite any of my friends to partake of such hospitality as her house afforded. I am sure that the captain will consider himself one of my best friends.' 
               'There, Temple, you cannot refuse after such an invitation,' exclaimed the major. 
               'Miss Marland does me great honor, indeed. I shall be proud to be ranked even among the least of her friends; but--' 
               'Halt, there, captain,-we can't admit of any excuses. Were I in your place I should surrender at discretion,' urged the major. 
               'I admit that the temptation is very great; but there are--' 
               'Nay, captain, the major is the superior officer,' said Marietta, facetiously, 'and when he commands, subordinates must obey.' 
               'Not when a lady is in the question,' I answered. 'The prerogative belongs to Miss Marland.' 
               'Then, captain, my order is that you dine with us to-day!' said she, with an authoritative air. 
               'Fairly caught, captain!' exclaimed the major. 'Coz, you did that well.' 
               'I bow in submission to the most irresistible of commanders,' I replied. 
               My deliberate judgment would have dissuaded me from being so readily made the guest of my new made friends; but I gave the matter so little consideration, that I permitted myself to continue the interview with my agreeable companions for a little time longer. 
                
               We had now turned into the street made memorable to me by one of the most daring and dangerous adventures I had yet encountered. Not having the most remote idea of the situation of the residence of Miss Marland's aunt, judge of my surprise and amazement, when we reached the spot where I had performed the duty of sentinel as a substitute for Potiphar Tomlinson, Miss Marland said, 'This is the house,' and began to ascend the steps. 
               If I was startled, and did hesitate, I recovered myself in time not to be observed. I felt almost as if I were led into a trap expressly prepared for me; and after I had entered the drawing-room, and was introduced to 'Aunt Crawford,' an aristocratic and dignified looking lady of some fifty years of age, my heart throbbed as if my character and sex had already been discovered. But fortunately, the good aunt had so many anxious inquiries to make in regard to the effects of the terrific bombardment of that morning, to be answered by the two cousins, that for the time attention was withdrawn from me. Their experience of the morning was fully rehearsed, and the manner of making the 'agreeable acquaintance of Captain Temple' was explained to the good lady's entire satisfaction. 
               The conversation now turned upon other subjects,-of a kindred nature, however,-touching the prospects of raising the seige, and the triumphs and the reverses of the confederate armies in other sections of rebeldom; and by way of variety, a most interesting topic was introduced-the Female Spy-that portion of her exploits known to the parties,-Miss Marland relating in detail, with tolerable accuracy, and probably for the twentieth time, the part the spy played in Jackson; the major narrating her hairbreadth escapes in Vicksburg, with some remarkable embellishments; and Mrs. Crawford giving quite a glowing account of her having taken refuge in that very house at a time when she herself was absent, and the unaccountable and almost miraculous manner in which she had escaped the detection of the servants, and also of the officers who had thoroughly searched the house. 
               These things, of course, were all well-known to the hostess, and to the nephew and niece, but they were now rehearsed especially for my edification. I bore the infliction like a martyr, and used as many exclamations of astonishment as if every point touched upon was entirely new to me. 
               This subject having been exhausted, the major arose and said: 
               'What say you to a ride to Fort Pemberton, coz, before dinner? I am sure Captain Temple will be glad to see this impregnable work. And Aunt Crawford, you will go, too?' 
               'No, Henry, I must remain at home. You know we have but two servants now-the others are at work in the mine,' replied the hostess. 'But you go, by all means. Our carriage is at your service. Our coachman can drive.' 
               'No, aunty, we will not take him from you, interposed Miss Marland. 'Cuffee, who has nothing else to do, and who is an excellent coachman, shall drive.' 
               I was again startled. That ebony friend of mine seemed to arise like a great black mark against me. What if he should recognize, in spite of my present disguise, the once brief occupant of Magnolia Villa, and in his astonishment utter an exclamation that would betray me? My uniform good luck must save me now, or the consequences will be terrible. 
               Cuffee was forthwith summoned to the hall. Mrs. Crawford stepped out, and gave him instructions to get the carriage in readiness, adding that Pompey would aid him in harnessing the horses. 
               Pompey, too, was another object that I did not care to encounter face to face, though I imagined he had much less penetration than his darker colored brother. 
               In the course of twenty minutes the carriage riage was announced, and we arose to take our departure. 
               'Remember,' said our hostess, 'that we dine at four o'clock, and Chloe is punctual to a minute. 
               Chloe! One after another it seemed as if the ghosts of my sable acquaintances rose up before me. 
               'Oh, we shall return before that time, aunty,' replied Miss Marland, as we passed down the steps. 
               The cousins preceded me, and the major, after assisting the lady into the barouche, insisted on my taking the back seat beside her. 
               As I stepped across the sidewalk I could not avoid casting a glance at the tall, dignified looking mustee, whom I had first encountered in the passage-way leading to the rear of that very mansion. There was no perceptible movement of the muscles of his face, and no flash from his dark eye, that indicated a discovery. Nor was his gaze fixed upon me after the first glance. He closed the door of the carriage, looked at the harness and horses to see that all was right, and indicating the same to our Jehu, he turned upon his heel and walked towards the house, and the prancing horses and aristocratic barouche rolled away. 
               Cuffee, in his livery, sat upon the box, the very personification of sable dignity. His appearance called to my mind my first ride from Magnolia Villa to the city of Jackson in that stately, venerable-looking vehicle-the family coach of the Marlands in the palmy days of their pride and prosperity. 
               As yet, he had not turned his head. It seemed as if he had no pivot to turn upon; for he received and obeyed orders without a movement of that venerable caput, but with the invariable answer-'Ees, massa.' 
               I soon had an admirable opportunity of viewing a portion of the defences of the city which I had not before visited, and with which the major appeared to be most thoroughly familiar, for he explained to his cousin and myself, with admirable clearness, all the peculiarities of every work that came under our observation. 
               At length we reached the main approach to the grand fortification-the impregnable barrier which stood in the way of the besiegers-Fort Pemberton. On that marvel of military engineering the hopes of the defenders of Vicksburg mainly depended. It was their great stronghold, and none dared to suggest that all the material and stratgetic powers of the Yankees could prevail against it, little dreaming that they whom they boastingly defied were already prosecuting a plan which must end in its downfall. 
               On alighting, we found no difficulty in gaining a ready ingress through the ponderous gate which led to the esplanade within, for the major was an intimate acquaintance of the officer of the day, a gentleman who had also recognized me as one he had seen at the headquarters of the general-in-chief. Besides, my staff insignia was a general pass to all guarded places within that military department. 
               Another officer, who was off duty, and who was also an acquaintance of Major Marland's, very generously offered to act as our cicerone. He led us first to the parapets, where he many times repeated a caution not to show our heads above the crown of the wall. He shew us the great guns, told us their calibre and their effectiveness. We then followed him down to the casemates, and through the quarters of several of the soldiers, located beneath the possibility of being reached either by shell or shot. The magazines, too, were made a matter of special interest to us, and he told us to a pound how much powder they contained, and how many tons of shot, shell and grenades were available for the defence of that all-important work. 
               But the most interesting feature of the fortification-which the officer told us was kept a secret from all except the officers of the fort, and those who worked therein,- was the tunnel which was being dug far beneath one of the casemates, and which was intended to extend toward and beneath the enemy's approaches. A well had been sunk some thirty or forty feet, and the tunneling had progressed about thirty feet, and when completed to the supposed effective distance, a mine of powder was to be deposted, which, when sprung, would cause death and destruction to all around. 
               I had heard some unsatisfactory allusion to what I supposed to be this very mining operation, at head-quarters, and of course I was eager to gather all the particulars in regard to it, both by examination and by the descriptive details of our guide. These I carefully treasured up in my memory, fully appreciating the importance the knowledge thereof would be to him whom I was serving. 
               After complying with a pressing invitation from our gentlemanly cicerone, to make a call at his quarters and refresh ourselves with a glass of claret, we left this famous fortification, feeling that an hour and a half had been well spent. 
               We found Cuffee and the carriage where we had left them. He was no longer mounted upon the box, for there was no one to act the part of footman, and he stood beside the carriage door awaiting our coming. 
               As we approached, I saw that his eyes were bent upon me. I quickly drew forth a handkerchief, and pretended to wipe the perspiration from my brow, but really for the purpose of partially concealing my features. But it was too late; he had obtained a good view of my face, and as I drew nearer, he held up both hands and gazed upwardly in a prayerful attitude, and I heard him utter these words: 
               'Gorra bress my soul!' and he gave such a look of intelligence, that I put one finger suddenly over my mouth as a signal for him to maintain perfect silence. He seemed to understand it, and mounted his box without further observation, and drove towards the central part of the city at a much brisker rate than he had driven out of it. 
               For some reason or other our conversation began to grow spiritless on our ride homeward. The major was as talkative as ever, but a spell seemed to have fallen upon the wonted vivacity of Miss Marland; and as for myself, my brains had surely gone wool-gathering, for I frequently made answers to the major without precisely knowing what he was talking about. I almost felt that I was riding on to my certain destruction. 
               At length we arrived at Mrs. Crawford's residence, and as we alighted, I could not avoid directing a few glances towards our ebony driver; and although his gaze met mine, his face was as stolid as a lump of anthracite coal. 'There was no speculation in the eyes that he did glare with.' 
               Mrs. Crawford welcomed us back with most cordial expressions, and after being assured that we had enjoyed our ride and had a most interesting visit at Fort Pemberton, dinner was announced. 
               The banquet was quite a sumptuous one, and although I had not eaten a mouthful that day, I lacked the appetite to do the luxurious viands ample justice, but I made a most extraordinary effort to do my full share in the animated conversation in which all took part, made the more difficult by the constant attention of Pompey in waiting upon the guests, and by the frequent appearance of Chloe, as one course followed another. 
               It was indeed a relief to me when, after being seated at that hospitable table for a long hour and a half, our little party arose and returned to the drawing-room. 
               Here we resumed conversation, and after such time as I thought that I might bid my agreeable friends adieu with a proper grace, and was on the eve of carrying out this intention, the major looked at his watch, arose hastily, and begged that we might excuse his absence for half an hour to fulfill a brief engagement that he had entered into. 
               'Captain,' added he, 'do not fail to let me find you here on my return.' 
               'I will answer for that,' said Miss Marland, as he hastily left the room; for I shall make a most desperate effort to entertain him until your return.' 
               'Do so,' said he, and was gone, without giving me an opportunity to explain to him why it was necessary for me to take my leave very soon; for I had already framed a most plausible excuse in my own mind. 
               I was now alone with the heiress of Magnolia Villa, for our agreeable hostess had excused herself, on account of some urgent domestic duties, before we left the dining-room. 
               'I said I should make a most desperate effort to entertain you during my cousin's short absence,' said she, seating herself rather nearer to me than a maiden's modesty would have permitted under ordinary circumstances; and not content with this familiarity she absolutely placed my hand within hers, and, looking me in the face, said: 
               'Pardon me, captain; if I am not mistaken I have discovered your secret!' 
               'My secret?' I ejaculated, not a little startled. 
               'Yes, your secret. But be not alarmed; we are alone.' 
               'Do I look alarmed?' said I, with tremulous accent. 
               'I confess that you do. Now tell me and tell me truly, is not this little hand, so delicate and white, the hand of a lady?' 
               I was dumb. 
               'Your silence says, Yes. I slightly suspected you soon after we left the cave this morning. My suspicions grew stronger as you walked with us hither, and they were fully confirmed when I saw that Cuffee had recognized you. Without appearing to watch you I have scrutinized you closely. And it is fortunate, perhaps, that you are a woman; for I should have fallen in love with you had you been what you at first appeared to be. I strongly suspect that my cousin, the major,-who, by the by, is a married man-thinks that I surely have lost my heart.' 
               'I must believe, Miss Marland that you are sincere in believing me one of your own sex; your every action, as well as your words show it,' said I, without implicating myself. 
               'I cannot blame you for your reluctance to admit it,' she resumed; 'but you can open your heart to me with perfect safety; for I confess that, having been reared to love the Union and its starry symbol, I can have no sympathy with this cruel rebellion. With your cause I alone sympathize, and trust it will prevail against those who would crush out every hope of liberty, and destroy this great and glorious republic.' 
               'Do you not endanger your own liberty by thus expressing yourself in this hot bed of rebels?' I inquired. 
               'To you only have I confided my true thoughts on this subject since I came within the rebel lines.' 
               'And we will confide in each other. I am a woman!' said I, no longer hesitating. 
               'I knew it! I knew it!' she exclaimed, in low but enthusistic tones, and throwing herself into my arms, embraced me with sisterly affection. 'And you are the Female Spy?' she added, in a whisper. 
               'I confess it.' 
               'And you were at Jackson a few weeks ago?' 
               'I was.' 
               'And at Magnolia Villa, too?' 
               'I cannot deny it.' 
               'And caused my fortune to be restored to me by that avaricious and criminal guardian of mine-Obadiah Tomlinson?' 
               'I certainly did something of that kind.' 
               'You are, indeed, my good angel; and oh! how I have longed to see you. To speak the truth, that was my errand in Vicksburg. I thought, perhaps, that a remote mote chance might throw you in my way; and how providentially it has happened.' 
               'How providentially, too, it is by a Unionist that I have been discovered!' 
               'Oh, yes; and that bids me warn you to be extremely cautious; for I know it would go hard with you if you should be detected.' 
               'I know all,' said I. 
               'Then, for my sake, be cautious.' 
               'Think you that your cousin or aunt have a suspicion that I am other than what I seem?' 
               'Not the slightest. Give yourself no uneasiness in that direction. Cuffee, I am sure, knows all; but he is as true as steel, and would die an ignominious death rather than betray you. We have talked over this matter and we agree perfectly. He looks upon you as the saviour of our house-a sort of divinity sent expressly to thwart the machinations of the evil one, personified in Obadiah Tomlinson. Let me now ask you, my good friend, if you received a letter from me soon after you had arrived in Vicksburg from Jackson?' 
               'Such a letter I did receive; and I assure you that I was agreeably surprised that you did not seem the least offended for the liberty I had taken with your name and position. It took a weight of lead from my heart; for if my conscience has troubled me in anything that has happened since I dared to assume my present dangerous character, it was that I had trespassed upon the right of an innocent lady, though all I did seemed almost involuntary upon my part.' 
               'How could I have been displeased when all that you did inured only to my benefit? and now how can I repay you for such great service?' 
               'By being my friend and keeping my secret,' I answered. 
               'I would reward you pecuniarily. I have a well-falled purse of gold that I would place in your hands as a slight token of my gratitude.' 
               'Nay, Miss Marland, gold I do not need; and if I did, I protest that you owe me nothing. Rather let us mutually agree that we will be each other's sworn friend! and when this war is ended, and peace once more reigns within the borders of this fair land, then it is my warmest desire to make you a visit at Magnolia Villa, and see once more that paradise of earthly habitations.' 
               'Oh, how joyful that will be!' exclaimed Marietta, with enthusiasm. 'Won't that be delightful? What gay times we will have! You shall tell me your history, and I will tell you--but here comes the major, and I must put on my dignity, and you must not forget that you are still Captain Temple,' and she took a seat at the centre-table, and began turning over the leaves of a photographic album, filled with grey-coated generals, brigadiers, colonels, majors, captains, etc. 
               'Am I punctual in my engagements?' said the major, entering the drawing-room with a watch in his hand. 'I told you I would return in half an hour, and it is now just thirty minutes and forty seconds since I left you. How have you enjoyed yourself, captain? Has my cousin played the agreeable?' 
               'Oh, I assure you that I have been surprisingly well entertained,' I replied. 
               'Ah! I thought so. But beware, captain; I more than half suspect that my cousin is given to eoquetry. It has always been the way with the feminines of the Marland family,' said the major, facetiously. 
               'You can't plague me, cousin Henry, by intimating that I am a flirt,' she replied, good-naturedly; 'for I do so love to tease your self-styled "lords of creation," that I never let an opportunity escape.' 
               'There, captain, I told you so,' resumed Major Marland. 'You have her own confession; and it is well that you are warned in time. It is no small thing to understand our modern young ladies, before we get too far within their magnetic influence.' 
               'Henry, if you were not my kinsman, I should say, most emphatically, that you are decidedly impertinent,' said Miss Marland, assuming a dignified manner. 
               'Oh! I ask pardon, my sweet coz,' returned the major, 'but the truth is, I met a friend-an old classmate of mine at Harvard-and we took a glass of wine together.' 
               'I'll wager it was whiskey!' said Marietta, with a satirical smile. 
               'Well,-I don't know but it was whiskey-wine or whiskey, it's all the same to me; but I have felt elevated about three feet and a half from the earth ever since I drank it. Therefore, I am entitled to your consideration;' and saying this, the major threw himself into an easy chair, and in less than ten minutes he had journeyed so far into the land of dreams that it was thought best not to disturb him. 
               I took this opportunity to take leave of this hospitable mansion, promising, however, that if it were possible, I would again call before the day fixed for Miss Marland's leaving Vicksburg. 
               On retiring to my couch that night, I could not but think the events of that day were the most singular that I had ever experienced. But I also had premonitions that I was yet to play a part in a scene of a more exciting nature than any in which I had as yet participated. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               A REVELATION NOT MEANT FOR FEDERAL EARS-A YANKEE DESERTER-A CHANGE OF BASE AND A CHANGE OF CHARACTER. 
               PUNCTUAL to the hour of ten, on the succeeding morning, I reported myself at headquarters. I found the general engaged in conversation with his chief-of-staff, and it affected my nerves not a little to find that it related to the Female Spy, who thus far had baffled all their efforts at detection. The great rebel commander was evidently in ill-humor; he animadverted severely upon the inefficiency of the detective force, and threatened a radical change in this department. 
               'Some changes, I have no doubt could be made to advantage,' said the chief-of-staff; 'but as a whole we have regarded them as an efficient body of men, zealous and loyal, and generally successful.' 
               'And yet the most important piece of work they had to do has been a perfect failure,' replied the general. 'I find that all our plans are as well known to the federal commander as they are to ourselves. He knows our weak points and our strong ones; and I have no doubt that he has an accurate estimate of our inadequate supplies of war munitions, and the number of days' subsistance that we have in our store-houses. All our attempts to get additional supplies and additional troops into the city have been frustrated by the knowledge and vigilance of our enemies. 
               Until the spy came into our midst, everything went along satisfactorily; now we appear to be baffled in every movement we attempt. If matters progress this way much longer, our surrender must become inevitable. 
               'I think we need be under no further apprehension from this mischievous spy,' remarked the staff-officer; 'for it is clearly evident to my mind that she has effected her escape through our lines, and taken her budget of intelligence with her.' 
               'I am not so clear on that,' resumed the general; 'at all events, if such is the fact, the detectives should not in any degree relax their efforts.' 
               At this point in the conversation, an orderly appeared, and placed a despatch in the hands of the commander, who broke the seal at once and perused its contents. 
               'It is a note from Captain H--, an officer on picket duty informing me that a deserter, wearing the insignia of a major of the federal army, came into our lines last night.' 
               'A major!' ejaculated the chief-of-staff. It is not frequent that an officer of so high a rank deserts.' 
               'The letter further informs me,' resumed the general; 'that he has sent the said deserter, under escort, to the provost-marshal's headquarters for examination. Captain H. has acted prudently. The deserter shall be most thoroughly examined; for who knows but he, too, is a spy? If he is not, he will be able to communicate to us much information concerning the plans of the besiegers. Colonel, you will immediately cause an order to be sent to the provost-marshal for that officer to accompany in person this stranger here forthwith. I am impatient to hear what intelligence he brings; and I desire your presence at the interview.' 
               The chief-of-staff forthwith retired, for the purpose of seeing the order duly executed. 
               At that time. I was seated in a distant part of the room, apparently very intently engaged in perusing a newspaper. The general turned towards me and said: 
               'Captain Temple, I have no special work for you to-day. However, on second thought, it is possible I may require your services in the course of the morning. Please remain within call about the quarters, for there is no knowing what an hour may bring forth. The countersign of the day is-"The Southern Cross."' The latter he gave in a whisper. 
               I arose and signified that I should be in readiness to perform any duty, and retired from his presence. 
               I walked up and down the hall a few times, ruminating upon what I had heard. My curiosity was greatly excited to know who this deserter could be; and knowing that he must pass through the hall, I should be enabled to see him and perhaps recognise him. A major! What if he should turn out to be--. I did not stop to think further, for I must not be recognized by him-and stepped out of the hall into a small apartment, the window of which overlooked the court-yard, through which visitors usually passed on coming and going. 
               The court-yard was now quite clear, and with the exception of the arrival or departure of an occasional officer, there was nothing to attract my attention or obstruct the view intervening between the grand entrance and the building. 
               Presently a carriage suddenly came dashing through the gate, and drew up directly beneath the window where I stood. 
               The first to alight was one of the general's aids, and after him the provost-marshal. Then an obese figure, clad in the uniform of a federal officer, holding his head as if he were ashamed of his blue habiliments. 'Oh, my prophetic soul!' I required but one glance at his features to satisfy all my curiosity-the deserter was Major Jenefer!
                
               Here was a dilemma. To meet him face to face-to be recognized, to be denounced by him-could not but result in my detection. I weighed all the possibilities and probabilities. I had but recently come from the federal lines, and the general might summon me to take notes of the interview, or, perchance to ascertain if I had recognized him while at the federal head-quarters. He would of course relate the adventure which brought him into disgrace with the federal commander,-and what then? I did not stop to discuss the matter further with myself, but I darted out of this room, and quickly availed myself of the secret passage. 
               My egress was easy, and I was once more in the street, making my way with all possible despatch towards my own private quarters, which I must quickly exchange for others. 
               On arriving there, I found a note, evidently in a lady's hand writing, lying on my table. I broke the seal, and took therefrom a valuable diamond ring, and read as follows: 
               'Accept this as a token of the affectionate regard of M. M. May God protect and preserve you.' 
                
               I placed the ring upon my finger, and summoning my excellent coadjutor and faithful friend, Madame Ramsey, I informed her that I must immediately change my costume and also my quarters. I explained briefly the imminent danger in which I stood, and the pressing necessity for carrying out these sudden conclusions of mine. 
               She readily comprehended the situation, and bade me be ready in five minutes to accompany her. I gathered up such of my papers as would be useful to me; and destroying others, I left my room and rejoined Madame Ramsey in the hall below. She had donned a bonnet and shawl, and was ready to depart-whither I knew not. 
               'Go not with me,' said she; 'but where-ever I go, follow; but at such a distance in the rear as may not attract attention, and not so far as to make it possible to lose sight of me.' 
               I nodded an assent, and she opened a door at the rear of the house, and after crossing a garden, gained egress into a narrow lane, which led towards the Vicksburg and Brandon railway station. I followed on as directed, and after crossing the railway, and ascending the hill beyond, she turned into a street which seemed to be almost, if not entirely depopulated, where the few houses which had escaped a severe conflagration in that quarter, were actually riddled with heavy shot and shell. 
               At this time there was not visible a person in this street besides my indefatigable guide and myself. At length she stopped, opened a gate of a once tenantable house, descended some steps leading to the basement, unlocked the door and entered. In less than two minutes afterwards I, too, descended those same steps, and in the basement found Madame Ramsey awaiting my appearance. 
               'I could think of nothing better to be done than to bring you hither,-a part of the city which is entirely deserted,' said she; 'and, indeed, it is considered so dangerous,-being within range of the federal fleet-that but few persons venture here now. There is scarcely a room in the house, above this basement floor, that is habitable; but it must answer for your place of refuge, until something better can be devised.' 
               On my way hither I had made up my mind to assume another character, providing a disguise could be obtained. 
               'I cannot remain long here in this lonesome place,' said I, in reply; 'hitherto I owe my safety more to boldly mixing with those who would gladly expose me, than in attempting to conceal myself; besides, it is essential to the grand object of my mission to be among those from whom information can be obtained.' 
               'What do you propose?' asked Madame Ramsey. 
               'I have thought of personating a country lad,-a verdant youth-and enlist forthwith in the rebel army.' 
               'You will find it a rough and unpleasant position.' 
               'It is my only alternative. A coarse, home-spun suit, a straw hat, and a wig, are what I require, and the rest I think I can readily make up.' 
               'It shall be procured at once,' replied Madame Ramsey. 'But,' added she, hesitatingly, 'how do you expect to undergo the examination of a raw recruit?' 
               'Unless the rebel recruiting officers are more particular than those of the West, I shall have but little to fear on that score. Physical examinations are "more honored in the breach than the observance," and I doubt not that the rebels are too much in need of soldiers to seek for defects which might lose them a recruit. Besides, there are women in the ranks of the federals whose sex have never been discovered.' 
               The query of my kind auxiliary was certainly a startling one, but my reply seemed to quiet her apprehensions. 
               Accordingly, after enjoining upon me under no ordinary circumstances to show myself self outside of the premises, and to keep the door bolted on the inside, she departed on her errand. 
               To remain alone in a deserted house for even a brief period was by no means agreeable to my feelings; but contrasted with the cell of a prison or a guard-house, it was infinitely to be preferred. I employed the first half hour of my voluntary imprisonment in visiting the various rooms of the house, from the basement to the attic. It was a mansion of no mean pretensions, but in its present state it seemed gloomy enough for the dwelling of a hermit. The furniture, with the exception of a few ricketty old chairs and a broken table, had been removed. Its last occupants had apparently been obliged to leave it so hurriedly, that they could not spare the time necessary to put it in a cleanly condition. 
               The next hour I employed in looking over and arranging the papers that I had hastily gathered together at my late quarters, and adding some notes with a pencil, touching the appearance of Major Jenefer at the headquarters of the rebel general, and other matters of less note,-all of which being intended for the officer whom I really served. 
               I had scarcely finished when I heard the well-known tap of Madame Ramsey at the basement door. I hurried down, and in a moment more she had entered, and produced a parcel of clothing, which she unfolded to my view. She likewise had been considerate enough to bring me some refreshment, which she knew I must need, although I had not given the matter of food a single thought since I had eaten my breakfast, a period of between eight and nine hours. 
               Before eating, however, I retired to a chamber, where I quickly metamorphosed myself from a dashing young staff-officer into a verdant looking plough-boy, of some seventeen or eighteen years of age, with a pair of eyes that had never been injured at Bull Run, and a knotted red wig, which looked as if it had done much good service upon the caput of some 'mad wag' of the 'sock and buskin.' A pair of hob-nailed shoes and a browned straw hat, rather the worse for wear, together with a pair of tow breeches and a blue jean frock or blouse, made up my unique costume. 
               'How do you like my appearance?' said I to Mrs. Ramsey, assuming an attitude that could not be regarded as a model of grace. 
               ''Pon my word, I'd take my Bible oath that I never saw you before in my life; and yet I have seen on market days, in this city, boys that looked very much like you,' she replied. 'You needn't fear that anybody has eyes keen enough to penetrate that disguise. If the recruiting officers aint too particular, your real character won't be suspected.' 
               'Depend upon it, Madame, they will be glad enough to get a healthy looking recruit like myself; and they'll urge me to enroll my name without a question.' 
               'And what then?' 
               'Why, I shall be put into the awkward squad of course, for drill, when I shan't know my right foot from my left, nor two paces to the front from two paces to the rear, until I am taught. Oh, I shall put the drill-sergeant's patience to the test, you may be well assured, but I will report to you from time to time as favorable opportunities may offer.' 
               At length, Mrs. Ramsey left me, with the understanding that I was to keep the key of the deserted house, to use in case of an emergency, and by no means to visit her house except at night. 
               To avoid the possibility of compromising her with me-in case I should be discovered-I tarried in my house of refuge until she must have disappeared from the street. Then I went forth resolutely, and feeling confident that there were ninety-nine chances out of a hundred that I should not be recognized, even by those who had known me as Capt. Temple of General P--'s staff. 
                
               I sauntered through the streets like any country bumpkin, or flat-boat boy, gazing into the shop windows and reading the signs; and it did not anger me in the least when I met two Vicksburg belles, who observed me as I passed, and then hearing one say to the other, 'There goes a greeny!' and a merry laugh followed. It was not very polite in them, but I suppose they couldn't help it. 
               Soon afterward I met several officers whom I had seen at head-quarters, but they took no notice of me whatever. 
               Presently I came to a provision store-a small establishment for retailing meats and vegetables. There was a placard in the window which said-'Boy wanted.' 
               The proprietor eyed me with some interest, and then came to the door, and asked me if I would like the situation. 
               'That be'z 'cordin to the work and the wages,' I replied, a sudden thought occurring to me that to accept the proffered place would be the most discreet thing I could do. 
               'Are you much acquainted with the streets of the city?' 
               'I reckon I be'z.' 
               'Shouldn't wonder if you'd do, my lad,' replied the huckster. 'I want a boy to run errands in the mornin', tend shop in the forenoon, and in the afternoon his time's his own.' 
               'That be'z not much to larn. How much wages will I be gittin?' 
               'Thirty dollars a month,-in good confed'rit money.' 
               'I'd make more by 'listin', and go a sogerin. I hearn that they give orful big bounties now.' 
               'Precious little bounty they'll give a boy o' your years. Besides, you'll stand a good chance of getting an ounce of Yank lead in yer hide.' 
               'That's what I be'z 'fraid on. Now, if you'd gin me, say thirty-five dollars a month, I'll go into your sarvice and make a trial on't. Can't go for less, coz confed'rit money, I hearn tell, ain't wuth more'n half price.' 
               'It's good as gold, every rag of it; but I'm so much in need of a sprightly boy to do my chores, that I'll accept your offer and call it thirty-five, and you may come tomorrow morning.' 
               'Can I leave if I duzn't like the business?" 
               'Certainly, and if you don't suit me I shall claim the right to discharge you without notice.' 
               'That be'z fair, and I'll come bright and airly. But I shall have to gin up my old boardin' house way down to the end of the town, and get one right nigh here.' 
               'There's a good and cheap place a few doors from here, kept by a good, honest Dutchman. Come with me, and I'll speak a good word for yer, for you look like an honest boy.' 
               'Oh, I be'z honest, sir.' 
               The huckster closed the door, turned the key, and bade me follow him. 
               'By the bye, you haven't told me your name.' 
               'Reuben.' 
               'Is that your whole name?' 
               'Jest one third on't. My name's Reuben Robert Randle. Sometimes I'm called Reub and sometimes Bob-I doesn't mind much which.' 
               This was satisfactory to my new employer, and he asked me no more questions. I followed him into a small Dutch inn, where he made my errand known to the landlord, and after a little bantering, the price of my board and lodging was fixed at six dollars a week, in advance. 
               Having first ascertained that I could have a decently clean room to lodge in, I took a receipted bill from mine host for one week's board, paying for the same in confederate notes. 
               The remainder of that day and evening I spent in my new quarters, making up a despatch in cipher, to be forwarded to the besieging sieging commander by any possible expedient that might suggest itself to my mind. 
               On the following morning I entered upon my duties at the huckster's. During the early hours he had a great many customers, the poorer of which carried away their purchases, while the gentry depended upon having their baskets of provisions left at their several residences. 
               By ten o'clock there was quite a formida-able array of baskets, each and all of which it was expected that I was to deliver, according to the direction given on the label. 
               I had devoted myself so vigorously to the interests of my employer, that I had really some need of rest before commencing the most important part of my duties. However, as most of his customers lived but short distances from the shop, I sat about the task with most commendable zeal, and by twelve o'clock, only two or three baskets remained. Of these one was addressed to Madame Crawford, No.-,--street. 
               I left this for the last; in the meantime debating in my mind whether I would deliver it myself or hire some boy to perform the task for me. 
               I finally boldly decided upon the former, and in a few minutes afterwards I was trudging slowly towards that mansion, where I had been so generously entertained, and where I had spent one night at least in painful anxiety. On reaching the door I met the familiar face of Chloe, who gazed at me with an expression of surprise. 
               'Lor bress us! Massa Plumer hab got a new boy!' she exclaimed. 'Dat I spose am de raison why de purvisions didn't cum afo'. I shuahly tought we'd hab no dinner to cook to-day.' 
               'I cum'd as quick as I could; but I be'z orful tired,' was my answer, drawing a long, heavy breath. 
               'Poo' child; sot yousef right down wile ole Chloe empties de basket; an' I'll be as long as pos'ibly can 'bout t,' said she, good-naturedly. 'We shan't hab dinner till late dis day, becase we got comp'ny.' 
               'That be'z what I thought.' 
               'How did you cum to tink dat?' 
               'Whoy, the basket be so much more hefty than any I've carried yet.' 
               'Poo' chile. It am fort'nate dat de ress were lighter. You muss b'long to sum ob de poo' wite fooks, wot don't hab no massa nor missuses to look arter dem, and gib dem plenty ob wittles and close.' 
               'You see I be workin' for a livin'. 
               'Poo' chile. Wite fooks down heah aint fit to work for a livin'. Wy don't you go list for a soger? you am moss big enuff,' she suggested. 
               'I duzn't keer to be shot with a Yankee bullet,' I answered. 
               'Wal, I tink if I was one ob' dem poo' wite fooks I shouldn't keer much if I war shot wid any kine of a bullet. I rader be shot dan starve to deff. Now, if you war ony a culud boy, an' had a good massa an' missus, how much better you'd be off in de world.' 
               'And be a slave?' 
               'Am you any better dan a slabe now? You hab got a massa now, an' you am doing de work ob a slabe.' 
               'I can leave him when I be'z a mind to.' 
               'Dat's de pint. Dat's wot's de matter. When you go way from him you muss get anoder massa or starve to deff. You am neber satisfied wid de same massa but a little wile at a time, an' you lose a good deal ob time runnin' arter new massas. Now de slabe hab one massa, an' he can't leabe him, so he larns to be content, an' if he behabe hesef, he hab eberyting he needs to hab to make dis life cumfut'ble.' 
               It was useless to combat Chloe's singular reasoning; but for all her attempts to defend the peculiar institution which held her in bondage, I before had good reasons for believing that underlying her expressed views, her deepest sympathies were with those who were attempting to emancipate her race from the condition which she seemed so remarkably well satisfied with. 
               I now received from her hands the empty basket, and thanking her for allowing me to rest myself in her kitchen, where she reigned supreme, I took my leave. 
               On gaining the street, I met the gaze of Miss Marland, who was seated at the open window: and although I purposely permitted her to have a good view of my physiognomy, I saw not the slightest indication of recognition on her beautiful countenance. 
               'You have done so well, young man, to begin with, that the rest of the day is yours,' said my employer, as I laid down the last empty basket. 
               'I be'z very much obleeged to you, sir,' said I. 
               'Well, how d'ye like your work?' 
               'I be'z very tired.' 
               'It'll come easier you get used to't.' 
               I immediately repaired to my new lodgings, and after resting my weary body upon a lounge, I partook of a hearty dinner, and then sauntered out on a tour of observation. 
               Pursuing my rambles I arrived at a small square, on one side of which was a recruiting office, and directly in front a squad of raw recruits going through their first exercises in marching, countermarching, and other movements, without arms. 
               I seated myself upon a rude bench, as if interested in their awkward movements. 
               Presently a recruiting sergeant, who, I perceived, noticed me from the first, approached me and said, in very respectful terms,- 
               'Well, my lad, how would you like to be a soldier?' 
               'I be'z going to be one when I gets old enough,' I replied. 
               'Why, you're old enough to be one now. What do you do for a living?' 
               'I duz the errands for a provision shop, where I gits six dollars a week.' 
               'That's nothing. If you will enlist, you will get twenty dollars a month, beside your rations, and a bounty of two hundred dollars, cash down, in good confederate money.' 
               'When duz you want me to list?' 
               'Any time-now, if you like; to-morrow, or next day.' 
               'By jings! I be'z almost a mind to. Duz you think I'm strong and healthy enough to be a soldier?' 
               'You're the very picture of health.' 
               'But I hevn't got no soldier clothes.' 
               'Oh, but we shall give you a new, handsome uniform as soon as you enlist.' 
               'That's gin'rus, by jings! I'll go right down and tell Mr. Plumer that he must get another boy to carry his baskets for him; and 'fore to-morrow at this time I'll be here. But you'll hev the bounty money and soldier clothes ready for me, won't yer?' 
               'You may rely upon them.' 
               'Then I'm your-man.' 
               After a few more questions and answers had passed between us, I left the recruiting station, and wended my way back, fully resolved that to enlist in the rebel army was the safest course I could follow. 
               On the next morning I was again at the huckster's shop, when I informed Mr. Plumer that I had resolved to enlist in the army. He appeared not at all surprised, but regretted that he was to lose me, paying me, at the same time a very flattering compliment for the manner in which I had executed the duties of my place on the day before. I reciprocated his kind words by offering to carry the baskets on that day, and that, as I was going away before my first week had expired, I should take no pay for what I had done. 
               He accepted my services, and I once more went the rounds of his customers most diligently and faithfully. He offered me two dollars for my work, but I told him I should rather leave him with his good opinion than with a whole week's wages. He bade me, whenever I desired a favor, to make application to him, for I had acted like a good, honest boy. 
                
               At the hour agreed upon I made my appearance at the recruiting office. The sergeant seemed highly pleased to see me, when he, without delay, took me before the principal officer of the station, where the enlistment papers were readily made out, which I signed, and received in return the bounty money and a month's pay in advance. I was then taken into a store-room, and requested to select a uniform that would fit me. This I did without any one's assistance, and soon exchanged my comparatively coarse garments for a complete private's uniform of the army of the C. S. A. I then examined myself in a glass, not so much for the purpose of seeing how much my looks were improved by the change, but to satisfy myself that I did not in any manner resemble any other character than that I had assumed, except that of the huckster boy. I saw no reason to be dissatisfied with my new exterior, and received the congratulations of the sergeant on my improved appearance. 
               He accompanied me to the barracks near by, and requested me to select any one of the vacant bunks, to be used exclusively by me until I should be assigned to some regiment; and after informing me that I could go whither I pleased until nine o'clock, that evening, he left me. 
               On the following morning I was put into the 'awkward squad' for my first lessons in the military art. 
               Of course I appeared a perfect tyro. My toes, which turned in, had to be turned out; my body, which inclined to stoop, had to be straightened up; my shoulders, protruding to the front, had to be turned back; my head, which canted a little one side, had to be set squarely on my shoulders. 
               Then I had an awkward way of looking to the left, when the order was given 'eyes right,' and vice versa; then I forgot which was my right foot and which was the left, together with other mistakes, which the drill officer declared, made me about the greenest subject for military instruction that had ever fallen into his hands. 
               Three times on that day I was called out to drill, and the same number of times on the second. On the third day a musket was put into my hands, and I handled it about as awkwardly as did the man who had a fiddle put into his hands for the first time. 
               I was so afraid of dropping the breech thereof on my tender toes, that I was compelled to turn them in to avoid such a dread calamity. In fact, the heavy weapon, in going through the manual, produced ugly contortions of my limbs and body, all of which had to be drilled out of me, and nought but graceful movements substituted. 
               But I was an apt scholar, and by degrees, became so tolerably well skilled in the school of the soldier, as to warrant my superior officer in transferring me from the awkward squad to a company, where I was further drilled, and finally transferred to a regiment then doing duty at Fort Pemberton. 
               It was the post of all others that I would have chosen for my military experience, for when I was at the head-quarters of the general-in-chief of the Federal forces, I had access to the diagrams of certain engineering operations which were going on outside of the walls of Fort Pemberton, operations which the general himself fully explained to me in explanation of the drawings. 
               This knowledge aided me greatly, at least on one occasion, which I shall presently relate. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               THE SPY ON THE PARAPET-VIRGINIA'S PERIL-SPRINGING OF THE MINE. 
               THE crisis was approaching; the day for the final struggle for the stronghold of Vicksburg was near at hand. For seven days I had now performed the full duty of a private at Fort Pemberton; I had done guard duty both by night and by day; had practised at the deep-mouthed cannon on the parapet; with the long-range rifle at the loop-holes; and I was also instructed in the duty of throwing hand-grenades. 
               During this period I had gained a half-day's furlough; and I employed it in visiting Mrs. Ramsey, with the hope of finding in her possession some new instructions; but in this I was disappointed, from which I inferred that her usual facilities for receiving information from the other side of the lines had failed altogether. Indeed, it was inevitable that while I maintained the character of a spy in Vicksburg, I must act according to such circumstances as might present themselves, and in accordance with my best judgment. 
               After taking leave of my hitherto useful auxiliary, I directed my steps towards the mansion of Mrs. Crawford, with the hope of again seeing Miss Marland, though the period of her intended stay in the city had already expired. I had, before leaving my quarters, written a brief note, which it was my purpose to leave at the door of the mansion where she was sojourning, if I found that it was not practicable to gain a brief interview with her alone. 
               As good luck would have it, on approaching the house, I saw a negro emerge from the passage-way and cross the street; and although it was nearly dark, I could not mistake in in his person the faithful Cuffee. This fact convinced me that the lady had not yet taken her departure. I hurriedly ascended the steps and rang the bell, as if I had been a common post-boy on his round. 
               The bell was answered by a servant, to whom I made known the fact that I had a letter for Miss Marietta Marland, which I wished to deliver in person. 
               The servant disappeared, and in a few moments the lady herself came to the door, and looked slightly agitated on beholding a soldier wearing the uniform of a private. 
               'You have a letter for me,' said she in timid accents. 'It is from my cousin, Major Marland, I suppose? Step into the hall.' 
               'I have a letter, but it is not from him,' said I, advancing across the threshold. 'It is from Captain George Temple,' I added, in a whisper. 
               'He is safe, I hope?' she asked, in an inaudible voice. 
               'I assure you, by this token, he is,' and I held up to her view the sparkling gem which I had received from her. 
               'And in that dis--I see it all. Oh, I am so glad that nothing serious has befallen him! Come into the drawing room-there is no one there.' 
               'No, Miss Marland,-you must not be seen tete-a-tete with a common soldier. I only came to ask you if either your aunt or cousin know anything of the history of George Temple, or if they suspect anything?' 
               'My aunt is in happy ignorance; but the major has some inkling of the matter. He was here last evening, and told me that there had been quite an excitement at the general's head-quarters on account of the sudden disappearance of one of the staff-officers,-and it was suspected that he was in reality the Female Spy who had so troubled the wits of the provost's entire force to detect.' 
               'And they, I suppose, have no trace of him?' 
               'Not the slightest clue had been found up to last night; and I have been praying to Heaven that all their efforts might prove unavailing. But oh! it almost makes me shudder to know that you so boldly expose yourself.' 
               'It is by boldness that they have so frequently been led from the right path of pursuit.' 
               'And you are now a confederate soldier?' 
               'So it appears. From a raw recruit I have been drilled into quite an accomplished private in the ranks; indeed, they have made me a corporal, and if I am with them a week longer, I am sure of being promoted to the dignity of a sergeant.' 
               'Your adventures are most wonderful; but I cannot suppress a feeling of intense anxiety on your account. Every hour I have been apprehensive that I should hear the jubilant cry from the streets-"Arrest of the Female Spy!'" 
               'Give yourself no uneasiness, Miss Marland,' I replied, confidently. 'Farewell; for my furlough expires at nine o'clock, and I have yet a long walk to take.' 
               'But the letter?' 
               'Oh, you will not want that now. I have told you all that there was in it, and much more, I assure you. So, farewell.' 
               We embraced-kissed, and parted, and I then started off for Fort Pemberton, which I reached just before 'taps' were beaten. 
               Nothing of importance occurred on the following day besides the usual routine, except occasionally exchanging rifle shots, at long range, with the federal sharpshooters in the trenches; and also in throwing an occasional hand-grenade over the parapet towards the innermost line of the besiegers' intrenchments. 
               In the evening, most of those with whom I messed had obtained a furlough for the night; the remainder were on guard duty, so that I was quite alone in that part of the barracks, which our messmates occupied in common. 
               Here I found opportunity to devise a new means of conveying despatches into the enemy's line, and I proceeded at once to put it into execution. 
               I secured several hand-grenades, and having charged one of them in the manner which you, Col. Manly, have some knowledge of, I secreted it beneath the bunk I occupied, to be used only when a favorable opportunity should occur. 
               On the second day subsequent to my visit to the city, there was considerable activity among the sharpshooters at the loopholes of the fort; and from the parapets several were engaged in hurling hand-grenades therefrom, which, rolling down the bank would frequently explode in dangerous proximity to the federal sharpshooters in their intrenchments. 
               Having access to a field glass of one of the officers, I used it from so favorable a location that I could occasionally get a glimpse of the heads of the federal sharpshooters, as they would be raised up for a moment, to obtain a shot at the soldiers on the parapet, whenever they exposed themselves to hurl their lighted grenades. 
               While thus intently gazing through the glass, I distinctly saw a tall rifleman leap from out the entrenchment and mount an embankment and throw himself upon the earth. I then saw a grenade whiz through the air towards him, but it burst too far above him to do him the slighest injury. Another rebel boldly mounted the parapet, and the blazing meteor was about being hurled from his hand, when he was shot through the heart by a bullet fired by the tall rifleman. Another moment, and the grenade exploded in his hand, and wounded two or three others standing near by. 
               I then saw this daring rifleman leap to his feet and rush further up the embankment, and gain possession of a large rock which lay imbedded between the fort and the ditch he had left, and actually use it as a cover while performing his deadly work. But while performing this hazardous feat, he was greeted with a shower of bullets and grenades, besides the contents of a casemate gun. I, of course, anticipated seeing him roll down the embankment a corpse, but an occasional puff of smoke convinced me that he had suffered no disabling injury. 
               The face and figure of that bold man were familiar to me, and after a few moments' thought, I said to myself, 'That's Zeke Longrange, the Michigan sharpshooter.' 
               The sight of him was suggestive of a plan I had already matured. I hastened from the parapet to the casemates below, and thence wended my way so as to be the least observed, to my quarters at the barracks. They were at this hour completely deserted. I secured two grenades-one of which being the one that I had prepared for the conveyance of my mail, and the other not having been tampered with. 
               I bore them to the parapet, and selecting a favorable point nearest the federal sharpshooter, lighted one of the grenades, and sent it whizzing over the embankment, but wide of any mark that could do any injury. 
               'Hyar, young man, be keerful how yer 'spose yerself, or yer'll get a button-hole through yer jacket!' exclaimed a veteran soldier, who was standing near me. 
               'I'm bullet-proof,' I answered, as I lighted the fuse of my iron mail-pot, and deliberately stood on the most exposed part of the parapet for several seconds, and then hurled the bogus projectile directly towards the Michigan sharpshooter. I saw it strike the earth within a ramrod's length of this brave man, and then obeyed the loud warnings of a dozen rebels not to make myself a target for the Yankees. 
               I could distinctly perceive the harmless projectile I had thrown without the aid of a glass. A few minutes later I saw it drawn towards the sharpshooter with what I supposed to be the rammer of his rifle. He had gained possession of it, and I felt that it was in safe hands. Its fate you all know. 
               In some manner unknown to me,-perhaps it was mere conjecture-the rebels had gained knowledge of the mining operations which I knew were progressing towards Fort Pemberton. They were, accordingly, countermining, but in a direction which I knew could effect but little; and if they continued it for a day or two longer, it would prove but a human hecatomb for all who were engaged in the work. 
               The second of July,-in the morning-after a brisk cannonading between the fleet in the river and the batteries that had range of any of the vessels, the mine was sprung. A terrible, rumbling noise,-protracted for a few seconds like that of an earthquake,-shook the very earth beneath the feet of all dwellers in that city; and simultaneously a heavy mass of earth was hurled high in the air, followed by dense columns of smoke, which could only be compared to the breaking forth of a volcano through a thick crust of earth and stone. 
               A large section of the defences of Fort Pemberton was in ruins! 
               At the time the catastrophe occurred, the regiment to which I was attached was going through the evolutions of dress parade. For a few moments it seemed as if officers and men were completely paralyzed. The ranks were broken, and discipline was at an end. 
               Then came the alarm- 
               'The Yanks are coming! the Yanks are coming! The fort and city are to be carried by assault!' 
               The officers of our regiment attempted to muster the men into line again; and after much effort they partially succeeded; and then in a broken, straggling column, we were marched towards the ruins to meet the steadily and rapidly advancing federals. 
               The irregular fight that succeeded over the debris of the falling fort I will not attempt to describe. The only part I took in it, except being in the way of everybody and everybody in my way, was on the broken parapet, when I discovered you, Colonel Manly, fighting desperately against fearful odds. It was then and there that I saw an athletic officer, after you had been disarmed, attempt to cleave your skull with a heavy sword. I could not resist the attempt to save you from being cut down by striking his sword-arm a blow that caused it to fall powerless by his side, even if my life were to be yielded up at the next moment. The result you well know. You prevented a rebel from slaying me, at the moment the cry of 'Traitor!' sounded in my ears. 
               'And Spy, too!' gasped another, who in the agonies of death had recognized me. 
               I gazed in the direction whence this last denunciatory charge had come, and beheld a shapeless mass lying in the debris within ten feet of where I stood. 
                
               It was the body of the deserter, Major Jenefer, with just life enough within it, as I conjectured, to give to that bloated face the ugliest and most hideous contortions I had ever beheld. 
               The sight caused me to shudder; and just as I was withdrawing my gaze from the agonized wretch, I was suddenly seized by one of a party of rebels who had rallied, and in the melee I was struck to the earth, and trampled on by our fierce enemies. 
               They probably thought me dead, or they would have made doubly sure of their work. A fainting sensation had come upon me, and some minutes must have elapsed before I was enabled to raise my head. 
               At length I heard tumultuous shouts, like those I heard at Shiloh and at Pittsburgh Landing. They were shouts of victory! They gave me renewed strength, and I raised my head to behold the lowering of the rebel flag from its staff, and the running up in its place the glorious stars and stripes of the Union. 
               In a few minutes more you stood by my side, and I revealed myself to you. I was overjoyed! My soul's gladness, however, soon gave way to sorrow, for you swooned at my feet, and I feared that you must have received some mortal hurt. 
               Fortunately, at the moment, Zeke Longrange hastened to the spot, for he had seen his commander of that day's fight fall. 
               'Oh, sir, help! I know that you are a friend of this officer. I fear that he is mortally wounded!' I exclaimed. 
               'Who mought you be, in that grey coverin'?' he ejaculated. 
               'Don't you know me? I am the Vivandiere! It was I who sent you that mysterious grenade.' 
               'Bars and wolverines! That grenade was wuth the hull State o' Michigan. How fort'nit I didn't shoot yer.' 
               'Where's the surgeon?' I asked, as I bent over the prostrate form of my friend, endeavoring to ascertain his injuries. 
               'He's got his hands full o' poor unfortnates,' replied Zeke. 'Fust come fust sarved is his way o' doin' business. It will be Colonel Manly's turn next.' 
               'Do you think he'll die?' 
               'Die!' he repeated, solemnly; 'die!-he mustn't die. He's got more lives than half a dozen common men;' and he stooped down and commenced to search for a wound. 'Thar's nothing like a sabre gash, nor a bullet hole, and his pulse is beatin' as reg'lar as an eight-day clock.' 
               'What can we do?' I asked. 'It won't do for him to lie here.' 
               'How fort'nate. Thar comes one o' them amb'lances,' said he. 'Hello, driver, hold on! here's a wounded officer wants a ride. Hurry up.' 
               The driver halted at the foot of the mound of debris where we were standing, and signified his readiness to take the wounded man. 
               'Here, beauty,' said Zeke, addressing me, 'you bring that shooting-iron along; but mind yer, handle it keerfully; and I'll take keer o' this brave specimen of a man;' and Zeke proceeded to lift him in his brawny arms, which he did with as much ease as if he had been a child 
               'Handle him carefully,' said I. 
               'Don't yer be 'larmed, beauty-I'll kerry him as tenderly as a she-bar would one o' her cubs. On'y you take good keer o' that ar rebel-killer. I'd rather lose a leg than to hev any harm come to that ar we'pon.' 
               He bore his burden with great care, and tenderly placed it in the ambulance, and after propping its head up with pillows, he looked to me for instructions where it should be borne. 
               The most comfortable quarters, near at hand, that I knew of, were those of the commander of the fortress, who, by this time, was either a corpse or a prisoner. 
               I led the way thither, the ambulance following, accompanied by Zeke, who undoubtedly felt that his services might be further needed. 
               The distance was not more than three or four hundred yards, and in a few minutes the vehicle halted in front of the quarters I had designated. 
               Zeke, as before, took the unconscious man in his arms, and following me we were quickly in possession of the comfortable and even luxurious quarters so recently occupied by the post commandant. Tenderly the strong man laid his burden upon a couch, and then signifying his intention of going immediately in search of the surgeon-general, or one of his assistants, he hastened out of the apartment. 
               Some fifteen minutes elapsed when he reappeared, followed by the victorious general of the federal army, Doctor Glenfield, the surgeon-general-our surgeon-and little Harry Robeson; the latter sobbing violently to learn that his superior officer had been struck down in the fearful onslaught amid the ruins of the fort. 
               Our meeting was soon made all the happier by the announcement of the skilful surgeon that the patient was only exhausted by excessive fatigue. 
               None expressed so much joy at this favorable report as did Harry Robeson. 
               'You are sure, doctor, that he will very soon recover?' 
               'Quite sure,' was the reply; 'and if you doubt it, you may appeal to your former kind comrade and friend, the drummer-boy,-afterwards La Vivandiere, and more recently--' 
               'THE SPY OF THE GRAND ARMY!' interrupted the usually reticent general, with marked emphasis, and with an expression of genuine satisfaction resting upon his naturally stolid countenance. 
               The doctor's prediction was fully verified. Within the time named our patient had recovered his senses, and was reported convalescent. 
               What followed immediately after your recovery is well known to us all. And now, Colonel Manly, the story of my adventures as the 'Spy of the Grand Army,' as the general seemed pleased to call me, isat an end. I know that some of the incidents border on the marvellous, and almost stagger the belief, but should we be so fortunate, in the future, to meet the more prominent characters that have figured with me in my adventures, enough may be substantiated to convince and confirm in your minds the truthfulness of my narrative." 
               "Think not, Virginia, that I have entertained a doubt in regard to any incident you have related," said Colonel Manly, gazing upon the brave girl with almost idolatrous eyes. "Indeed, too much has already been corroborated to satisfy me that your eventful romance is no fiction.' 
               "Promise me, Virginia, that you will not act the part of a spy any longer," said Harry Robeson, who had listened with most intense interest to the entire narrative. 
               "I give you my word, dear Harry, that I will not," replied Virginia. 
               "And you will not leave us again?" said Harry, anxiously. 
               "Not unless I am ordered by my colonel or general," was her reply. 
               "Then my orders are, Virginia, that you remain with the regiment in your former character of Vivandiere; and if the general should order you to another post of duty, I shall most solemnly protest," said I. "Hark! there comes the doctor again; I know his step." 
               "And so do I," added Virginia. 
               Doctor Glenfield now made his appearance. He was warmly welcomed, although we had no further need of his professional services. He appeared to be in a state of great agitation, and he no sooner seated himself in a comfortable chair than he arose again, and after pacing to and fro the room, and gazing out of the window, he reseated himself, glancing his eye, nervously, first at Virginia, and then at me. 
               "What is there that's new, doctor?" 
               "Nothing particular-nothing very particular," he replied. "The weather is delightful-a walk in the air would be beneficial to your health, colonel." 
                
               "I shall benefit by your advice early tomorrow morning." 
               "By the by, colonel, Major Jenefer breathed his last about two hours ago," said the surgeon. "I never saw a man cling to life with such tenacity. When he first came into my hands, I judged there was not an hour's life in him, and yet he has survived until to-day." 
               "Did he express any regret for having deserted?" 
               "Not the slightest. He justified his conduct and glorified in it until the last. He cursed our general-cursed you, colonel-cursed Miss Virginia-and would have cursed me if I had not relieved him of the bodily pains he was writhing under. He was a singular compound of bombast, villany, and audacity, and yet he was as arrant a coward as ever turned back on the enemy. But he had one remarkable faculty-MEMORY. He could remember everything that he had ever read, heard, or seen-especially could he remember faces. No disguise was sufficient to prevent his penetrating through it. He told me some things which fairly startled me." 
               "Such as--" 
               "I may tell you some time, colonel, but not now-not now. I must be off to the hospital. Many a poor fellow is impatient to see me. My fighting don't come till after the battle is over; then I have to fight with Death's messengers in every form. My weapons are the probe, the saw, the scalpel, bandages, lint, drugs, &c. Sometimes I get vanquished; but more frequently I am the vanquisher. So good morning." 
               "Call again soon, doctor," said I. 
               "At the first leisure moment," he replied, hurriedly, and he was off. 
               "What can have got into the doctor?" said I to Virginia, who was gazing out of the window, seemingly in a fit of abstraction. 
               "Did you observe anything very peculiar?" she asked. 
               "Didn't you?" 
               "He did have more to say than usual, I believe," replied Virginia. 
               "You believe! Why, I never heard him run on at such a rate before; and then he was so excited; so nervous-and his face was all aglow with expression, or inspiration, it might be termed. Something has turned up which touches him nearly. Why, I've regarded him as one of the most imperturbable of men. I have seen him dress a wound on the battle-field, when the shot and shell fell so thickly around him that it seemed as if the stoutest heart would have quaked with terror; and yet he would perform his professional duty with as much coolness as if he had been in a hospital." 
               "How rare it is to meet with a surgeon of his professional and other commendable qualities in the army," was Virginia's complimentary addition to my panegyric. 
               "He is one among a thousand, I do believe." 
               The conversation was here interrupted by the announcement that an officer of the general's staff wished to communicate with Colonel Manly. I directed my orderly, Harry Robeson to ask him to come in. After a few moment's absence he returned, saying that Col. P--regretted that his duties would not permit him to pay his respects to Col. Manly at that time. Harry then placed in my hands a sealed despatch that he had received from the officer's hands, which, on opening, I found, to my surprise, that my regiment was expected to be in readiness to embark for New Orleans within twenty-four hours. 
               "To New Orleans," I remarked to Virginia. "What say you to that?" 
               "It is an order, is it not?" 
               "Certainly." 
               "Then your regiment is to go to New Orleans. Nothing can be plainer," said she. 
               "And you?" 
               "Do I not belong to the regiment, colonel?" 
               "Of course, Virginia; but then you are really not obliged to go if it be not your desire." 
               "It is my desire and pleasure, colonel, to go wherever my regiment goes, providing Harry Robeson goes too." 
               "Then we will all go-Aunt Clemmy included. We shall have no fighting down there. I suppose the general thinks our thrice-decimated regiment has seen quite enough of fighting service for the present." 
               Weak though I was, I immediately sat about giving the necessary orders to my subalterns to be in readiness to embark on board of a transport steamer the next day for the Crescent City. These orders were carried into effect, and within the twenty-four hours we marched out of our Vicksburg quarters for the landing, and in less than two hours afterwards the regiment, and all appertaining thereto, were moving down the Father of Waters at the rapid speed of eighteen knots an hour. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               A FELICITOUS CONCLUSION. 
               THE four hundred miles' journey down the Father of Waters was accomplished within twenty-four hours. Our disembarkation immediately took place, and on repairing at head-quarters, I was ordered to march my regiment to Jackson Square, and there pitch our tents; where, besides the ordinary routine of camp duty, we had but trifling service to perform. 
               My military family consisted, as before, of the Vivandiere, Harry Robeson, and Aunt Clemmy, and quarters were furnished us in a house of no mean pretensions fronting on the square. Our most constant visitor was Doctor Glenfield, whom we always received as a welcome guest. But "a change had come over the spirit of his dream." He was no longer that reticent, quiet man, whom we had known at Pittsburg Landing, at Shiloh, and at the siege of Vicksburg. That expression of abstract thoughtfulness, commingled with a tinge of melancholy, had disappeared from his noble, handsome countenance. He had become entertaining in conversation, agreeable in his manners; and he seemed to take especial pains in enlivening us all with a profusion of jokes, anecdotes, and amusing stories. 
               What had brought about this radical change in the doctor's spirits was as much a mystery to me as it must be to those who have followed me thus far in my narrative. 
               To Virginia he was respectful,-never familiar; and as yet I had never known them to exchange a word that was not for my ear also; and I had never known them to be together a moment when I was not present. Whenever he called, if I happened to be absent, he would not venture across the threshold. Altogether, the doctor was rather an enigma to me-an enigma that I had determined to solve whenever a favorable opportunity offered. 
               He was engaged to dine with us one Sunday afternoon, but when the hour arrived he failed to make his appearance. We waited an hour and then sat down to dine without him. 
               The evening passed away and he did not appear. More than once I had made up my mind to send to his quarters, which were half a mile distant, but Virginia felt assured that there was no necessity for evincing so much anxiety in regard to our medical friend, and I abandoned the idea. The following day had nearly passed, when, no tidings having been heard from him, I despatched Harry Robeson to make enquiries for the doctor at his head-quarters, if he should chance to be absent when he arrived there. 
               Not more than twenty-five minutes had elapsed, when Harry returned with the terrible tidings that Doctor Glenfield had been attacked on the evening previous with the yellow fever. 
               Virginia and myself had just sat down to our evening meal as Harry entered. I arose hastily from the table, and said, 
               "I cannot partake of a mouthful of food until I have seen my suffering friend." 
               I immediately donned my cap, and was about to rush from the house, when Aunt Clemmy placed her stout ebony figure between me and the door, and exclaimed, in great trepidation,- 
                
               "Oh, massa colonel! don't go down dar! for heaben's sake! You cotch de yaller feber, shuah; den it am all up wid you.' 
               "But it's my friend, the doctor, who's sick. I must go,' said I. 
               "Golly, massa, you'll cotch it and die shuah. Da'rs plenty yaller feber doctors to take care ob good Doetor Glenfield. He'll be berry sorry to see you dar, for I know he lubs you as a brudder. What good can you do dar? No good, as shuah as you alibe." 
               However, I made a compromise with her to this effect: I would go no farther than the door of his quarters, and make enquiries regarding his condition, and make it my business to see that he had the best medical and other attention that the necessities of his case might require. She suggested going herself, but I would not listen to any such proposition. Finally, after giving me a world of caution, I rushed from the house and made my way thither with all haste. 
               On reaching the door of our surgeon's quarters, I met with an assistant of his just coming out. 
               "How is the doctor?" I eagerly asked. 
               "He is not very well this morning." 
               "Has he good medical attendance!" 
               "The doctors are yet undecided." 
               "Can I be of service to him?" 
               "I think not; all will be done that can be. Should there be any change, either favorable or unfavorable, I will send a messenger to you." 
               "Do so, and merit my sincerest thanks," I replied, and turned reluctantly away. 
               On reaching the encampment of my regiiment, a lieutenant saluted me, and informed me that there was a stranger in camp enquiring for the colonel. 
               "Who is he? What is his name?" 
               "He did not tell me. He is an elderly man, and has the appearance of being a gentleman," was the answer. "Ah! there he is now talking with Longrange, the sharpshooter. He is now coming this way." 
               As the stranger approached, I had an opportunity to judge of him, so far as outward appearances go. He was a man of medium stature, some fifty-five or sixty years of age, with a full grey beard and grey hair, neatly trimmed. He wore a civilian's dress,-each article indicating that he was a gentleman; and in his hand he carried a gold-headed cane. As he came nearer I saw that a benevolent though somewhat sad expression rested upon his countenance. 
               "This is Colonel Manly, sir, for whom you have enquired," said the lieutenant, by way of introduction. 
               He halted, looked me in the face for a moment, and then, stepping forward, he extended his hand, saying,- 
               "I am most happy to meet you, colonel." 
               I took the proffered hand, and said: 
               "I've not the honor of knowing you, sir." 
               "How should you? I am a stranger in this city, and an utter stranger to you; but, nevertheless, I am glad to have found you, and hope to make your further acquaintance." 
               "But, sir--" 
               "I know what you would say, colonel; but I bear with me a brief passport to your kind consideration from one whom you esteem highly;" and the stranger took from his pocket book an unsealed letter, which he placed in my hands. 
               It was addressed to me, and its contents were briefly as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "COLONEL MANLY:-
                            
                           DEAR SIR,-I commend to your kind offices this gentleman 
                           
                              (Signed) U. S. G--, Maj-General."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               I read it over twice, thrice. "This gentleman!" That's very queer, I said to myself. I looked into his benevolent face inquiringly, but as he made no answer, I essayed to speak: 
               "But there is no--" 
               "I know what you would say," he remarked, interrupting me quickly; "but never mind that now; for prudential reasons I must ask you to permit me to remain incognito for the present; but we can be just as friendly in our intercourse, nevertheless." 
               "Certainly, sir, if you desire it. Walk with me to my quarters, where we can converse without interruption." 
               He accepted my invitation, and I escorted him to my private room at my quarters. As I entered the house, I noticed that no member of my little military family was there to give me the usual greeting; but supposing that they were about the premises within call, I dismissed the matter from my mind. 
               "Your countenance is not unfamiliar to me, though I do not remember ever having seen you until to-day," remarked the stranger, as he seated himself in the chair which I drew up for him to the centre-table, and fixing his gaze with an interested expression upon my face. "Singular-very singular." 
               After this there was a silence maintained for some moments. I was waiting for him to open his business, or at least for him to tell me who and what he was, for I did not exactly relish the idea of entertaining a guest whose name I did not know, and whose face I had never seen, notwithstanding his credentials from the general. 
               At length he resumed: 
               "Colonel Manly, for some eight months I have been in search of two young persons in whom I am very deeply interested. I have travelled several thousands of miles, visiting the various military posts, east, west, north and south, making diligent enquiries, and employing others to assist me, but thus far I have totally failed of my object. In a recent interview with the federal general of the department of the Mississippi, he very kindly referred me to you, without stating a solitary reason therefor; but the reference was made in a manner that led me to believe that he knew more than he was willing to communicate. 
               "Indeed-this is very singular," I remarked 
               "Let me first inform you, colonel, that the eldest of these persons is a young lady, and the other a youth scarcely fifteen years of age." 
               "What are their names?" I asked. 
               "That question I will answer presently. The young lady is my adopted daughter, who, to avoid marrying a rich gentleman, whom I had selected as her suitor, renouncing him for a lover to me unknown, suddenly left her home, and on the next day was followed by my boy, the youth of whom I have spoken. He was fondly attached to his foster sister, and could not endure her absence. To be with her was the only motive he could have had for deserting his home. Twice, in the course of my travels I thought I had gained a clue to their whereabouts, but on following it up was doomed to disappointment. I advertised for the young refugees in several leading papers, in different cities, not only offering a generous reward for information concerning them, but also, if the advertisement should chance to meet the eye of my adopted daughter, that, if she would return, not only to forgive her for opposing my wishes and deserting her home, but to permit her in the future to be the mistress of her own heart. But no response ever came to me from this general publicity of my bereavement-a bereavement which I assure you has caused me such continued anxiety and grief, that happiness has become an entire stranger to me. I know that I was harsh to my adopted child; and if Fate has ordained that I shall never behold her more, she will forgive me, as I have long since forgiven her, 
               The stranger paused in his speech, for bitter tears now coursed down his furrowed cheeks, and his violent sobbings caused him to falter in his speech. 
               "I deeply sympathize with you, and may a kind Providence lead you to their place of refuge, and restore them to you," I remarked. 
               "If living-if living!" he repeated ominously. "In these days of national calamity there will be many lost ones whose fates never will be known." 
                
               "Be hopeful, my dear sir; and if I can be of the least service to you, command me." 
               "That I have yet to learn. Why should your general send me on a journey of six hundred miles to see you, Colonel Manly, if you possess no knowledge of these young fugitives?" 
               "How should I have knowledge when I do not know even their names?" said I, enquiringly. 
               "True-very true. On that point I will keep you in the dark no longer. In the first place let me tell you that my name is Warland-Augustus Warland!" 
               "Merciful God! I exclaimed, starting up as if a bright revelation had been suddenly opened to me from the eternal world. "Augustus Warland!" I repeated. "Were you ever in Galena, Illinois?" 
               "Yes-many years ago-it was there I adopted the infant daughter of my dear old friend, Harrison B. Manly-by the way, a namesake of yours, colonel!" said he, with a startled look. 
               "And you afterwards resided at Cairo?" I asked eagerly. 
               "For one season-until a flood drove me away." 
               "And your adopted daughter's name is-" 
               "Isabel Manly Warland! But why are you so strangely excited, colonel?" 
               "Excited?" I cried. "By Jove! I ought to be wild with joy! For know you that Harrison B. Manly was MY FATHER! and your adopted daughter, Isabel, Manly, IS MY SISTER!" 
               It was now Mr. Warland's turn to be surprised; and I suppose for a few minutes we both acted like a pair of wonder-stricken enthusiasts. He, however, was only astonished, while I was delighted to have discovered the foster-father of my dear sister. 
               "But why this excess of joy, when your sister is still missing?" he enquired. 
               "Ah, sir," I replied, "you are yet to be told of the many days and weeks I have spent in vain endeavors to find you; and now, after the lapse of years, you appear suddenly before me. Is not that something to be joyful for? But tell me, Mr. Warland, what is the name of your missing son?" 
               "Henry Robeson Warland?" he replied. 
               "Robeson!" I exclaimed; "excuse me but for a moment, sir." 
               I rushed out of the room, and cried- 
               "Harry! Virginia? Aunt Clemmy?" 
               No response was heard, My quarters seemed, for the first time since I had occupied them, to be entirely deserted. What could it mean? I had a strange misgiving that something serious had happened-perhaps they had deserted me forever! and at a time, of all others, that would be crushing to the great hope that had so suddenly been born within me. 
               At length I heard Aunt Clemmy's shuffling footsteps approaching, and she quickly entered, looking as if she had been running a foot race, for big drops of perspiration oozed from her ebony brow, and her respiration was so heavy that for some moments she could not utter a word. 
               She threw herself into a chair, and began fanning herself violently. 
               "Why, what's the matter, Aunt Clemmy?" I enquired. 
               "Wal, I neber-in all my born days-massa colonel-seed anoder-sich a gal-as my young missee," she replied, puffing out her broken sentences with great effort. 
               "Where is she?" I demanded. 
               "She wud do it-she wud go-down-- 
               "Go, where?" 
               "Why, ob course, down dar-whar you went-to see dat poo' doctor wot's 'tacted wid de yaller Jack, yer know." 
               "You do not mean to say that Virginia has gone where you objected to my going?" 
               "Ees, sah, massa-she gone, shua-went while I wur beggin' ob you not to go-right down dar-whar de feber am ragin'-poo' missee-hope she cum out alibe! I'd rader hab forty doctors die than one Wirginy.-I cudn't he'p it-twasn't my fault-I followed her dough-couldn't cotch her. She am younger an spryer dan ole Aunt Clemmy." 
               "Where is Harry Robeson?" 
               "He went down dar, too; but dey did'nt lef him in. I tole him to come home wid me. But he say he muss wait for Missee Wirginy. Dey'll come back soon, shauh." 
               I began now to reproach myself for listening to the good-hearted old servant, otherwise I might have prevented Virginia from exposing herself to the terrible contagion. I resolved to excuse myself to Mr. Warland and hasten to the sick doctor's quarters, and insist on their returning at once. 
               "Mr. Warland," said I, on returning to my apartment; "I think I know something of the young refugees you are in search of; but I shall be obliged to leave you for, perhaps, half an hour. I particularly desire that you will remain until my return; and indeed, I cordially invite you to tarry at these quarters as our guest as long as you sojourn in this city." 
               "But I have taken quarters at the St. Charles," said he. 
               "Never mind that; I will at once despatch a messenger for your luggage. I am well known to the landlord." 
               "You are very kind, colonel, but--" 
               "Nay, Mr, Warland, I will listen to no objections. You must be our guest," I insisted. 
               At this moment I heard a sweet, silvery voice in the vestibule, saying- 
               "It's all right, Aunt Clemmy. The doctors have decided that he has no symptoms of the yellow fever. Haven't they, Harry?" 
               "Yes," replied the boy. 
               "De lor be praised!" exclaimed the negress. 
               I rushed out of the room, and in the exuberance of my joy I actually embraced and kissed the Vivandiere, a familiarity I had never before dared to indulge in. She was somewhat startled at my rudeness, but seemed not offended. 
               "Oh, you have so frightened me! How dared you be so reckless of your own dear self? There is no protection from the fearful contagion!" I exclaimed. 
               "Yes, but there is, colonel," she replied, turning her eyes reverently upward, and raising her right hand; "there. A kind Providence watches over me." 
               "I feel and most reverently believe it," said I, as I gazed upon her almost seraphic countenance. "Our kind doctor then is better?" 
               "Oh, yes. At first his medical advisers thought they detected symptoms of the dreaded fever; but before I left him those symptoms disappeared. They now pronounce him convalescent, and declare that he will be quite well after a night's repose. 
               "This is, indeed, joyful intelligence. But come into my room, Virginia; and you, too Harry. I have a guest there who will be much pleased to see you." 
               "In this costume? Shall I not change my dress?" she asked. 
               "By no means. I am curious to see if you can be readily recognized in your pretty Vivandiere uniform." 
               "Well I'm not ashamed of it," said she, as she accompanied me into the presence of my guest, followed by Harry Robeson. 
               "This is Virginia Graham," said I, wishing to test Mr. Warland's penetration. 
               He arose quickly from his seat, gave one glance at the Vivandiere, and without uttering one word, stretched forth his hands eagerly towards her. 
               Virginia rushed towards him, and fell upon her knees before him. 
               "Oh, father, forgive me!" 
               Simultaneously, Harry Robeson was by her side, craving the same forgiveness. 
               "Forgive you, my children!" he essayed, bursting into a flood of joyous tears; "yes, a thousand times. Rise, and let me embrace you both. God is kind. He smiles upon us. Oh! this is happiness! It repays me for all I have suffered." 
               I stood and looked upon this heaven of bliss with unutterable emotions. Such an exhibition of affection I had never witnessed. An age of joy was condensed into those few moments of inexpressible rapture. 
               "Oh, my children, my children! you will never leave me more!" he continued, after his transports had subsided. "Ah, I had forgotten. Isabel, there stands Colonel Manly. Go and embrace him. He's a noble fellow!" 
               "Embrace him, father?" she said, timidly, and hesitating. 
               "I said-embrace him. Why not? He is the best friend you have in the world-except me." 
               "But, father, you forget; he has a dear wife, and she ought to be happy in his faithful love," she replied, blushingly, and in soft accents. 
               "Yes," cried the old man, cheerily; "and he has a dear sister. too. Isn't your name Isabel Manly? And isn't his name Manly, too? I tell you to rush into his arms; for he is your brother!" 
               "My-my brother? Oh, what bliss!" she exclaimed, as she threw herself forward into my arms, and for some moments we were clasped together, and exchanging innumerable kisses. 
               "Oh, my sweet sister, I now understand why I have so deebly loved you from the first moment I beheld you." 
               "And I, too, my good, kind brother, know why I have conceived so great an affection for you; why I have so often prayed to Heaven to guard and protect you; why I prevented you from becoming a Spy; why in your presence, I have known only unalloyed happiness. And when I shall have seen your dear wife-my darling sister-I shall make her so happy by telling her how faithful you have been to her, how much she is beloved by you." 
               "I apprehend she would not have thought so, my darling Virginia-I mean my darling Isabel-had she discovered how devoted we have been to each other. Possibly we may be the first to inform her of our dear intimacy, for I anticipate her arrival in New Orleans before another week has passed." 
               "You don't mean--oh, joy, joy! But you didn't tell me of this, brother!" cried Isabel, almost dancing with delight. 
               "No, darling; I intended to give you an agreeable surprise," I replied; "but I may myself be disappointed. She has often expressed a wish to visit me in camp, but I have resolutely opposed it, owing to the perilous positions in which our army has been placed; and, also, because of detentions and other difficulties incident hitherto to travelling. But since the Mississippi is opened to steamers carrying our flag, by the reduction of Port Hudson and Vicksburg, and since there is no probability of our immediately being ordered to a more active and dangerous scene of operations, I have written to her to come to New Orleans by the first favorable opportunity. That she will avail herself of it I feel quite certain." 
               "Of course she will, brother; what a happy family we shall be," said she, in a girlish ecstacy. 
               "You forget, Isabel, that you and Harry must not keep me from home many days longer," said Mr. Warland. 
               "Yes; but you forget, too, father, that Harry and I belong to the Grand Army!" answered the Vivandiere, proudly. "We captured Vicksburg, didn't we, Harry?" 
               "Every body says that you did, 'Bel," answered the boy; "I heard some soldiers, yesterday, talking about the "Heroine of Vicksburg." I asked Zeke Longrange who they meant? Said he-"They mean the Vivandiere of our regiment, to be sure." 
               "Brave, Harry," said I. "If the credit were to be given to any one, where all were heroes I think the services of the Spy of the Grand Army entitle her to that great honor." 
               "Except our general," suggested Harry." 
                
               "Yes, we'll agree to that exception," said I. 
               "Can it be possible that you, Isabel, were the Spy that is so much talked of at Vicksburg?" asked her foster-father. 
               "I believe I performed a little service in that line," she modestly replied. 
               "How dared you be so reckless? But first tell me what induced you to run away from home?" 
               "There were three reasons, father: In the first place, I wished to rid myself of the importunities of that returned Californian, with his bags of gold, and his bricks of silver, whom you seemed determined that I should marry. Secondly, I confess, I loved another," she continued; "one to whom my love was pledged when I was at school, and only fifteen years of age." 
               'Ah! who can that be?" asked the old gentleman. 
               "Don't father, don't press that question now. You shall know at the proper time; and I shall gain your consent to marry him, too. He's a man of brains, for which I have more respect than a mere man of gold and silver." 
               "Well, what was your third motive?-We will waive the other subject for the present, as you appear to desire it." 
               "My third was, after all, the grand incentive that led me to commit a very unfilial act," replied Isabel, in tones of solemn, seriousness. "You may regard it as very silly and fantastic, but I could no more resist its influence than I could resist loving my brother from the first time I saw him. In the early part of this terrible war, I had a vision, a dream, a revelation,-or call it what you will-to enact certain parts in the greatest military drama the New World had ever seen. 
               I was reclining upon a couch one afternoon, in the month of September, 1861, reading a federal newspaper, containing accounts of certain great military operations which were in progress, when, suddenly, I heard, as if in the distance, patriotic strains of martial music, and I saw a mighty host in column,-glistening with all the panoply of war-and marching in good order; but so far distant from me that they seemed scarcely Lilliputian in size. I beheld the van, the centre, and the rear, pass distinctly in view before my eyes, and saw one after another disappear through a thick wood, and then re-appear upon an open plain. It gladdened my heart to see that their flags were red, white and blue, and that they had all the stripes and all the stars. 
               "Then I beheld-arrayed upon the opposite side of the field-another mighty host of armed men, and I heard therefrom strains of music, volatile, discordant and spiritless, commingled with boasting cries and infernal anathemas. Their flags flaunted ungracefully in the pure air of a bright summer morning, and they seemed dwarfed, and but an ill-devised burlesque upon the heaven-born banner of our great republic. I then heard the thundering of mighty artillery, the rattling of musketry, the clashing of sabres, the cries of the wounded, and the yells and shouts of the combatants. The scene was soon veiled from my sight by a dense cloud of smoke. Anon it cleared away, and I saw only the battle-field, strewn with the dead and dying men, and detachments of soldiers either burying the slain, or bearing away the wounded. I saw a drummer-boy bearing his wounded companion upon his shoulder to the rear. Anon, the drummer-boy was changed into a Vivandiere, and later into a spy, sojourning in the enemy's country; but I beheld above him a bright angel, with wide-spread wings, and in his hand a flaming sword, which I saw was his protector. Suddenly the youth came to a pellucid spring of water, and after filling his canteen therefrom, he stooped over to slake his thirst from the mirror-like surface. He beheld his face vividly reflected therein. That face was mine. Then I heard a voice say-and it was the voice of my guardian angel,- "Arise, daughter. Your country calls. Disguise yourself; seek the nearest military post, and proffer thy services. I will shield thee from harm in every hour of peril." 
               "Why, sister, I shall be almost a believer in dreams after this," I remarked. 
               "Brother, if that was a dream, it seemed unlike, all other dreams, at least in one respect-it did not vanish from my memory. It clung to my mind with as much tenacity as if it had been deeply engraven on its tablets. Besides, I cannot recognize that particular state of my mind with sleep; for when the sound of that commanding voice ceased, I appeared to be in as full possession of my faculties as I am at this moment; and I tried several tests to convince myself that I must have been slumbering, but the tests only went to convince me, that I had a vision while I was fully awake. Had it been only a dream I could have resisted its influence, but being fully impressed that it was something more, I could not for many days resist. I made my preparations in secret, and studied the proposed route of my flight with great care; and watching the most favorable opportunity I sat out from my home, like Joan of Arc, to join the gallant defenders of my country. Moreover, that which my vision chose to show me, has been fully verified. On the day following, to my infinite surprise, my dear Harry joined me. How he became master of my secret intentions, he has never told me." 
               "I can tell you now, 'Bel, that I had a vision, too, describing many things that I afterwards saw and experienced," answered Harry Robeson. "It told me to follow you, and the way to go; and I could not help going." 
               In fervent congratulations, in expressions of joy, in mutual explanations, and in rehearsing the incidents of one and another's career, during the memorable campaign we had passed through, occupied the greater portion of the time during that day of happiness. 
               Thrice during the day we received bulletins concerning Dr. Glenfield's health, the last being more favorable than those which preceded it. 
               Aunt Clemmy shared in the general joy when she was made to comprehend the revelations of that eventful day; and I am sure that during the hours of repose, on the night that succeeded, none but pleasant visions visited us in our slumbers. 
               On the following morning, a brief note received from Dr. Glenfield, satisfied us that the professional predictions which had been made in regard to his health were fully realized, for he informed me that he should venture to make us a call during the day. 
               At the usual hour, the Vivandiere, little Harry and myself went to dress parade. She was attired in her usual military costume, and conducted herself with her usual dignity. After the parade was over, Mr. Warland, myself and Harry took a stroll over the city, visiting the several encampments and other places of interest. 
               From two to three hours were thus consumed. When we returned, we found Dr. Glenfield and Isabel enjoying as we thought, a very agreeable tete-a-tete. She was no longer dressed as a Vivandiere, but in garments becoming a lady. 
               "Welcome doctor," said I. "We congratulate you on your speedy recovery; but we had such a fright. I was really concerned about you, and so were we all." 
               "I thank you, my kind friends, for your solicitude on my account. Be assured, I shall ever appreciate it." 
               "By the by, doctor, has this young lady been letting you into our family secrets?" I askd jocosely. 
               "I certainly have heard a chapter of marvels," he replied; "but I apprehend she has one secret not yet revealed to you." 
               "What is it, doctor? Divulge, sister! We'll have no more hidden mysteries!" said I. "I ask pardon, Dr. Glenfield-I have not introduced you to my dear sister's foster-father father-Mr. Augustus Warland, Dr. Glenfield, the best surgeon in the union army." 
               They grasped each other's hands cordially, and exchanged congratulations. 
               "But what is this secret?" asked the old gentleman, after he had reseated himself. "As the colonel says we must have no more mysteries." 
               "Well, father and brother," said Isabel, while a tide of crimson suffused her cheeks, "Dr. Glenfield and I are much better acquainted with each other than you have supposed. In fact he is the gentleman I preferred for a suitor rather than the gold-laden lover you had chosen for me." 
               "How is this?-I knew nothing of it-I never saw the doctor before to my knowledge," said Mr. Warland. 
               "We commenced our intimacy, while I was away at school, and, although we had not seen each other for some four years, we kept up a correspondence until he gave his professional services to his country.' 
               "And I, stupid tellow," added the doctor, "attended upon her professionally-at least on one occasion-and saw her forty times afterwards without recognizing in her my young inamorata of fifteen that I had known when she was at the Seminary in my native town; and my first knowledge of who she was came from the lips of a dying traitor and deserter-one Major Jenefer,-whose one great faculty was, in being able to know a face, once seen, ever afterwards; while my great weak point is in not being able to recognize faces-sometimes even of my best friends." 
               "But I, doctor, knew you from the first and resolved not to reveal myself, until I could do so in proper womanly habiliments," said Isabel; "and to take time to thus array myself, was the only reason why I did not accompany my father and brother in their walk this morning." 
               "I now understand, my dear sister, why it was that you stole a march on me, yesterday morning," said I, really overjoyed that Isabel had bestowed her affections so wisely; "but you must admit that it was reckless in you to thus hazard your precious life." 
               "What cared I for my life, when his was in danger?" was her reply. 
               "Well, I must confess that matters are getting a little more interesting here than I anticipated," remarked Mr. Warland, gravely. "I no sooner find my daughter than I find, also, that there is a prospect of my losing her. If Isabel can brave Yellow Jack, she would not scruple to brave her foster-father. I have learned that girls will have their own way; and in this particular case I must make a virtue of necessity, and give my hearty and cordial assent to your wishes. What say you, colonel?" 
               "That Doctor Glenfield is a noble fellow, and well worthy of the best and most accomplished lady in the land; and I shall be proud to rank him as my brother-in-law. What say you, Harry?" 
               "Oh! let's have a wedding by all means," replied the youth. "I know how much my sister loves the doctor." 
               "And I know how much the doctor loves the sister!" added Glenfield; "and your suggestion of a wedding is worthy of being taken into serious consideration. What say you, Isabel?" 
               "I have become so much accustomed to change my name of late," replied Isabel, blushing; "that to change it once more, will not be inconsistent with my character." 
               "For the last time, I trust," added the doctor. 
               "Well, my friends, this is what I call settling a matrimonial affair in a sensible, business-like manner," remarked Mr. Warland. "And the sooner this happy affair is consummated the more agreeable will it be for me, for I must be off, up the river, in a few days. Without consultation I give you, Isabel, just one week for preparation-not a day more. And here," added the old gentleman, drawing forth a well-filled pocket book, and counting out five one thousand dollar greenbacks, which he placed in her hands, "here's a trifle for your trousseau; and before you commence house-keeping, draw on me for a like amount?" 
               There was no appeal from this decision, and this act of generosity. The wedding day was appointed, and preparation for the approaching nuptials was immediately commenced, and prosecuted by a formidable corps of milliners, dress-makers, seamstresses, &c. 
               Julian Manly thus concludes his narrative. He permits his amanuensis to tell the rest to the story in his own way. 
                
               On the day preceding that of the nuptial ceremony, a large passenger steamer arrived at New Orleans from St. Louis. She had been announced by telegram from one of the nearest ports above, consequently, before she made her landing, quite an assemblage of people and carriages were standing on the levee. 
               There was an interchange of signals, by waving of handkerchiefs and hats between several of the passengers on the steamer, and friends who had anticipated their arrival, on the shore. 
               There was but one passenger however, who claims our especial attention: a lady of surpassing beauty, her face wreathed in joyous smiles, and so elated with having recognized a noble looking officer ashore, who had also recognized her, that she seemed like one ready to fly from the promenade-deck to the levee. 
               The moment that the plank touched the shore, the officer rushed aboard, and darted up the companion-way, and as he reached the upper deck, the lady with whom he had been exchanging signals was quickly enfolded in his manly arms! 
               This exhibition of joy was so intense that several of the passengers contemplated the happy scene with more than ordinary emotions. 
               It is quite unnecessary to inform the reader that our herioc colonel had thus met his noble, beautiful, and devoted wife; she who had journeyed thousands of miles to see him, rather than solicit him to ask leave of absence from his post of duty. 
               A carriage was in waiting for them on the levee, and after a short drive they alighted at his quarters on Jackson Square, where the lady was at once introduced to her sister-in-law, Isabel, Mr. Warland, Master Harry, and Doctor Glenfield. 
               The meeting was a highly felicitous one, and the lady's arrival was not only a most opportune one, in consideration of the great event appointed for the next day, but a most happy addition to the colonel's military family. 
               "Well, my dear sister, how are you pleased with my wife?" whispered the colonel into the ear of our heroine, after an hour had passed in mutual felicitation. 
               "Julian, she's an angel! I fell in love with her at first sight! You ought to be very happy and very proud in the possession of so beautiful and interesting a lady!" was Isabel's enthusiastic and heartfelt response. 
               "I am," said he; then removing to a seat by the side of his wife, he put a similar question, sotto voce, to her: 
               "Mary, my dear, how do you like our sister?" 
               "Ah, Julian, she's the brightest and loveliest of all her sex, so far as my knowledge goes! How proud I shall be to call her sister! and I shall love her, too, almost as well as I do her brother!" was the wife's prompt and heartfelt answer. 
               On the following day, at the hour of eleven, in the presence of the colonel's family and a few invited guests, Surgeon-General George Glenfield and Miss Isabel Manly Warland were daily united in the holy banns of matrimony. 
               A grand reception followed, and scores of ladies and gentlemen called to congratulate the bride and bridegroom on the happy event, and to be sumptously entertained by the gallant colonel. 
                
               Three years passed away, and war's dread alarms had ceased. The gallant Sherman and his brave hosts had passed through the heart of the confederacy; Lee and Johnston had capitulated; and the starry emblem of the republic once more waved over all the strongholds of the rebellious states. 
               It was then that Doctor Glenfield and his accomplished wife seized the opportunity to visit Magnolia Villa, in the suburbs of the city of Jackson. The surprise of Marietta Marland was only equalled by the joy she manifested in once more embracing the "Spy of the Grand Army," and in receiving her and her noble husband as her most welcome guests. The visit was prolonged for nearly three weeks, and as may be supposed there was a most free interchange of sentiments of both a public and private nature. 
               Among the many visitors to the villa during their stay, none was so constant as Louis Lamar, late colonel in the confederate army, who had not only exchanged his uniform of grey and gold for the more respectable habiliments of a citizen, but had also become so disgusted with the rebellion and its leaders and their cause, that he had taken a solemn vow never to take up arms again, except in defence of the Union. 
               Marietta Marland believed him a true pentient, and she also believed that he had been originally seduced or coerced, like thousands of others, from his allegiance, to the federal government, by hold, designing men, through means which were not safely resistible. Under these circumstances the heiress of Magnolia Villa, after much devotion and earnest solicitation on his part, consented at some certain day to link her fortune with his. 
               On quite a number of occasions the entire party had the pleasure of a ride through Jackson and its suburbs in the old but stately family coach of the Marlands. Cuffee, with all his dignity and pride, officiated as coachman, and if he was happy in being a freedman, he was vastly more happy in being retained in his old place, under his kind and considerate mistress. 
               And now, patient reader, after informing you that Colonel Manly served with distinction until the close of the war, and retired with a brevet major general's commission, and that he is now an influential citizen in one of the large cities of the West, having for his neighbors, Augustus Warland's family, and also the family of Doctor Glenfield, all sufficiently endowed with this world's goods and blessings, we will close this veritable chain of strange incidents and heroic deeds. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            FLORENCE MARRYAT'S BOOKS. 
            FLORENCE MARRYAT is now well known to the reading world as the author of five well-written novels. They are extremely well-developed fictions, and well worth the time employed in reading them. They are distinct stories, without parallelism, having nothing in common but their style. 
            MISS MARRYAT posses great talent and great power of expression; power to picture to our minds the conceptions which occupy her own. Her style is graphic, nervous, vital. Added to these merits is the still greater one of progressiveness. She never stands still; every step is an advance, every succeeding story better than the last. Her first book, 
             
               LOVE'S CONFLICT, 
               was most cordially welcomed by the London Press, was added to "Tauchnitz" famous "Collection of British Authors," and was reprinted in America in "Loring's Railway Library." 
               
                  It made its mark at once.
                
               The atmosphere of this book is pure and sweet, the delineation of character fine, the incidents various; we find ourselves surrounded by stately yet gentle people, well-born and well-bred. Meaner characters come upon the stage, but they only serve to make more manifest the purity of the others. 
               We thought her talent fully established when we read her second book, 
             
             
               TOO GOOD FOR HIM; 
               a book inculcating the grandest deeds of mercy and nobility; a book full of intense life, broad and deep experience, heights of joy, depths of woe; and, about all the scenes and all the characters, a sweet pathos, a holy charity. Her third book, 
             
             
               WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN, 
               is a very remarkable one; and in it she illustrates what all of us have too often seen, that woman is woman's worst enemy, and man her truest friend. The life, incidents, and characters are essentially English; the latter are vividly portrayed and consistently carried out in all their action. 
               But still higher does our author go when she gives us her fourth book, 
             
             
               FOR-EVER AND EVER. 
               A Drama of Life. In this story FLORENCE MARRYAT evinces more than her usual power; and from the task of depicting lives full of error and sin, side by side with lives full of magnanimity and self-sacrifice, unconscious as all true self-sacrifice must ever be,-from all the varied scenes, and various characters which she knows so well how to portray, leading the reader oftentimes to the contemplation of vice in its most horrid forms,-from all this plodding through the mire, she rises at the close of her story to the sweetest, saddest pathos, the sublimest conceptions of souls conquering wrong, out-growing error, learning through work and wail of years the hard lesson of submission. "Even length of days forever and ever" is the motto of the book and its real title. It teaches the highest principles of morality and charity. The acts of mercy and forgiveness related there cause the heart to glow with enthusiasm. The vicious characters but act as foils to the nobler ones, giving the latter the more opportunities for the exercise of their noblest traits. In this novel, as in life, people sometimes seem all vile,-circumstances wholly evil; yet all this becomes transformed and glorified by the purity and lovingness of the good. Their magic power causes the one faint, almost lost, divine spark to shoot forth its one sad ray; develops it, by and by, into a radiant star; and finally causes it to make warm and joyous again the nature but just now dark, and cold, and wretched. Thus does FLORENCE MARRYAT, in her own peculiar way, and from her convictions and experience, teach the lessons true souls are ever teaching. 
               We think all will agree with us when we say that her fifth book is her best.
                
             
             
               The Confessions of Gerald Estcourt. 
               How long the man's world has venerated woman, for how long looked upon her with eyes full of love, guarding her with weapons of war, and holding her with arms of absolute strength! and yet until "Jane Eyre" made its appearance, that book of terrible brain muscle, followed by Miss Mulock's "John Halifax," and George Eliot's (Miss Evans) great novel of "Adam Bede," we men swore by Bulwer, and other of the masculine goose-quills, and never dreamed that any woman lived who had observed the minute shades of character in order to develop the plot of a life narrative. It is true that Jane Porter, Miss Edgeworth, and that rollicking Irish authoress, weak and strong Lady Morgan, and Mrs. Radcliffe, had meandered through the superficial and reached the natural results; but when "Jane Eyre" burst upon the literary world, and its author was found out to be a woman, man's heart called upon man's brain to join in a willing addition of gallantry, and our loves became purified by the process of intellectual appreciation. 
               Whoever has seen a photograph, in the bookstores, of a bright, sunny woman, leaning good temperedly forward over the back of a chair, will have seen a sun-ray likeness of FLORENCE MARRYAT, she whose last and best book, The Confessions of Gerald Estcourt, is lying upon our table as we write. 
               This book is indeed her best,-may be called, in fact, as "BEST" as anybody can write. 
               It is a book with great touches of character, and incidents enough to charm a deeper reader than the usual time-killer of a railway train. The wife passing through the ordeal of a husband's family jealousy; the husband ruled in his conduct to his wife by his mother, type of that proverbially terrible "mother-in-law," so well known, and so often met at tea-tables,-the fussy, sarcastic, ruling, interfering "mother-in-law,"-is painted to the life; and the sisters-in-law (legalized relationship), those fearfully fearless poachers upon knick-knacks and other lying around pretty things, which they have only to admire to obtain from the proud brother,-wife's property,-and wife willing or unwilling of not the slighest consequence; and then it is glorious reading to follow up the course of Gerald, first as boy, afterward through all the stages of his difficult course. Father taught, mother loved, they separated, and both striving for the child love and the man's love. 
               How powerfully in all this stands forth the great truth that woman is mother as much of the man as of the untoothed baby! for none but a woman, entering into the maternal moods, assimilating herself to the maternal needs, could carry this Gerald through all he has to pass through, comprehending him, feeling for him, and with the subtle force of supreme nature, making us participants and sympathizers in all that appertains to her model or her instrument of intellectual inspiration and conception. 
               American reader will, we feel assured, seek out this new and noblest effort of the great sea-captain's daughter; and after the first four pages are got through with, woe betide the intruding visitor who shall break the rapt attention seeking for the entire context. 
             
          
          
             
            LORDS AND LADIES. 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS," "THE QUEEN OF THE COUNTRY," ETC., ETC. 
            NEAT PAPER COVERS. PRICE SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
            "Depend upon it, squire, there is neither peace nor comfort to be had in a house overrun by petticoats." Smoking drew forth this ungallant speech, and led to "A Challenge" between the "Lords and Ladies." 
            What it was, how it was carried out, how it ended, makes one of the most delightful stories you ever read. 
            The London Post says of it:- 
            "'Lords and Ladies' is one of the most charming books with which the literature of fiction has been enriched this season. 
            "The truth and the value of the moral of the story will recommend it as highly as the vivacity and humor of its style, and the ingenuity of its construction." 
            The London Morning Star says of it:- 
            "A most amusing novel. The plot is thoroughly original, worked out with much humor and skill. The characters are capitally drawn. This book is an admirable one for the holiday time." 
            "Puff" and "Luff" will live in the memory of every reader of this thoroughly bewitching English novel. 
          
       
   
