
    ----CITATION----
        Huet, M. M.. Davis, the Pirate, or, The True History of the Freebooters of the Pacific .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6832
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Davis, the pirate, or, The true history of the freebooters of the Pacific
             
                THE TRUE HSTORY OF   THE FREEBOOTERS OF THE PACW.  BY VTH AUTHOR O           OF     AT I3  GANq, TUB BUCCANEER Q THE HSTORY OF THE FREEBOOTERS OF THB ANTI3IASE "KIT CLAYTON-; OR. THE HERO OF THE ROAD," "THE SEVEI BROTIERS OF  WYOMNNG; OR, THE BRIGANDS OF THE REVOLUTION,", "IFE OF              ' ALEXANDER TARDY, ThE 'POISONER; OR,RPIRATS OH]E        , F OF ST. POMNGO6," "SILVER AND PEWTER;, O, TI1E. CONTRASTS OF NEW YORK LIFE," ETO. ' ' bis worki which forms the coneclaioa to  MoRaaN, TEz BUccANXBs on-O, 'TB Fau3rBooTaal o ,- O :T  kl8,! fi'odlly qefttl in titervst toit.,piedecessor, which was so extensively, popllar and -commat'de.  e 'aisae. This sequel' brings the reniarkable history of the Bccaneelirs dowzi to the time of thheir. i #io f0roo1 the West indJle uand Pacfiac Oceans, and their-extinction -as An irgastizedclas of pir;,  i46etpf these 'true reeords 'f:t he most wonderfal piracifs,'and /Ie. .mos;t &rocionus plraiela ,41 ' y; 6of t, world, wiul be, astonished and startled, apd foreed td eonfoes, thati tCrth Is etranger:thti' f       T. B. PETERSON &BROTHERS' LIST OF NEW PUBLICATIONS.   HTUEOUSa AX3tcI    WORKs,   cet     r hit , '75 Tivlvelsf  F5 IMmon Sugs's Adven- ture, a  Travels,     is Idlor Jones' Chronicles ofPlneville, ,.  -    75 ?'Aly Peablossfnm' Wedding,     -    *   75 Wilo)w Rugby's Hus- batd,    -   -   -    7T g Bear of Arkansas,    75 Western Scenes, or LUeon thae Prairie,   7S *trbil  Squatter Life,  TS Plkings fromi Picayune, 75 lray Subjects, arrested hqA Boiend Over, -    75 otuIslana Swamp Doe- tor, -   -   -   -    is .hareoal Sketehes. -   75 1oiatbrtunes Peter Faber, 75 Y'ket    aumong tiiV, Mermaids,    -,    ' ; New Orleans *ket64 K. Siook,   -   -   -    7{   :,Tude         Hounds,  e. My Shooting Box, -     76 TaWwick Woodlands, 7S The Deer Stalkers, -   75 Peter Ploddy, -        I 75 Adventures of Cap- tain Farrago, -  -   75 Major O'tgan's A4- ventures, -  -   *   75 Sol. Smith's Theatri- cal Applt'cqtSi, '    : 8ol. Smith s Thestra- eel Journey-Work,-   75 The Quarter Race in Kentucky,    .   o   75 Col. Vahderbomh, -     75 Percival Mayberry's Ad- ventures and Travels, 75 Yankee Yarns and Yankee Letters, -    75 , Agierle  Joe Miller,.  a ; ,Fde Fu  meir. * _-',  7 ;     toi~tte   Drum,~   CAPT. MARRYATT'S WORKS.   Iwl[b Faithful, -  -   50I Uihet Searh of Father, 50 atom Ship, -      -   50 i shipmau Easy, -       0 ycal. of Many Tales,   CO kiaveyow, - - - -5)   Newton Foster, -         SO King's Own,     -   - Pirate &Three Cuttert, SO Peter Simple,   -        50- Percival Keesue, -  -    0 Poor Jack, -    -   - Sea King, . -     -      s0   CHARLES DIOHXNs' WORKS.   Oeet Expectations,-    75 Lanlt91fhber'l Story,.  T5 David Copperaeld, -    75 Dombey and(-'Sbn,      7 Niotola. Nickleby      7 7  Piclwlck Papers,       75 Caristan'i Stories, .   15 Ifartin Chuzzlewit,    75 Rarnaby Rudge,         75 iidkens' Ne* Storles,  75 Meak House,. -     -   75 Slomebodv's Luggage,   25   Old Curiosity Shep, -   75 8et*ts, by" Rex,'I-     75 Oliver Twist,   ;      -  7 LittleDorrit,   -   *    7f5 Taleof Two. itest  -   f* N    is  t"et   the St%,  76 NeH Idera' Storei , -    75 ^oiekui'i1rt dthrits,    75 Amegefr, Notes.,    ,-   7 Pie Nic Papers, -   -    75 Christmas Carol, o    - 25   Above are each in one large octavo volume, paper  vw. CHARLES LEVER'S WORKS.   ikartees O'Malley,   -   75 tarry Lorrequer,     -   f75 lank Itiuton .     -     75 Tom Burke of Ours, -     75 Inight of Gwynne, -      75   Arthur O'Leary,     -   75 Con Cregan,    -        75 Davenport Dunn,    -    75 Horace Templeton, -     75 Kate O'Donoghue, -      I&   We also publish a Military  distion or Lever's noves,  kvdth llhuaiuated covers In colors, price 75 cents each. A fier edition of the above are also published, eachoane complete in one volume, cloth, prce 92.00 a volume. rten Thousand a Year,    I TheTary of a Medical ae vol., paper,  - .101    Stiuent, -- *-   w  75 SIR WALTER SNOTT&NOVELS.   XAteoe,    .-     -   60 sverluy,          ,  -   60 Kenwor   h A -  The ianteqar,- !-      5 ThePirate,-   *       40 The Momnastery, -  -   0 The Abbot. -     .     50 The artu o f t Nigel,  50 Peveril of the Peak, - 50 KuOnti1 Durward,. -     0 Tale    a Gra ndfather, 50 The Honasiery,-  -  55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ The Abbot. -  -  .  50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ The Ifertunes of Nigel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  Peveril~ ~~ ofIePak    8t.-lean'sWell,    .   S9 Red  .untlet, - .      5. ThBe' IBirthed,-   -   5 The TatlisewtS *..- , 0 Weoodstock,.   -   -   M  : Highlhud Wtldaw, eti. 50 Count Robert of Paris, 50 , TheBlIk Dwarf and'- , Legend of Montrose,  J9o Castle Dangerous,and Surgeon's Daughter,  80 Moredun. A Tale of 1210, -  -   -   -   s0 Life of Scott. cloth, - 2 00   T. S. ARTHUR'S WORKS.   The Two Brides,    - Love in a Cottage, -   25 Love ia High Life,     25' Year after Marriage, -  25 The Lady at Home, .    25 Ceoelial Howard,       25 orphan Children,   -   25 Ddbtcr's Daughter, *   25 Mary Moleton, -    -   25 The Divoreed Wift,     25 ftdeaud Prudence,      25   Agnes, or the Possessed,  5 Lucy Sandford, -   .   25 The Banker'sWife,    *2 The Two Merchants,    26 Insubordination,  -   25 Trial and Triumph, -  25 The Iron Rule,    -   25 Lizzie Glenn or The Trials of     *e -    5 I lvOL,Paper,         Z 1 /'   a  eVW  W `ORUS.     surer's Victim;  e"          Balscontske,  M0 I   Adi1,  0pve    PETERSONS' ILLUMINATED STORIES. PRICO-95 GENTS EACH. ,Easi Book beias1^ an$" ILLIJSMIsAPED CdTvua," Ia t|ee colors, full ef ]fulstrtlions, and A re 'also t!ia teost Talea5to eoerie, of books ever printed in this countey. Booksellers and all otherswill be supplied with them by "the hundred or thousand, at very low -rates.   The Flying Artillerist, 25 The Rebel Bride, -  -25 Old PutI or, the Days of Seventy-Six.   - 25 The King's Cruisers, - 25 'The ]rlYng Tabken, - 2* 'Wlnt Toi; or thei Perils of the Oeeau, - 25 The Doomed Ship,    * 2.5 Jack unk, -     -   - 25 Harry Helm.-        - 25 Harry Tempest, -    - 25 Rebel and the Rover,  25 The Yankee Middy, -   25 Galloping Gun; or, the , Purse and the Pietol,. 5 Sylvia Seabury or, the Yanlteep In Japan, - 25, Sweeny Todd,    -   - 25 The Gold Seekers,   - 25 Valdez, the Pirate,  - 25 Xaft Blake&or, the Doomed Highwayman    2.1 Tom Waters the Haunted Highwayman, -      -25 Ned Hastings; or the Terror of the Road, - 25 Bill Horton; or Mys- terious Highwayman, 25 Dick Parker,,-  -     2 - 25 Jack Ketch, -   -  ,- 25 Mother Brownrigg,"  - 2.5 Gallopng Dick, -   .25 Mary Bateman, -     - 2. , Raoul De Survllle,  - 25 The Robber's WiHt,  - 25 Obi I or, Three-Fingered Jack, -     -  - ,N - 2w Deeradoeg of the New Wlorld,  .      -    25 Harry ThOmas,   -  Mrs. Whipple and Jesse Strang's AdVentures, 25 Jonathan Wild's Ad- ventures. -   -    - 25   Morgan, the Bucsaneer, 25 -Lives ofthe Felonu,  - 25 Joseph T. lare, -    - 25 Kit Clayton, -     -   25 Alexander 'ardv,     - 25 Thb Seven Brothers of W, yoming, -,   -   -25 ISilver and Pewters  - 25 Ninon    De L'Enclo's Life and Adventures, 25 The River Pirates, .   25 Dark Shades City Lift, 2 Female Lire in New York City, -   -   .2S The Rats of the Seilne, 25 Mysteries of Bedlam,  285 ,Charles Ransford; or Lve on Board Cruiser, 25 Evele'n Wilson, -    - 25 The Iron Cross, -    -5 Biddy Woodliull, the , Beautiful Hlaymaker, 25 Mysteries of a Convent, 26 The Man-o'-War's-Man, 26 Mysterious Marraitge,  26 Cantain   Blood,   tOs Highwayman, -         2h 6 Captain Blood and the Beagles; or, Highwa&man's Leap for Lil    25 Highwayman's Avenger, or, the Escape of 5ia. teen Stringed Jack)- 25 Rody the Rover's Ad- ventures, -    -   - 25 Sixteen-Stringed Jaek's Fight for Lifts 26 Rose Warrington,-    - 2 Ghost Stories,     . - 26 First Love, -    -     -  -. i Arthur Spring,  .   - 26 )avis the  Pirate; or 1  raebooters  of the Pacific,   -   -,    - 26 The Pirate's Son,    - 29   THE "MURRIELL" SERIES.   Life of John A. Murrel, 25 Life of Monroe Edwards 50 Life of Helen Jewett, 21, Life ot Dick Turpln. - 50 Wau-Nan-Gee; or, the Massacre of Chicago, 25 The Mysteries and Mis- eries of New Orleans, 500 The Brigand; or, the Mountain Chief,    . 50 Yankee Jack; or, Perils ofaPrivateersana, - ,25 The Three Pirates; or, 'Cruie of the TornadoM, 10   Red King; or, the Cos- *air Chieftain, -  * 25 The Flying Dutchman, 25 Ralph Runnion; or, the Outlaw's Doom,     - 5 Life of JackRann, alias Sixteen-Stringcd Jack 26 American Joe Miller,   6 Diary of a Pawnbroker, 50 Red Wing,   -   -   - 25 'The Female Blueneard, 2 Thes  onk, -    .    - 25 The Corsair, -         s. -o Wesash's Love;       *6 2   '3 A0K 8HBRPPARD'1' SEBIMS   Jack                 SOepr-' '* 0 Lltr and' idvet~ue~s .,: of Guy _,wkqs,    - '74 Lift and Adventure,.- of [evy C(etekttb . L-; Life of Grace O'Malley, 50 irk~torilOld 2*. P)OtVO,5 j-? The Sti lChimble-f; "' -"75' Mysteries of the Court of Queen Anne,    - s0 Mysteries of the Court ot the Stuart, -      s- 75 Windsor Camtle, - '-   5   :  a ae&Aj$ lventuire ef Maul Periwinkle,   *0 Lire br JackAdam.,     76 Life of SBeolce.. , -SO * Lif' of Jack At!el,  - S E   otlofool Bo6tebig, - 76 Crnutising in- Lat War, So . of Percy Euin'hkm, 76 'The Petrel, -   -    -S l'erelval Keene, -   -.t The Sea King,          s o Peter Simple,          st Poor Jack,  -   -      i Mysteries Three Ctes, 75   MILITARY NOVELS. With Illuminated Militiary Covers.in ColoM.   CharlernO'Maltey- -. 76 Jack   Hinton,   the Ouardsman,    -   * 7 The Knlght o!Gwynfe, 7i ,Harry_ Lorrequer,     b  Tom Burke of O        7U,  75 Arthur O'Leary. -   - 75 Cen  Cregan,    -      751 Kme O'Dmofhue,     - 75i1 '  6fte Tmehpleon,.     ra  DIvenport Dunn,     - 751 Following the Drum,   60 Tmlttihti Vb,' .- /: . 7fl Twfw Lieutenntes,     I 7 Stories of Waterloo.  T 76 The Sol4r', Wif    - 756   Guerilla Chief,  -   -75 Jack Aoam's'Advent's, 'I Three Guarldsmen,    - 75 Twenty Years After, - 75 Bragelonne, Son of Atee7f Wallace, Hero Scotland, 76 I Forty-five Guardmuen. 7 TomiowlinUs' Adveat,'  7 I Robert jBrucc,  - -    me The Gipsy Cief.: -     fP Massacre of Glencee,. - 7 Ben Brace. -     -   - 75 Guy Fawkes,      -    '75 Sachcile.,      -   -75 Child of Waterloo, . . 75 The Conscript. -   - 1 i   CONTENTe.:,                                 : m, -       {x  A   1... n-., tHAlPTJEB     I.                         .~: The Buccaneers on their Homeward March-The Warning Letter,-The Burn.- ing Savanna, and the Gauntlet of Fire--.An anticipated Feast'changed into Pt$arations for lattlo-The Intrenehmants of the Mountain-a-The General'. Letter and the Bilcaneer Chief'sCommentthereon...... .......      .  The Camp pn the Grassy knoll-The Sptnishi Trumpet Ambassador-Massau e at the Spanish Cam --Blbody Tragedy of the OCliff-The River-and tho ;n Traitors-a he Indian, the Grotto, ahd the Retribution.,. ...........: 10 C' , '  C HAPT;l'Rii. '. P.-Il . Scene of Blood at the Camp on.tht hRiveL__-Tle.iccapteers reach the North Sea -The Captain ariad'the' GOld-Arrival at St Domingo--The Goverinoi' n . ,. his Viughter-Pibard'tr  hig Bride-dsLdt dayO'0 'Lslic i,  et -    14 CHAPTFA I V.. '.... .. Sketch of Davi. the.Pir.te-.Su.net Scene on the. South Sesr-..Th. (Chuldren of. the sun        _t. Per_ vaxi's Priomse-.The Bridge of; Osiors, an .the MJieof '. u  ver--Blood, thl 2Iount4in Torrent,,and Revenge   - .......s.. -.'.. ,'OHAPTEW      V.  The Care f thlie HiddbtTreasuro-lThe Swrprise and Captute-The TTiumphal' i.ft 'Prneessidoi-The Public Squire and the Executioi-,-The Bitning Towa d!' afte Reeue-The IExeeitiofi Reversed.',.   ... ..    . O'HAPT;ER" VI,' A Prize in-'ighf-]gsperat6 Plan of Davis to take the Spaaish Man.-of-War4 . The PirateS Sail ,into 'the' Jewof Death-.The Bloody, Vietog,"-ThePleiei n ad the Boy-htLiing Coffin, eid the Tomb of the )eep.,,        a,,    7 UIAHAPTER     VII;     ."'               '!;, The Deck of the Pirate Frigate-Despait of th' 'Prienf--'.he Compact of Tresch. ery_-The Hermt bf .thi.-Tdir--a,4he '9e6tof Gi tade.~4.Th, 1Briid&, Revenke,-%'.Tle 8"rp'is'"  6, t a~nlty, oflb~IodAd,:n  Oki -'&e-"..A Spaniah ...... :- '"UHAPTER         VIII.             [       :,: The Pertvian Recruit-The Doc   d~Spiniap%, A h;,os Midnight Visitors-;The 'a' ^aa^  ^s^KSL-~~~~~'ad''^"^; 1- Carouse of the Buccaneers-Jesuita, the Peruvian Wife-Deadly Fight between Black Ben and the Red Dwarf--Pillage of the House of Don Baltazar, the --Spanish Sensualist--The Griave of Fire .............. ................. 45 CHAPTER X. The Anchorage at the Island-The Chilian-Women, and the Laws of the Bucea. neers-The Feast of the Grove-The Red Dwarf-The Surprise, and the Tragedy of Blood-The Visioa of the Cli1,-Davis and the Mutineer.-The     it ONTENTS. ,  HAPTER    V. ..           i  . March of the Buccaneers aaigh the Valley of Salt-The Sllver Mine of the , lHound Mountain-Tr achery and Retribution-A Scene of Horror at the Island Cliff ........ * .. . .... . ..,.                1 C HA'PTER   XII. The Honor of the Buccaneers-A Prize in Sight-The Voice of the Long Gun- Desperate Battle at Sa---Deat iof fee Red Diarf-.The Spanish Captain and the Buccaneer Chief-Th6 Buining IFrigate.  ... ................ .5 '   CHAPTER- XIII.,  Landing at Hilo-The Wine and the Mpney.-Tle, Grve of Olives, and the Revel -Old .Timn, the Greek-The Viieri6ys Flet, and the Pirate's Vow...... 62 CHAPTER XIV.  Consultation of the -Buccaneers-Determinie to Return Home-- areening at the Galapagoa Islands-Revelry, ad Gaming at Juan Fernandezs--The Bucea- neers Return to England-Last day4of Capt. Edward Davis- ........... 67 CHAPTER XV. The Cygnet-The Buccaneer Chief, Capt. Swan, and his First Mate-TI' Bueca- neers approach the Gulf of Califorai.-rThe Midnight Attack on the House of Don Gonzales-The Spanish Maiden and her Betrothed. . ...... ... 71 CHAPTER    XVI.    ..   ,  The Cygnet at the Chametln Islands--Petaplan, the Indianfi'oy-The Groveof Cedars and the Mutineers--Big John and Old Dice--Attack on the Town of Rosario-Punishnrent of the Buccaneers .......-.....  .    .... 7? CHAPTER XVII. ,&aroni the Astrologer--The Prediction-The Convoying Party, and the Fulfil, ment of the Prediction'-The Battle at the River-The Astrologer and Big John. ...........      ......    ...    *...........    80   .  .CHAPTER' XViII. 'he Buccaneers' DiBcert upon Mazatla--Big John's Inspection, and the Indian Recutits-Don. Sylvester, the Miser, and his Treas^reo-The Tres Marias Ialands-The Distemper and Aaron, the Physician-The Sand Bath ....... 85 C HAPTIER   XIX, l'he Buocaneera at'the Island of Guahan, and it Surrender to t4em--.The Mazat-  lan Indians, ad the Natives of Guahaa-T-hThe .Buceer, at the Philipine Islands--The Mutiny of Reed and Old Dioe, and& ieat o pf B;ig John --End  of the Cygnet ... .......... ..-7....- ... *,. ... -.....* ----   8 ' , . CHAER   XX. ,  t     -   . ,. Jean Rodeanx, the Creole BucEaneer--The Ohien ,-deiie; pr Dogof thel ea- , Enooupter of the Chien de Mer withthe pSw   Frlgatei-he iea Bird, Capt. Straton-.The $iwroked .Bippai neers-The Attc   Oh ATipa"The Straits of Magellan ... ..    .. ...9...     ..r . . r ........... CHAP TE9R   XXI .    .    ,/ The,Buccaaeer in the West Indies-Siege ot dCathagena.- Suppression oftie t Buccaneers-,The End ... .     ...    ..  \A   *ai-The  r, t s"s -et ' -Bccanee r.   Chief's com e.     ' t s hi fo  the rSAhIrst art f rthis history,e ef  DAVIS, 3;HE :BiUCCAN ER. C*H'APTER I. ' ahe Buccan ers on .ther raomeia ard MarechThei Warninf iTdtiT n hen Burning Savanna, land .the' sau ntlet' of Fire-A n tansiithpaed Fiet changed into Prepatatwons 'fo Bai-^Thfi InThtrenChm ief the -Moun tain--The aenera's -etr, and .; o'B"'succaneer ahiefts/comneht thereon. AT the end of "Morgan the Buccaneer, or the EreeAboitrs ofp the ntille;"- thich forms the'frst part of thiis ,history, we lefitthe: boi raneer$, under Hew tt, starting on their march acrossJhep ojvine 'oP 3autimala to Cape 3riaciag a Dios. Their "w'ay was idiffailtit autd .'dan erous. Their path led over steep .and' craggy naouifitMi theY-esceAti ff which wa,slow and painful. 'They wlre 'exp a]s33d, , -auddei ;hanges, :as it were, pf the seaso.' O'n the idEd)iiM;tjps,fd the nountains, their limbs'were stiffened with the sharp- aind ,itin::obld;  while in the valleys below they dragged their ;steps' tefrily ilong, op' pressed and overqome with languor by the 'hat, btltlhe tiioghs oif lome filled, their 'opl and 'urged them onwa rd 'ideid- ll-, tieir hhard \ hips. Thee eveniig' of their first day's mai'ch'tliioiihttheath tIaosmall , iatt6, which they found deserted abid stfipp4di of everythint. ^iEst^ rned to th' wall, h6wever, they disoired ri papler di Wbih werbwritn en in Spatiiishhth following 'word0s: .i I. ;.' i - i;  "We are very glad that you have, Ille choice f6u'l ot. ovieaoeifor rour. passag hom wtids , but e ; t 't 'yo i: 'are niibthettorlhden with silver; 'lib ei6/ it' youU Hab &ibh fitfo'r iesb i-to y y: i-our' )aggage, we will s;'e' W'them"'p l' -        hip httVthe Fr6enoh genm ral, Gronet, ,vei qi kly  i  tyin ortirpdi,' and if odo, twe ;leave: you' to consider' w'ha: islikely to bec:m&: of ii6liser": i '. I: si : t:,  By ,this letter it div i evident t*attheSp tve;werd %.ii 'ambuscade long'the march of   f ,hb h i i th thftii6uhtrone  was yet live, and that iii Hf vidu nterpri6'isnl hihiiKtd n&tibeeitWvry Bucces- :ul. Tthe buceaneers, lowever, did npt sleep, the less soundly -that ligl}t ipn'kout of.'fceiling' th's tfii? tetiig,'mi 8i 'oSikeilF:ntii4^ ine' w   q]a e :mpr?"icm' biiey 'tned btl*ird-iii {sit aslo onfidne n. i'  , ole po f the  fitif vii oS ath i.. ,e i Abpuk,^the B4id i bfrtie dai -wherd hey'had teadhed a vide plap ia. 'abib dp o ,r1' , ,iS:tidide apiiared in sight 'and, gave them ^U e.    '      '    i  .      8          DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER. 'El contest was of short duration, and the buccaneers put their am aiilants to flight. The victory, however, was attended by a drawhack of an altogether new character. The grass of the plain was long and dry, and the Spaniards, in their retreat across it to the mountains, set it on fire, thus leaving behind 'therm ii 7coid of, aitnpiadd?snoke, through which the buccaneers,;seorched by the oed a  cd' tibled4 by the other, had the greatest difficulty in making their way. Weary and faint, they arrived at evening on a little eminence, where they encamped for the night, but did not retire to rest before they had terribly re- venged themselves on their enemies. At some distance ahead of their eqcanpient, they beheld a gleam- ing of lights, and Hewett, with a small party, imJnediately advanced with caution to the spot, in order to recontoitre, They soon found themselves in front of a spacious hoe which Stood in the midst of a fine sugar plantation, and on discoyering this to be th6 case, a diaboli- eal plan at once took possession of the mind of Hewett. ' Fire for fire, comrades 1" whispered he, as with a menace, he raiaed one of his hands, which was horribly scorched. "They gave us fire by day on the open savanna- we'll give them fire by ight in the closed hatto; and then we'll see whether on savanna or in hatto, the sport will be enjoyed the best." The restof the bucqaneers willingly agreed to this, propp$l of ofew- ett. Havig first, without being discovered, barred up all the doors on the outside, the pirates then hastily withdrew to their encampment and there awaited the sucerss of tlxr cruel stratagem. They expected , that when the Spaniards saw the fire and heard the cries of distress, they would immediatly rush down from the mountain, to which they had retired, and fly to aid their friends. The pirates were not mistak- en in their calculations, No sooner did the flames begin to curl up  towards the heavens, than the mtst piercing shrieks were heard from within the house, and the cry was immediately answered from bhe mountain. By the light of the fire, the buccaneers could plainly see the Spaniards hastening down the steep clitf^ and also were able to count their namber.  t Forward!" said Hwett, whenhe saw thathi4 vnctims h4a all reached the batto, and were busily engaged in rescing, it inhabitants; "and we'll teach the Spanish doge a, lsson inm ire m i , g." The order was obeyed, when the Spaniards,who had succeeded in saving from the flames the imnates of the hatto, were just on the point of flyingwith them to the mountain, they found t eselves surrounded by the buwe  eras, whose mskets intpce te Them at every turn. Struck dumb with terror, they fell on their nees andd cred for quarter. Quarter you shl have," shouted fHeett, "but it shall be such quarter as you gave to us. Your women a  'tefee to go wth&b they please, but your way to yon4er mountain is thiugh thP burning ashes of yonder hatto-and through that ilqe. Taoke ip yqur patch as quibc s yw please; we wait to see yo prr w 'r iry.' The w   iet h ei men looked for a mp Qup op th gaunttlt 'ofire be- fore them, and then into the scoWiing faces around them, and knew at   DAVIS, THE I1C( OANE.         '7 once that there was no hope of mercy. e emed in by a hollow square of the buccaneers, whose muskets were.. nowlevelled .at them, their only chance for life was to brave the path of flime, and trust to. for- tune for escape. The women, at the first words of Heweti, had already run around the building,:and were now standing on the side of the pountain, where they could be seen wringng .theiidands in anguish, ,and waiting to receive their protectors when they had passedthis ter- rible ordeal. Come," again shouted Hewett, who began to be impatient, " we cannot wait, there will soon be a fire from behind you, if you do not 'try the one .bfore you, so forward, or you, are all dead men," . Impelled by desperation, the victims ,now threw themselves into :the flanes, and as they did so, therqburst from the buccaneers a sav; age yell of delight, which was answeed by a loud wail' from 'the moun- tain. A moment more, and -the roof of the building. fell inward with a hissing crasth, which hushed at once both the yell of the pirates and the wail of the women and children into the silence of suspense. The next instant, the silence was broken by a cry of joy from the moun- tain, as the greater number of the Spaniards issued from their fiery furnace, scorched and blackened, and fell, overcome- with exhaustion and terror, .on the plain without. To fly to their assistance was the work of I   ot .a moment on the part of the women, who had. the satis- faction to find that but two out of fifty had perished in .the building, and that the rest, although much burnt and disfigured, were not in a hopeless condition.  Good night, ladies," said Hewett, as he, gave the orders to march. "The English dogs,are now even with the Spanish hounds, only the fire of the hatt0 is somewhat hotter. than that of the savanna," and with this adieu, the buccaneers retired to their encampment, well satins fled with their revenge.                * The next day the buccaneers continued their march over the mounn tains and. through the valleys, and in the evening arrived at a small town which they found deserted,: with the exceptoni of a few old pc" ple who had not been ,quite quick enonugh in their movements, and who, on being inrrogated by Hewett informed him that threhun- dred soldiers were in\ the neighborHood, with orders to keep on the track of the pirates, and harass' then in their march,. .When the march was resumed the nest miornig, the buccaneers found this information t be correct, for they-hardly started before, they. were saluted with a blast of trumpets on either side, vsried with an occasional blast of an arquebuse. It was in vain for them to endeavor to disperse the enemy, for they were concealed aimong the. pine trees, which. formed a thick and almost impenetrable wBy on both aides of the .way, during the greater part of thl day's, m arh. . 4t night, .when. they  camped on an open eminence, eyou   they ftund i t hatteno;theirinumber had been illed and wqinded.' Weary, I ipgiy3, and, diMiritd,ithehbue weers rested tiaj nigh4jwitathout beipg rwh r4fisephed. Twotda ys ifter hil thi hebuce 4er tea4ei    wjattwf S$egoijvs/ whiah thfoey tookwritlh" put much difiiecuttp  1rfding sql  provis8ot A0v4 , t, Er8etd -d Tfeshed thie selvs Afpr e. dayb berp ghay agi a r meratheir maeoh '  ' '   "         B ^  .,     '.8     ADAVIS, THE BUC6ANIER. . About sunrise on the day after the buccaneers left Segovia, they came to an eminence, from whence they saw on the edge of a mouan tain opposite to themi, and from which they were separated by a nar- row valley, a number of animals which they took to be beeves. The sight rejoiced them, for the vision of a goodi feast rose up before them, and they determined at once to encamp where they were and enjoy it. Their hopes, however, were soon blasted, for the party which they sent out to reconnoitre, soon returned with the information that the animals which they took to be beeves, were nothing more nor less than saddled horses, and that the side of the mountain was barricaded with three intrenchments, which rose one above the otheri and effectually barred the path which they; the buccaneers, mustpursue the next day on their homeward route. These were saj tidings for men whose appetites had been whetted up to the highest pitch by the sight of that which they thought would afford them a savory feast, but it was no time now to think of eating; danger the most eminent was now before them, and it was necessary that instant measures should be taken to disentangle themselves from the position in which they now found themselves. The Spaniards were evidently gathering together from all quarters tt block up their way, and it would not be difficult for their enemies ti fall upon them in these narrow defiles and Jut them to pieces. It wail necessary, therefore, at once to fight the foe before them, not only t( clear their present path, but also to fill the Spaniards with such terror as would induce them to refrain from further molestation. After much consultation it was finally determined that the prisoners, horses and baggage which they had with them, should be left on the eminence where they now were, under charge of Picard and eighty men, while the rest of the buccaneers, under command of Hewett, ehould make the hazardous attempt of scaling the mountain on the side where' there was no road, but on the contrary nothing but the most frightful precipices, and which from that very reason had been left un- guarded. By doing do they could attack the intrenchments of the Spaniards in the rear, and thus gain possession of the only path 'which they could follow. to ;the North Sea.  AU things being in readiness: the party set out in the evening by -the light of the moon, and commenced the perilous ascent. The buc- caneers labored and toiled all the' night,' now creeping, pow sliding, and oftentimes swinging themselves by- the, branches of the trees from one rock to the other.. Buh their energy overcame all dificulties and danger, and at daybreak, they reoached the top of the mountain in safety, although bruised and bleeding,' nd 'had the satisfaction of lo6ki ing down on the highest intrenchment, where the Spaniards were sleeping on their amsns in conscious security, not dreaming that the buccaneers were anywhere but on the eminence opposite. : Give tm  ttle m   o    sid          them a little music rade" said t, as e ed the blood from his knees. ".'Tis .time they came to their knees alo, 'for  we have been on ours all night." The answer to 'Hew'ett's order was   volley of firearms, "which re:echoed through the mountains, and Caused the Spaniards to spring to their feet in amazement to find the iobuaneers on the inside of theii intrenchments, instead of being on thn   \    -                   . fAVIb, TE 1OCANEEi i outside where they were the night before. Hewett and his men, how ever, did not give them much time to indulge in their surprise, for they threw themselves in-to the intrenchment' with fury, and soon put the five hundred soldiers who guarded it to the sword, This,.,beiqg accomplishea, the galling fire which they ihein poured" int& IthQ ibn- trenchments sool. put an end to the strife, and. the bduchtees rere masters of the mountain and- the pass. 'Amongx the other pjisoners who were brought before Hewett, was the general of the Spaniph force, on whose person was found the following letter:'    '  "A letter written by the general of the proince of Oosta Rica, to the commander-in-chief in the retrenchments, dated January 6th, 1688. "SIR :-I thought i had made a good choice' when I committed "to you the conduct of an affair which ought td establish' our eepuitation, f you have the better of the enemy, as you induce' me to beivt yo6u will: I was preparing to send you eight thousand m:i , "if you bai not sent me word that fitteen hundred' were enough. I do not dcoibt buiti person that hath' served so long as you have d6ne, will takd dare of ydti men, especially since you have to do with: a people from 'whom ther will no honor redound to you by o  ^bing them. Adcordinm'  the relation you have given me of yourtrfienhmgn'; it. it is imp'ssibl but those people, with the help of God, imust be' de'tVoyed. I'advi you to put a thousand men into them, and 'two hunde'd near'iiiototlf river by which they hope to get unto the North' 'Sea. -In ,case any of them save themselves aeross the mountains, Don' tdrigo:Samardo, the new governor of Tinsigal ought to be at the head. of three hundred men, to fall upon th'b rear as soon' as they. are engaged, foi r-'ertainil  their baggage must be there. Take good measures, fort thet d6ii have a cunning and subtlety that are not in use among us:. , - : '- When you find them advance within shot 'of you' hacluebuses, let not your mnen fire but by twenties, to the end that yo0r firing may not be in vain; and when you find them weakened, raise; a ehuit to frighten them, and fall in with your swords, while Don 'odrig& at- tacks them in the rear. I hope God will favor out designs, ihce& they are no other than for his glory and the1 destruction Of this iew set of Turks. Hearten up your meni though they- may haV :en'ough of that, according to your own example. They shall be rewarded in Heaven; and if they get the better, they will have gold and silver enough whert- with these thieves are laden."'       .  "General,"' said Hewett. when he had 'fiished reading th' above letter, "you are not u good commander. You do not obey orders. You did not set up that terrific shout, and ars for the attack bni the 'eai, we,. and not hit excellency, Don Rodrigo Samnardo, made it. You are, however, free. Present my compliments to the geneial of the. pioVinl of Costa Rica, and telli him that he does well'th name Heavet ,as the place where thosewho;ifight the thieves' he speaks of iill get their re  ward or they are not very likely 'to obtain ttfrom btir g0ld '-and il et: and amid a shout of'laughter ftom the" buccanbers, the 'eai'.l :ethe intrenchne t         - . ' ' ' "      O          iDAVIS, THR BVCEBiI . CHAPTER    II.  The O(amp on the (rassy Knoll-T41 Span4h Trumpet 4mbq*VsadWv Jssacw at the Spanish Gamp--Bloody 'ragedy of the liff--The Xiw and the traitors-The Indian, the Grotto, and the Retritibuon. Tm : loud shout of ridicule from the victorious buecaneers ,undeo Hewetti which followed,the retiring steps of the Spanish general, soon spent itself through the-weariness of the lungs whichgave it utteranceu and died away: i dthe echoes of the mountain. There then followed a scene, which, when the characters of the actors in it are considered, exhibits a strange and mlysterious feature in, the philosophy of human nature. :These men of blood and rapine knelt on the feld of battle4 ^nd sung the T e e eum by way of thanks unto God for the great vie- or whiCh they had achieved, This over, Hewett and twelve of the bucoaneers, mounted on thbeorses'of their defeated enemies, left the mountaiR of the intrenqci  ad. started to cross the valley by the road of which, they were the masters, to the opposite exanened iwhere, as mentioned, in the last chapter, Picard and some eighty maet had, been left to guard the camp. Quqr scene now changed to the camp. It was situated on a grassy knoll which nestled in greenness and verduro arnid a wild and savage, waset of rock and mountain rising. from behind .and on either side while from the front, the eye looked down on a black mass of forest illing the valley below, and unbroken in its denseness to the sight, only by a narrow rivulet which dashed and leaped madly through the centre. From the first break of day Picard and the whole camp had been anxiously looking across the valley, and watehiag as far as they were able the.'battle of the $paniards and their companions on the mountain of the infrechments. The roar 9f the :musketry had al- ready in some measure ceased, and thewatchers on the knoll, clustered together i a knQt, were eagerly stre;ching forth 'te neckks in order if possible to discover who were. the victors. It w. at this moment that the blast of a .trumpet was heard, loud and sonorous behind thema and at the 'ame instant, an Indian bounded from behind an overhiang ing rock, and stood silent and motionless on the open space of the knol with his finger pointed to the point from whence he had tadehis ap- pearance. 'Te bccqaneers were not long in doabt of his meaning, for from behid the sa'pe rock, there soon wissud, puffing and blowing, a Ohort fat Spaniard, bearing an immense brass trumpet in one hand, and a white flag in the .othe.  "By St. Juan," x'ciimned the trumpet ambassador, s he wiped the sweat from his brow, "tht;rq^dtoyoircarsesqoxeampment ismrough. Kpow, yer dogs. of pirte, that I com e hithes,- fon my gene and although jyou aretmen, curage, s .w ekiay a ftaWi. fpond t on yet now you are in our power. Look over to yq4eirmon taiQia your comrades have gone, a thousand Spaniards are intrenched thei: and have already cut them to pieces. We are three hundred strong   iVIS, THE BUCCANE.           I who now surround you on evry side, and you cannot escape. Yiel& therefore to us as prisoners of war. Our general is a man of hlnor. We will give you quarter, but by, the holy sacratent and the glorious Virgin, if you do not yield, we will cast your accursed carcasses into the valley below to become food for vultures t  -"Blow youir trumpet again, most valiant messenger,"' answered Picard "We have heard it now for some days on either side of our march, but have not befgre had the pleasure of seeing any of the mu- - sicians; so blow away. Return to your general and tell him that we, will fight to the last, although his force is thrice our own i When we left the -South Sea we resolved, to pass through your country or die in the attempt. Although there were as many Spaniards. of you, a 'thereis grass on the Savanna, still shall we pass on. Ydu are all a pack of cowards and we will make our way throiighyou ia spite of your teeth."  a  Theoface of the ambassador turnedpale, and his knees trembl"/ he listened to the words of Picard. He had expected no such aans^ but on the contrary, a ready submission, and he began to think ,tc it was about .time for him to retrace his steps. e was just-oan4h - point of doing'so, when the sound of horses' hoofs were heard elattering up the narrow and stony path which led from the valley below, $i Hewett and his twelve companionsy booted 'and moutted, immediatels thereafter appeared on the knoll. The ambassador cast ,but one lool! on the horses, he knew from their trappings that they, had belonged' to his countrymen, that therefore the battle at the intrenchments wa4 lost,'and he accordingly turned on his heels to run.    ; "We are after you,' shouted Hewett, as he called on Pioard and tlo rest to follow, and while the Indian disappeared as if by magio behind the rocks, the buccaneers .pursued close on the steps of the luckleas messenger. The chase wAs not long, for the pirates soon came full upon the camp of the Spaniards, which ivas situated on another ei;! nence almost'within 'gunshot of their own.' The messenger, breathles and exhausted, fell headlong in the camp, and as the buccaneers apr proaohe d, the Spaniards gave them a full volley from tAeir arquet buses. T3he buccaneers received the fire without flihehinag, nd anawered it by an impetuousE harge with pistol and cutlass into the very centre of the camp. The'Spaniards soon. yielded but it was some time before HeWett tgave 'orders that the piercing Xriensfqr quarter, which wre heard-on every side, should begranted, and the masacre ceaset Wlhe he did so, the; sceineof carnage which pieseted'itsirf was an awfid4Rne to contemplate. Ofthreehundied Spaniarda wio Bad but a ehort time before held possession of the emianene, but fifty, ino!ding, their ge eral, now 'remained alive, the i'est hewed,-acked an4 ut .to pi es, were iattered 'adund, and. piled, in heaps ina piolbs df blood. ,  "General," said Hewett, as wiping his swordthe addresiYAi the *F. - and of the Spanish oaamp, "t you :seowe are deterained t': pa on  oiar wam houmeiaidwhiat thase to zpheci  aeIpt tP -od ei t href is otanofithe Jesson of the same kindrfor j sdion t1i ite tmountOutaiwhere we'havcjustdpfeateij i  adain f srst     1          DAVIS, TIE BUOCANf;E.!  with a much larger force thian yours. You are free to join I : 1 as for your soldiers here, we have further use for them." The Spanish copmander immediately took advantage of thtsp mission given hime and with the Indian, whom we have before spokele of, for a guide, descended into the valley, while the buccaweirs, di-ving theif prisoners before them, returned to their camp. There they oon struck their tents, and crossing the valley by the road of which they were now the masters, they joined their companions on the Imoutain of the intrenchments..            x  A council of war was immediately held, to determine whatW s ahld be done with the prisoners. Hewett proposed at once that they, uld all be shot. It was impossible, he said, to do otherwise--for vt^i uc* caneers had no provisions but what 'they should need thernmelveS, and, it was beside absolutely necessary to strike the whole, country *ith terror, if they calculated to pursue their way with any degree of safety, the question was put to the vote, and the decision was death. The deci- sion was no sooner given, than execution followed. The unfortunate men, to the number of some three hundred, were bound,and ranged in single files along the edge of the surrounding precipices. The pi rates then advanced in platoons, and fired-fired until every Spaniard had disappeared into the frightful chasm below, and;iutil. eyery, d. spairing shriek of the victims, in their last agony, had ceased to echo through the hills.                 ,  This terrible tragedy of blood had the desired effect, The bucca- neers were no more molested in their path, and on the seventh dal after their starting, they arrived at the, Cape River, which rises in :th, mountains of Segovia, and discharges itself into the North Sea. -; Every hand was- now quickly engaged in building ;rafts;, withtoh tall light wood which grew on either bank of the river, Thobt neers gave the name of piperies to these rats, and each one was formed by fastening two or three logs together, with the 'vines which wpere found in great quantities in the neighboring forest. Each raft was made large enough only for two or-three men. It was necessary ,t  build:them thus small and narrow--for the river was very. rapid, and obstructed at every turn with whirlpools and falls.   .  A few days "suffided fdr the bUilding of the. rafts, and then the butc caneers, embarking thereon, trusted themselvesto. the will of the:tuw bulent stream, and commenced their dangerous navigation. The firt week of their voyage, was one continued scene ofi suffering and hard- ship. Tossed and whirled about. in their frail barks during the day, when night came, they. were obliged to rest, on the damp ground, Iwi* nothing for their supper but not and' then a few, bananas, which; by -ehace came inm theif way on,the banks. of the river. Many also :of ,their :number were drowned, and to cap the climax otheirfirstwek's misfortunes oh the!Cape River, there were treachery and murder in -their iiidst. ;    , ;      ,      '  '- 2 The rafts, of course, were;floated at'a distance from each other, .aii some of them were sevbral diya in advance of the others.: The :te head rafts of the wihTe, were manned by five Englishmen, who pw.! among the richest ot the pirates, while the three rafta which followed 4*   DAVIS, TES BUCCANEBER.  immediately after, were guided by ten desperate F enchmen, who iad lost all their money in gambling. These last determiined to take the Jives of the former, which they accomplished at night, and the 'fled into the recesses of the forest. Two days after, Hewett, Picar, and Lusan, who occupied a raft together, reached the spot, and found the ghastly bodies of their companions lying on the shore, stripped of mo. ney and clothing, While they were contemplating the spectacle, and endeavoring to conjecture from whence the blow had come, an Indian stood suddenly before them, and pointing first to the dead bodies, and then to the-woods, appeared thus by signs to express his *illingness and ability to point/out the murderers. -Hewett waited for some more of his men to come up in the rafts, and when he. had collected together a force of abot twenty, he signified to the Indian that he was ready to follow. Their guide at once bounded into' the forest, and after a half day's narch, reached a narrow opening in the rocky front of a high mouna ain, in which he crept on his hands and knees, beckoning at the same tine to the buccaneers to follow his example. They did so without he least hesitation, and before they were aware of it found themselves tanding upright, and gazing on a scene which chained them to' the ?pot, in silence and astonishment. The place where they stood, was a small vestibule, u t by the hand f natire 'in the solid rock, with as perfect a finish 'asndif. dontre y the 'hisel of an artist. , From this vestibule there spread out, before them i more grand and lofty proportions, an immense grotto orcaverjwhiz as spanned'by one magnificent arch, without pawr or support- Of any dcd, and from which masses of rock, in all thefancifu ,shapes which befimnagination can conceive, hung glittering and transparent in the ight of two. torches, which were fixed in the floor of the ca0ve; In the entre of the grotto there arose a square bloclf of solid stoie, azid on his were seated, busily engaged in, counting a pile of gd, ':the ten !ucaneers who had so recently ' murdered their companitns.: ::rancois," cried one, as he drew towards hm. a handful of e .yellow metal, " it is lucky we have found this place. Safe'here orm discovery, we can sa'lly out, and tkre the raft s as the;y come dowr 4e river, and. none :will be the Wiser..,then we shall return homek, tib uite so poor as that' accursed Hewett." H i did notlive tor fiish the entence--a shot. from the pistol of Hewett -eteited at. that imoment hi ear, and 'he fell, lifeless at' full length on the atone where he wasvaiti ng, deluging the booty with his blood. Hewett wad his party inrime& tiately .ushed into th cave, and 'Franeois an'd hiotahi ons sege ngi :hothe ivengers were who had, thus followdv!. (Ith eir'rack, sunk o%' mir knees, and' cried fst niery. 'A pis/el1 iea f- 'sbrin .it-, ,. ths, ely nercy for such traitors,', ahp. .tede.. : hiL;'-o a the  samue i ant discharges rungth rough the arches of h  othe,i,ad nine liel' 4ies rolledOon t the grourid;: .    .   . ' '4;'-"-, ,Inrig . all the scene, 'the Indiax: iemaind'e iOsi0tl* s "irid,.when cwett poined him, to the gold,',d .'signified' to'him thl " tiig Jsw it as hitreward, he raised himsVelf proudly u tidAiriscttt * 4 JizdiAn %and, half Spauish ttogue, auswe  o'-4; Ilgisp     r14        IsDAVIS; THE BaUCANEIR. Once avenged the Indian on the Spaniard who stole his'wif'ethe fi dian loves the Englishman, and'has led' him to his revenge., And with these words he bounded out into the narrow' opening, and wal Been no more.  CHAPTER    III. &ene of Blood at the ,Camp on the River-The Buccaneers reach the North Sa--The Captain and the Gold-Arrival at St. Domingo-The Governor and his Daugher--Picard and 'his Bride-Last Days of Juzan and H-ewett..                  t  Fot many days after the events related in our last chapter, the buc. caneers continued to be tossed and whirled about on the- eddying waters of the Cape river. -Their frail rafts were often overturned, or dashed in pieces against the rocks, and many of the daring adventur. era who had escaped death in the flame of battle, now met it in a watery grave, at the very moment when they were congratulating themselves that their toils and dangers were nearly. over, and ,that they were almost on the threshold of their desired homes. Gradually, however, the river became wider, the falls and rocks less numerous, the curreit more gentle, and the buccaneers therefore knew that they were approaohing the sea. Those who were in advance, now steered theit taftw to the shore, and waited for their companions to rejoin them. The sun was setting, the last raft had come down the river) and the buccaneers, once more together, were assembled in council at theit camp, on a wide, open plain, which sloped gently to the stream. : "Cmrades, French and English," said Hewett, "since we embark- vd on this river, seventeen of our number have been drowned by the upsetting of the rafts. This could not be avoided, and we mourn theii loss. Ten Englishmen, however, have died by treachery-been: rob- bed and murdered in cold blood by Frenchmen. : Acs like this can b] avoided, and for the information of all concerned, I hereby give notie that the murderers have been duly' shot, even in the hiding place ti which they had flekd I perfoimed the ioperation upon one of them myself and shall be ready to follow it up when occasion demands. And now, comrades, what are to be our next steps towards getting to the North Sea." "To follow the Frenchman youshot, to h-1 you accursed dog of  an Englishman!" yelled a ferocious, sallow-complexioned Freneeh pirate, by the name of Graffe, yho aimed at the same time, a fuiioto blow with his citzlasa, at the head of HeWett. With one hand Rieett qaught the stroke ,on his own sw ord, while with the other, he' pilled. his pistol from his belt, levelled it at the head of Graffe, and fired. Grra, shot through the brain, fell to: the ground a corpse,; and fHewett, lookig. with an air of: defiance around him, exclaimedl , Anothe trar I.'l1, be 'sworn. If there are any more, let them come on novt to save. future trouble.' No one, however, answeied, or eveas nmutr   ,    . Di^IS TtBB-- Bl;-j nPuid at tthi  mkrfrv   'tie "of eett, and flin ngi^thboAyl  of'raffe inrto the rietr'a i'4  PAktl gfi64,iicnr -id ha ppae, thw brecaneers .tie detiberatted on thert futire' orse. iAftr a slt' pnfsultation,ri i 4w{terpinaeM to enTaii'thieret'hey itere1 til they could build' carnoes'ti ry theitA tf6 theo ormti Sla; Niriiehthe Indians informed them was aoiffe sixty leagues distant. W;tlt thtE esohlution, thecouncil .b nO   Ind the" piat'e fcfi r's i8  h*hed in the silence of repose, 1tnbioken save' thdb th tir the ttitel architig' on his ,trq 'u  ' ' '     .      ' i or some weeks the buccaneers were now but' ehuikdin biild.: ing canoes, and during M lthe time, thbe Indians 'wV' iy tf indly,.' brtnging to them proivisions a nd assisting' btheii i vaaiouW*iiy., ThbS greatest incontvenience h hich the' pitateU eilduhred at 'tfis"ifibd, ap- pears to have arisen, acchrding t b ahe aCeouit ofie 0^f lefi oWn 'hi tprians, from the misqcuitoes. "'"Tiisb .jiinf ial, '" a t1eiiisthria re- firred .to, '"maae u' runti into despalr:iaXd sdih- a ifage a itstias bsi&de ourselves. They'.ar' litte. fifes, ooner f'lt than Seen, land hiabte  sharp and vefpmou ai sting, that' .heire they alight thly seeem!'t havefiery darts wteiArith to priiekien,' :' '      ' . The canfoes being a 'Ingth finrshedi the bluedan1esM bn6e Aopre er.) barked, and hac^the satisfactitn, after nine' days'pleasant voyage, '.t find themselves gliding out of the mouth of the rivel at CapeGOraFciat a Dios, and eptering O6 ith waters of .he North Sea.' It was iSot ldhg eiore a ship hove in sight, a ,i wa hailed by the piiite. * ": '; - " , ' ' itn the name' of HU6aveh, whoo are ye, afid fwhat aeye'y?" exlaiter^ thi Captain of the ship,: as he leIaned over the sidW of hibtewl,: ' dd gazed half in' astohishftien, half ihtei'to athfihb kitVi e6tkib tobdti pLtnts of the canbes,;" kepp ofr; y.'e devil, I saiy L-r vt1 I0W youi int "It is easy tq :talk' abo'ut blowing, .my goodd 'ffied,"- anusWeed' Hewett, " but tW ar nei'ier afraid of it, seiitgtharthui:tt ythoaif nor is it at all neessaty, seieng 'thlt' gold wh dtihbtle h'a,^pai^.y ipg effect on you, We .have lately 'been 'fihtiIg the $Sp t1 iaadih th. SOuth Seas,.have plepty of the'yellodw Pnetal, aid. w^antri ettel b d We will give' you f'rty piees .df 'eigh for ,et'te ii H, W'll Jt4w take  us?"  Certainly-by all meais; business is bu'sins' althoighe you lre pirates." I see oiri' If :'ai -honest -'hia .' 1114tl at^ia' St. Di^ aingo-better not go to Jamaica," an4 the 9aptain her';di^* his fin- ger; with a 'ld6tof Wlsaodthiaound the' t of iis. that. ' "T'1ll drop you at St. DomitO- you' can' get proteotiorn the'eto go-i rrance, and froni thence, ;those wid wish, cn eai yget- t!EIglan d; but T can carry'yotiu 'tl' tStBtDo0ii ," : ' " , '1 '.If ',: c  The bargain was soon. concluded,; but it was fbunti4 thtt',en' : jiling the ,buieaneers anmoSt itir lln oni oie another, thiaehip w'obld hot accornmodate but abouj hv f ther nuhiber. -It 'Wa 'ttefefor fdk ' jerlnined that .the v eiise I's8ul6d' dirA'thA'ck" for aes econd aii^-Z ^i . ioi 'rere then diawn to aiecid: who ,rh- i't' f6ttidh ines shblitte'id'gr di rt. - Those rw' ained tihehiiepi't ewtet live h ditird, tlhea India is until the return of the ship. Howetvt Lusan,and Picard, the l     l}- ^       DAmVIS, TOsT UCANXE.,. three chiefs of the buccaneers, were so lucky,a,to, bt among the first pDsengers, and very soon found themselves at. one of the ports ol twi southern side of St. Domingo ThAe French governor, Mons. De Gassy, happened to be at the time at the same place Wherethe buccaneers landed, and Picard had no sooner heard of this, than he hastened to obtain an interview.  The hall of audience was an,arbor, covered with vines and flowers, and situated at the fartkhr end of a long,shaded walk, which led from the house where the governor had taken up his' abode. The governor, and his, daughter were seated at a small table, on which there were wine and melons. Between the father and the child there was a corn' plete contrast. The father was about sixty years of age, with sharp, thin features, and hair, and brows as white as snow, from beneath which there glanced about uneasily.'in every direction, a pair of small grey eyes, whib, although keen and piercing, were mild and good- natured, in their expression. The. daughter was about eighteen years old, with an pval face of faultless proportions, and features cast in a mould of the 'most exquisite symmetry. Her complexion was a rich olive, with a most luscious tinge of the rose mantling on the lips and cheek. Long masses of jet black' hair hung in curling ringlets down her back;,and two large, dreamy, black eyes were cast up and down the walk. "I e comes at last," exclaimed she, as the sound of advancing steps were heard; "but who is he, and what can he be?" and as she spoke, ahe took from her bosom a most brilliant necklace of diamonds, and laid them on the table. "These were sent to me last night, father, with this note, asking my acceptance of them, and informing me that the giver would like to see the governor, when the reason of the gift would be explained, and for this purpose, dear father, I have asked you to come out to this place, where we shall not be interrupted-but here he comes ;" and Picard at that moment entered the arbor. No sooner did the eyes of the young girl fall upon the stranger, than she threw herself forward with an exclamation of surprise, and fell fainting in his arms. The Governor meanwhile started from his seat, and stood gazing on Picard with a look of incredulity, as if he doubt- ed the evidence of his own senses. Picard first broke the silence. "Monsieur de Cassy, or Governor, as I suppose I must now call you, be not alarmed-it is I, in proper flesh and blood, although a little the worse for wear.," "I thought you were dead long since, Picard," returned the Gov emor, who, by this time had regained his composure. "Not quite, although a thousand times near it," answered Picard, as he placed in a chair the young girl, who began to give ignsof returning animation.  Governor,"' he continued, "'I come again to claim your dauglhtei '  when I left France I promised I would; but little did I expect to find either you or her on the coast off St. Domingo." '2 "Perhaps not," said the Governor, "and as little did I look fob you, when I tholght you were in your grave; but my word is passo   DAVIS, THB BUVCCANEEB.        I and if vou have the fortune which I originally exacted, you 'ave my consent. Her affections, I know, have long been yours." ' '"I have the fortune, Governor de Cassy, but a Obtained it in fight. ing the Spaniards.", :           I  '   . "I understand, Picarl,; you have been in the South Seas for your health; but the Spaniards are the king's enemies, you know," and there was a sly twinkle in the eye of the Governor as he spoke. The last part of the -conversation had a wonderful effect upon the Governor's daughter. She heard it imperfectly, but she heard enough, and was herself in a moment. Walking up to Picird, she laid hex hand in his, and the old Governor,' with a tear in his eye, gave them his blessing. A South Sea pirate, in those days, did not lose much caste in society, especially, if his piracy was covered with a mantle of gold.  "'And now, Governor, I have only one more request to make of you, and that is, that you would give my comrades, Lusan and Hewett a passport and protection to France, and not trouble yourself partiou,. larly in hindering some two or three hundred other Strange faces you may see in port, from also going thither. They are all honest men; and have been only fighting the king's enemies, you know." .  The Governor laughingly acquiesced, and the desired paper was soon in the hands of Picard, who, with a kiss on the lips of his future bride, hastened away to communicate the welcome intelligence to his companions. It is needless for us to follow further the fortunes of the buccaneers, who thus landed with their chiefs on the coast of St, Donlingo., Sau fice it to say, that most1 of them reached France in safety, and from thence the English portion crossed to England, and all lived and died under various circumstances. Some used their money well; passed the remainder of their days honestly, and not a few of them died in the odor of sanctity. Others, on the contrary, gambled,soon lost all their riches, and died the felon's death. As for Picard, he married the Governor's daughter, bought himself a plantation, and lived and died much respected, in, one of the most populous and richest districts in the island of St. Domingo. , Lusai returned to France with a recommendatory letter from Gov- ernor de Cassy to one of the highest official dignitaries of that country. He too found the object of his youthful love, for whom, our readers will recollect, he refused the hand-of the rich and beautiful widow of the Treasurer of Queaquilla,. She had remained faithful to him, and her reward was, that hE married her, and provided her with a home abounding with ever luxury akur eomeWfort . The remainder of Lusan's life, strange as it may ,eemi was that of a literary man. He gathered around .him- an extensive :libtrry, and in the. ple, thin itudent h'bo daily spent whole hours amoQng: hi books, noLont of his simple neigh- bors dreamed that there existedi smothered: by atge, by affluence and cease, a. natute which had once shrunk not from murder, and kloked; o robbery .as a matter whicekh^ priest might manage for him any day ia the week, for the consideration of asmall fee. e tsb piubished4 a well written volume, containing an account of his:expedition to the Sout   2     18g        .DAVIS; -THE BCCAtEER.; Seas, and died with the reputation of being. a man of letters, wlho had served his country by fighting the king's enemies.  Hewett also trod again his ;native. soil of Bnglaind in safety. It is not certain what afterwards became of him. There is a tradition, however, in a small town in the north of England, that there lived there for many years -'a hale, hearty old man, whose greatest delight was in drinking ale and brandy, and telling long and marvellous stories of his adventures in the South Seas. When the villagers, standing around him, would open their mouths very wide at the heaps of gold- he would draw before their imaginations, and sometimes lay their fin- gers on their noses, when he spoke of some: prodigious feat of valor which he had performed; then, it was said, a strange fire would gleam  in the old man's eye, as he started from his seat and aimed a pass with his cane at the nearest rustic, accompanying the blow at the same time with a wild and savage yell, which would scare away the whole troupe in affright. It is also said, that he died with one of these strange yells on his tongue, and with frantic gestures, as if he was heading a body of men in some terrific charge of battle. He was called in the village, Old Howit, and he is supposed; by many to have been the famous Cap- tain Hewett, of buccaneer memory. CHAPTER IV. Sketch of Davis the Pirate-Stnset Sceneon e South Sea--The Ghild ren of the Suna-The Peruvian's Promi-s-The Bridge of Osiere, at-ed the Mine of Silver-Blood, the kountain Torrent, and Revenge. WE now return to the South Seas, to follow the fortunes of Captain Davis and his party, whom we left separating' from their companions, soon after the attack on Guayaquil, or Queaquilla. . . Among all the buccaneers who roamed the South Seas, for plunder, there was not a bolder or more determined spirit than Davis. Born at one of the seaport towns oh the coast of Cornwall, in England, his youth had been nursed and cradled on; the billows of tAl ocean. When scarcely fifteen years of age, he had 'embarked on board' of a smuggling vessel, and such' was his success in this mode of life, that when he was thirty yebrs old, he was the commander'of ia ship of his own, and was known as one of the most daring smugglerA who cheated the revenuessof England, in spite of all the vigilance and guns of 'her vavy. When, attractedby the ,mariellous stories of the regions of gold, he entered, as we'have seen in the first .part ofQ this work,'tle South Seas as a buccatieri he was in/the prime of his life. In:person Davis was tall' and commaanding; and :possesged&aifrank and open ountenance, far different from the .fiere' and .savage expression, with which the imagination isaccustomed to invest thei taeeeo'a pirate and marauder. The countenance of Davis did not altogether belie him. Withienougn' of cruelty, in his composition to make hirim regard humntil lie as of no. account, when it obstructed the path of his avarice, terte   DAVI8, THE': BUCCUIANEE.        1( were mingled many qualities which inspire esteem, and even something approaching to affection. He was a brave, generous, and not what could be called a bloodthirsty pirate. Such was Davis, as far as w have any particular account of him. At the time we now rejoin him, the vessel which he commanded, was a frigart mounting some thirty guns, and his crew consisted of about one hundred and eighty Eng- lishmen who were much attached to him. Immediately Davis steered his course south towards the Straits of Magellan, by which route he now designed to return home. For many days the frigate paused not on her path, but ploughed her way through the waters of the South Seas, as peaceably and' quietly as if she had ^ been one of the most honest merchant vessels in the' world. This monotony, however, soon became galling to the impatient spirits 'of the buccaneers, and with the coast continually in their view, they be- , gan to importune Davis to make a landing, and give 'tem a chance at least to stir their limbs in some new adventure. It was evening.' The day had been; one, during which there had been a perfect calm on the bosom of the ocean. The frigate of the buccaneers lay still and motionless, at a point opposite the-southern extremity of the coast 'of Peru. The expanse of waters, which stretched far and wide, was smooth and unruffled, and like a polished mirror gle'amed in the golden light of the setting sun. There was a dreamy stillness in the air, and the buccaneers felt the influence ofth'e scene. Some leaned 'listlessly over the side of the ship, while others, stretched at full length on tho deck, were gazing up, as if in a trance, into the depths of the cloudless sky above them, and on the ocean, air, and frigate, there reigned tih most profound silence. Suddenly,-as the golden light began to fade from the waters, and the shadows of the tiight'to darken, the voice of Davis was heard clear and strong over all the deck, "Up, comrades I hurrah for the land." Every buccaneer was on his feet in an instant and such was the general alacrity, that but- a few moments elapsed, before the boats were launched, and Davis, and eighty -of his com- panions, were on their way to the shore. They landed at the mouth of a small creek, which was sheltered and hidden among the-rocks and trees, and having left ten of their num- ber to guard the boats, they struck fearlessly into the dark, thick forest, hoping soon to come upon some town or village, which they might take by surprise. Their expectations, however, 'were dis- appointed, and not until the break of day, notwithstanding they marched all night, did they emerge from the woods.' They then found themselves in a broad and fertile plain or savanna,'at the' end of which, and at the foot of' a range of hills, they observed with joy a thin column of smoke curling:up into the heavens. This sign' of hu man habitations gave new energy to their weariness and hunger and they hastened forward withfresh vigor. They reached the end of thd savanna, just as the sun was rising, but a far different sight from that of a village or tcon met their view. ' The only habitable dwellings before -them, were two small 'hut; from which the smoke they had observed, continued still to' ascend. Around thiem however on every hand, wer scattered what appeared     3o0        DAVIS, THE, BUCCANEER.    / to be the ruins of a once extensive city. In the centre of these ruin , the foundations of a'spacious building, covering an area of a full acre of ground, were still visible, while the masses of large stones, which  lay scattered about, gave evidence from various carvings upon them, that the building had been one of great splendor. The eyes of the buccaneers did not rest long on either huts or ruins, for they were at- tracted by a scene, which caused them to pause and gaze with wonder, and not without some degree of awe. At one end of the ruins of the large building referred to, and before an immense block of stone which was covered with curious carvings of men and animals, a group of four Indians were gathered. Three of the group were females, young girls, apparently between the ages of fifteen and twenty, and with fea- tures not wanting in beauty. The three were kneeling, with their hands folded across their breasts, while the other Indian, a man in the prime and vigor of manhood, and with the stamp of nature's nobility upon his brow, stood erect, holding in his outstretched hand a glitter- ing knife.. The eyes of the whole group were fixed intently on the rsing sun, which cast its rays full and broad on their tawny features. Completely absorbed in their devotions, for they were Peruvians worshipping their God, they heeded not the approach of the buccan- eers, but continued to gaze upon the glorious orb of day, apparently without the least fear of the strangers, who now stood by their side. At intervals, the one who stood erect, waved the knife in his hand, with frantic violence before him, and made the most passionate ejacu- lations in his native tongue, which the kneeling females beside him an. awered with tears and cries. At length, laying his weapon down on the stone, he signed to the females to rise, and then advancing boldly to Davis, he addressed him in Spanish: (The white man is not a Spaniard, for his cheek is fair. He is the Spaniard's enemy, who comes for his gold. The Spaniard calls him the 'English dog.' Trie Peruvian fears not the English dog and he may strike if he will; but he will not, for the Peruvian will lead him to the mountain, whose veins are white with silver, and where he may strike the Spaniard, and make the earth red with his blood." "-You lpd yours," answered Davis, "are safe from harm at our hands, but why do you ask us to kill the Spqaniard?" "Behold 1" said the Peruvian. "EHere rose once a mighty city of' the Incas.; here was once a temple of the Sun; here once did Capac and Ocollo, children of the Sun, and father and mother of the race of Incas, teach the men to till the ground and the women to spin and weave; but the Spaniard has left here nothing but stones. The heel of the Spaniards is still on the head of the Peruvian. Three suns. ago, and the Peruvian's wife and mother of these his children stood by his side. Ravished'by the Spaniard she now lies buried beneath yon- der stone, while the Spaniard still lives in his. home at the mine on the mountain's side. The Peruvian has just waved his knife in the eye of his God, the Sun, and asked for vengeance. Will tia white man aid hin, and the silver shall glitter in his hand?" .  "Lead oon, you, yellow devil l".shouted the buocaneers with one oice. - Show sthe silverad we will shpowithe-, blo4 1'.   I)AVtS; THB BTCCANTEEa.   *  'The lips of the Peruvian smiled a moment with cohtemipt, as he listened to this unequivocal sign on the part of the pirates, that the treasure was the only thing they thought of; but the expression soon gave place to 'a wild fire in the eye, kindled by the hope of revenge, and pointing to the mountain, he simply ejaculated; "Follow!"The females, at a sign from their father, now entered' one of the huts, and before many moments had passed, the buccaneers, preceded by their guide, were scrambling up the rough path'over the mountain, beyond the ruins. The hill was not very highi and they soon descended on the other side to a narrow gorge, through which a torrent roared and foamed madly on its way. The bridge which spanned it moved to and fro, a if it would break to pieces with every sweep of the breeze, and the buccaneers started back in affright, not caring to trust themselves on such apparently frail foothold; but the Peruvian, with the nimbleness of a deer, crossed and recrossed it, to assure them of its safety. There was in truth no cause for alarm. It was a sort of bridge common in Peru, and indeed the only kind built by the natives to cross the rapid mountain torrents. It was formed of ropes,' made of twisted osier, woven together like network, and fastened firmly on each, side of the gorge or pass. The buccaneers, ashamed of their momentary alarm, now rushed across it with as much bravery as if they were charging an enemy, while a slight smile played for a moment around the moutt. of the Peruvian, as if he thought that a good portion of their bravery was in this instance assumed. Again the path of the pirates led up another rough ascent, but the summit of another hill was soon gained and here their guide called upon them to stop and look below. / The scene was ope which had charms to the eye of the buccaneers: far more potent than those with which it was invested by nature, al. though the latter were scattered, with a bountiful hand. Far below them, stretched wide and broad, a fertile valley, watered by a gentle stream and diversified with the dwellings of-men, and flocks of Peru* vian sheep feeding in the green meadows.' To this valley the side of; the mountain sloped gently, although it was filled with ranges of rocks, many of which had been broken to pieces. Scattered among these rocks, boring and hammering, some fifty miners were busily at work, and even while the buccaneers paused a moment to gaze on the scene, more than one piece of shining silver ore, which some successful miner held triumphantly up, glittered in their sight. The buccaneers did not, however, stop long to feast their eyes-their hands burnt with impatience to feel; and therefore, with one of their shouts of battle, they charged among their victims, putting them' at once to the sword.               . "Be quick 1" shouted the Peruvian. "Slay and grasp. The soldiers from the lower end of the' valley will soon be on your. track;, but reach the bridge and you will be safe. The Peruvian has said ii" The buceaneers needed no further hint. Some forty of the minerS soon lay dead beside the veins of ooe which they'were digging, and the pirates, snatching up whatever silver .came to their hands agin hurried back over the mountain. They had just crossed the bridge i      2          DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER safety, and, at the direction of their guide, concealed themselves behind the trees, when a band of Spanish soldiers appeared on the summit of the mountain. "He comes at last;" murmured the Peruvian, " and at the head of his black-hearted ram ." As he spoke, he drew his knife quickly across two or three twigs at the extremity of the bridge, and then withdrew into the covert where Davis had concealed himself. On came the Spaniards, they reached the bridge, and the leader of the band was already half way across, with some eight or ten of his followers behind him, when the frail path surged a moment in the air, and then, torn and riven asunder from its fastenings, emptied its hu man load into the boiling torrent below. At the same instant, the bric. caneers started out from their covert, and fired a volley from their muskets, into the faces of the remainder of the Spaniards, who had thus seen with horror their companions ingulphed before them. With the shriek of despair from the torrent, and'the yell of agony from its brink, still ringing on their ears, the buccaneers leisurely retraced their steps to the ruins, the Peruvian meanwhile marching beside them with a proud and satisfied air, as if he had accomplished the one great end of his life. On reaching the ruins aboutjunset, they found that the females had gone, and questioning their hero of the sun, could derive no satisfao tory answer, except, that they were safe, and that their father had no fears but he should find them. The Peruvian was wise, and had given "s daughters, at his departure in the morning, some secret sign that they should not be found there on his return at night. The child of the Sun knew the buccaneers too well, to trust three defenceless wo- men to their honor, when their only protector would be his single arm. - The buccaneers spent the night at the huts among the ruins, and the next day reached their ships in safety, where, on counting their trea- sure, they found it amounted in value to thirty thousand pieces of eight.  CHAPTER V. The Cave of the Hidden Treasure-The Surprise and Capture-The i- umphal Procession-The Public Square and the Execution-The Burn ing Town and the Reeue-'The Execution Reversed. THE successful adventure, narrated in our last chapter, elevated thl spirits of the buccaneers to the highest pitch of excitement, and they had no sooner divided their plunder, than they became impatient to engage in a fresh enterprise. They were emboldened also, to iake another trial of their fortune, by the belief that the Spaniards on the coast, thinking that most of the buccaneers had left the South Seas, had relaxed their vigilance, and that, therefore, the chance of success was almost certain. In this, however, they were mistaken, as ,we shall son see.    PDAYS, THE BUCCANEER.         ^'S  . Again we are with the buccaneers in one of their nightly landings. Tle point, on the coast of Peru, at whigh they moored their boats, was a few leagues north of the town of Arequipa. The party consisted of Davis and sixty ofhis companions. Ten were left as usual to guard the boats, while the rest, immediately on landing, commenced their march into the country. The moon shone brightly on thieir path, and they advanced for; some hours, alternately, through plains and woods, until at length they found themselves ascending the rough and 'rocky sides of a lonely ridge, of hills. It was midnight when they gained the summit, and stood on an elevated plain, from which there spread out before them a panorama of such beauty and sublimity, that they invo- luntarily paused a moment to contemplate it. At their feet, in light and dark shadows, lay the narrow strip of forest and savanna' which they bad just passed, while the broad waters of the South Sea beyond, glancing and sparkling in the rays of the moon, bound, as with a sheet of liquid silver, the-whole land around them, and stretched far away in the distance, until, at the horizon's edge, the silver of the water met And kissed the silver of the sky. "Comrades," said Davis, as he turned to resume his march, " there is, I know, more blood than poetry in our souls; but, if the land around ,here would only turn up to us as much of the white metal in reality, as yonder sea now turns up in show, we would soon, after leaving ,these regions of theQhildren of the Sun, become models of honest men in the clouds 'and fogs of Qld England." iThe buccaneers, giving a silent consent to this moral reflection of their commander,- followed at once in his steps. They had proceeded but a short distance, when, on turning ithe jutting angle of a 'igh maes of rock which crossed their path, they came suddenly on a small hut, built against the very face of the rock itself. A light gleamed from the window, or rather opening intended for a window, ;and 6n' p- proaching cautiously, they beheld four. Spanish soldiers playing cards writhin the hut. With- all their caution, however, the shadow of Davis' hhead at the opening was observed, and the soldiers started in alarm to their feet. The buccaneers immediately. rushed iin 'upon them, but succeeded onlyin cpturing and securing two of :the number. Of the other two, one made good , ib. escape by darting out of the door, and reaching the shelter of a thick wood, where it would have been useless to follow. him,'while the other disappeared; mysteriously, no, one could imagine where. Davis, to sole.,the mystery, ordered several of1 tih bbuccaneers, to level their muskets at the heads of Athe w*o Moldiers whom they had secur ed, and to blow out their brains, if at the end of fivp minutes, they did not tell where their companion had gone, *hat they'.w ere doing at this lonely hut, and in fact give all such informa- ;ti'oa:s the buccaneers might be expected, under the circumstancee, 1 ire,     '      '  ..tI trembling victims did not suffer even one moment of the stipi lated time to expire, before both pointed together at the wall of the hut, which was foried bly the solid rock, while one of them screamed out that if ;they would, ntie i him, he would show and: dislose all. jis request being complied with, he went to a :rt :of the wall where     :t4 .7     .DAVIS, 'TR :BBUCCANB there appeared to be only a semicircular mark; resembling a natural crevice in the rock, but which, by being pushed against by the Spa- niard, opened inwardly, and disclosed a dark passage beyond. The secret of his comrade's disappearance was at once explained, and with the vision of bidden treasures before him, Davis ordered the Spaniard to take a light, and show the way. All the buccaneers followed, with the exception of two who remained to guard the other prisoner.  The passage through which their guide now led Davis and his cor- panions, was so low and narrow, that they could not stand upright, and were also compelled to advance in single file. Emerging at length from this, the party entered a large and irregular cave, at the further end of which, stood an iron box or chest, on whose top the hero of the mysterious disappearance was sitting, and. apparently endeavoring, tom the way he had doubled himself up, to make himself as small as possible. A blow from the breech of the musket of an impatient buo- eaneer, who was burning with a desire to see what the chest contained swept the luckless Spaniard from his seat, and laid him senseless on the floor of the cave. The next instant the lid was forced open, and there was revealed a sight which made the eyes of the pirates to dance with joy. Piled within the chest, up to the very top, there were bars of silver and gold, coin, jewels, and pieces of church and other plate. The value of the whole was immense, and Davis and his chmpanions began to congratulate themselves, that they had made the crowning adven- ture in the SOuth Sea enterprise, and that a fort ne, beyond their most sanguine expectations,. was already in their hands. 4' Whence is all this, and to whom does it belong?" exclaimed Davis 'as he turned his eyes from the glittering heaps to the trembling torch- 'bearer, "It belongs," returned the Spaniard, "some to thee town of Are-. quipa, but most of it to a smaller village a league from hence. Ever since the-attack on. Arica and. Guayaquil, the inhabitants have kept much of their treasure in this secret place; in ease they should be sur- prispd by your countrymen." ,      :- -     .  i " So absorbed did the buccaneers soon become in counting and sepa- rating the treasure into parcels, in order the' better to carry it to their ship, that they forgot all else, and not until the' report of a musket came reverberating through the passage way of the cave, did they seem at,al to care what else transpired around themn. It was not often that feait blancehed the cheek of a buccaneer, biut as the occupants of the cave now started in alarm to their feet, thfee was' a hue of whiteness on: the foatukres'of more than one. Was it an enemy attacking them, either in forest or on plain, it would ihave been nothing in their eyes, hy. could. fight andr cut-. their way - bit here they were within the grasp of a prison, whose walls they could not break, and from which, t  p tlfet' was a path, wheret but one ould walk at oncee. Should the Spaniards be now upon them, they ieltAthat; they were doomed. To chawge the-doubt into certainty, Davis imade his way-as fast as possible back, through the passage, to the door opening into the hut. He had io sqoizer reaohedi. than he knew himelf and ;his cm6nanions to bI   DIAVIS, 'THE' BUXANEER  in 'the hands of the Spaniads,for the muiuskbts: of to' sentinels crassed his breast, and prevented, his further advance, while at his feet, aoross the threshold, lay the dead hodies of the two buccaneers who had re- mained in the hut to, guard thehether prisonS e :Thie hut itself was fall of soldiers, who were all evidently awaiting the attempt of the bucca- neers to leave the cave, "Caught at last," said the captain of the Spanish. troop, as Davis made his appearance. "By St. Juan, it would serve you right to spit you, like so many larks, as ye come out of the cave; but our governor wishes to see you, and therefore if -you -are willing to come forward one by one, be tied together like so, many cattle, and 'be taken before him, well and good-I shall be happy to escort you; but if you do noti then shut goes the dojor, and you may, eat, the gold and silver to keep you from starving to death-for, by the Holy Virgin, it is all you will get."            ,  Davis hesitated a moment before he, answered; but the horrors ofa living tomb rose up before him, and the faint hope of a rescue, before th8e governor or tenient of the town should put them to death, out- weighed the indignity of himself and hiscompanions being led like so many cattle to the slaughter,. He therefore' replied, smothering' his- contempt as well asdhe was able.  "You are mighty valiant when for once your enemy is in your power, without chance of defending himself; but get your ropes readcy while I return to inform my -comrades of the terms of surrender, ; This last was but the work of a moment, and the whole party, coin- ciding with the decision of Davis, sdon emerged singly from the cave, a nad were bound according to agreement.  Me Spaniards, now, for the firstsime since the buccaneers apparild in the South Seas, had one of the leaders, together with a consideab body of the pirates, in their power, and their joy was of course gteat in .proportion, .They showered on. their captives every species of abuse and insult, and as they marched them 'along in a sort of trium. phal procession, the, woods and, hills .e-echoed on' every side to their shouts of ridicule, mingled with those of extltaiio. : -On entering the. town,. the bells of the .ehubuorhraag ouit aimerry peal, and the whol population streamed forthto- look at th ext'aordiiary sight. "Cures b a the English dogs,--"." Death to thoe .Eglish dogs," resounded oxn every side, and men, women, and ohildren hootingand. clamoring, fol plwed the propessioa to .the public sgltqare. Having jarrivead athiw plae, a halt was made, and the pirate' marshalled tinaa long rank,; di rectly in front of the church., Therdewas -now;.a shortpause in the proceedings,. and the attention of the crowd was divided between gaing at the pirates, and looking with anxiousW epectationat the door of the churph, The. door. Spoan- opened, ana&, ceuriou scene presented itself  ,   , ..        , ... . . '.    '  - First came the padre of the towi, a irosy faced ld man, with hair as white as snow, drossea in full caronicals, and having in his hands a goA44n cross., Nex tffollowed the governor of th4e town, a tall shin personage, and an eye, which- now, when there: wa no danger, was terribly Severe in its expresion . Behind him 'came other dignibrtie     2          DIAVIS, THWE BUCCAEcER. of the place, and the whole advancingin front of the buccanees, the governor stepped forward and addressed them as follows:  "Pirates, infidels, robbers. and murderers! you have been caught even when the gold Und silver was in your grasp.- Arica, Guayaquil, and a hundred other. places along the coast, cry for vengeance. You shall have no trial--you die at sunset, and your heads shall be trans. fixed on poles, and placed along the coast for a terror'and a warning. In-the mean time there is the padre, to shrive you, if souls so accursed, can be shrived."   .' ; D iring all the march to the town, and while they had been standing in, the square, the buccaneers had borni the taunts and insults of the Spaniards with the utmost coolness, without returning a single word in reply, and when the governor had finished his speech, Davis merely answered for his comrades, 't We are ready to die, and as for the padre, he may save his breath and oil for Spanish cowards." The pirates were then led off to .the prison, amid another universal shout of exe- cration from the crowd. ' . ' : The town to which the buccaneers had thus been brought, was by no means a large one. The population numbered' but some five hun- dred, and part- of these were, Indians and negroes. The Spanish por- tion, however, were wealthy, being mostly men connected with a silver mine in the neighborhood, and from which they derived a large reve- nue. There were many spacious houses in the place, and the church, although not large, was a fine specimen of architecture. - The hours of the day rolledon. The shadows of the sun came longer and darker through the bars of the prison, and the buccaneers knew that their hour was approaching.: They were not, however, without a faint degree of hope, although there was nothing on which they could build itwith any show of reason.      . The hour came. The whole town was gathered in the public square. Therel stood the governor and other officers of the town, There stood the padre with his golden cross, and there stood the long line of pi- rates, with cheeks unblanched, before the double file of soldiers, whose arquebusses were levelled at them. . The last order had been given, ana now nought was wanting but thetsignal of the governor to fire.-- At this moment of breathless'suspense, from every house in the town, there rose a column of .flme' and smoke, while down through the principal street, came rushing and shouting like demons, a par, of a hundred buccaneers. 'The arquebusses dropped from the linds of the. terror-stricken soldiers.; The i face of the governor tuired white with: fear, and his limbs refused :their office. The padre fell upon his knees and ran over his- Pater Noster with a most unbecoming hastei while the whole crowd scattered themselves in. every direction, with loud -shrieks and cries. To -release their companions and bind, the governor, officers and soldiers, was now the work but of a moment for the buccaneers.' Then while the flames' of the burning'town raged and roared aroand, Davis shouted in a voice ofthunder, "The exeoeui tion will still go on, Mr. Governor, although there is a slight change in the parties. Comrades, present arms-tire '!  The report of the muskets, the Ioar of the flames, the shrieks of the f*.   DAVIS, THE BUCOArnEE.          7 dying, and the shouts of the pirates, all blended in one wild ind awful chorus, rose on the evening air, and were re-echoed ffom the surround- ing hills, until- both the heavens and the ,earth, seemed to ,be one yast theatre, where infernal spirits, let loose from below, were holding; mad revelry. "God and the Virgin shield us," ejaculated the padre, with quiver, ing lips, as he crossed himself thrice on the breast, and rolled up his eyes in horror.   .   - "Holy padre, we leave you to your work ofshriving-there is plenty of it to do," exclaimed Davis, as, followed by the rest of the buccaneers, he hastily retreated from the burning town.. .  'The buccaneers marched with a quickenedpace, until they reached the covert of a thick wood, where, fainting and exhausted by excite- ment and fatigue, they paused to take a momen's rest. Here Davis learned the tale of his rescue. Early in the morning, the Peruviani who had several days before, as we. narrated in our last chapter, led the pirates to the silver mines, brought intelligence to the boats on .the shore, of the situation in which Davis: and those with him, were placed. Signals had been immediately,made to thaships. The; Pec ruvian had led the buccaneers by a short route to the town, and hence the rescue. j The town had been fired by some confederates of the Pe- ruvian, witvi whom he had held communication in the morning at the cave. When the informant of Davis ha4d ended his tale, the, Peruvian stood silently before them, and said: "The Spaniard will soon be on. the track-the ship of the English- man is waiting alone on the waters, without its masters." ,  The buccaneers toolk the hint, and again guided by the Peruvian, reached the sea-side, where, bidding .their preserver adieu, they aemr barked in their boats, and shortly afterwardssto0d once more in safety on the deck of their frigate, , CHAPTER    YI. A.-Prize in Sight-Desperate Plan of?pgvis to -take the Spanish MJfafi-o War-The Pirates Sail into the Jaws of Death-The Bloody Victor. ' The Priest and the Boy-hTle Living Coffin and the Tomb of the Deep. BENEATH a clear, sky, and, under the, pressure of a stiff breeze, the frigate of the buccaneers was dashing through the waters of the South Sea, on the morning after the lucky escape narrated in our last e4awh ter. Exhausted, their faces still grjm and blak withpowder 'nd smoke, most of the pRirates were stretched 'at full length on the!dek of the vessel, and wrapped in profound slumber. Davis, with thqfew sailors who were requirqd to .mnaage the ship, alone refained'awake and watchful. The sun -was jus rring, and -th4e. e  ayes, the watcher on the deck were turned towards it with the enchained attention-which that glorious sight, both on sea and land, has powepr to command, as wh from the most desperate os from the purest: of men., ; I      Thus for some moments the piratel ship drove silently on her ay, with most of her-crew in the land of dreams, and the rest apparently in the regions of the sun. At lenrgth, however, when the old God of day had risen completely up from his watery 'bd, and shaken the wet from his shoulders, in a shower of golden light, far over the whole surface of the ocean, Davis roused himself frdni his re'ery and looked anxiously around. At the first glance his :ye fell on a sail, which' appeared plainly visible above the horizon's edge, and the voice of thd buccaneer chief immediately rung clear andd strong over the sleepers on the deck.  "Up, comrades, up, there is more work ahead. We missed the trea- sure of the rocky cave on the land, perhaps we shall find another in the bowels of yonder wooden one of the sea. So up; let eaeh one shake his private fighting devil by the hand, and get him in the proper humor." The words were no sooner out of the mouth of Davis, than every buccaneer was on his feet and in motion. With the same order and dispatch which would have characterized the best English man-of-war in those days, the pirate frigate was soon prepared for battle, and with countenances, in which gleamed a mingled expression of ferocity and savage joy, the crew awaited the further orders of their commander. As the strange vessel approached nearer, bearing down directly on the path of the buccaneers, it -became evident that she was a Spanish man-of-war of the largest size, and that the contest was to be one in which bravery and skill would have'to make up the deficiency on the part of the buccaneers, if they expected to be the conquerors. Such a thing as fear, or turning badck from that citest, even when as now, they saw the odds was fearfully against them., never crossed the imagi- nations of Davis and his companions.. "Down with the helm, and walk int' her'very teethe" shouted Davis, as he fixed his eyes, which seemed lighted up with some des- perate resolve, steadily on the advancing ship; " and, comrades, let no one fire until I give the order, although the deck should run with blood, and not a mast or shrei of canvas bd left. Our fate depends on the turning of a die." ' The buccaneers returned no answer, but the look of each man, as he laid his hand upon his gun or hanger, gave the required sign of obe dience in a language not to be mistaken, and in the silence of'death the pirate frigate drove on into the mouth of the Spaniard's cannon. Boom I boom I across the waters, came the sound of the iron mes- oenger and the brains of two of the pirates covered the head and face of Davis but ' On and fire not," he shouted as he wiped away the gory shower, "they shall pay for it in h--ll,"and the pirate crew still stood silent at their guns, answering only With the same look of obe- dienee, "On."               . Boomnt boomi1 again across the witers, and three tnore buccaneers lavydead on the deck, 'bit"On' " again came the order from the mouth tipavis, and Onward the pirate frigate still' wt,' into the very jaws of the Spanish ship. And now, every gun fronm the whole broadsided of the latter, opened   AYIjJ 3TB BTUODUQAIB.         B, its mouth, and vomited forth a, stream- of flame And de&th, ull:into the buecaneer. Twenty of the pirates fell dead before it. The, as the ship veered round. to fire hbe other broadside; Davis Shouted in a v6ice of thunder, "Fire rake hbr fore and aft; blow her into h-,lL" He received a literal answer to. his words, for the fire of the pirates de- luged the deck of the Spanish vessel with blood from bow to sterni and sent h/er 4nainmastrcrashing into the sea. "Grapple with,'em board 'em and cut them down like dogs!", again yelled Davis, and in another moment the frigate was looked withthe ship, while the buc. eaneers, hangers in hand, rushed like demons oi the deck of the Spa. niards, and commenced the massacre. , It did not, however, last long, for the Spaniards knew from long experience that it was of no use for them to contend hand to hand. with the buccaneers. When, therefore, the. Spanish commander oried& out that he yielded, Davis immediately ordered the butchery to 'cease. The next thing was to search the vessel, and while the pirates, afer securing the prisoners, dispersed themselves for that purpose, Davis turned to the Spanish Qaptain for information, as th where he had; come from, and what was his destination. The Spaniard answered, that his ship was a government vessel, that he was on his way from one of the southern ports of Peru to Lima, where he was carrying some silver and merchandise, and that he had orders to keep a look- out for the pirates, who, he had been 'told, were on the coast. "Well," said Davis, "you have met the pirates, and now we'll takeo the silver, and save you thetrouble of going, to Lima to deliver it? . The cheek of the Spaniard turned pale at thewords of the buccaneer, chief, for death seemed to be hidden beneath them. At this moment, several of the buccaneers rushed up from' the cabin, dragging after them a priest and a boy. The priest was a man apparently atfout fity years of age. His form was spare, his complexion dark, and his fea tures wore a sinister expression, which was by no means in keeping' with his sacred profession.. As the. pirates, pulled him forward on the deck without much ceremony, he shrunk back in the greatest terror,  and begged them in the most abject terms to spare his life. The boy,. on the other hand, who was a singularly fair and delicate youth. of some sixteen years of age, betrayed no emotion of; fear, &lthough the look and grasp of his conductor were rude and savage. "You need not clutch me so tight; I shall neither run from. death, nor beg for life," he said with a voice of the most touching softness, as his fierce captor thrust him, before Davis. Well, Sir Priest," said Davis, looki with co mpon the trem  bling ecclesiastic, " what hve you to sayfor yourself? and who is this' youth that puts by his courage your manhood to the blush? Speak, up, you shaking coward, and f youhave gold, you may be sure tha your worthless life is safe?' "I'm but a poorpriest, hlae no money,and thi s is my nephew, but spare my life, and I will pray $o all the eaints, for you, pirate though you ae," answered the priest, gthering. alittle courage as he -pro 'Pitch him into gte spe," said Dayi, turniagLto apme of the buwt     80         DDAYZS, STffi BTrUCCa4I           i caneers around him; " if he is so podr,'he is not worth keeping, and the sharks are gaping for him.'" '.1  At these words, the youth, who up to this time had borne himself with such manly bravery, fell fainting on the deck, while the priest faintly screamed&with terror, "Spare me, spare me, and I will give you whole bars of silver."'           . "I thought you would comre to your senses,'the sharks must there- fore wait a little longer for their feast," answered Davis to the priest, with the same tone-of indifference' which 'he used before. While he spoke, several of the buccaneers had raised the boy up, and dashed water in his face in order to revive him. During the operation his dress was torn open in front,'and the exclamation, "By all that's holy, the boy is a woman 1" burst from the lips' of the pirate who held, the supposed woman in his arms. It was so, and as sh e revived to a 6ehsec of her situation, and beheld the throng of fierce countenances around, gazing at her with undisguised astonishment and curiosity, the blush mantled on her cheek, as tremblingly she turned to Davis, saying, " 1 am a woman, a lost and abandoned woman, but that wretch has made me what I am, have pity on me." As she spoke, she pointed to the priest, who now cowered lower than ever before thefiery glances which were immediately fixed' upon him.  "Well," exclaimed Davis, "I'll pit the priests of the South Sdas against the whole world. Some I have met, good and true, and I have sentthem free, and even asked their blessing, stained with blood as I am';' but I have'also met an army of them as base as you, you hypo- critical coward, and these I touch in the tenderest point-I make them pay. So five thousand pieces of eight in three days from this, or you go, deprived of -your manhood, to the sharks; as for you, lady, you are safe at our hands, although we are pirates."' The priest was then chained to the stump of the broken mainmast, while the girl was taken- below into the cabin. Davis was right iu what he said with regard to the priests on the South American coast, in the days when the buceaneers roved those seas. Many of the cler- gy were, doubtless, at that time, an honor totheir profession, but as a general thing, looseness of morals prevailed among them to a great de- gree, especially in the mining districts. While they Were addicted to licentiousness of every kind, it was no uncommon thing to see them sitting openly at all hours of the day, in front of the-coffee or cocoa shops, gambling with any one who chose to be their companions. It was a common thing for them to continue at this amusement. duiing the-whole day, pausing only when the vesper bell rung out from cathe- dral or church the summons to prayer. Then every man, woman and child, within the sound, whether 3ndian, Creole; or Spaniard, obeyed the summons. The hand of the muleteer, uplifted to strike his mule, fell by his side, the veiled maiden, tripping to some assignation, paused in her way, even the Zambo or negro robber bent low his'Ihead, and the gambling priest dropped his dice box on the table, while all devout- ly ,rossed themselves aqd muttered a short prayer. , The whole South American coast presented, in the seventeenth century, the same piftiro which indeed it presents now in the nineteenth-a strange mixture of   DAVIS, THE BUCC4NEL          81 superstition and religion, licentiousness, with a small leaven of virtue -all growing in rank vegetation beneath the heating sun of a soft and ltxurious clime. The deck of the buccaneer prize now becarhe the theatre of a wild and animated scene. Bars of silver, bags of coin, and rich goods of every description were broughtup in rapid succession from the hold of the vessel; and spread out in rich array, while the buccaneers danced and shouted in their mad delight at the value of the treasure. ',At length, however, all the plunder was removed to the buccaneer frigate, and naught remained but the disposal of the prisoners. This was a matter that caused the buccaneersmsome little trouble to settle. T Of the crew of the Spanish ship, one hundred men still survived the terrible carnage which had taken place, and while even the pirates shrank from murdering them in cold blood, yet necessity seemed to demand the sacrifice. To hold them to ransom Was an encumbraace the pirates could not bear, for they were short of provisions even or themselves; while to set them free was to scatter so many firebrands along the coast, to alarm and arouse the whole population to pursuit. Sunset was on the sea when the consultation of the obuccaneers,. on the fate of the prisoners, broke up, and Davis gave the signal for the decision; to be carried into effect. Ali the prisoners, with- the excep. tion of the Spanish commander, the priest and the girl, were at once conveyed to the hold of the Spanish vessel, and the hatchways closed and fastened down upon them. Then; while the three. exempted ones were taken on board of the frigate, there was' heard for a few moments the sound of hammering and boring under the sides of the man-of-war. The sound soon ceased, and then there followed the stillness of death over the ocean and on the frigate, as thepirates gazed with suspended -breath on the Spanish ship, which, now loosened from the grappling irons of the frigate, drifted slowly away. Another moment, and she remained stationary on the surface of the water, the next, she sank slowly into its bosom, and when a few more had" passed, the waters opened wid? their embrace, and then closed smoothly as the polished face of a mirror, over the huge :coffin of living victims. "Up sail, and on'ward," shouted Davis, as if to drive away all thoughts of the damningdeed, and a light breeze at that moment fav- voring, the buccaneer frigate was soon again on her way. The buccaneers came to-anchor the next morning at a small island not-fr distant from one of the. small 'pots oni the extreme southern co  'Peru. -At this island, Davis set the Spanish commander and the: .  girl free, and sent them to: 'the coast in one of his boats. He tol ' girl at the same time, that if she felt disposed to return good for il, she might procure, if she could, the ransom of the ,priest, and he would Wait for it at the island for. three days. If, at the 'end of the time, she, did not send it, he should take the priest along with him, and make isuch dispositioin of him asihe told him hewould in de. faultep theani ;     . auso m ; . i.     82         PAVIS,'THEi.  BUCCOA E* . CHAPTER VII. The deck of the Pirate Frigate- Despair of the Priest-The Compact of Treachery--The Hermit of the- lower-The Debt of Gratitude-The Bribe of Revenge-.The Surprise, the. Penalty of Blood, and the Escape- A Spanish and Peruvian Trump     .  . IT was the evening of the third day of the sojourn of the buccaneers at the island where we left them anchored in our last chapter. They had repaired the damages which their frigate had sustained in the late engagement, had recruited their exhausted energies by a short repose, and the fever of enterprise had again begun to take its accustomed hold on their wild and reckless spirits. The deck of the frigate presented an animated scene. The whoie pirate crew were there assembled, and each one seemed alive with ex- citement- Scattered about in groups, some were engaged in proposing plans for the future, and conjecturing what new adventures fortune ahad in store .for them, while dthers were recounting with great glee, their'past exploits, and boasting of their success and narrow escapes. Davis himself shared in the general elevation of feeling, and paced the deck with a rapid step and gleaming eye, pausing at intervals among the different groups, either to listen to, the others, or put in some fa- miliar word of his own. One alone, on the deck of the pirate frigate, stood apart, with a-lo6k of gloom on his. countenance, and that one was the priest whom the buccaneers had taken prisoner, and now held for his ransom.. The three days which IDavis had given to the young girl, as narrated in our last chapter, to bring that ransom, were now on the point of ex- piring, and yet it had not come. Although the faithless priest had deeply wronged the girl, yet trusting to the generous nature of woman, he had, up to this moment, indulged in the hope that she would have pitied his situation, and sent the sum required for his freedom. Now, the sun of the last day was setting, and as the wretched ecclesiastic gazed upon it, his soul sank. in despair. "Ambrosio," he muttered to himself, "Thejust vengeance of Heaven hath overtaken you-false to;your vows-ifalse even to manhoo our days are numbered, and you must become the food of fish and with a groan of anguish, he threw himself down on a coil o and buried his face in his hands. "Ahoy, sir priest!" said Davis, pausing before his prisone. Rud- der and mast all gone-broken mid-ships across a reef, and imagning yourself already going down the shark's mouth. Well, I confess you must feel rather unpleasant, seeingthat you have lost so tany of your papers, that there is great danger of your being takdni tp as a sort of pirate yourself, if you should attempt to enter theport of. Ha- vana. But what say you to committing one or two mofe is before you sink the last time? Possibly then some one might ,u-e yoa -4Is             -t  "i A .   DAVIS, THE BUCCAIml x foim the shark. What part of the coast are we on? D6 you know any place about here where silver can be found? Perhaps some friend or acquaintance of yours lives hereabouts. The girl won't send Ypn any money-would be a d--d fool if she did-so, be a little treacher- ous once more, and I'llset you free.". .  The priest raised his head at the words of the pirate chief, and his eyes brightened. 'His momentary remorso was swallowed up in the hope of life, and he eagerly answered. ' We are some leagues south of Arequipa, and not many distant frort the place from which I came. I do know where there is silver and gold, and whereit may be easily obtained. None beside myself; the owner, and a few Indians, are aware of its existence. Take meto the shore, and I will lead you to the glittering treasures of Don Jose, thflgermit of the Tower."  o' fok, you, priest!' said Davis sternly-" you are about to commit a Tilable act of treachery; but beware and keep your treachery:in  th- right quarter, or off goes this pistol, and away you go to the devil,. where you belong," and as he spoke, Davis turned and gave the order for the boats to be manned for the shore,  But a few moments elapsed before one hundred of the buccaneers with their chief at their head, and the priest for a guide, were towing with all their might for the coast. They reached a sheltered inlet, an immediately commenced their march towards the promised treasure. On' a high ridge of ground, a few miles distant from the point ol-he coast wh6re the'buccaneers landed, there stood, as it were, on thhaet race of a rocky declivity, a larg, circular tower, built of hewn stone. The building bore every ttace oPage and Peruvian origin. Th stont. in many places' were crumbling, and instead of windows, there wrs nothing but long and narrow loopholes, to admit the airand light.- The tower was in fact one of those few structures remaining in Peru, vbuilt and used by the ancient Incag to proiulgate .their .derees throughout the empire. It was what might be called one df the tele- graph stations of ancient Peru. Under the Incas, towers of this de- scription were erected along all the great roads, and at other points, at regular distances from, and in sight of, each other. When, a messenger was despatched from one, a signal was hoisted, and he was met half way by another messenger from the next tower, and the do- spatch was thus forwarded from one post to the other until it reached its destiation ' At the time of the Spanish conquesti most of these toWisltaWred the fate' of: many other Peruvian structures, and were destroyed,; either by' the ravages of war, y' the Spaniards pulling them down, to search for hidden treasure, or by time; so that at the period of the buccaneers visit"to the South Seas, there were but few rematug, and this was of the number.     ..     . , In iB6 loowrcAhatiber of the Peruvian tower, ora alow stoo, jatim 'aged manii, from nih 6s sallow. features, hair, white :as the snuowsi:. Chinimdrbo , flowei down in long lock, on iholdera beat dothle, li :a bow i Alutip of Wlaer, pur and glihiing as bit caiie frow the nMuin ilai :eii,: lyft'oni thej paved floor beforte him, and his diW eAs were fixed upon it with a gloating gaze, in which all his sensraseeeid *     U}        DDAVIS, THE BUCCA1ERBB absorbeO ,Liilent, in one corner of the apartment, with folded armp stood o tall, well-fdrmed Indian, apparently waiting for the old man to awake from his avaricious trance, and give him further orders. . The name of the old man, who was thus gazing in a trance of dyb light over the glittering treasure, was Don Jose Martin. He was known all over the surrounding neighborhood, as the Hermit ofthe Tower.. He had come to that part of the coast while yet in the prime and vigor of his life, had taken possession of the old tower, and made it thenceforward his dwelling and his home. He had lived entirely alone, and held no intercourse with his countrymen, the Spaniards.-- With the Indians, however, he was on the most familiar terms, had taken every pains to gain their good will, and his influence over them was unbbunded. Such was all that was generally known of Don Jose. To the world around him, he was a mystery, and none. but the few India i th whom he held particular intercourse, and the priest who w ow leading the pirates to rob him, ever dreamed of his possessing any wealth.  "Puno," said the old manraising up the lump of silver for the twentieth time, and weighing it in his hand, ' it must be a rich vein from which this comes-lead me to the mountain pass where it rano thatI -may feast my eyes with the sight."  '^No," bluntly answered the Indian. "When Puno's father turned licet towards the setting sun to die, he toid his sqns to lay before *-Joose oi his children, at eaci full moon, .mubh silver as the htanl!could carry, but tc keep the svret of the mine. Puno and his, * brothers have obeyed-for Don Jose %ved the life of their father from the band of the Spaniard. Puno has nh more to say.'  "Yes, yes," returned the old man, quickly, " it is a debt of gratitude as you say, but the tribute ceases with me, for I have no childreni therefore you might as well tell me the, secret of the mine," and Don Jose looked up with a childish entreaty, into the face of the Indian.', "No," again said Puno with a greater determination of tone, "The. eye of his God, the Sun, and the eye of his father, are on the Peruvian, and he cannot." Don Jose was about again to urge his -request, when Puno raised his finger to enjoin silence, as he looked a moment through one of the loopholes of the tower., Withdrawing his gaze, he made the hurried exclamation of "The English dogs are coming," and then rapidly darted out the low door which opened intothe tower. , Dn Jose ikcew too well what' it meant, but not deeming that he could be an object of attack, he secured the. door without much:fear, concealed his lump ,O silver underneath a stone of the floor,; and then waited calmly for tih events which might follow.. But the muzzles of two or three muskets Which were instantly afterwards thrust, throgh'ihe lpopholes acpom- fanied by the command to open the entrance, or bllets would foliow, soon changed the composure of Don Jose,. tha -rmi,,iito teror,  "ome in, com in said the old- Onn ,iwif 'tremlilpgiipsVat!,e openedwide the entrance. "There ia-aothipg here, but, poy y aid I olitude  ^               - ."     DAVIS, THE BUCCANEE,          $5 "It's all very well for. you to say so, Don Jose; you See we know your name, but it won't do, so\ turn up the stones or show the trap- doort, we want to see the silver," said Davis, as he entered with his comrades, and he laughed long and loud as he spoke. Don Jose, however, appeared to pay no attention to the buccaneer chief, -but stood gazing on the priest with a look in which astonishment  and hatred were equally blended. At length he turned to Davis, and with startling energy exclaimed: "You are right, there is treasure here untold, but unless I give the clue, it will take you longer to find it than pirates have generally ,to spare, when Spanish soldiers are on their track. Slay that priest be- fore my eyes, and the silver shall be yours." "Perfectly willing to perform. the operation, Don Jose, but. can't; have promised to givenhim his life for introducing us to you; so honor, you know, Don Jose, among thieves, forbids it," and again Davis laughed at his jest, and his laugh was answered by all his companions but the priest.   '             . . - "Hear me, hear me," again franticly exclaimed the hermit. "And you must kill him. That priest poisoned the ear of my father against me, who, depriving me of my inheritance, gave it to the church, but it went into the pocket of that false and perfidious priest who has long since gambled it away. I loved a young and beautiful girl, and again that false son of them church robbed me of the treasure of my life. 'Then I hated all mankind, and being the son of a miner, the passion of heapt ing up the rich ores of earth took full possession of1ll my soul. I had no capital but a debt of gratitude from an oppressed Peruvian. For years he and his children have laid the shiinsing lyr at my feet, and for years it has been my sole delight to gloat Qovray riches. I have my treasure still. By some fatal chance this prieat has found, out my secret, and to cap the summit of his basenes, has put you on my track. Slay him, slay him like a dog, anI I am willing to die, and yield up all'I possess." , . f r       ,   t     h  A volley of arquebuses from outside thejtower interrupted the reply of: Davis;- .a ' "You are surrounded by the Spanish, soldiers," joyfully exclaimed the old hermit. "The Peruvian has given the alarm, and I alone can save you. Kill the priest, and I will save you.?'  Davis- knew instinctively that the hermit was right, and that he and his comrades were in a desperate situation. To issue out at the door would be madness, for the Spaniardso could. easily, cut them to pieces. They had already killed four of the buccaneers who had been left as * guard on the outside of the! tower, but' who, from the impetou os and, sudden attack of the'Spaniards, had ,not been aable to give thi alarnm The course of Davis was immediately taken. Holding a pistolto the head-of3 Don Jose, the hermit, hetold him he would blow out his brain Xf he did not reveal the way-of their escape.: , '  ". I have named -my. oandiia",' almy ai.4ad t haold man, "Fire if you do not choose to accept them. ";, , : . Davis turned his pistol from the head of the hermit t;,tha of If terror-stricken priest, saying, as he did so, "This is more than we bar. gained for, and you must, therefore, pay the penalty." '     86       '  DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER. A flash and report followed his words and the priest, shot through the brain, fell a corpse to the floor.  "I am satisfied," exclaimed the hermit, and at the same time heaook a hammer from his pocket, and knocked thrice on one of thebroad, flat stones with which the floor of the tower was paved. A sound was immediately heard from below, and the stone was raised l!owly, up revealing the person of the Peruvian, who, a short time beforer had, been talking with the hermit.  "Puno is here, what is Don Jose's will," said the Peruvian. "Conduct these men to the treasure, from thence to the top of the mountain, and show. them the nearest way to the coast, answered the hermit, and the Peruvian expressed his assent with a slight inclination of his head. Good bye, Hermit of the Tower. By all the Spanish saints in the calendar, you are a trump 1" and with this adieu from Davis, the buc- caneers followed without hesitation their Peruvian. guide. The stone closed above them at they descended, and they found themselves.:in darkness. The pirates, however, were not afraid of darkness, and felt their way along for some time, through a narrow passage, apparently, cut out of the solid rock. Emerging at length from this, they. entered. a natural cave of large dimensions, similar to the one in which. they had but a few weeks before been prisoners. Herethe Peruvian showed them heaps of silver in its native state, the store which the hermit thad for years been collecting 'together. Taking with them as much as they could carry, they again followed their guide, who, through another arrow passage, brought them to a hole, through which they crwled, and found themselves in the open air, on the summit of a mountain, from which the sea was plainly visible. "Would the Englishman see his enemy? Let him step to the brow of the mountain, and look beneath his feet." Davis advanced, and glanced cautiously over. Far beneath him -wa the Hermit's tower, around which some one hundred and fifty Spanish soldiers were gathered, evidently believing that the buboaneers were. still caged there, for their cries on the pirates to surrender came up, floating on the air, distinctly tot the ears of Davis.  "Give the mahogany devils a salfte, boys, before we. go, just to let them know we are here and Hot there," said Davis, and at the word the pirates approached, and poured down a sweeping {fire on. ieunaus- peeLing Spaniards. The volley tumbled some twenty of them lifelesi and bleeding, far down below the tower, and scattered the rest in af. fright. -"Now, Mr. Puno, cut for the sea,vyour master is undoubtedly a trump, but even with his assistance we don't care to play this game ant longer.                         ; hey reached the coast by a route not more than half the, distance which they had traversed in their approach to the tower. ' 'Don Jose; the Hermit of the -Tower, and Puno forever." shouted ths pirateo, as they leaped into their boats, and the Peruvian darted back on the pat ' they had .ome.                    " ,A, &tI.*    DAVIS, THE BUCCAWEN .         87 CHAPTER VIII Tie Peruvian Recruit-The Doomed Spaniard, and his Midnight .isitor -The azbles Turned-The Bargain fr i-fe--The Vieroy Baffled WITH the first gleam of light, on the morning after, the events nar- -ated: in our last chapter, the buccaneers were in readiness to sail from the island where they had tarried for some five days. Davis had given the order, and the anchor was about. being weighed, when a .faint halloo was heard across the waters, and at the same momenta solitary Indian was seen paddling his bark around ; point of the island, in the direction of the pirate frigate. The buccaneers were a little startled at first, not knowing but that he might be merely the guide of Spanish boats coming to surprise them, and there was accordingly a general -rush to the guns. Their fears, however, were soon removed. ' "Puno, the red devil of the tower, by all that's holy," shouted the man at the helm, as the Indian approached near. enough for his features distinctly to be een. "Pull away, Puno, weUll wait for you'l Puno, the Peruvian, for it was he,. soon stood on the deck of the frigate, surrounded by the wondering buccaneers, who' were eager ;to know what could be the cause of his coming. In the short, cdncis, anzd figurative manner of his race, his story was soon told. Don Jose was dead. The Spaniards, soon after the departure ofLthe buccaneers ,from the tower on the day preceding, had returned to the tower, and accused Don Jose .of aiding the pirates to escape, and of baing the cause of the murder of the priest; He made no denial, and . in their anger and disappointment, they. shot him., The Peruvian, fearing in his turn their vengeance, had fled to the coast, where finding a canoe, he had made his way to the island, to claim the protection of the buc- caneers, if, as he expected, he should find them there. Such was, in subtance, Puno's tale. To the hearty exclamations w welcome, ac- /companied by not very light slaps on the shoulder, which Puno im- mediately received from all the buccaneers, he simply answered: "The knife of the Peruvian is ready to gleam in the eye of the Spaniards, and its edge is keen."  This little incident over, the anchor was at, once weighed, and. the buccaneers were again on their way through the waters, bearing due south, towards the coast of Chili: For two days the sails were not slackened, and the frigate held on her course direct.  :  On the third day, a dead calm fell upon the ocean, and the impatient spirits of the pirates grew restive through inactivity. As the shadows of the night settled on the sea, Davis yielding to the general clamor, 'consented tomake a landing, andrup the chance of .being unpaid for therisk and danger. Sixty men, including the Peruvian, 'were de- tailed for the expedition, and at the head of these, Davis sought the shore ad                the main a,  ad f After rowing for some hour, they reached the main land, and found  ,      NIVISt THB BUCCANEER themselves at the mouth of a small river, which opened into the sea through a wall of overhanging rocks on either side, forming a passage apparently torn out by nature in one of her strong convulsions Leaving the buccaneers to mnake theit way up this river, we will change the scene to a wide, open plain on its banks, bounded by a range of hills.  On the surface of the plain, the remains of a large Peruvian town could still be distinctly traced out. There was the place of the public square, and the lines of the principal streets, diverging from it to the four quarters of the firmament, werestill visible. Scattered amid the ruins, were several Indian huts which alone gave sign of human habita- tion. On the brow of one of the hills, however, in bold relief against the sky, stood a spacious quadrangular building, built of square stones, finely cut, closely joined together, and still showing but few marks of decay. One would have supposed that the building was of a more modern date than that of the Incas of Peru, and that it had been erected by a people who at least had the use of iron tools. But it was not so. It was a Peruvian structure, and had been erected long before the Span. iards put their usurping feet on Peruvian soil. How, or in what iani. ner the Peruvians, without machinery, and without iron, contrived to rear such buildings as this, and the round tower mentioned in our last chapter, is not known; for, on this point, and on the meaning of the vari- ous hieroglyphics found on the stones of their temples, although the knowledge was preserved by tradition, the Peruvians always rematied profoundly silent to their conquerors. This ancient monument of Peruvian greatness, which was once a palace or a fortress, was now inhabited but by three persons, Don Felix de Herrara, his wife, and his mother. Don Felix had some two years previously married a young Peruvian girl, on condition that her mother would lead him to a rich silver mine, of the locality of Which she alone had any knowledge. She had accordingly brought him to this neighborhood, where the mine was situated. Finding the old stone structuri to be conveniently near the mine; and just' suited to the storing of his treasures, he had bought it of the government, had taken possession and commenced working the mine with the assistance of a few Indians or Peruvians who dwelt in the huts on the plains below. At the time of their marriage, the wife of Don Felix had been baptized in the Roman Catholic faith, and the name of Jesuita -given to her. Such were the place and its inhabitants, to which the windihigs of the little river were now leading the buccaneers, although they knew not whither they were going, and to which also, from an opposite direc- tion, a party of Spanish soldiers also bent on mischief, but with a full knowledge of its object, were hastening as fast as their hors'es could carry them. Deep midnight rested on plain and hill, and while the Indians slept -peaefully in their. huts, Don Felix and his- little family reposed no Less quietly within the huge %stone walls of the .old castle, neither of them dreaming of the startling events about to take place. A dim light burnt within the chamber of Don Felix, half revealing in its dark   DAnTIS, THE BUCCABNEB .        '9 'iadows the forms of the Spanish husband and the Peruvian *ifi a they slept on the low couch in one corner of the room. ; : Suddenly the wife started up from the bed, half bewildered, as the sound of the sharp clatter of horses hoofs camer distinctly through the opening into the wall of the apartment, which served as a window. She had just time to: awaken Don Felix, when loud and clamorous voices, accompanied by heavy blows on the door, were heard demand- ing immediate admittance. Don Felix hastened in alarm to answer the strange summons, and to his inquiry, Why his repose was thus rudely disturbed, received for reply, "Open, in the king s name!" As this was an authority which he could not dispute, he immediate- ly unfastened the door, and\ in a moment the room was filled with Spanish soldiers.                      \ "I arrest you in the king's name," said the captain of the band, in a pompous tone, and' Don Felix, almost before he was aware of what they were doing with him, found himself bound and fettered like a felon.  "Now, Don Felix," continued the captain, "have the goodness to bring out your silver, that I may seize that too in tht king's name." At these words of the captain, a new light seemed to break in upon the mind of Don Felix,who had at first been struck dumb with amaze- ment at the suddenness of his arrest.  "1 uncerstana now," he said, in a voice of smothered indignaton, "the kind of treason I have committed. The viceroy has: heard that Vmy silver mine is rich in its veins, and he wishes to sacrifice me, Jn order to get possession of it. Well, let him do his worst. I am pow- erless, and must submit."       , ' . "Don't be disheartened, Don Felix-the viceroy is very moderate in his desires, and the penalty for treason is only hanging; but in the mean time, let that red wife of yours get us some supper, and aftet that, we will confiscate her,' together with the other property of a trai- tor," and the Spanish captain laughed brutally as he spoke. The prisoner answered not a word to the cruel taunts of his merci- less captors, while with a flashing eye, Jesuita turned away also in si- lence, to prepare the supper. Assisted'by her mother, she spread a table with food and wine, and the soldiers, with their captain, were soon busily engaged in eating and drinking. Daring the repast, the Indians, who dwelt inm the huts on the plain, were brought in bound, by other soldiers, and thrown unceremoniously into another apart- ment.                  f    I And now, as the wine mounted to their heads, the soldiers gave full rein to their tongues, and the room resounded with obscene jests and songs, interspersed with cruel taunts to their prisoner. At length the Spanisk captain seized Jesuita with a rude grasp, and was about drawing her forcibly to his embrace, when a heavy stroke was heard on the outer door, which caused the half-drunken soldiers. to stagger up from their: seats in alarm. The captain relaxed his hold, and de- manded who knocked.    .       ' "Open, in the name of the English dogs, who rove the South Seas 1 was the reply, ' or I'll send it and you to the devil!"   tic     40         DAVIS, THE iBUCCOAITNE. Telling his men, to stand to theirarms,the captain hIosepe: .t. fastenings, and admitted noless a person thanthe ,bucoaneer, aptiAp '  avits, who was followed by about twelve of his companions. ,  :"Captain Davis, at your service," he said. a he entered. '., ,ur about is fair play: I arrest you in the name ,of pirate8 in general, but those of the South Sea in particular. Vacate thetablei and we'll take a seat. No matter about showing fight--we are tw:to, youtr one.,and this, old castle, without a drwhridge, is completely surrounded; take. look-out, and be satisfied.. In the mean timei e 'll ti e you, arnd untie Don Felix."  And suiting the action to the word, Davis cut, wibh. his own, hands, the-cords of Don Felix, while his comrades proceeded to secure the Spanish captain and his soldiers, who, seeing at once that they were ovqrpowered, submitted without resistance.  "These Peruvian windows, Don Felix," said Davis, " are very con- venient. I saw through dne of them all the first part of this night's performance, and thought I would finish it. Don Felix, what have you to say, for yourself, to your last visitors? Wee Come to rob also, you know-for robbing is our trade."-  "' All I have to say is, thatiyou will of course take all the silver there is in this old building; .but if you will help xe to revenge myself on the viceroy, and escape his grasp, andtlana me and my family at some port in Chili, I will put you in a way tj get more silver than thre is here. '     .       :      . , "Agreed," answered Davis, and Don Felix then informed him that the secret of his mine was then unknown to any, except his family and the few Indians who worked"it for him. -His plan, therefore, was to send the Indians immediately to the mines, with orders first to collect all the silver from it that could be obtained in twenty-four hours, then to flood it, and destroy all traces of its mouth. Thus the viceroy would be baffled, while he, Don Felix, if landed in some port in Chili, would be able to take care of himself, and he would leave it to the generpsity of Davis, whether or not to. give him any of the large amount of silver that would be thus thrown in his, (Davis') hands. "Give you one-quarter of it, Don Felix, which is a/fair commission, seeing that it is all your own property whichi you. are investing;" aild with a laugh, Davis sat downuto the table with his companions, and the feasting of the Spaniards was replaced by thatof the buccaneers, with the imple difference that Jesuita and her mother repleniihed-theboeird with more willing hands.                .  The suh had risen high in the' heavens, before the biucaneers rose from their carouse and .roceeded to the work before themr. Their first care was to loose the Indianas who had been bound by the Span- ' iards and thrown into a dark and underground apartment of th eold fortress. As soon as they were free, they received their ordersfrom Don Felix, and started for the mines.  The buccaneers next collected all the silver which Don Felig h4d on hand, and put it away in bags which they .generally carried in all  their expeditions. 'They then stippadath uniformsfrom the Spanish boldiers anid put them on theiL Wmw persons. Their last acts were do   tV*rust: the soldiers into'th'e hole .fromii hichi 'the Indians. had ieep takew, and to compel the Spaniskh cepiaii; iind&r :peialy 6f iavringhis brains blowIn out, :to 'keepsentindl at the dooi, ai : tell aU1 whvi'ight all,4that the placewi i helsd,u'nder orders fr6ni the eV; iy. 'fr :the ,spapeiof twod days.; ' ; ' *'? ' ' ; '" ': ': ' :-' .; '. ' "'": " 1 h. Thus:matters'stood, for-a, day andla hMf, wheni the ndiniras retuined ,fitm thbernmine, bringing wihththem ta quantity of sler oe tewhich was immediately delivered:lyDon Felix to Davis.'  1 .,'3Bt what of the: mine, Don Felix? have-yo outwitted the vie6- roy in that quarter?" asked Davis.    ' :' ':  : ,'?Speak, Hmlachai and tell the Englishiin n what',youa havei done!" atwered Don:Felix.." * :   ,  '           ' : . t Themountaina torrent :ha closed its mbuth, and, the' great chief of the pale faces',will never- see' the 'vein r'bfilver,' said' oe of the Ili- diiaaps stepping otit from among the rest, and tirnin'g t'ick: a he haA spoken.           -        i  :' "e speakS truly, radded Don Felix--"' andihis oro-ds are to be re- lied oin.' The samethink has, been done beifone when the viberoy of Peru hung 'Don Jose Salced, of' Pun6, for high treason, ini 6rditi6 get possession of his mine; but it was flooded, 'atid the viderby, or. o one else, .to this; day, -knows where' it was situated-butt comi, 'let'-us away,' or other soldiers of the viceroy Will be after thosee iho ar' O* Davis felt the force of this last hint, and the buQcaneer; 'leaviing thpiri captives to get their freedom' as best they icotld, ermbarkead with Don YFelix and his family in their ;boats, and repdhedi ni' ifetf ttmi' frigate, overjoyed with the easy and:tinexpectea sticcsa' of tlteir' ex* pection. It wass the finAst' instance in buccaneer depredation where so rich booty was obtailed without bloodshed.    :  CHAPTER IX. '; .  Carouse. of;the Buccaneers"--Jesuit, the Peuia i Wife-.Ddaly ,'Fh between Blach Ben and the PRd Dwarf-L'-'llage of thieFouse'of ion  dBltazar,: tkte Spanish knsUalist-iThe Grate of fire. ' A DEAD calm was on the sea, and the ocean slipt, while. the moon- beams played' soft' andfl';bight onl its bosom-A-but thq pirate' frigiati which lay motionless' oti :the tvaters was 'awake with life of the wildes &nd most tumultuous kindi '-The buccaneers fiushed with theit r6bent good fortune, wero givinm vne tth thei -joy in a giiera'carotusb- Th, lower, gun-deck was qrie blasze of 'light, revealiing tfhe'iere c inflanim countenances, and brawny forms of the pirates; asstiist'ipd t6the slCn, in the'madness of'their:reTvelirythyjoinmed li a fraitic'dance . '$.o:t- ingi bursing and sitgi  ng: o oeneso , s t:e' drelw thift ' 3ies iitd all manner of contortions, andd-w hirled^ each bther aoaitnd it 'dunikeb fury,.the whole sene could b rnitparei to aothig bst Vho"fSgie d'     42         .pA^  TAE ZuCCrn X Doi. Felix, the Spaniard,' who had,.as narrated in- our last bhaitesf trusted himself, with his wife Jesuita, and hahr mother, to the .te SA mercies of the buccaeers, in order to escape the alternative of becom- ing the victi .pof the avarice of the viceroy of P6ru, trembled aahe looked, and thought that he had but fled from the jaws- f one monster to that of .nother, The females with him, however, betrayed no sign of fear. The 'ioher exhibited no emotion of any kind, while .te wife, with her form elevated toits full height, gazed upon the revellers with an eye which seemed .t say, that she was prepared for any emner- gency that might happen.  Higher and, higher grew. the revel, as the wine-jars were emptied, still more frantic the dance, and louder the shouts and curses. Krives also gleamed in the light, and stabs, made. in the wantonness ofintoxi- cation, sent the red blood to mingle with the streams of the red wine from the broken jars which,. in the same fervor of rdrunken riot, had been dashed on the floor of the deck. "Save me--save these helpless women from these demons of the seal" cried Don Felix in terror, as he rushed up to the feet of Davis, who alone of all the buccaneers, with the exception of a few on duty, took no part in the carouse. Davis gave a loud laugh as he looked on the trembling Spaniard, whose knees were playing a lively tune against each other. "'Bah I Don Felix, he at length said; " you are a coward. The men have only begun:their pastime. Wait a. few hours longer, and then you'll have a chance to shake yourself to pieces--for there'll be all sorts of devilish doings here before morning. But why don't you take pattern fromn Jesuita, your Indian wife? Se . ;she. looks like a she- tiger, and whoever attacks her, will be likely toi get the worst of it." As he spoke, Jesnita put her hand quickly to her bosom, fnd draw- ing from thence a glittering knife, turned proudly to him and said, "The edge is keen, and the Peruvian can strike herself to the heart be- fore she is dishonored; but the chief of the pale-faces has promised his protection, and will he lie?': " "No I by the bright Sun of Peru, he will not! You are safe from harm .ven -among this drunken crew," exclaimed Davis, as he gazed with admiration on the fearless woman. At this moment a loud shout arose from all the' revellers, and the knees of Don Felix shook faster than ever, as he heard, bursting from a hundred lips, the cry--  "Hurrah for Black Ben and the Red Dwarfl A fight a fight H Clear the deckl I Down on him, Ben I Pitch into him, Dwarf l". A ring was immediately formed, and in a moment, a strangely matched pair--their naked bodies wet with the perspiration produced by dancingr-Stepped into the open space, aid yells of jeering laughs ter from the excited pirates.    .    ,  Black Ben, as' he was, called, was one of the fiercest, most daring and blood-thirsty of the whole buccaneer crew. He had received the name of Black Ben from his companions, on account of-the enormous quantity pio long, shaggy and black hair which enveloped his head,%tid'- from the matted mass of which, his angular features, seamed with.-ium-.   DAYIS, THE BUCCANTEEB.         b berleses cas, looked out with a fiendish glare. He wasfull sevenfeet in height, and' strong and well-formed in proportion i  Far different was his antagonist. A mis-shapen head of hugepro. portions, crowned, with a thin coating of redbristles instead of hair, and half buried behind and between a mountain of back and shoulders, was supported by an attenuated body, whose. long and crooked limbs made up in suppleness what they lacked in strength. Body and head scarcely reached four feet in height, and while the face of this hideous specimen pf humanity presented the broad, flat features of a monkey, his small, grey and fiery eyes, which kept constantly rolling, with an impish ex. pression in their sunken sockets, fully confirmed his title to member- ship in thq satanic band by which he was surrounded. Such were Black Ben and the Red Dwarf, as they stood facing each, other for combat, and furnishing, in their frightful contrast, food for the riotous mirth of their comrades. Each held 'in his hanpd a short and double-edge knife, and although the buccaneers around jeered and laughed, it was evident from the intense interest with which .they watched the movements of the combatants, that they did not consider the disparity between the two so great as it apparently seemed tobbe;. "' Stand from under, you little imp of Satan!" roared Black Ben, as' he made a sweep with, one of his giant arms to clutch the Dwarf by 'the throat, while he; lifted the. other in readiness to stab him with 'his knife, when he had made good his hold.            .. ' Ho I ho I ho 1" screamed the Dwarf in a shrill and unearthly voice, half in derision, half in defiance, as he doubled himself up, and rolled away like a ball from the intended grasp of Blaek'Bemn' Then spring ing up with the quickness of lightning, he darted betweeni the mon, stefs legs, and before Ben could recover himself'sufficiently to turn round, and grasp him from behind, the'Dwarf had plunged his dagger Jeep in the calf of Ben's leg, and stood again in his former position, mocking his huge foe with his shrill laugh and impious oaths. Black Ben, grinding his teeth with rage and. pain; now rushed with fury on the Dwarf, swooping down on him with his whole person, so as to cover up every avenue of escape; but again his prey glided from his hands unharmed, and fairly turned a somerset over his back, and was caught by a dozen hands of the pirates, which were outstretched to his aid,: amid roars of laughter and shouts of encouragement.  Again Black Ben and the Dwarf stood face to face, the blood streams' ing from the leg of the one, and the other without a scratch on. his person. ' At it again I Give i to him, Ben! Give it to him, Dwarfi" yelled the impatient pirates, as they passed the wine-jars around andTthen dashed them on the deck, or over each other's heads, which ever wray came the most, convenient ; and amid the oaths and shouts of the;Pande- monium around them, the combatants -again set-to in battle. It wa the last round, and was soon decided. Black Ben made nafetnt *ith lhis right hand to stal'the Dwarf, to the' heart, but suddenly changed -his aim, and brought his arm With a -scythe-likt movement :downi on'-the thin extremitiesof his tiny foe, as if to sweep hitiup in his grasp to the deadly point of his kiife.; By this manoaeuwYhe .estruotiOa iof      "A       - DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER. the"Dwarf seemed to, be inevitable, and a roar-of delight hburst, from the pirates, now infuriated with wine,- s th'ey' expected: to. see: himc writhe in the agonies of death. But the eye of. the Dwarf was too quick, ,and his limbs too supple, to be thus overcome .and in a- o- ment, he had leaped on the, very arm uplifted to strike him, and from thence astride the neck of, his giant ehemy, where, twining' his wiry; legs under the arms of Ben, he bbund theni behind 'as with a vice, and then, before Black Ben could shake him off, the gleaming knife of the Dwarf wasburied .deep in his heart. As: Ben fell heavily on the deck, with a curse on his lips,. the Dwarf leaped .nimbly from his neck, and' as his. feet touched the deck, at the same moment. of his prostrate ene- my, he set up a shout of victory, 'so shrill, so: demoniac in sound, that even the pirates, inebriated as they werei started:back in horror. I His triumph, however, was short. Davis, who had ascended soon after the fight comnienced to the upper deck, to ascertain whether all was right in that quarter, and on the broad ocean' around, had returned. at the moment that the deadly blow was descending from the hand of the dwarf, and rushed forward to intercept it, for the loss of so valuable a pirate as Black Ben was-irreparable.: :But he'was too9late;, and his-own powerful grasp was now on ,the throat of the Dwaif only in:time to chbek his cry of triumph. Hurling the deformed being, usa if he was but a lump of carrion, on the': deck already flooded with: blood and wine, he shouted in a voice of thuibder: . , "'Enough of this, ye drunken fiends;. have ye not had fighting'aid blood enough on the coast of Peru, witlout turning your, blades against each other in your' drunken brawls?, Away to your :gns, forthere is a sail on'the ocean,'that may .bewafting silver.,to: the, coffers of the Viceroy of Perui.".  :            ' :  At the mentiog of the words. ( sail " and "silver 'the buccaneer^ rushedt to: their guns, and in: a moment the scene of carousal wsa changed to one of comparative order in the busy preparation for battle. Even the Dwarf had sprung up, a if nothing had happened; and taken his appointed post s The body of'Black Ben,was cast unceremoniously into the sea, and iii . short, time, all werei ready for engagement. The sail, however, which Davis had seen on::the edge of' the horizon, had passed ,out of sight, witht the slight breeze :which had now for some time been rising, and the buccaneers returned to their revelry, although in a more humafte and subdued manneri. . Soeua like th..one ,above narrated w, remcoron in the carousals of the buccaneers, but none are so celebrated in their history, as this IreVl in Davis' s,hip on the coast: of Por,%:' where th' Red Dwatf killed Black Ben, the ,hampion, of the crew, ,lot: one, certainly, gives a more -'ivid pictSre of the insane, fury which, always characterized their orgiesand urged them forward, to execute on each other, the deedsLQf bloOdi .which iti was their daily business to perform gn the Spaniards whom:they robbed..    ,  .  . - :   .  It was some days before Don Felix recovered from the fright into which, the bacchanalian orgies: had- thrown him ^s: A'nd indeed hisfear. wereisnao altogether. groundless; fpr, h4- ot .te death of Black Ben, and ibhiepejed .approached a prize, sobered as it were the rectkies   /   DASvI' THE BUCCsANIE L pirates, it'would have, been a:question whether he, and espoeially hiM wife, :even with all the 'infiuence of Davis, could have escaped ni. harmed.'            * ,      '  T. buccaneers, three days after the above ocetrnrence, w*re' silMig on the ,coast of Chili, -sober, but imnpatient for'ainotheri ntirprise. On the eveningof .the third;day, the Red 'Dwarf stood before Davis, and informed him.'that heknew .at what point they were;. that;, sixk yeaXs -before he'was with' the' company of Captan Sharp at the tankig of Coquimbo on this coast, and he. remembered -a ceretali'bluff Which could now be distinctly seen from the ship,.    ; '  "And what may be tehind the bluff that you are so' anxious to speak abbutmost valiant Red Dwarfl" asked, Davis, without appa- rently.,paying much attention to the personage who addressed him.1 "Only this," answered the Dwarf, "' we were told at Coqdifibo' that one Don Baltazar, who had great. riches of silver, lived behind -that bluff, but as we were then in a great hurry to get off th coast;, e 'did not pay him a visit." "Red Dwarf," said Davis, "we will' go and see Don Baitazar to; night, .and you shall be my lieutenant," and IDavi' ttiried aid 'g;gve the order to get all things-in readiness, while the form bf the Dwarf swelled in importance at the unlooked-for honor, In a magnificent garden, where -trees, loaded with the most luscious fruits of a southern clime, were iningled in prodigal profusion with the most fragrant shrubs and flowers, sood the mansion of Don Bal- tazar, a spadious stone building, plain without but adorned'and fur- nished withiin ith, all that the mdst extravagant 'tlx'ury. cobtildaei're. Don Baltazar was ha rich old. bachelor, and' a; sensualist. He lived onlyto amass wealth-from a mine which 'he owned, ;and to spend it in gratifying his appetites. His house was a perfeet ..harem, wher 'he lived with Chilian beauties whom he had either bought with his money, or took, by-violence fromn their, honies. He wasrx ,6tecied bf ome, thirty soldiers, ,aom he. had; hired' from -the' goveinimehnt, 'whtn the appearance of the buccaneers, somie' six ears before, hAd ispiad't3etrro, on the coast. Thus far he had escaped-their' avagsi 'and' his vigilaiee: and fears were fast settling down into a' feelitig tsefutiitft. . ' Into a-light and airy. apartment of Don Baltazar's hious; 'the' bsihms of a brilliant moon shone'- oftly:thrbug4 -thoe,'peri 'casement;,on the forms of the master of the- mansiosn;rnd :to Chilifati fales:' 'A table' apread witk fruit and winewas ,before them, and while Don Baltaar sipped the, red- nectar, the two fmales sung' in' harmony one of their native melodies, which rose with'a strain of touching sweetness. on, thaie still evening air. Don Balrazar :as a hale,:hearty nisiaini tie prtiaie of life, and, good-looking, thesinighrsbeside hiin'wiere iatie 'beautie  the wine was good, aid'-thei uit delicsisiaend Den' Blha^tail laheiu back on his chair, 'in a ,dreamv!state f pfecthe happiri6s i:Th'sYdtYiis were scattered about .thehouse and gfroudds,' ef^ldely foilloihn their own -molinmations,-afida ' als thiE rest ofi Doi tBiltAsr't ' hiehbl:: also w  ihappy s ',;- ft'j e  j^ : t ::m g tr'f r  W1- :-d , , t in*' ' it The sudden sond p4fltirma, htewer, a*A brdx it tnla ta*i - tpjia feet, ihaiged'he sBogof Iihrmony tahe-itaI? of'te'rtdr, ii      I  I i     ;: . DIAVIS, THE BUCCOAE      . Ithrew the whole establishment. into -ceanfusidn D6di:Balazar :hasd hardly time to recover from the first shoek, before Davis, the bucca- neer, followed by the Red Dwarf and fifty of the pirates, birz into the room; and informed him that it was all over ' that four of l. diers were dead and the rest bound, and that all he had to do, uld be.:to deliver p; the silver. It was useless to gainsay lthe command; and in a few hours the house of Don Baltazar was rifled.; The next act :which followed in the tragedy of Don Baltazar. was the most awful deed thgt characterized the career of Davis. The surP viving soldiers were drawn up in a line in front of the house, and made to kneel, .the Red Dwarf performing thb operation, by pricking with his dagger every one who refused. The house, was then fired, and as, the flames curled up into the heavens, the buccaneers, holding the miuzzles of their. muskets at the heads of their victims, literaly blew their bodies into the fiery grave.    *  "?ad soldiers fight no more; and as for y6l, Don, Baltazai, send one of these ladies for your ransom, and with the rest 'of your Chilian wives follow ua to the ship, and at the nearest island to this coast,'we will wait. a reasonable time for you to redeem your head--otherwise off it goes I and Davis, as he spoke, gave the orders to march. - CHAPTER    X.-   '  Th4^ AntchQrag at the Island-The Chilian women, and. the laws of t'h Bycaneers--The Feast of the Grove-The Red Dwarf--The ,suipre, ; :and the tragedy of blood-The Vision of the dif---Davis and the ,MiAu j eqrs.-TWhe re posal.        .  ON the morning after the events narrated in our last chapter, the buqcaneers dropped their anchor it the sheltered harbor of one of the nany -beautiful islands so pecliar to. the South Sea, and prepared to refresh themselves with a little rest and recreation, after the late excit- ing scenes through which they haid passed., Here also it was their'  esign: to wait for some days for the ransom of Don Baltazar. .-. ,The, sails of the buccaneer frigate were furled, the bustle of anchkor' ing was over, and there wasn a pause among th& pirate crew to deft- rnme what should next b. the, order of the 'day.. While the butoae s eprs stopd waiting the. command of DIvis,D on Felix the. Spaniard; hJi teruvian, wife a1 her mother, the voluntary 'prisoners, and,& on Bl1 t9zar and his, Chiljan mistrelstes, .th ,involuntary captives 'of the bu,i caneers, wqreCestere d,* together at.:the sternm ofthe frigate, governed, by Vanrous .,* qn endiRgfeam otions. TheJisight of the land;-risei spmewhat the Ipiritsf Donl ei,  butte the tughtithat the ,land dt np Mnd fatrtix , g 4prtdla an, moment hi feelingsof, pleasure at bei 4ng^ si and the trayi pf ,j whijo -:hd. passedufcI r otn stm ovte his countenance, was succeeded by a most woful expression of erspboS evTi.     r .FiWitfB .4 m trsl taibat^'itsE t api-v and ,om:s^d LuF ^ 'ieil prcicW. Fend erfipiWtioikttltwhicTrierfw QI   DBAVIS, THE StICCA NEZ.   ,47 Irat moment when they hadtouched the deck of the vdssel, and whioh was produeed by a natural bravery of heart, leading them 'to look eath full in the face without, shrinking, and therefore to have no fears for anything which might come before: it.   ' . Don Baltazar was in, what might be said to be, a fluttering state of mind. Fear contended with hope, and each, by turns, hold the mash ery. The awful fate of the soldiers who guarded his house, was be fore him, and the horrible picture kept continually rising to his mind, only to be chased away at intervals .by the vision of some one bring- ing the ransom for his freedom. . His two Chilian mistressesshared not in his feelings. They hated himn they hated'all Spaniards; they, had been forced intd his embrace; battle and blood had no terrors ffor them, andf their condition could not be rendered w6tse on board of the: buc- caneer frigate, than it- had been in the house of the rich Don Biltazar. Slavery and brutal: treatment from their masters, when passion had' be- come: palled by satiety, could as well be borne'in thbi'one place :as in the other. The Chilians were therefore. resigned to what they khiew must be their fate, in the hands of the fierce and inflamed' men around them. "Captain," suddenly raid a brawny, heavy-featured pirate,' stepping ut as he spoke, from the crowd of his companions, "'the persons of the Peruvians are, according to our word, sacred, but the Chilians, by ur laws, belong to us, and we claim them."     . Davis made no answer, but merely pointed' his finger in assents to. wards the Chilian. women, for buccaneer law could not be disputed, and thus the victims: passed from Thehands Of their former mastetr who, in the. selfishness. of his own fear,'iade no effort to save themyiAt the hands of the pirate crew. iQn the- scene which followed,; the ctrtain of narration must fall, for although the pen may trace the bucdaneers' Ceed:sof pillage and blood, it has. no. point' to record their licentious- ness.  "Ho, comrades, for the shore,"' shouted Davis, as the sun eame dCdwn with burning heat on the dfck, andthe green groves of the island in- vited the rovers of the sea to their cooling shades.  Leaving Don Felix; the Peruvian females, and Don Baltazar, together with a sufficient number of men as a guard for the vessel, the rest of the buccaneers, ;with Davis at' their head, and accompanied 'by the Ohilian women, landed .on the island.: The. sandy beach was bounded by:a low range of' hills, covered :with 'a thick' wood; over which the buccaneers having passed,- they found, themselves in a lovely and shel' eted valley, whose surfae., was dotted: byi alternate groves and fildas The few huts, scattered here -and there over the valley,' were' deeted, for the occupants whoever, thqf'Were, fled on the approach, of the in, vader- of their peace. The bucaneei made a complete exploration of the huts, b an, fi ndinghoth wine ,ai4 :food ihn them, .they seleete4d one of th sadieast f\the:gtrves, and gava thaemsilves'up to recreatiori and refehmaenti fl keyr dianki tthey. danqed they s Iang and .etuated ov w /ith' variou nudegrees off toaing, he:-aarie ofthr ir' adventhraj iot the least among; the bmggadocioisiaS the tie  Drfvi t since his )onqnestof: Blck Ben hadbecome a perfeEt hemWamogl b     '         .DAVIS,. THE BuCCANEB oiripahion. Squatted on the:rgiass, and rehembling 'a baboon :rnito ,than a human being, he rehearsed in hii shrilll voie, -t6 the' knot of pi- rates clustered round him 'how he had led on the attaekd on Dion Bal. tazar's house, (narrated in our last chapter;) and: hoir he had superiii- tended the'awful ceremonies of the ;murder of the soldiers. A deimon of darkness seemed to glare from his eye,; ashe swayed his ldng. arms around his head,!anf described with savage gleetthe shrieksiof pain and torture which the soldiersggave, when he plunged. hi,.dagger into their flesh to make them .kneel. Even DaviS;-as ie istood leaning against a tree, listening to' the:. story, felt his. soul: revolt within' him, as he contemplated' the 'hideous narrator. I . 1 ' The Dwarf was still deep in his boasting tale, and the ine jariwa on the lipsof many of the pirates, when from the opposite side of the grovmefrom that by which they entered, came thie report of 'fire-arms and three of the buccaneers rolled in their owngore:on the gras t -Be- fore the rest could, recover their surprise, another volley follwede andc with. two! more of the buccaneers,' the two unfortunate Chiliaan ,omea fell, with a shriek, dead on' the ground. . : .. j . ' -j i;r "At 'em, comrades; the Spanish hounds are upon us, scour the wo* and. spare not a' white slivered soul of them," shouted Davis,!hirfthe plunged with ,hisdrawn hanger in his hand, into thei part of thoe :w6b from whence the repo9it had proceeded, followed by allhtheEbuccaneeSi to a man.  -                 ; .  '.'. :The wood, .however, disclosed no'enemy; for, when the .buccaneers rushedinto,: theSpaniardsfled from it, and when the :frmer :6etmrged irtoan open space beyond, they found some onehundred and fiftyof the latte^drawn up in battle array to cut off their farther advance.: '.Yield; ye dogs of pirates," thundered sthe. captain of the SpAnish troop, "forlby St. Jago, we'll cut you to pieces; you' are surroundedl There are as manymore of us on the other side bf the grove,' ndyou are caught."  The buccaneers made no answer, their fate was on the turning 6f a die, and with; a yell of fury, before the Spaiiards had time to fir, they threw themselves upon then, and the contest was' hand touhand.: i'The bottle .was shot; :for the ;Spaniardis within reAch of the armsi tofi the bucpaneersiwere but as bales of straw, and the pirates, breathless and panting :ith exertion, soon stood cthe conquerors, with heaps ,of theit enemy piled' around them,whrile. not one of their ownn number' i'as slain. .o bind the survi'vig: Spaniards was butV the Iork of a ;ano1 niett for, the buccaneers, which having done, they hastened& to return through the grove towards their'ships.; Issuiqg out o theother sidei wit their; captives driven in front as a sort of breastwork of deefence the buccaneers found' another party of Spaniards,:although:not, as tihey expected, waitinQ. to, receive. them.: They were, on he contraiyar  a redy: fighting with another party:of the buccaneers, who,:hearingdr . the frigate, the noise^of;lre arnms, had hasteneed immediatel^ 6 th'ald offth. comapanions . The tpproamh of the patty fehfii thde *a, . ttiig$al:f for this ;other eoaet t: end, iad , the 'fightingSpanierdsape eiwlngibykA glafceeat their boundeoimrades hww matters.'tood, inli  diatelyt hraw down their msa and eried:for quart. -, : .e -r,; e : : : ^   DAYVI THE BUCCANEER.         40 ". Quarter you shall have." said Davis, "long enough perhaps to say your prayers, and in the meantime, sir captain, where did you drop from so suddenly down on this island." The trembling captain informed him as connectedly as his terror would permit, that he had come in a Peruvian man of-war, which war now anchored off the opposite side of the island from that on which the buccaneers had landed. "We will march to your vessel forthwith, and you will have the goodness to lead us by the direct route, captain, or this pistol will find its way direct through your brain," said Davis, and with theSpaniards in front the march was immediately commenced. The distance across the island was not great, and on the .brow of a cliff, from which a path led down to the waters' edge, the buccaneers soon stood, looking down on a large Spanish frigate which was snugly moored at their feet.  -  "Hail your comrades, captain," said Davis, "and tell them we have cme to pay them a visit, although not exactly in the order which they euld wish."  The unfortunate captain was obliged to comply, and while he gave 'te- watch-word' to his crews, the Red Dwarf danced about on the rock with a fiendish joy, sending his shrill and discordant cry of exultation far. over the waters. The Spanish crew, at the sound of their commander's voice and the -unearthly-cry of the Dwarf,.started up in alarm from the drowsiness in which they had been indulging in the most conscioussecurity, and seemed at a loss for a moment to know what was the matter. The vision, however, on the cliff. which met their eyes,. soon brought them to their senses, and awakene& them to its terrible realities. Their captain and their comrades stood bound before them in the hands of the dreaded marauders of thee South Seas, and the affrighted sailors dropped at once on their knees, muttering their prayers, and crying for mercy.  "Hol hoI ha! ha!" shrieked again, longer and louder the Dirg' as he marked their consternation. "When the Dons are on their knees, all's right; then at 'em with the dagger, and hurrah for/the silver," and before Davis coi4ld commence with the buccaneers and prisoners the descent to the ship, the Dwarf had glided down the steep path, and plunging in the sea, was on the deck, torturing the kneeling victims. wi4h repeated thrusts of his dagger. His pastime was of short duration, for theboats with the buccaneers and prisoners soon reached the ship, and as Davis ascended on the deck, a'blow from the butt of his pistol sent the Dwarf reeling across a coil of rope,; with the only voice among the pirate crew that he feared,. shouting in his ears-   ,  .  "Take that, you imp of h-l, and learn to wait for Spanish blood until it is shed according to law and order." The plunder of the ship now commenced, and in the meantime a party of buccaneers were despatched in boats to hasten round to the rigate, and bring her up. t;the aliff in order to take in the booty.  The Spanish frigate did:not prove ao profitabl6 to the buocaee.      UV         DAVXS, THE TU CA13BEIL they expected. Her sole busin8ss; as'it appeared from the further tommunications of her commander, was to cruise along- the coast, ifl search of the pirates. Either the vigilance of her commander must hate been extremely small, or his fears of an eheoufnter with the buccaneers on the waters extremely great; for, on comparing notes with Davis, i turned out that the Spanish frigate must have been the very sail which the pirates saw on the night of their carouse, but which had disappear- ed on the horizon with the light of the moriring. The most probable supposition, however, is, .that it was fear on the part of the Spaniards which saved the buccaneers the risk of a battle that night, the Spaniards choosing rather' to run 'the chance of sur- prising the pirates on an island, than to meet them in one of those deadly conficts on the water, where- victory was almost stre to. side with buccaneer skill and daring. Some two thousand pieces of eight:in money, and a quantity of pro. visions were all that was' obtained by a two hours' search of the ves- Iel, and although te' latter came very acceptable to the buccaners, their humane feelings, if indeed they possessed any, were by no mef ns improved by the. small amount of the former. As they hurried hither and thither about the captured frigate, in search of booty, they knocked the prisoners about with a brutal vio- lence, which even the authority of Davis could not restrain; and 'when 'their own frigate came alongside, they impatiently demanded that the wretched captives should be-cQnfined in the -hold of the' prize and sunfk in the sea.              - -"No," exclaimed Davis, as with a-voice and attitude of command, not to be disputed, he stood like a master-spirit among the excited and fierce natures aroutid 'him. "I am commander here, and you have 'worn in all such matters to ob6y me. The first man who iays his hands on a Spaniard, I'll blow out his dastardly: brins, as I, would those of a-dog," and while he spoke, he pduled his pistols from his belt, afid levelled them directly at the heads of two of the most clamor- oui of the men, who with looks of defiance had crdwded up in front of him. "We have had enough of blood," he continued; "for the last few days, and there is no necessity for this large sacrifice of life which vou 'now seek; and I swear that it shall not be, or if it shall be, some of your blood and all of mine shall first stain this deck where everyl plank and seam is marked and soaked with damning blood." The words and bearing of Davis had the desired effect. The pirates were awed into subjection. They remembered the dangers through which he had led them, and overcome with admiration ,for; the bold Spirit which thus fearlessly in their midst hurled defiance in their teeth, the tide of rebellion turned, and they shouted with one voice a' loud hurrah for their chief. "Now then, comrades, since you have come to your senses, and:are willing to act like true rovers of the ocean, we will consilt together what it is best to do with our prisoners.  - Daring this affair between Davis and his crew, the pirate frigate had -beoe hauled close alongside that of the prize, and the Spanish captain,   DAi-JS THE BUICANEERK         51 Whose name was DonriMartini, had been stalking, although unnoticed by the buceaneers in their excitement, with Don Baltazar, who waa fairly dancing with joy because he had recognized .in. Martini an old friend. No sooner did , Davis cease speaking, thian Captain Martini advanced and asked permission to make a proposdal before the con- sultation, on the fate of himself and companions, went any further, His request having been granted, the Spanish commander then pro. posed that a chance should be given to him to buy the lives of himself and his crew. The pirates, he said, might hold his ships and men as hostages, while he would lead Davis and a party of the buccaneers to a mine pn the neighboring coast 'which belonged to a relative of his,. and a friend also of Don'Baltazar, who would .immediately pay a munificent ran- soni. All he asked was, that no blood should be shed at the house of his friend, or on the way thither, for that all :the silver on hand at the mine should be faithfully paid over.. Don Baltazar was to accompany them, and immediately on the payment being made, was tole released with him, the captain,; while the Spanish vessel, stripped of her guns, was to be given up to-,her orew, to be guided by them .to the shorei This was agreed -to, and Davis 'gave the order to prepare, for the expedition.  While the bustle of preparation was at its height, Davis asked Don Felix, who heard the whole arrangement, what he had to say, and whether he could not make friends with Don Martini and get himself included in the arrangement.  "Keep your oath with me, Capt. Davis, and set me ashore at Coqquimbo, is all I asks As for that Martini, he is an agent of the viceroy of Peru, and would deliver me up, did I place myself in hhil power," and so sayings Don Felix turned to his wife, who bowed her head in approval.  C HAPTER XI.  March of the Buccaneers through the Vcaley of &It-Tkhe Silver .Mine of the Round .-Muntain--Treachery and i&tribution-A : cene of Horror at the Island. Cliff1 IT was morning. -The preparations of the pirates to departffor the ransom of Doln Martini .were completed. The sailors and soldiersen board the Spanish ship had ibeqn securely bound, a party of, pirates from the buccaneer frigate had been. sent to guaardtaem, andathe word now came to ," Heave!anchor and, awa', :At the word of oommandi, the buccaneer frigates with her, sails all\spread, ,bounded firwrd, like a war hors ,oa ,iher course, and -paused not n ,her patth riough, the waters, until thehadi:waxws of :night wierq ,be gnniag .tof iupon1i  the ocean. She then anohored abouta , league ficf thel hoeA, ata point opposite 'theA; ayof C;pLia, on the coast of Chili;. The boats were then lowered and manned byabotu it of the boldest f -theorew     ft         D1DAVIS, TH, BUXC gaNr, Who waited, with upraised oars, the companyof their chief. Before- however, Davis left the deck of his frigate he. cast a glance over the band of daring. adventurers, who, from their little fleet of boats, were gazing up at him with anxibus expegtation, and, his eye gleamed with mingled pride and determination as he surveyed the scene. He looked but a moment, and then, turning to Don Martini, who, with Don BalD tazar, stood side by side, he said, in-a loud clear tone, which was heard loy all:  V. "Don Martini, neither I nor my comrades in yonder boats, fear the face of man or devil, but it is well that we understand each other before we depart. You are to lead us to the house of your friend who is to turn out to us the silver of his mine. We are to shed no blood, but with the receipt of the silver, are to set you free on the spot, jand on our return to the island, to let your sailors and soldiers depart with your ship, without, however, its guns. So far, so good. We will keep our word; but if there is treachery on your part, all the saints in the Spanish calendar won't be able to save you from a sure and swift ven- geance, the flame and roar of which shall be heard and seen alng the coast, as an example and warning; so, knowing what you mat depend upon, jump into the boat and let's be off. Adieu, Don Felic to keep our word with you, shall be our first care on our return froim this expedition," and with these words, Davis followed his prisonern Martini and Baltazar, into the boat. . The surface of the ocean was smooth as glass, and urged onward by the stroig arms of the pirates, the boats skimmed like sea birds ovoar the waters, and soon touched the sandy beach of the bay of Copiapxo At Copiapo, .as indeed on all the coast of Chili, the land rises abruptly from the beach in a sort of rocky ridge, up which the buccaneers, after disembarking, silently ascended. On reaching the top, they came sud-: denly on a low hut, at the door of which Martini knocked loudly, ao. companying his blows with some Chilian words, of which the pirates knew not the meaning. The summons was quickly answered, and as the door flew open, a tall, muscular Indian stood at the entrance, be- traying not the slightest surprise or fear at the fierce array of his mid. night visitors. In few words, Don Martini, whom the Indian appeared to know, told him to lead them to the house of a certain Spaniard, near the mine of the round mountain. The Indian answered, by walk- ing immediately out of the hut, placing himself at the head of the party, and making a sign for them to follow. For. long way the path of the buccaneers lay over. a level plain, covered with an extremely thin surface soil. They. then descended into a valley, some four miles broad, with a wall of shella and water, worn stones rising. on either side, and a small 'rivulet i ithe centrey which seemed to -struggle on. its way: through the rank. grass and stunted shrubs which impeded itsprogress. The whole surface of the valley, as far as the eye could reach, was white as a eeldlofanow, and the buccaneers paid in sUrprise at the singular right i The rays of the moon shone full and broad, causing the snow cartet before, them to glisten and sparkle, as if with inumeorble diamon d, and the won9 de of the pirates iicreased asUthey : looked. , . L a.. ;,. I,   DIAVIS,' 'E BUCCANEAB.         U ', Stoop down and taste on what you are treading," said Dof Mar. tini, as he smiled at the astonishment of the ;buccaneers. The Red Dwarf was the first who followed the suggestion of the Spanish captain, and arohr of laughter burst from his companions, as with a hideous contortion of his revolting features, he Violently oat frim his huge mouth, the morsel of the white soil which he had just put into it;        .  ' Damnation I it is salt poison," he yelled, as soon as he could speak, and cursing Don Martini, he was about to rush on- him with his dag- ger, when Davis with a sweep of his arm, whirled him away, and asked the Spaniard to explain the phenomenon. "I cannot," answered. Martini; " all I know is, that the floor of this whole valley is one glade of this salt substance, and that the valley itself must, as you may perceive, have once been the channel of some mighty river." This little incident over, the buccaneers resurhed their march, and with the first light of the morning, reached a cluster of houses-on the spot where now'stands the town of Copiapo. We may here remark for the gratification of the curious, that- the bed of the valley, through which'they had passed, has been found by subsequent analysis, to' be composed of sulphate of soda, or -what is more commonly called Glauber salts.                    .  The settlement of Copiapo was still hushed in the stillness of deep sileep, when the 'buccaneers halted before one'of the largest of the houses, which 'Don Martini informed Davis belonged to ihis friend Don Jose Carrara, who dwelt alone there with his Chilian slaves, 'and wlho owned the silver mine of the round mhuntain, not far distant, which had but 'recently been discovered. While Don'. Martini was knocking at the door of his friend for admittance, the inhabitants of the place, roused' in terror from their slumbers, took the alarm, and the streets were soon filled with men, women and children, hurrying tvith'shrieks and cries to the chapel in the public square, ao a place $f safety. Davis immediately ordered some of the men to hasten afr them, in order to calm" their fears, and then, with Martini and Baltaar, he entered the door of Don Carrara's house, w*hich had by this time been opened in answer to the repeated:blows; upon it ;for admission. i Don Cartarat received. his strange visitors, halfdressed,7 and half bewildered with affright, and it was:some time before he could-recog- nize his friend Martini, and become assured by his words that there, was no harm intended him. When he had somewhat .regained his a cdtaposurea a long conversation took place between him and Don MaP- tini, the purport of which Davis could not understand, from its being etfrried on with;a; mixtire of'-piih'ash and Indian words, of which he hai no knowledge. While the convtersatioa was at its height, two of Doi Carrara's -uIhiati attendants left :the house withoutl :nyeffrt bei g made,? onithie part .of Davis, tdodetain:them; aindalth6uglh-from ' tiiH and: from the fat also of the use 'of Indian wordis, the'suspicions ef/avirs ,rereo aroused, he tthought it best to conceal them underf the 'niask off prtfat itrit in fthoewith whom he; had toideatL Don G ar zara at length turned to Davis, and said-       . : t \     "        DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER, ' My friend Martini here, has told me of your agreement with him, and I am willing to do all that he has promised for me. There' ame eight thousand pieces of eight in this house which are yours, and there are ten thousand pieces of eight more at the mine, which have not been brought down, but to which, if you are willing, I will lead you." "Lead on," said Davis; "fifty of us will follow you, the rest will remain here until our return." Again the daring pirates were on the march; but their way now led them through the bottom of a deep ravine, then over a wild laby- -rinth of mountains, until at last they found themselves on a sandy plain, in the centre of which, rising like a sugar-loaf, stood a single hill. "Yonder is the mine of the round mountain," said Don Cartara, ' and in those buildings at the foot, you will find all the metal that at present has been procured from the ore." With a shout of satisfaction, the pirates rushed pell-mell into thp hute, scattering the Indian miners who were at work within, and caus- 4ing even the lazy mules who were feeding near by, to prick up their -ears at the strange and unusual sound. The huts were soon rifled of the silver, which was packed on the backs of the mules, Davis jestingly remarking to Don Carrara, that he presumed the carriage of the treasure was included in the bargain. A sickly smile struggled on the lips of the Spaniard as he bowed in acquiescence, and turned to lead the way for. the return march of the pirates. The cavalcade soon reached again the village of Copiapo, where the -balance of the silver was added to the load of the mules, and the whole -buccaneer band prepared once more to retrace their steps to the coas. ,At this moment Don Martini ventured to say to Davis that as the sil- *ver was now paid, he supposed both himself and, Don Baltazar were free. "Not by any manner of means, captain," answered Davis. "With Don Cartara we have nothing more to do ; but we cannot let you and my friend Baltazar go until our feet are in our boats on the shore;-- Our safety, you know, Captain, requires that we should have theplea. sure of your company a little longer," and, as, he spoke, Davis looked into the face of Don Martini with such a steady, gaze, as to cause him to blush up to his very temples. Davis. appeared not to notice the effect of his words, and Martini, from an encouraging glance given to him hastily by Don Carrara, Soon recovered his composure. When, however, Davis gave the order to match, he accompanied it with a command, in a low tone, to the Red -Dwarf, to see that the men looked well to their arms-for he expected : that treachery was at hand . Down 'again came the shadows of the night around the buccaanes, as they Tetraversed the valley of the bed of salt, and again before item their path was bpght and sparkling in the light oftthe moon. When they had reached the centre of. the valley, the stillness of the bight was suddenly broken by the sharp clatter of horses' iofes^and at the same moment down upon the piratlbjfrom .ither 8sie, with th e (Tw*t neas of the wind, rushed a troop of some one hundred and ffty hrse- men.                    . .    DAVIS; XTE BUOCCANFEB.  - ' Stand to your arms like brave men," shouted Davis to his band,. "and. as for you, ye pair ofr treacherous devils," he continued, hissing the words slowly into the-ears of Martini and Baltiar, as he spoke, "if you survive this battls, a worse fate than death awaits you." By this time, the horsemen had dashed up directly iitont of the pirates; but instead of taking the furious charge which the latter had expected, and were prepared to meet, they suddenly reined* in their horses, and the leader, who turned out to be no other than Don Car. -raa, called upon Davis to surrender. "Yield I Down on your knees and beg for quarter-you are over- powered by numbers," he c'ied' in a voice of command, which he thought would, backed as he was by such a formidable troop, strike the pirates at once into fear and submission. "Yes, down on your knees, comrades," shouted Davis in return, "and beg for quarter, by. a blaze of fire into their black and treacher- ous hearts." Before the astonished Spaniards, who from the first words of Davis, jthought that the .buccaneers were indeed about to kneel and beg for 'mercy, could recover themselves sufficiently to charge, the kneeling buccaneers had sent from their muskets such a well-directed shower of ball into the midst of the Spanish troop, that twenty of the horsemea -fll dead at the first fire. A second volley completed the confusion which the first had caused, and the plain was soon covered with flying troopers, scampering as fast as their horses could carry them, in the 'direction of the hills. The buccaneers. now rushed madly in among the fallen horses and riders, and finished with their pistols and hangers the work of death which their muskets had so signally commenced. The cries and shrieks of the:dying wretches were of no avail-the pirates plyed their bloody task, until all that had fallen in the confused heap, were stretched life- less on -the white soil of the valley, marking it with one-broad red atain, which contrasted fearfully with the pure surface beyQnd. "Don Baltazar and Captain Martini," said Davis, "lookI behold our :mark on your valley of salt The next one we make, will be on The buccaneers retched their boats without further obstruction, and were soon on board of' their ship. 'The next day about noon, they reached the island, where they found all right, and were received by their comrades with a hearty cheer. "Bring forward the. Spanish' prisoners and make them kneel in a rmass on the.. deck of their own vessel-let fifty men, with their mus- kets, follow me to the cliff, and do youi: Red Dwarf, build a fire there, Oad have two ramrods reda hot, when I ask for them," skid Davis, as his frigate cast her anchor not far from the Spanish ship, His orders were obeyed with the usual promptitue, and the cliff of the island and the deck of the Spanish ship became now the scene of the most appalling act of vengeance and of blood, ever perpetrated in , buccaneer warfare. The deck was covered with the doomed victims, who, bound and kneeling, awaited in the stupor, as it were, of terror, their awful fate. On the overhanging cliff, above the ship, stood Da-     68    ,     DAYIS, rTHE BUCCAMXIR. vis- and'a file of pirates, with their muskets aimed at the crouching group below them. On the very brow of the cliff, and at the side of the soldiers, the Red Dwarfwas heating his ramrods in a fire which he had kindled for the purpose; and, as at intervals he shook them in the pale and lihid faces of Don Martini -and Don Baltazar, wh:) knelt bound on the grass before him, his shrill shriek of demoniacal laughter added another horror to this tragedy of fiends. Beyond lay the buccaneer frigate, with shrouds and decks filled with the remainder of the pi- rates, watching anxiously the whole scene, wile, cowering with ter- ror, Don Felix and his family sat in the cabin, with their heads buried in their hands, to keep out, if possible, the hearing of what they knew mst follow. "Fire!" said Davis, with a calm and collected voice, in which the fullness of revenge was concentrated, and he was now answered,'by a simultaneous flash and report from the gleaming muskets. Again and again was the order given, and each time there went pup * the heavens, blended with the flash and the roar, the chorus of groans and shrieks from the torn and mangled victims, as dying and writhing in agony, they fell on each other, and over into the water, before the fiery blast which poured down upon them in ceaseless fury from the cliff. Suddenly there was a pause in the fearful. chorus-the voice of agony was hushed-ihe work of blood was done; and the grim exe- cutioners themselves looked down with blanched cheeks on the task which they, had performed. The next act in the tragedy now commenced. At the command of Davis, a ring was formed around Don Martini and Baltazar by the i- rates, and the Red Dwarf, with his heated ramrod, advanced into the centre. At a sign from Davis, the Dwarf sprang upon Don Martini, and holding his head firmly in the embrace of one of his arms, he burnt with the point of the iron, full upon the forehead of his victim, a rough imitation of the letter "T." The unfortunate Spaniard rolled with a shriek of agony upon the glass, as the Dwarf released him. from his hold, to perform the same operatinon on Don Baltazar. Thid two were then t  ken down from the cliff, and bound to the shattered mast of the Spanish ship, amid the gory heap of their madsacred country. men. "I told you," said Davis, addressing Martini' and Baltazar, as he moved off with the pirates, from the ship to' his frigate, " that if you proved traitors, 1 would light a flame of vengeance, the roar of which the:whole coastof South America should hear. I have kept my word. Living or dead, some of your countrymen will fina you, and they will read 'your story without ahy help. Adieu." ' .      : An hour afterwards, the buccaneer:frigate was far from the island, sailing on the waters.. .  .   .  *  ,  ,  $     *   AVIS, THX BUCOCAoIE.  CHAPTER    XII. 'The Honor of the Buccaneers-A Prize in Sight-The Voice of the Long Gun-Desperate Battle at Sea--Death of the Red Dwarf-The Spanish Captain and the Buccaneer Chief-The Burning Frigate. ONWARD the pirate frigate is dashing through the waters, and the day is drawing to a close. Nearer and nearer she approaches the coast of Chili until at last she is at the bay of Coquimbo. "Cast the anchor," cried Davis in a gay voice, and slapping Don Felix on the shoulder, as he continued, " here we part, Don Felix, and I sulpose you are not at all unwilling to leave the pirates' company, but you can bear witness that we can. keep our word with friend and foe, and although our work is soimetimes- rather bloody, and we are not very particular what we lay our hands on, yet we are on the whole, in comparison with the Spaniards of the South Seas, an honorable set of fellows. What say you, Don Felix, is it not so? and is not Jesuita here, your bride of the sun, of the same opinion?"  Don Felix was in that joyful state of mind when he was willing to say-anything. At last he was to'be free, and if Davis had askedihim to express his belief that every individual on board of the frigat1was an angel, he would have done so without the least hesitation. 'He now poured out his thanks to Davis, with a vehemence and volubility of utterance which caused that lawless individual to laugh long and loud, as he exclaimed-.- I ' i "Well, Don Felix, for as man whomirwe have robbed of so much silver as, we have you, you: are the most thankful one I have ever come across. 'Tis true, we saved you from the vengeance of that licensed old robber, the Viceroy of Peru; put; Don Felix, we took all you had,daevertheless, and yet you"are grateful; but Jesuita, from her silence, I conclude, does not consider her debt to us so enormous," and ' Davis turned to the Peruvian wife of Don Felix, as he spoke. The features of Jesuita betrayed no emotion' of any kind, but point. ing to the setting sun, she simply-answered,  The chief of the pale'faces has kept his word and it is good; , the great God of the sun will see it when he looks upon the path of the chief, which is red with blood.1' ' The boat is ready, and we are ready,"saidd the Red Dwarf, 'step ping up at this moment to Davisi; ' and as they know. the cut of bur jib at this place, we had -betterldo whatwe have to do quickly, and be off; they'll soonqfind out the sham of outr'Spanish flag. i , ' You are right, my'satanio little lieuteiantj:so good bye, Don Felix and Jesuita, jump into ethe boat, and if y::er we get into a scrape on this- part of the coast, you'll be sure to give us a lift to get out:of it. one good turn deserves another, you :know,' and: so saying, Divis hurriedthe party into the boat, giving at the' same time directions to the dwarf to land them at the first spot that camae handiest, and then retain immediately to the ship.  /     9         ;IsAIS, AY STHE BUtCCAMeRZ. The Dwarf performed his task with the utmost despatch, and in a few hours stood again on the deck of the frigate, having left Don Fe- lix, his wife, and her mother in safety ionl the shore, a short distance above the port of Coquimbo. The history of the buccaneers is silent as to their after fate; but it is probable that they soon found among their friends at Coquimbo, a hiding-place from the avaricious grasp of the Viceroy of Peru.. Don Felix having been landed, according to agreement, Davis turned the prow of his frigate to the north west, and again stood .out to sea. Days passed, and no adventure or incident disturbed the mno notonous ocean life of the buccaneers. At length, however, one of the bright morning suns of the South Sea brought with it a sight that aroused the pirates to activity, and changed the scene of comparative quiet and listlessness into one of bustle and excitement. A large ship loomed up on the horizon, and the pulses of the buccaneers beat high in anticipation of a fight and a prize. As higher and higher from the bosom of the waters the sails of the. coming vessel rose more distinctly to view, it was evident that she was bearing down directly on the buccaneer frigate, and that. she was considerably larger and in every way better appointed than the latter. ' "Let her come on, although she is as big as one of the white-headed Andes," said Davis, after he- had gazed long and anxiously," and we'll pitch into her. In the mean time, Tom, just speak to her with that long gun of yours, and see what she has to say for herself." With a hearty "Ay, ay," the pirate whom he addressed proceeded to aim his iron spokesman with- great deliberation. After bringing it to the level in which he thought its Voice would be heard to, the best advantage, he applied the. match, patting the instrument lovingly as he did so, and calling upon it with on oath to perform its duty, as if it hal been one of his living companions to whom he was speaking With the flash and report, the pirates strained their eyes anxiously forward to mark the effect of the shot, and a loud hurrah bhrst from every throat, as the man at the helm of the Spanish ship was seen to roll over on the deck, and the shipitself to swing round, with flappig ilte, with the wind. The confusion produced by the disastrous shot was however but momentary; again the helm had a guide, and the Spanish ship came once more boldly and gracefully into the wind, while the smoke rolled from her guns, and a shower of shot fell thicki although harmless, across the path of the buccaneer frigate. - Now, comrades,". shouted Davis, " now for our last battle on the waters of the South Seas. There is a-foe ahead, worthy of your metal4 and from the size of his body, there must be considerable in it. Fight like devils as you are, and then hurrah for winter quarters, and then for old England I England, St. George, and ;Spanish booty forever'  Fight, or be hung in Lima, like dogs, and now down with the helm and at 'em." A shout as from the infernal regions echoed back his words, and with every sail bent. and stiffened to the utmost, the pirate frigate bore down in the very teeth of her foe. The two;vessels were soon within hailing distance of each other. Then .it was that any other body i.   DAVIS, THE BWJCRtBR         at men but Davis and his crew, would have shrunk in disnay from the encounter; for the Spanish ship, which now stood before them in the attitude of battle; was a man-of-war of the largest size, mounting twice as many guns as the buccaneer frigate, and manned to all appearance with three hundred men, while the pirates could now number but little more than one hundred.. Tis hkuudred, however, were composed of a metal, in which there was 'no alloy of fear, and to whom death was but 'the alternative of victory; Victry. was always counted on as certain, and death regarded but as a matter of course in case of failure, on which it was not worth while to bestow much thought or reflection., "Lower your top-sails," shouted Davis, as the vessels neared each other, "or we'll blow you into hell." As. he spoke, the guns of the frigate opened their mouths with a deafening roar, and the top halliards ,of the Spanish, ship fell crashing on the deck; and now, for the space of about half an hour, the:two ships were enveloped. in, the thick smoke of the battle, while the shot, on both sides, told with fearful effect. 'aBoard 'e, board 'em; put them to the, sword, or we are lost," shoUtted Davis, as the pirates fell thick and fast around him, weltering in their gore.  Another moment and the two ships grappled in a deadly embrace, and, with Davis at their head, the. buccaneers, yelling and cursing, poured like demons on the deck of the Spanish vessel. "Take that, fiend of the sea," screamed a Spaniard with a deep red :Sar on his forehead, as he flung himself directly in front of Davis, 'and aimed a savage blow at him with his sword. "Not so fast, Don Martini 1" screamed the Red Dwarf at the same. moment, as he leaped in between the two, and, dlashing aside the do- aeAdingg sword of :the Spaniard, he plunged his own almost up to the hilt in his breast. "I have given aou one mark on your forehead, take that for another and the last," andnthe hideous, creature laughed amid the roar of the battle, while the luckless Spaniard fell- dead on the deck. But an avenger was at hand. The Spanish crewi at- the 'first fierce onset of Athe pirates, had' been driven back in some confusion on the after-deck, and had not recovered themselves when thia incident between Martini laud the dwarf ocdrrhed: At the momdent, however, when Martini-fell, they rallied, and now Don Baltazar also, the other. victim of the island clitf rushed out at their head, pale as a ghost, and leaped, in his turn, with a loud, cry, on the Red Dwarf The Dwarf endeavored to avoid the spring, but he failed and down on-the slippery floor of blood he railed with Don Baltazar over himn, and holding him in his grasp with the strength of alion. ..        .  The pirates in their turn, wer e now for a imoment in disorder, and retreated a few steps in astonishment / One! afthe other, Don 'Mar- 't ni and on Baltazr, whom itheyr:had .lft bound to the mast of the ,hip at the island cliff, anda ho they thought, had by this timeabecome ,foodafor the vultures, had risenato th4eir-ight, as if. fromthe deads and far a momentthey were appalled. ;Diufing!this wavering of the pirates, ':D  Baltazar had the to wreak hisfrll vengeance on the Dwarf Again u4 again, while with one hand he. hld, as' im a vioe, the squirng     9i0        IvJIS* ' TI BUCCANEEI  manikin firmly down, he plunged with the other the gleaming dagrE in his breast, until fainter and fainter grew the struggles of his, victitm, ceasing at last with one convulsive throe in death. Even when, the protruding tongue, the black distorted face, and the set ad( stiring eyes of the Dwarf told Baltazar that it was but the revolting corpse of his foe that he clutched in his hold, still he held on as if he thought the spirit of the Dwarf would again spring up to fight him in some demon shape of the lower world. The brand on his forehead still burnt into his flesh, the fiend 'ho had seared it there was dead before him, and although the flame of battle was around him, all was forgot- ten in this consummation of his revenge. "Cowards, do you shrink?" shouted Davis at this moment to the buccaneers. "Follow me and iow your path in blood," and as he spoke, he rushed among the Spa,. frds, striking off at one blow as he passed, the head of Don Baltazar, who was bending over the body of the Dwarf.           I     . For the space of an hour, the hand-to-hand battle on the deckof the Spanish ship was the most bloody and fiercely contested one on both sides that ever occurred between the buccaneers and Spaniards. With the one it was either victory or utter extermination, for they fouight against fearful odds. With the other it was a long series of atrocious outrages on the part of the pirates that sharpened their swords, and roused them up to a pitch of bravery which they had never before ex- hibited, and which now urged them on with a desperate resolve 'to put a stop forever to the fell marauder.. This praiseworthy courage, and determined action of the Spaniards was .now, however, doomed to; be of no avail. Even with all the advantages of overwhelming numbers which the Spaniards possessed, at the end of an hour they cried for quarter, and yielded, in the despair of conquering, to the irresistible charge of the buccaneers. The, victory of the latter was a dear one, fifty of their number' lay dead bythe side'of two: hundred of their slain enemies.                 ;      ,  When the Spanish prisoners had been properly secured, Davis 'or- dered the captain of the ship. before hian, and for the first time he spoke to a Spaniard with respect.  "Sir Captain," he said, "you have fought bravely and well, as the bodies of, my fallen men can testify; never before, have so many of them fallen by Spanish hands. Tell me in candor Whence you came, and what is the news at Lima concerning us rovers of the sea?" . "My name is Lopez," answered the Spaniard, "and that of my ship Donna Inez. I am your prisoner-fear not the death which, I suppose, awaits me, and have no motive to tell a lie. I was sent by the Vice- roy of Peru to'follow in your path and give you battle. In my- ray, I passed by the island where you executed your last awful deed of blood, and found there Don Baltazar'and Don Martini amid a .heap of the dead, as you left them. They were themselves almost dying from hunger and suffering,: and taking them on board my 'hip, have now met you and been defeated. Wreak your full vengeance on me, but know there is a fleet now in the trt' of Lima, ready to start on your utraok, and I pray God and tWe Virgin that they may overtake and bring   DAVIYS, TeH BUOCCAEER  every one of you to that ignominious death which you so richly deserve, Robber and murderer, for thus I tell you to your face I look upon you, I have done."    ' . '  "And well and bravely have you spoken, Don' Lopez," exclaimed e Davis, 4the polite names you call I rather like-than* otherwise, and 1 intend to reward you. You and the survivors of your crew are free. On the shore near Lima, even with my sixty remaining men I will land you in the very face of the fleet you speak of, in order that you may tell your story td them, and so put a sthl more fiery devil in themt before they start to exterminate me. I have only a small fire to kindle here at sea for your amusement before I hasten.,to fulfil my word. I cannot think' of letting the Viceroy of Peru harv such a fine ship as this; and therefore shall:move into it myself, and burn my own up, and then we'll hurry to open the next' entertainment of the South Sea." The buccaneers worked hard until. midnight, and then, when the change had been effected and everything they needed had been re- moved from the frigate to their prize, they rested from their labor and awaited the further order of their chief. "Fire the old hulk, send her adrift, and give her a partiingsalute as she sinks into her ocean grave; for,. comrades, she has done good ser- vice," said Davis, and with a' somewhat sorrowful expression of faei he watched the pirates as they proceeded to obey his orders.  The preparations were soon complete, and with a lighted train in:her bosom, the buccaneer-frigate floated slowly away from the prize. At the same moment the sails of the latter were given to the breeze; and she dashed swiftly forward in an opposite direction. When, at the dis- tance of a mile from each other, the whole ocean became as light ha day with the flame of. the burning ship, and those on board of tha Spanish prize gazed in silence on the. scene.. In spiral folds the shrblou of fire enveloped hulk, masts and, spars, then shooting up in fobked' tongues of flame, it seemed to dart away? into the rolling clouds 'of smoke which hung above the whole as afuineral pall, and sent back tht reflection gleaming and red on the broad face of thpi waters. Thus -it continued for some moments, the crackling rigging and masts falling' and hissing into the sea, followed by a brighter blaze of flame. Thea came one broad, intense, quick flash of light, and then all was dark ies save the stars of Heaven, shining:down on the waters where blackened and charred timbers floated over the spot where once rode the buccan,' eer frigate.                      ,  "Now for the Viceroy's fleet," said Davis, as he opened the door of his cabin and bowed for Don Lopez to enter.     v       *   VEei , TE BUCCAZER CHAPTER    XIIJI. Landing at Hilo-The TWine and the .Money--The (ove of Oliv& and the Revel--Old Timon, the Gree--The -Wiceroy's Fleet. and the Pirated Vow. , TE next day following the events recorded in our last chapter, was one of busy excitement and exultation to the buccaneers. The Spanish ship which they had staken, and to which, having first burnt their own, they had transferred themselves, was indeed a prize, and the whole day was passed in a sort of rejoicing examination of the vessel. Thbe ship was new, mounted some. fifty guns-;was well appointed through, out, and amply supplied with powder and. ball. All this, in addition to the ammunition which they had brought from their own frigate, conspired to fill the buccaneers .with these feelings of strength and security, which, under other circumstances, with their present reduced tumbers, would have been greatly dampened.   A considerable quantity of gold and silver, which they also found in their prize, served still further to elevate their spirits, and they now held on their course over the waters, before the favoring winds both of heaven and of fortune, one wafting them onward to new scenes of adventurer the other inspiring them with a firm conviction of their complete invinci- bility. Thus, for more than a week, the pirate ship sailed onward- no pause upon her path-no calm upon the ocean, but both by tlhe bright light of the sun and the silver moon of the night, she dashed the diamond spray from hei prow, and held not her breath. During all this time Davis had treated his prisoner, Don Lopez, with great consideration, and the rew- had followed his example. There was, that indeed in Don Lopez which involuntarily commanded respect. He was a brave, fearless, and generous man, and .these were qualities which always found some answering chords in the breasts of the buc- caneers, steeled as they. were by scenes of rapine and blood. The con- trast, also, which Don Lopez exhibited to most of the Spaniards, whom the pirates had before this held as captives, had also considerable in- fluence over them. While most of those, countrymen, who had found themselves in the unfortunate position in which .he was now placed, had either given way to despondency or shown a most pusillanimous spirit, he bore himself erect and dignified, looked full in the face all the fearful circumstances by which .he was surrounded, and although he had the word of Davis that he and the survivors of his crew should be landed in safety, he acted and spoke like a- man prepared without fear to have that word falsified, and to become a victim to any death of horror which his fierce conquerors might see fit to inflict. Davis understood him, the pirates understood him; both accordingly treated him with respect, and, in their admiration of a noble Spanish com- mander, which to them had been a rare sight, their conduct towards ' his crew was far more kind than it had ever before been to any pri- soners whom they had held   AVIS, 'THEE BUCCCAEERE 1(t  Land, hol" shouted the man at the mast-head, on the nmoriing of the eighth day from the taking of the prize, and the eyes of the bao * caneers lighted up at theisound, with the fire of a coming adventure. "I trust," said on Lopez to Davis, as he turned his gaze towards a low white line, seemingly of clouds, which'.rose afar off on the hori- zon's edge and blended with the sky; "I trust that you will not' for- get your promise .aboutthe Viceroy's fleet, and land me accordingly in the face of it. Yonder are the .snowy tops of the Andes: Lima can- not be far off, as near as I can guess, and to tell you the truth, I wish you to hasten there-not for'my own 'sake, but simply that you may fall into the hands of those you have so much injured, as I fee .assur, ed you will, if you put yourself in, as it .were, their very mouth, as you have boasted you would. This may ,not seem to you a very grate- ful wish, after the considerate treatment -I have received at your hands; but so it is, and even if by my death, and that of all my. men, it could be accomplished, I should deem the sacrifice a cheap and glorious one.  "Much obliged to you, most noble sir, but your kind wishes will have to be disappointed," answered Davis. "And yet I shall do .ex actly as I have said. I'll land you in the face of the viceroy's fleet, and how you, in addition, such a bonifire and a blow-up as you have never yet seen on the South Sea. I am going to kindle it in honor of my departure from this part of the world.; for if it is any consolation for you to know it, we are about leaving these seas. I thought my battle with you would have been the last, but this fleet, which you speak about, as having been fitted out for our extermination, has put the deviin me, and I am determined to see how far, this new frigate of yours, which you have been so good as to give me, will enable me to blow that same fleet to h--11.. In the;meantime,.if there happens to be a little village or town. on the coast where we now are, where we can take a preliminary brush, by way of getting our hands in, we'll take. it." Night brought the buccaneers near enough .to the coast to enable them to distinguish that they were at the port of Hilo or Ylo. Our. readers will recollect that the. buccaneers, under Captain Sharp, had some six years previously made an attack on this town. It had in- deed been several times sacked by the pirates. In the light of the setting sun, with the flag of Spain flying from her mast, the buccaneer ship cast anchor in the bay of. lilo.. The people on the beach saw it all, but thinking that Iit was but one of their own government vessels, dreamed not of any danger,-and as the bell for vespers just then tolled out on the air, most of them hastened to the village chapel to pay their devotions, leaving only a few stragglers to gaze in curiosity on the ship. As Davis, with thirty of his companions, all dressed in Spanish uniform, pushed off in the boats for the shore, he called out in a gay voice to Don Lopezi who stood watching in silence the embarkation., "Good evening, Don Lopez, you must excuse us for a short time. Our predecessors have always stopediat Hilo; there is excellent wine here, and the figs are delicious, and besides, it is the hour of vespers and we wish to say our prayers; so, good bye--Lima comes next"      86t   "   PoDAVIS, THE. BUCCABNiEM Amid the foam of a violent surf, peculiar to this part of the coast, the buccaneers landed on the sandy beach, and. then marched directly m othe town. Not until they entered the church, making the paved aisle ring again with their heavy. boots and the clang of their arms, did the worshippers become aware wh. they were. Then there arose from the women a piercing shriek of affright, while the menrushed terrified to the door, exclaiming, "The pirates I the piratesl" and the priest, flinging himself at full length before the altar, muttered with trembling lips, "Mother, of God I shield and deliver us "  "Hold!" shouted Davis, in a voice which was heard clear and distinct over all the din and confusion, as he threw himself before the door to prevent further egress. "No harm is lintended you. We want not your blood this, time; we want your wine .and money. Is there any one here that has got fifty jars of wine, and two thousand pieces of eight in gold? -If so, Hilo is redeemed; otherwise we will burn it over -your heads. Speak quick, or I'll double the ransom." "I have the gold, and will give it to you with my curse, ye bloody children of Satan. Let one of your sacrilegious band follow me, and it shall be paid," said the priesf, springing from the altar, and speaking with a degree otholdness which the pirates did not expect. "And I have the wine, take it, and may the saints turn it into fire in your accursed throats," screamed a fat little Spaniard whose nose alone stood out, visible and red, from an immense forest of black whiskers and mustache. Davis and the pirates laughed loud at the manner in which their offer was accepted, and while two of the buccaneers accompanied the priest into the vestry of the church for the money, Davis questioned the little Spaniard as to his name and residence. By the time Davis had learned that the Spaniard's name was Nicoe las Moreno, and that he was the owner of an estate called the Olive Grove, situated on the outskirts of the town, the two buccaneers, bear. ing the stipulated two thousand pieces of eight, returned with the priest into the churqh. Davis now opened the door and signed for Moreno to lead them to the wine; but the progress of that individual, as well as the pirates, was stopped by an unexpected array which ap- peared:without. During the parley of the pirates inside of the church, a party of fifty Spanish soldiers lad silently surrounded the edifice, and when Davis now appeared, the captain ordered the arquebuses to be leveled, and the pirates to surrender. Davis looked a moment at the array now before him, and then bowing his head, as if he was about to comply with the Spanish captain's request, stepped out, fol- lowed by his thirty companions. ' o sooner, however, had they all oleverly emerged from the perch, than down to their shoulders went -their muskets, and a volley was poured into the 'Sp niards, which killed two of their number, and threw the rest into confusion. At thb call of their captain, however, they again rallied; but the buccaneers charged on them with their 'hangers, and soon put them- to rout.  "You see," said Davis ito Moo, "there' is no' use fighting us; therefore, if you wish to keep your head on your shoulders safe and sound, lead the way to your wine, and act like a gentleman.'  *     S    *         X,-   DAVIS, THE BUCCANEEL          6 The cottage of Moreno seemed like a little paradise. A grove of noble olive trees shaded the sides and rear, while rows of fig-trees, with their branches arching overhead, formed delightful arbors, reach. ing from the front, down to the clear waters of a stream which came cool and bubbling from the mountains. So enchanting was the scene to the pirates, that they gave vent to their feelings in lo ud exclama- tions of admiration, and informed Moreno that they intended to stop and feast with him, and that he must call in the attendance of some ladies, to give zest to the entertainment. The face of poor Moreno elongated considerably at this announcement, but his head was in the lion's mouth, and there was no alternative but to assume a willing sub- mission, and make the best of it. An hour later, and the cottage of Moreno was the scene of revelry on the part of the-buccaneers, which continued far into the night.- The women wh ch they had demanded of Moreno to add their charms to the revel,'were not wanting, and strange as it may seem; most of them were willing guests at the pirate banquet of the Olive Grove. Moreno himself performed his part of host with fear and trembling, but to the entire satisfacti6n of the pirates. Just before daylight Da- vis called the party to order, and with the jars of wine swung in Pec ruvian fashion, over. the backs of some mules, the'buccaneers took their way to their boats, leaving Moreno to thank all the saints ih the calendar for their departure. About ten days after the above adventure,'the buccaneer ship ar- rived off Callao, the sea-port of Lima. The sun had set, and the moon was shedding its silver radiance far over the waters, as the low fork of land on which Callao is situated, became visible to the buccaneers Callao was not, however, the only object on which the eyes of the buccaneers rested. Three large vessels reposed quietly in the harbor, and from their make and build, Davis knew immediately that they were the ships of war intended for his destruction. Opposite the port, lay the barren. island of San Lorenz%, sleeping in the moonlight, to which, after gazing some moments i ijence on the- whole scene, Da- vis called the attention of Lopez, and siid: "On that island I will land you,)on Lopez, after I have destroyed yonder fleet." While he yet spoke, the sails of the three ships were seen to unfurl, and it was evident that the buccaneer frigate was discovered. Davis immediately gave orders for the course of the frigate to be changed, as if flying from the enemy, and then standing on his quarter-deck, he addressed the buccaneers, who stood at their guns, silent as death, awaiting his words:               s "Comrades, it is three to one. Does any man here shrink from the , encounterl? ,               ;  ! .    I t A hearty "No!" burst from every throat.   1       i It is well," exclaimed Davis. Let them come on, and if old Timoa does not fail us, we shall conquer."  As Davis spoke, he beckoned for one among the group of pirate to step folrward. An oh man, :with oval,.yellow features, but with long straight. har, whieas the sunows of the .Andes, immediail .limped up      * a.         D AVI, THe BUCCAGEEBE to Davis, and laid a bunch of bows and arrows at his feet. The pi. rates looked on in wonder, and Davis again addressed them: "Comrades, old Timon, the Greek-the only one among us who ham not English blood in his veins-has asked to try in experiment with what he calls his Greek fire. He asked it once before, in the heat of battle; but the shot, from which he is just recovering, prevented' his making the attempt, as I told him he might. He will tnake it now.- Twelve of you will take these bows and arrows and follow his di- rections. He will be your captain, and, with Greek and English fire together, we'll fight the viceroy's fleet. Hurrah for England and St. George!"  "Hurrah for England and St. George," mingled with shouts for Old Timon, the Greek," was the response, as the pirate ship dashed onward, as if flying from her foes. Fast on her track came the Spanish fleet, in what might be called Indian file on the water-for the three ships were sailing at some dis- tance from each other, almost in a straight line, the foremost one being at the distance of nearly a mile from the pirate. Davis, from the stern of his frigate, watched the chase in silence. Twelve of the buccaneers. with their bows in hand, stood beside him, while old Timon was busily engaged in 'preparing. the ends of the arrows with some composition which he had made. Nearer and nearer came the foremost of the Spanish ships-for the speed of the pirate was suddenly slackened, by an order from Davis, and it seemed, for a moment, as if the Spaniard would inevitably run her down. Boom I boom I from the Spanish ship-but a swell of the sea ha& raised her up on its crest, and her shot fell harmless far beyond the track of the pirate.               .  Quick almost as lightning, the pirate frigate,-bedient to her helm, turned on her course, and as she sailed by almost the very side of her foe, her cannon opened their mouths with a roar like thunder, and the twelve arrows of the bowmen .fle through the air like so many streimms of blue and livid flame. The Iiainmast of:the Spaniard fell hissing into the sea before the blast of'ihe pirate broadside, while on her sails, and even in her hull under the water, the burning arrows fastened themselves, and burnt onwards with undiminished violence, notwith. standing all efforts to put them out.  I The Spaniards did not return the fire-for they were struck dumb -with fear at the danger which now threatened them. The fire kindled by the burning arrows, unlike other fire,curled in forked tongues, downwards, instead of upwards, eatiAg into the deck, and down the iades of the ship into the bottom. Under the water it burnt as fiercely as out, and in helpless despair, not knowing how to quench it, the Spaniards shrunk back aghast. "To theboats I to the boats l' came anshrieks across the waters, over which the flame of the burning shi now cast a lurid light.  In the meantime, while the second of the Spanish ships hastenieto !piok up those of their companions who had the good ortune'to be oble to seape in the boats from the destroing flame, the third aind /- '      s   DAVIS, THE BUCCANEEI B smallest of the Spanish fleet changed her course, tunniig across the track of the pirate, and placing the latter between' herself and the burning ship. "Run into her-give her a charge of the same sort and then we'll have a fire on each side, to light its to the island,' shouted Davis, as he watched the manceuvre.  With every rag of canvas stretched to the utmost, the buccaneer frigate bore down of the last of her foes, and a similar result followed. And now the whole bay of Callao seemed like a sea of blood, in the reflection of the lurid flames. Strugglingpn the waters, a fleet of small boats were .filled with despairing viWtirs shrieking for help, while the only Spanish ship still unharmed, forgot in the effort to save them, that the pirate frigate still rode triumphant towards the island of San Lorenzo. As the boats, ill'which Davis sent Don Lopez and his crew to the island, touched the shore .and landed their loads, two loud report shook as it were the very waters, and were reverberated from the cliffs of the coast. The magazines of the burning ships had burst, and in the intense light of the expiring flash, Davis, from the deck oft his own ship, raised his hat to Don Lopez on the shore, calling out to the latter as he did so:  "Spaniard, have I not kept my word?" Beneath the light of the moon, which shone down: almly on the waters as if nothing had happened, the pirate frigate sailedaway, and there were none to follow her., ^.  .' .' CHAP-TER    XIV. Consultaton of the Buwscneers-Determine to Return Home-Careening at the Galapagos Islands-Revelry and Gaming at Juan Fernande-Th Buccaneers Returz to fEngland-Laft days of Captain Edward Davis. WE left the buccaneers in our last chapter, sailing from the bay of, Callao,after having burnt the Viceroy's fleet, and landed their prison- erp according to tlheir promise. The next day after this adventure, a grand consultation was held on board the buccaneer frigate, and. the pirates deterfined that they would now leave the South Seas, and turn their faces homeward. All their enterprises had of late been very sun essful; they were rich in: silver,-gold, and jdwels and in consideration of their present reduced state of numbers;, Davis gave it as, his opinio6r that it was the part of prudence to stop all further aggressive undertak. ings, and endeavor to reach England with the booty which they had already obtained. He adviseditherefore; that they should hasten to the Gallapagos'Islands, careen their Vessel, tke in provisions and water, and then stee fbr ohome ; His kdv'ide was adopted without A dissenting voicei and. the. buccaneers turifed their coirs: itowards tho Galkpagos, with spirits fluslita wthh sucess, and if btingti i with aniiatiiona s  returning to their nativelaadt:ielr t? r -ewdtk iwichi they had aaquir  ^  .    i    .  :.' -,     65  .     bdAIAVIS, aTE BUCCAiEER. 'or some days the buccaneer frigate, favored by a stiff breeze, Irow rapidly forward on. her way, meeting no sairon the ocean to obstruct her path. At length, however, one fine morning, a large vessel hove in sight, and as it soon became evident that it was but a merchant ship, and there would n6t be any danger, in attacking her, the order was given, and the buccaneer frigate bore down upon its victim. There was no battle. The merchantman immediately surrendered, and Davis, having boarded ter at once, discovered that her cargo. consisted of some three hundred negroes. Davis transferred fifty of them to his own frigate, and then biddiig the captain good morning, told him that he was at liberty to pursue his way, and that he would meet with no more molestation. The negroes were a great addition to the force of the buccaneers. The captives themselves were rather pleased than otherwise at their change of masters, for they soon found that the change was for the better. During all the expeditions of the buccaneers in the South Seas, the several commanders had made it a point to have more or less ne- groes on board of their vessels, and the many cargoes which were continually passing between the different ports on the coast, frequently gave them an easy opportunity to supply themselves. The buccaneeis treated the negroes far better than the Spaniards, and the consequence Was, that the black part was not always the least formidable of the buccaneer crew. Thus reinforced, the buccaneers soon'afterwards reached the Galla pagos Islands. They anchored in a'beautiful and sheltered bay at the island of Santa Maria de l'Aguada, the most southerly of the group Our readers will recollect that the Gallapagos Islands were a famouu resort of the buccaneers. This was' the third time that Davis had made them' his resting place, and the groves and rivulets of Santa Ma. ria de l'Aguada were now welcomed by him ahd his crew as familiar friends.  The buccaneers were now for several weeks busily engaged in ca- reening thei;\ ships, taking in water, catching and salting the land tur- fle, and curing fish for'sea stores. They also filled sixtyjars, of bight  gallons each, with the oil of the land turtle, which was considered by them to be scarcely inferior to fresh butter. The cdy at 'length came for their departure, and turning their course southward, they deter- mined to pause no more until they reached; the island of Juan Fer. tandez.  . . Days passed on, and n6 event of any importance happened to the pirates to break the monotony of ocean life. As they had abandoned all further designs of plunder, they allowed several -ressels which they met to pass unmolested, and, as their last terrible encounter with the Spaniards seemed to have staggered the Viceroy of Peru in his designs of following them up,. they, in turn, were unmolested by any of the cruiseys of' the enemy. This even tenor of their way, however, was, one morning about our o'clock, broken in a: singular manner. The frigate, which had been sailing slowly along under the. pressure of .a light breeze aused suddenly in her course, and shuddered from stem to stern like an infant in the grasp of a giaiut So. unexpected 'and   DAVIS, THE BUCCA N$          .9 terrible was the shock, that the pirates thought at first that the ship had struck upon a rock; but when, like an affrighted steed, she again plunged madly forward on her way, and they could see, on the broad face of the waters, no cause for the phenomenon, the cheeks, which never paled before a human foe, became blanched for a moment before what they considered a manifestation from Heaven. When they had recovered, in a measure, their presence of mind, the lead was cast, but no ground was found, and, from the fact tiat the water which they took up in the buckets was mixed with sand, they came to the conclu- sion that it was an earthquake. The earthquake shocks, so peculiar t9 South America, often extended hundreds of miles at sea, although this was the first that Davis and his crew had ever experienced. About a week after this,. according to the Journal of Lionel Wafer, who sailed with Davis, the buccaneers came in sightlof a sandy islan4, on the shore of which they saw a multitude of Indians. Davis, how- ever, concluded not to stop, and the consequence has been, that twepty- five years afterwards, a Dutch navigator by the name of Jacob Rogge- wein, having touched at the same land, has claimed the merit of the discovery, and given to the island the name of Easter Island. It was in the latter part of the year 1687, When' Davis cast his an- chor for the last time at Juan Fernandez. Here again all was familiar to the buccaneers. They found the seats under the groves, which they had built long previously, and where they had revelled and caroused still standing and inviting them to their shades. The first thing which became the order of the day'at Juan Fernandez, was: the distribution of all the booty on hand. There were now but about sixty to divide it among, and the share which fell to each man was therefore immense. No other party of buccaneers had ever been so successful, and when the division was over, each found himself wealthy beyond his most nanguine dreams. It is said that each of the crew received money and -ewels to the value of forty thousand pieces of eight, while Davis' share mas worth at least one hundred thousand. One would suppose that t e distribution of so mnuch treasure, among a lawless band of pirates, would be attended with difficulty, and be the occasion bpf trife& and blood; but lawless as these men were with respect to others, they were scrupulously exact in obeying the laws which ,they had: framed for themselves, and among which those for the division of bootywere the most stringent. No dividends are paid at a bank, in this nineteenth century, with less disorder and confusion, than Davis in the year 1d87 apportioned and paid to each of his crew, the amount of money and jewels to which he was entitled. The distribution having been effected, the buccaneers for about a week gave themselves up to recreation, andJuan Fernandez resounded with the sound of the bacchanalian songs, while they rioted in Wine, or with the report of their fire-arms, as they hunted the wild goats among the precipices. Juan Fernandez, however, was this time an unlucky place to some of the buccaneers. Five of them, led away by the passion for gambling, lost all their money, and being unwilling to go home as poor as they t1d left it, determined to regain at the ,is- land, and take their chance of some other buccaneer, hip stoppig     B0         MAVXI&, THE BUrCAE ER. there, and putting them in the way of regaining their lost fortune Davis gdve them a. canoe, arms and ainmuinition, a quantity of maid for planting, and also two negroes to each man. After leaving Juan .Fernandez, Davis sailed to the islands of Mocha and Santa Maria, near the continent, where he expected to have ob- tained some more provisions, but he found the islands deserted, the Spaniards having compelled. the inhabitants to remove, in order thua more effectually to 6ut off the pirates from procuring supplies; Davis, having now no further lse for his negroes, landed them at Mocha, and then turned the prow of his frigate towards Cape Horn. The bucca- neers doubled the cape without seeing it, and after passing through fields of ice and meeting many severe storrms, they arrived in the West Indies in the spring of 1688. It Was just at this time thata, proclama- tion had been made by England, offering the King's pardon to all buccaneers who would abandon that mode of life and claim the benefit of the proclamation. Dadis and his crew did so, anht all eventually reached England in safety with their booty. The after history of the lbuccanebrs who sailed uhder Davis, we are, of course, unable to fol- low; but of the last days of Davis himself and one other of his com- panions, there has been a slght record left. Lionel Wafers Who wast with Davis in most of his enterprises, was a man of some education, gnd on his return to England wrote ah account of his travels. if died surrounded by peace, plenty, and hosts of friends, and his work survives' him. Davis, soon after landing in England, built himself a splendid man- sion, married and devoted himself principally to the pleasures of the chase,?ingled, but not immoderately, with those of the bottle. His "Tally-ho in the chase Was celebrated far and wide among his bro- ther hunters as being characterised by a certain wildness in the 'tone, and, when suddenly raised, was so startling'in its nature, as to cause them fairly to' jump in their saddles. His "Hip Hurrah" at the table was equally strange, and 'always rung clear and loud. abovd all the rest, no matter how great the number of the company might be. In the place where he lived he was much respected,:and his charities to the poor were many and frequent. The church in particular re- eeved large donations from h im, and he always treated the rector of the parish with the highest consideration. Not many of those by whom'i he was sttrrouodtd, knew, the history of his life, and the geiberal supposition-was, -that he had made his money by large adven- tures at sea.- The few who did know his real character, appeared to think none the less of. him, and with his gold in their eyes, and his meat in their m6uthe, chose to consider that all his wealth had "been acquired in the justifiable way of privateering against the kings enie mies. Thus does stcess, in acquiring wealth, often turn -en the robber and the nimurdeer into the respected citizen, aad history fur- nishes no such striking examples of this humiliating truth, as are con "tained in the lives of the buccaneers.  Just before his death Davis received a visit fom Dampier, who had alrbehen a pirate in the South' Seas' at tre same timefwith him, al- though with a different party. Dampier:was the most lIatned fail AA1   'DAVIS, THE IUCCANEE.  the buccaneers; and has left behind him a history-of his travels. -This history touches very lightly on personal adventures, and in the fulness of the description of the outward features, the productions and ani- mals of the places through which he passed, the fact that he was but a robber and a murderer among a band of like spirits, is almost entire- ly obscured. The. meeting between Davis and Dampier is said to have been extremely cordial, and the visit of the latter was extended from days to months, during which the hospitalities of the tiuccaneer's man- sion were unbounded, and the sound of the dogs and hounds vas heard unceasingly from morn until night throughout the surrounding country. After the departure of Dampier, the health of Davis declined, he sunk into gloom and despondency, and the lamp of his life went out in the ravings of insanity. Could the soul of the buccaneer Davis, who in the latter part of his life appeared to enjoy such prosperity and happiness, be laid bare to the world, doubtless in the awful picture of remorse it would disclose, the reader would find perfectly vindicated that justice of heaven, whigh otherwise, from the outward appearance of things, he might be inclined to doubt.  With Davis and his party, the main body of the buccaneers disap- peared from the South Sea. A few stragglers, however, remained, and with a slight -sketch of their adventures, and a short account of some piratical expeditions at a later period, we shall conclude this his- tory of the lives and exploits of the Buccaneers of America CIAPTER XV. The Cygnet-The Buccaneer Chief, apt. Sway, and his First Mate--TA Buccaneers approach the Gulf of California-The Midnight Attack on the House of Don Gonzales-The Spanish Maiden and her Betrothed. OUR readers will recollect, that in a former chapter of this hy, we gave an account of the grand junction, in the Bay of Panama, of all the buccaneers then in the South Seas, and of their separation again a short time afterwards. Of all the separating parties, that under the command of Capt. Swan is the only one of any imprtanc whose ad- ventures we have not followed to the end. The coit#e of our history therefore, now leads us back to Capt..Swan and his crew. ' The ship which Swan commanded was named the Cygnet. She mounted sixteen guns, and her crew consisted of about two hundred and fifty-men. Both captain and crew were all Englishmen. The Cygnet had sailed from Londo* having been fitted out for the South Seas by reputable merchants of that city, and provided with a valuable cargo for a trading voyage, and with a license from the Duke of York, then Lord High Admiral of England. After arriving in the South Seas, however, the idea of Swan soon advanced far beyond the mere business of trading. Having'oaated along Chili and Peru with vety ill success in the way of traffic, he fell in at lengthIwiththe buccaneea, Aud the glowing pictures whioh they drew. of their mode of life, and ^^ -i      7'         DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER. the snccess which attended their adventures, quickly changed the trader into the pirate. The Cygnet became a buccaneer ship, and was present at the graAd junction of the buccaneers above referred to. After the separation which followed, the Cygnet and-her commander for some time, kept company, along the coast of Mexico, with the bus,  caneer ship under Capt. Tounsley, whose fortunes we have already narrated. On the determination, however, of Townley to change his courseto the outh, the Cygnet left him, Ind steered further north. whence we propose, after giving a slight sketch of her commander and some of his companions, to follow her. , Capt. Swan was a man nearly six feet tall, muscular, well propor- tioned, and straight as an arrow. His complexion was fair and ruddy, his countenance open and commanding, his hair black, and falling ith glossy ringlets on his shoulders. He was decidedly a' fne-looking man, bland in his manner, and'with no other outward mark of a vil lain about him, but that which the. keenest observation might some- times be able to trace in a certain snake like glittering of his large black eye. Handsome and bland as he was, a blaekei-hearted bucca- sneer than Capt. Swan never sailed on the South Seas.: The first mate of the Cygnet was named John Reed, and while in his short stature, his heavy form and feature, he -presented' a complete contrast to his commander, Swan, his soul was of the same diabolical nature. Both Swan and Davis were men of far more than ordinary intellect, and both were well fitted to command the wild spirits around them. The next important personage on board of the Cygnet, was William Dampier, the buccaneer historian, to whom we have already referred in the course of this narrative. Dampier was a mild, gentlemanly and intellectual man. To read his accounts of his various voyages, h:ode woud suppose him' to have been a pirate; but William Dampier was neither more nor less than a pirate, or he never would harve saild in the Cygnet. Dampier, however, was not a fighing pirate, that is to say, he never burnt powder or flourished a sword, although he uwas always provided with both, except he was attacked. He always fdl- lowed in the rear of an expedition, taking note of the natural features of the country, and picking up materials for his journal. The reader will always observe, in Dampier's history of South Sea adventure, that he touches but seldom on scenes of blood, and when he does, gives but the bare details of the issue of the affray. Dampier was a mobt useful man to Swan; his judgment in difficult cases could beFilied on, and Swan always sought it with confiderce.     "  It was the hour of sunset, the hour of buccaneer excitement in the anticipation of adventure, and the Cygnet, with the English flag of St. George floating from her, maintop-mast head, came to 'anchor off the coast of Mexico, near to the entrance of the gulf of California. Swan determined here to make a landing, having first had a consultatidn with Dampder, in which the latter gave it as his opinion, that they were in the neighborhood of the town of Mazatlan, near'to which 'it ras known were same rich gold mines.           :' Beneath the light of the moon, and with the water as smooth iglwa *  '          v      s    ^    DAVIS, THE SUCCANEX EB  before them, one hundred-and fifty of the buccaneers, with Swan and Reed at their head, embarked on board of their canoes and sought the shore They entered a small river, and after bowing about half a 'eagub found themselves in a beautiful valley- stretching far away in fertile savannahs which were composed alternately 6f the greenest meadows and most luxuriant groves of- trees. On the banks of the river, and just where it madl, a sudder turn and became narrower in its course, the buccaneers behe'd a large, square house built of sun- burnt brick, and surrounded at the second story by a light balcony of wood. The house was situatedi in the midst of a garden, and both balcony' and the sides of the building were covered with thick green vines. The beams of the moon fell with ia white misty radiance on the whole scene as it slept in peace and-beauty before the lawless band of men, who were now about to break rudely its repose. Before the pirates enter, let us take a look inside the dwelling a few hours prior to their comring         .  In a spacious apartment of the second story, opening on the balcony above mentioned, four persons were seAte'd. There is no light in the room, bAt that of the, moon, which is all-sufficient, and far more agreeable to the inmates. The elder of the group, who was named Dont Manixel Gonzales, is an old man of about sixty years of age. His hair is thin and white, and his whole cast of features betokens one of the o6ldrace of Spanish nobility. On one side of him is seated his wife, a woman still with many traces of beauty about her, although far advanced in years, and on the other side a man of about middle age, 'whose shavren crown and- long black cassock, .mark him for' a priest. They call,.hm Father Paul. On a low stool at the feet of the oldh Spaniard, and looking up into his face, was a young girl of dazzling' beauty. ' Her complexion was a deep brunette, her form .full and perfect in symmetry, her hair black as the raven's wing, anl her eyes were two large, black, liquid orbs of light, which looked out fr6m beneath their long lashes with a dreamy softness that fascinated the beholder as with a' spell of magic. Such was Donna Maria, the daughter of DO n Gonzales, who sat at his-feet, on whom for some time he had been dotingly gazing. :: Father Paul," said Gonzales, 'as 'he raised : his eyes from his daughter, "I tremble when I think of these dreadful pirates who are now, I hear, on our coast. Not for myself do I fear, for I am old, and must soon in the course of nature die; but when. I look upon my helpless wife, and then think of the marauders of the sea, I am horrified t the contemplation. This part of the coast certainly cannot long remain free from the ravages of the infernal crew,.for there are gold and silver: mines in the neighborhood, and rest assured they will fnd it out. So impressed have 1 lately been witha presentiment of their approach here, that I have sent to Compostella for some soldikerS, and ifdnothing hiappens'they will :bet hre to-morrow mornning.' :Father Paul did not view the matter in so seribus A' light as his friend Gonzales, and in answertlaghBd gooc-humoredly at, his feart. But the old man shook his iead, and the more the priest laughed, thi& more the waighvtUf impendingdanger seemed to pros upon hia. siritse     '714        DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER. His wife and daughter tried to cheer him, but it was of no availi and when the hour came for retiring to rest, he rose despondingly frma his seat, and clasping the hands of his wife, he knelt before the priet, and asked. his blessing. The eyes of Father Paul were filled with tears, as bending over the group, he said: "May God and all his saints bless you, my children, and guard you from the evil spirits of earth, and hell, and. air." A few moments afterwards Don Gonzales and his household were locked in the arms of deep sleep, while the demqns of the South Seal in the light of the moon, silently surrounded the dwelling. "Open, open-there is no harm intended; but resistance is useless," cried Captain Swan, as he let fall the hilt of his sword against the door, with loud and repeated knocks, which broke upon the stillness of the night, and penetrated with fearful distinctness into the dwelling through the open lattice work of the windows. At the sound, Don Gonzales jumped from his bed, and rushed wildly to the apartment of the priest, exclaiming; "Father Paul I Father Paul! the pirates are upon us." The ecclesiastic had already been alarmed from his slumbers, and was robing himself as fast as possible.  "Trust in God, my son," he said, as he took a crucifix in his hand, and hastened out on the balcony. Don Gonzales did not follow him, and Father Paul confronted the pirates alone.   "Lawless men, what would you with this peaceful abode?" he said, as holding the crucifix above his head, he stood fearlessly forward on the balcony, and looked down full in the face of Swan, who was some- what staggered at the apparition. The buccaneer chief, however, soon recovered himself, and an swered :. "May it please you, sir priest, we, are free rovers of the sea, and a would enter here for our pleasure. We mean no harm, although it may appear that we shall take some liberties with whatever, money or jewels this house may contain," and Swan bowed low as he spoke, while his eye glittered in the moonlight, like that of a serpent The priest gazed a moment at him without replying, and them, as if Conscious that resistance would be uselqss, descended to the door,and opened it wide for the entrance of the buccaneers. As he did so, he Whispered hastily to Don Gonzales not to mention to the pirates tha. he expected the soldiers in the morning. In the meantime, the wife. and daughter of Gonzales were on their knees in their room, trembling with terror, and praying to the Virgin for protection, while the Idian servants of the household, with that passiveness peculiar to. their, xa, awaited, without any apparent fear, whatever fate the isse of the af- fair might bring to them,  "Spaniard," said Swan, entering the house, followed by Uead, Dampier, and about twenty of the buccaneers, and addressing-Don Gonzales, as he spoke, "Spaniard, excuse me, for not addressing yu by name-for I know not your title; but I am here for money. .Aave you any? If so, be ao good as to save us the apleasittBk eof ,.   ^Ea   &AVIS, THE BUCCANEER.         7' taung it by force. In the mean time, honor us with the attendance of your family, and something:to refiesh ourselves with." One thousand pieces of eight were soon placed in the hands of Swan, a table was spread with wine and food, and while the party within sat down to the feast, provisions and wine were also distributed to the buccaneers who kept guard without. Swan insisted that the wife and daughter of Gonzales should do the honors of the table, and as they were in the jaws of the tiger, they were compelled to- comply with the request. And now the pirates feasted and drank, and Swan forced his attention 6n the fair Donna Maria, not rudely, but with that air and manner which caused the poor girl to shrink from him with loathing and disgust. Don Gonzales and the priest looked silently on, and in. wardly prayed that the soldiers might come to their rescue. Thus matters continued until the day began to break over the Savannah, and when many of the pirates tired of feasting and drinking, had thrown themselves on the floor to sleep.  Suddenly the alarm was raised from without, and information was brought to Swan, that aparty-f two hundred horse were approaching. Swan immediately called all the buccaneers into the house, and the windows and doors being barricaded, the pirates prepared to defend themselves.  On came the Spanish horsemen, and the building was soon sur rounded. The captain of the troop called upon those, within to sue render. He was answered by a discharge of musketry from the winr dows, which killed seven of his men. The Spahish captain however, was a man of courage; he knew he could depend on his men, and a / the fair Donna Maria was his betrothed bride, he resolved to make a desperate effort to save her.  "Scale the balcony, and let the watch-word be the resoue or deathi', he exclaimed as he dismounted from his horse and rushed to an out. building, followed by a few of his comrades . A ladder, several boxes, and large stone jars were there soon pro. 'eured,i and with the aid of these, the Spaniards clambered up on the balcony, and were cutting their way like brave men into the windows before the pirates had time to fire more than one or two more volleys. The fight now raged within the house for the spaceof five minutes, with great fury on both sides; but the buccaneers this time, found tho Spaniards too muchfor them, even at their own game of hand-to-hand battle. After seeing ten of his men fall, weltering in their gore, Swan thought it was the part of prudence to retire, and he therefore ordered a retreat. The buccaneers fairly fled from the house; but the Spaniards did not follow, for the simple reason that before they could do so, the buccaneers took possession of the horses which had been left outside, and rode off at full gallop.  In the retreat, however, Swan found time to. execute a deed chare- eistic of his fiendish disposition, He had fired the building, and as the pirates, after passing through them Savannah, ascended an eminence, they saw the flames curling up to the Jeavens, and the family of Doa GonZales safe and unharmed standing in the garden aiid gazing on the tirining pile.      - 76        DAVIS, THi BUCCANEER.' "I would have fought them, Reed, if we could have prudently risked the chance of conquering them without greatly reducing our numbers; but what was the use, when we had safe and sound all the money that was to be obtained there," and as Swan thus spoke to his first mate, the buccaneers resumed their way to'the coast. CHAPTER XVI. The Cygnet at the Chametlan Islands-Petaplan the Indian Boy, the Grove of Cedars and the Mutineers-Big John and Old Dice-Attack on the Townr of Rosario-Punishment of the Buccaneers. IT was noon. The Cygnet lay anchored near a group of islands, called by Dampler the Chametlan Isles, and situated about four miles distant from the coast of Mexico, near to the entrance of the Gulf of California. The sun came down full and hot on the deck of the pirate ship, most of the buccaneers had gone ashore on one of the islands and Swan was seated alone in his cabin, busily engaged in writing. At this moment an Indian boy leaped nimbly from the shore of the neaw- est island into a small canoe, and steered directly for the Cygnets While with a vigorous arm he is causing the canoe to dart rapidly to- wards the ship, we will give our readers some particular information concerning him. The Indian was apparently not more than sixteen years of age. He was a fine specimen of the ancient Mexican race, tall, well formed, of a-deep copper complexion, an open and noble countenance, and with a dark eye gleaming with a pride and spirit which, although he was young and a captive, nothing could subdue. About a month before we now introduce him to the reader, he and his mother had been taken prisoners by the buccaneers, on a point of the coast of Mexico, near to the hill of Petaplan, and. westward from the port of Acapulco. The mother, in consideration of having guided the pirates to a farm-house where they obtained some provision, was set free, but the boy was re- tained, Swan at the same time promising the mother to take good care of him. The buccaneer chief kept his word, and the Indian boy being intelligent and apt, became immediately his \especial favorite. Swan gave him the name of Petaplan, after the place near which he was taken. Such was the Indian boy Petaplan, and as he now paddled his little canoe towards the Cygnet, he was about giving to the buccan- eer chief a mark of that gratitude which he felt for the great kindness with which he had been treated. On reaching the vessel, he sprang, with the agility of a cat, up the side, and glided. noiselessly into the cabin where Swan was writing. So still was his;approach, that Swan was unconscious of his presence until the boy laid his hand on his shoulder. At the touch, however, slight as it was, Swan started from his seat, and half drew his hanger, but seeing no one before him but   DAVIS, TWHE BUCCANEER         " the Indian boy, on whose face there was now a broad smil, he imself burst into a loud laugh, exclaiming: "Why, Petaplan, is it you?, I thought some bloody Spaniard had dropped down from' the clouds on board of the ship, and was about running me through to pay off old Scores. But what is your errandr and why have you interrupted me?" "The white men are sharpening their knives in the island grove of cedars, and will slay their chief. Let the dhief follow Petaplan, and he will show him that his words are not a lie," answeitd the boy, and as he spoke, he foldedhis arms across his breast, and awaited the course of action which Swan would adopt on the information which he had given to him. He did not have to wait long. . "Forward to the island, Petaplan; I'll accompany you," said Swan; and hastily taking down a pair of pistols from the wall of the .cabin, he hastened with the boy on board of the canoe. A short time afterwards, concealed by the shadow of a tree, he stod in a thick grove of cedars on the island, and listened to the converse. tion of a group of some half dozen buccaneers, who were there assem- bled. One of the group, called by his comrades, "Big John," appeared to be the principal spokesman.' He was a man of about middling height, but with the muscle of a giant developed in every part of his body. Broad-shouldered, full-chested, bow-legged and squat in' figure, Big John was a man of mark, but not of beauty, in his form, While a deep red scar, extending from one of his temples down to his chin, gave to his face, which was naturally most ferocious in its looks, a still more frightful and repulsive expression. Big John was in fact nothing but an irregular mass of human strength, capable of being hammered on toany extent, but not capable in the least degree of inspiring any of that admiration which physical power generally calls forth. Unpre- possessiig, however, as Big John was in appearance, he had still some qualities of a noble nature about him, as will hereafter appear. There was another of the group who divided the conversation with Big John, who also deserves soire particular notice. He was a man considerably past .the prime of life, but still strong and vigorous, al- though the hair on his head was already grey and thin with age. His frame was well knit together, but slight; his features hard and sallow, andite expression of his countenance sinister. His companions called him by the familiar name of "Old Dice," from the fact of his having been among the first of the buccaneers who, had entered the South Seas, and from his being a most inveterate gambler. It was from stieh buccaneers 'as Old Dice, who were daily and nightly staking their gains at hazard; that the different commanders, from- Morgan downwards, had experienced their main difficulty in governing their crews, and Old . Dice was iqow engaged in his' old pastime of stirring up an mutiny against Swan.  .     .   * At the moment that Swan from his hiding-place looked in upoi the group, Big John baclaumed: "D-n you, Old Dice, you are a black-hearted villain and deserve to have your throat cut; you have lost 1 your money,and now.-  want to murder Captain Swan, and thele. be .ptDin ouras Look r      "T8        DAVIt, ITHE BtrOCANEEt. here, Old Dice, you may be able to get Big John to come to a cedar grove to spin a yarn or take a drink in the shade, but d--dr me f you can make a mutineer out of him, and before you get to be captain, d 'ye ee, Old Dice, you have got to put a stopper on Big John, which is no small affair; Old Dice, you can't begin to carry through. I don't like Swan better than any one of the crew does, for he is deceitful as h-l" t4d it's my belief that he takes more than his share: I'd rather have the mate, John Reed, captain, but I'll see fair play anyhow." "You're a fool," answered Old Dice, "and Reed and Swan are two more. What has Swan done to make you stand up' for him? He hasn t made an single haul since he left Davis, that's worth talking abouti and he neter will. Cut his throat at once, I say, and I'll lead you to where you can get heaps of gold. I hav'nt been in the South Seas so often without knowing something." "HaI- ha I Old Dice, but you have been in them a d--dlong while Without being worth anything,", answered Big John in return, "and as for following you, I'd rather cut your throat first and then 'take my own .time in following you afterwards. No, no; I join no mutiny, neither will I blow'on you,although I'll take good care to keep my eye on you and your fellows here -and now before my blood gets. so hot that I can't keep my hands off of you I'll go." And so saying, Big John walked out of the grove in a different direction from that b which Swan had entered it. Old Dice looked a moment after him as if undetermined whether or not to follow and have a fight with him for his refusal, but turning at length to his companions, with an air of disappointment, he said: "Well, it can't be helped; he would have been the best man in all the crew for our purpose, and would have easily won over the rest, but we must get along without him; in the mean time, comrades, e must work away, we'll get enough on our side yet, and when weI get the little Cygnet once in our power, we'll steal gold faster than ever that smooth-tongued Swan ever dreamed of." When Old Dice. concluded this edifying speech, the party broke up and left the grove, some of them almost brushiing"Swan as they passed. They did not, however, notice him and when Swan himself reached the ship, they had not returned. It was evening before they miode& their appearance, and, as they ascended to the deck, they met a recep- tion as unlooked for as it was unwelcome. 'All the other parties of t5h buccaneers, who had during the day been roaming about the island; had returned, and were now drawn up in martial array on the deck, with Swanand Reed at their head. Big John. was also among the, he having met Swan and the Indian boy at the'beach, and returned mwith them. As Old Dice, fllowed^by his brothir conspirators,: ouch. ed the deck, the tappearance of things rather stggeied' them, and cor- scions guilt whispered to them, that they were the pccasion of this uin usual display. They had not, however, much the for reflection; for Swan immediately gave the order that they sh blbd be seized andc boUn4d. informingL the buecaneerb at the same tiiim of whath had, ochur- red;at the grove of cedas.' It was but the woeiof a-i moment' t , ai ll themBpaai s of ld Iice. , '     .rA -  * .   DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER.  With Old Dice, however, the task was more difficult. He struggled and fought like a tiger at bay, and his knife drank the blood of more than one of the pirates who had rushed forward. to seize him. Break ing in the struggle from his assailants, he threw himself with fury on Big John, Accusing him of having become an informer, and swearing that he would have his life.. Big John was fully prepared for the as. sault, and while with one hand he caught the descending arm of. Old Dice, and wrenching the knife from his grasp, sent it glittering through the moonlight into the sea, with the other he struck the old pirate a blow on the temple, which felled him like a log on the deck. This ended the scene, and the voice of Swan was the next moment heard, calm and unruffled as if nothing had happened, giving the order to bear the mutineers off, and keep them confined until a future day, when they would be punished according to the' buccaneer law. - "In the meantime, he continued, " up sail, and ho I for the town of Rosario, which Petaplan tells me is not far off, and whose river is full of gold."  He was answered by a shout of approbation from all, and that which came from the lungs of Big John was by no means the weakest. The town of Rosario, to which the buccaneers now directed their course, was situated on a river of the same name, emptying into the sea, and not far distant from the anchorage where the buccaneers now were. The town consisted of some sixty or seventy houses, a large church, and as usual with the towns in Mexico, a handsome public square in the centre. Bright and beautiful rose the morning sun on the' little town of Ro- sario, the gilded cross of the church glittered in the light, the vines of the balconied houses sparkled with their dewdrops like diamonds, and the broad square lay bright and cheerful in the warm red rays. All Rosario was early a-stir, for it was the-festival of a saint, and In- dians as well as Spaniards hailed it as at day of rejcting and jubilee, for such the Roman church always takes good care to make these occasions.  Already was the grand procession inoving towards'the church, the priest in his glittering vestments, the soldiers in their martial uniform, and the Indians in their gay apparel, when' the terrific and far-famed ar-cry of the buccaneers was heard, and confusion and dismay fol- lowed. The priest alone exhibited any presence of mind. "Fight them, my sons," he shouted, as the buccaneers rushed into the square, scattering .the terrified multitude before them. "Fight them, and all the saints will guard you," and the brave ecclesiastio snatched a sword from-the nearest soldier, and. assaulted with fury the. first assailant that .caime 'to hand, and who. happened to be. no other than Big John. Big John, however, dashed the sword aside, and' clutching the priest- bya the throat in his iron grasp, threw him on'the ground, exclaimng:. :: , "-Good for'youd old shaven crown, but lie-still and I won't kill you for you're he only brave fellow. among the whole owardiy loft"  Big John's words were trie, for even :ith the example'of-the priest baforle hem the governor and .theosoldier .after: firrig oniO neffetua , I     8o0         DAVIS, THE BUCCANTEEI. volley, fairly turned on their heels and fled. The buccaneers pursied. and succeeded in capturing the governor, and two or three of the prin- cipal citizens. This was all they wished, and a short time afterwards the whole town was in their possession, and in the process of being rifled. The harvest of plunder which the buccaneers reaped at Rosario, amounted to about twenty thousand. pieces of eight, and after having spent the night in feasting, they despatched the priest in the morning for ten thousand pieces of eight, in addition, as a ransom for the gov- ernor and three of the principal inhabitants, giving him three days to bring it tq the ships at the month of the Rosario river. In the event of the ransom not being brought, the penalty was, as usual, death to the persons who were held to ransom. iThis being accomplishedy the buccaneers sought their ships.  Two days after the above adventure, Old Dice and his four brother conspirators were brought forward for punishment. The buccaneer law for the offence of mutiny, that is, when it was,not taken summa, rily by the commanders, was branding on the shoulder, and Ane hun. dred lashes. This penalty was rigidly inflicted on Old Dice and those who conspired with him. They all bore it with firmness, particularly Old Dice himself; although fainting and suffering from the agony which he had endured, still he had strength enough left to mutter: "H-ll and furies I but I'll be revenged on the whole crew 1" ' And if you endeavor to stir up another mutiny until I glve you the word, I will let out your heart's blood with my own knife," whis- pered John Reed, the first mate, as Old Dice was arried exhausted to his berth.  CHAPTER X      II. alron the Astrologer-The Prediction-The Convoying Paty, and the Fulflment of the Prediction-The Battle at the River-The Astrologer and Big John.           i     . CLEAR and cloudless the light of the moon and stars came down on ,he Cygnet, as with her sails all furled, she lay at the mouth of the river St. Jago, a few degrees further soutlitfrom the point on the coast of Mexico where we left her in our last chapter. The crew were die- persed in listless groups about the deck, while Swan, the buccaneer chief was seated alone in the cabin, earnestly engaged in conversation with a companion whom we have not yet introduced to our readers This companion was a man about forty yea', of age1 and extremely noble and. commanding in his appearance. His forehead was high and broad, and white as polished marble. His eyes were blue, full of in- telligence, and peculiarly mild in their expression.; His features were of the .Grecian cast, regular and faultless in their outline, and his hair, which was of a rich auburn, fell in long cuxlinglocks on his shioders. He waS clothed in a long robe, or 'sort of frock of scarle :cloth- con. \   DAVIS, TH BUCOOANEEI.        81 fined at the waist with a gold embroidered girdle, and having a row of golden buttons extending from the girdle up to the throat. A small purple velvet cap, also heavily embroidered' with gold, covered slightly his head, and an antique volume, filled with strange looking characters, lay open on the table before him. Such was the companion with whom the buccaneer chief was talking, and who was known on board of the Cygnet as Aaron, the astrologer. We will tell the reader how be came there. Superstition was one of the principal traits in the character of Swan. Long before he sailed from London, he had been in the habit of visit. ing and consulting all the celebrated soothsayers that he could hear of in that city. Among others he became acquainted with this Aaron, who, at that time, was doing a thriving business in the way of reading the stars for the benefit of the credulous. From the very first moment of the acquaintance, Swan was fascinated with Aaron, and when the Cygnet was fitted out at London, as before narrated, and Swan was chosen for her commander, his first act was to ask Aaron to 'accom- pany him on the voyage. Aaron's mind was inquisitive, and with sui ca chance held out to him of seeing the world, he readily con- sented. It may be supposed, that although the Cygnet, after reaching the South Seas, changed from a merchant to a pirate ship, that Aaron did not drop his character of soothsayer. In proportion as Swan, day -y day, became a greater and more successful pirate, did Aaron be come a more profound astrologer, and the consequence was, that in addition to the share of plunder which he received in common with the others, he was constantly obtaining from Swan large gifts of money for his services in reading the stars. Such was the connection between Swan and Aaron. "Aaron, I shall land to-night, notwithstanding, as you say, that about this time we must expect disaster and. misfortune,' said Swan, risingfrom his seat, as if to indicate that the conference was ended. "Well, be it so," answered the astrologer; "I have watched the heavens for some nights past, and they tell me that if we draw the sword during the next three days, there will be loss and death, and therefore I have warned you. You are the commander, however, and must take your own course." "I have taken it," answered Swan, "and have determined to brave the danger; for it is but a few moments ago that a reconnoitering party, which I sent a little way up the river, returned with an Indian whom they had captured, and informed me that they had learned from him that about four leagues distant there is a town called St. Pecaque, which is filled with provisions of all kinds, and not by any -means bare of gold; therefore, we depart to-night"And so saying, Swan passed out on the deck, to give the necessary orders. The party detailed for the expedition to St: Pecaqueunumbered one hundred and thirty, beside Swan, Dampier, Reed, and the astrologer. During the night they rowed five-leagues up the river, and at six r;clock in the morning landed at a point where the banks were high on either side, and where the river was about a pistol-shot wide. Thirty men, among Whom was Old Dice, were left to guard the boatr 6     82         DAVIS, THE BUCCANEEB. while the rest of the party marched for the town. They found the country plain and even, and the road which they followed led them alternately through woodland, and savannas well stocked with cattle. It was about ten o'clock in the morning when they arrived at the town, and so sudden and. unexpected was their approach, that the inhabit- ants fled in alarm, leaving them to. take quiet possession. The town of St. Pecaque was small and regularly built, with a parade ground or square in the centre. It had two churches, and the inhabitants were chiefly Spaniards There were several large store- houses, well filled with large quantities of maize, salt fish, and sugar, which were always kept on hand there, for the support of hundreds of slaves who worked in'some silver mines not far distant. After rifling the churches and town of a considerable quantity of silver and gold plate, which the inhabitants in their hurry and flight had left behind, the next care of the buccaneers was to secure some provi- sions for the ships, of which they stood very much in need., For this purpose they spent the rest of the day, after plundering the town, n collecting as many hbrses as they could find. The next morning, in order to transport the provisions to the boats, Swan divided the men into two parties of fifty each, which it was agreed should go alternately, one party constantly remaining. to guard the stores in the town. According to this arrangement, the convoying party immediately loaded their horses with maize, and departed for the boats. The trip tras performed without any mishap, and the party returned in the evening to the town. The next morning, those who had guarded the store-houses on the day before took their turn, but brought back in the evening the intelligence that a large body of Spaniards and Indians were collected at the tcwn of Santiago, only three leagues distant from St. Peoaque, and were :about to make an attack on the buccaneers.. Swan at once determined to evacuate the town, and early next morning gave orders for the- whole force to march. The greater number of buccaneers, however, refused to go until they had conveyed all the provision in the town to the boats. Swan was obliged to yield, and one party, headed this morning by Big John, started as usual for the river, while the other remained in the town. We will follow Big John and his companions. Their march was not interrupted until they reached a narrow open- ing, between two pieces of woodland, situated about half way between the town and the river. Before their starting, Swan, fearful that they would be attacked, had advised them to tie their horses, one to the other, and' the men to keep in two bodies, twenty-five before ;and twenty-five behind. But this advice was: not ttaken, and the party pursued their old plan, each man leading his laden horse. .When, therefore, they emerged in this irregular -and careless line of march, :into the open space above referred to, they were, almost before they knew it, attacked on all sides by about five hundred Spaniards, who rushed out from their ambuscade in the woods, and confident of their superiority of numbers fought the pirates with a fury that seemed like the volcanic bursting of a vengeance long pent up and smothered. The buccaneers, with all the fearful'odds against them, quailed not   DAVIS,- THE BiUCAt EB.         $9 but, like tigers at bay, met, their enemy with a desperation which ad, mitted of no alternative but victory or death, andquthe green graa of the savanna was soon. red. with. human, gore and brains, as the, hanger, the knife, the pistol, and the arquebuse performed. ceaselessly, ,for the space of an hour, their murderous work. At the end of that time, Big John alone, of all hiscompanions, remained aliye, covered with wounds, still waving defiance at his :enemies, and swearing; that he would not be taken while there was breath in ,his bdy, Some dozes ,Spanitds were about to rush upon, andmake' an end'of hirm,when the captain of the troop, either struck with his brayery, or thi.4bing that the: vic- tory was already sufficiently complete, calleed ItpoR them, to stop and leave him, for the present, alone. As they. fell back -ini obedience to the order, Big John sprang quickly on a horse beside hum) from which a wounded Spaniard had just fallen, and, before aiy one Qcould Stop him, he dashed through the opposing ranks into, the wood: with the speed of lightning. A few thot were sent after him, ;but they fell harmless by his side, and, as the Spaniards';did not follow, he pirpued his way unmolested. "Capt. Swan, did I not read the stars aright, when I warn'ed you against this expedition?" said Aaron, the astrologer, as Big John, be; dabbled with sweat and blood, .and his horse tcoveried with .foam, gal- lopped into the square of St. Pecaque, among the group of buccaneers, who, having already heard the firing, had assembled in Qrdet, and were about to start for the rescue of their eompanions.  , ,  "D-n the stars, Captain Swan," yelled Big John, as; he caught the words of Aaron, ," but follow like lightning on the traolg of ithese yelr low Spanish devils, or the men at the boats, like the, forty-ninej baove fellows who went out with me this morning,: will: e 'slaughtered. like dogs," and Big, John leaped, as he spoke, o0; a fresbh horse, andtthe whole party, with Swan at their head, left the town. at full speed.  On reaching the place of the late terrible conflict, an awful sight was presented to :Swaii and his; companions. Stripped to the skin, the bodies of their fallen comrades lay, on the plain, with stakes driven ,through their hearts, andd their features mangled and disfigured the Spaniards thus testifyirg their vengeance Seven on the dead. ,Swag paused not to,look on the scene, furthr than ;to nQtice that .thet stain of the Spaniards were two to one to those of the buccaneers, but calling on his followers:to behold and to avenge hastened onward with still greater speed.                 .'  '; ' ; .r It. was, well that be didi so Before they reached the river's side; tho sound of firing was heard, giving evidence to the buccaliee rs thtM-tl$ party at the 'boats Wai already atttacked. Asfortanei would,hat it, however, they found, when .ttiy icame in sight othe sce8neaof btthle that the Spaniards this time did notdumber. more than one hundred men..                         *  "Onward, and hew them down like carrion! taoted, Sw4ni he waved his haigerovei his headi and spurred his horsse, into 'the. rvae midst of the panic ranks. -, :    !" .* ,:-* : , a,: ; i i':; . :tit "Onward, and may black Astaroth blow his sulphurous breath into their faces, as our blades drink their. blood," shouted ia rewtrnthe     (M         DAVISs THr BUOOAtEi astrologer, as 'hei drew a glittering cimeter from its sheath, and fotlowe4 after his commander.  "Onward, and blood for blood!" rose; in one wild yell of fury, from the throats of all the rest of the buccaneers, as they madly plunged after their leaders. It was now the Spaniardst turn to fight at bay, with death staring them in the face.: They had driven Old Dice and his party to the boats, when the rest of the buccaneers charged upon their rear, and they were, therefore, now' between two fires. :  "No quarter," shouted'Swan, "but drive the prayer for mercy down their accursed throats ith the bullet and the sword!" and onward the pirates cut and firedi mowing down the quailing-Spaniards like grass before the scythe. *  The battle soon. changed into a massacre, in which Swan, the astrolo. ger, Reed, Big John, and Old Dice particularly, moved about like de- inons of the infernal world, dealing death at every blow. The waters bf the little river already flowed in red currents between their banks, bearing on their bosom a ghastly flotilla of livid corpses, with their faces'upturned to the sun. The pirates did not pausp in their work'o f blood until the captain of the Spanish force, the last- survivor of his band, bowed his neck to the stroke of the astrologer's cimeter; anl tolled a headless trunk into the river. After the massacre was over, the buccaneers rested for a time, anit then, having first collected a few of the bodies of their enemies, and transfixed them An poles, which they plaOed on the banks of the rivet as a warning and a sign, teythey then embarked on board of their boat. and directed. their course to the' ship. It was midnight when they reached it, but Swan immediately assembled the whole crew on deck and informed them of the serious loss of life, at-whioh the provisiont and plate which they obtained, had been bought. Of the one hundred Wnd thirty men who had left the ship, nearly sixty had been slain, ndd their numbers were therefore fearfully decreased. He proposed, in order to recruit, that they should nmake a descent on the town of Mazatlan, which was inhabited chiefly by Indians, and there press a number of the natives into his service. At this point of his speech the Indian boy, Petaplan, stepped forward in front of Swan, and said: "Let' the white man spare my people, and let not his knife be red with their blood. I will lead the white man to Mazatlan, and there will ask my people to join him, for my people are the slaves of the Spaniard, and hate him.'?  "'Be it as you will; Petaplan, for we are tied of blood, and would rither gain by persuasion than by force," and as h spoke, he ordered the anchor to be weighed, and the course of 'the Cygnet to be directed towards the town of Mazatlan.  During the whole night, as the ship ploughed her way through the 'tetrs, Aaton,. the astologer, remained on deck, consulting the stars, with Swan by his side, and when morning. ame, the astrologer turned to his coipation aid said:       i  "There is no cloud for some time on your tah, but there is a ritu-   DPATis, TH5 BUGCuL 4 l al period, about two months hence, when your star will be obsured, and yourself in danger," and so saying, he turned into the cabin, leay ,mg Swan gloomy and, downcast, and a prey to the most desponding re feptions.      . ... "Do y6u know what I wouid do with that croaking fellow in the scarlet coat, if I was you?" said Big John, coming up :to Swan,.who was leaning in deep thought over the bulwarks of the ship. Swan merely shook his head in dissent.  "Well, then," answered'the other, "I'd pitch hiAw into the sea, kbrave as he is; for one ounce of common sense is worth a bthel of them d-d things he calls, h9roscopes, and other strange lingo, whichl he w continually pouring into,your ear. Capt. Swan, Aaron isa damper on the crew, and if he don't drop his Astrology, as he calls it, gomne of the crew will be apt to drop him in :a d-d unpleasnt, bathing-place," ani so saying, Big John gave a hitch at his breeches, and left Captain Sw&a to his meditation.  In the meantime, the Cygnet held on her way towards Mazatlan. CHAPTE R. XV II, The Buccaneers' Descent upon fzatlan Bi-gJq s Inspectin and t' Indian Recruits-Don Sylvester, the IJfserand his Treasure-- The Tres Marias Island-s-The DistemperOnd Aron, the Physician-The Sqo4 Bath   .      '.. ON the evening of the second ,day after:the events narrate .in. our first chapter, the. Cygnet .came to anchor three miles distanrt from the main land, and a few degrees south from temouth of the small river which leads, to the town: of Mazatan. The boats were immediatly i Dwered, and a party of the buccaneers, numbering one hundred: men, and headed by Captain Swan and his frt mate, John Seed, sought the shore. Williah Darnpier and Big John also accompanied the ex- pedition, while Aaron, the astrologer, .was left, wit the rest of the buccaneers, to guard the ship. The cruising party, guided by the In- dian boy- Petaplan, soon entered the river, and just as the sun was rising, marched into the town of Mazatlan. Mazatlan, at the time when the buccaneers was this descent upon it, was a smalltown, mostly inhabited, by Indian, There were. ri nunes in its neighborhood, at which the Spaniads: of QomppteE which was the chief town in that.'distriet, kpta large numberof laves at work. Although the natives of M afalam had heard of he late attack of the buccaneers on the to rf Rosario, which was notar distan t-yet thinking the, . te pirates having pass ethem over at that time, would not return, aaic, they had aeitt'd dwna into an, easy su- rity, after their first feelings of a rm -were ove r,and had talaaIio precautions agalst danger. Whenf aroused,'a th:erefo re fro te slumbers,  e  el n  they beeld no the dreaded mara4ers epter t tow e -urprise was sudden, and' lomplete. A greaterplrt f f them fe ia     89u      ShbItS. TIlE BUCANEEi. conaternation, aand escapil, while the remalinder, as tiey rushed firo their huts, discharged a few arrows at their enemies, 'but were soon overpowered and secured. Some sixty strong, able-bodied Indian men, besides a number of women and children, thus fell into the 'hands of the buceaneers. No sooner were the captives secured, than the Indian boy Petaplan, at the dictation of Swan, informed them that no harm was intended- that the buccaneers were, on the contrary, their friends, and nedede 'their assistance-that if fifty of the strongest among the mern, would 'join the pirates, the latter would take good care of them, a'nd when the Cygnet left the coast, on her return home, they; the Indians, should :be landed t- any point they chose. Petaplan wound up his speech by pledging his own life for the good aiath of the buccaneers. The-Indins at' once expressed their willingness to join the pirates, 'and Big John, to whom the task was assigned, was soon busily engaged in selecting the required fifty. Big John went through his 'duty of in. spection- with an',air of great importance, and with the manner :of a connoisseur, while the candidates pressed eagerly forward, each one exhibiting his points to the best dvantage, and showing the greatest desire to be chosen. The selection having t' length been nmade, the rest of the prisoners' were told that they were free. They, however, evinced no disposition "to go; but, on the contrarys, busily employed themselves in collecting and placing in the hands of the buccaneers, all the Indian corn and 'other provisions which the-town contained. ;' While this rifling of the town was going on, one of the new Indian recruits, a tall and symmetrically formed specimen of the Mexican 'rce, as if anxious to begin his new mode of life as soon as possible, volunteered to lead the piiraes to the house of one of the few Spaniards 'who lived in that neinghborihod, ahiid who, he said, was one of the overseers of the slaves who workied at the mines in the' vicinity. i i He has gold and pearls," said the Indian-" he hugs them'to his heart, and has not fled. When the rarriors of the sea shall darken his door, he will tell' them that there is nothing in his hands; but a lie will be in his mouth-for his hands are full." While the buccaneers, led by their Indian ally, are hastening td this -new scene of plunder, we will take a look at him whom it is their de- sign to attack. Don Pedro Sylvester was an old man, eighty years of age, and dwelt in a 'small and inferior-looking house, situated on the outskirts of Ma- 'tlahn. Don Sylvester was wealthy, but was also a most inveterate -miser. He was an owner in one of the richest mines near Mazatlan, :and had hoarded up ini his miserable habitation a large amount of gold, silver and pearls.' Early in the mobring: on which the bucca. "eers attacked the town, he was up as usual, handling and gazing on -hitheloved treasures. At the;moment when the flying and frightened Indians were running past his house, shouting the alarm, a lump of ' iold was in one of his hands, and a pair of scales ii* the other. 3oth dropped from the old miser's trembling grasp, as he heard the dread- -fful sounds; but while he sank on hi knees'and eitled on the Holy   DAVIS, THE BUCCANEELR  Virgin to protect him, he again caught up the glittering lump, and in- eluded it in his prayer for preservation. As time passed on, and thei rates did not come to his dwelling, the old man took courage, and be- ring unable to carry off his riches in such a hurry, he hastily concealed  .them, in different parts of the wall, and under the floor of the building He placed his security on the appearance of poverty around him, and he awaited, on his knees, before a wooden crucifix which was always to be seen at one end of the room, the coming of the marauders-for come he knew they would. Don Sylvester was still calling on all the saints in the calendar, when Captain Swan, and. about twenty of his comrades entered, preceded by the Indian. Don Sylvester took no notice of their entrance, but only poured forth his supplications with greater volubility. "Prayer are good," said Captain Swan, as he approached and laid his hands on Don Sylvester's shoulder; " but when a man prays like you, principally for his money, why the best way is to take his money from him, and then he will have nothing to pray for but himself; so, deliver up, Don Sylvester-for such we hear is your name, and de- liver speedily. We are here to take, and it is more than probable you will find that all you have to do, is to give up. Give, therefore, and we instantly leave you to your devotions." The miserable old miser,. at this speech from Swan, turned from the ,crucifix, and threw himself on the ground before the buccaneer chief. Grovelling at the feet of Swan, he begged in the mostpiteous accents, that his life might be spared. assuring the buccaneers, as his eye wad- dered around from one merciless face to the other,' that he was pcor- poor as a barefooted monk-that he had no gold, no silver, kine nothing about the mines, and that all his possessions consisted in a little corn which he had raised for his own use. Swan and thu rest of the pirates gazed upon him with feelings of contempt; the Indian guide looking him full in the face, slowly ejaculated "The Spaniard lies," while Big John, raising him in his powerful arms, set him on his feet, bringing at the same time a glittering knife to a level wiih his throat, and shouting in his ear: "Curse your palaver; tell the captain where your money is, or here goes an air hole into your windpipe. Don Sylvester turned a despairing glance at the frowning oounte- nances, and was about once more to open his mouth in entreaty, when he felt the keen edge of the steel against his throat, and darting back in terror, he threw up his hands, exclaiming that he would yield all. A few moments afterwards many holes became visible in the walls and floor of Don Sylvester's house, and Don Sylvester himself was penniless. The plunder over, the old: miser was left in his desolate home, to console himself as well as he"could for his loss, while the buccaneers, with their gold and silver, their corn and their Indian recruits, took their way to the river. Just as the shades of evening were falling on the waters, the bucca- neers in their boats came in sight of the Cygnet, but an unexpectei cene was presented to their view. The Cygnet was grappled to an- other vessel of the same size, the smoke ofreeent firing was still ourl-     8,        . DATVS, TET AUCqAWM., itg around her. shrouds, while a deadly conflict, hand to hand, wiid raging on the deck of the -ship w hich was, linked with the Cygnet, on the side towards the land. In the light of the rising moon, thb party in the boats gould distinguish the tall form of Aaron the astrologer, dealing death'around him with his glittering cimeter, while the shouts and curses of the combatants were borne distinctly to their ears on the still air of the night. The sight and the sound filled Swan and his men with the fire of battle, and each man bent to his oar with a power and skill that sent the boats hissing through the water towards the contending ships. With a yell and a shout which were answered by Aaron and the crew of the Cygnet, Captain Swan mounted to the deck of the vessel, where the crew of the Spanish ship, for such she was, seeing this new enemy rising up as it were from the water, and falling with fury on them, immediately flung down their arms and cried for quarter. Swan instantly ordered the work of death to be stopped, the Spaniards to be secured, and he then proceeded to examine' the captain. The ac- count that person gave of himself was very short. He had been sent by the Viceroy of Lima to cruise for the buccaneers, he had foind them, had been defeated, and was ready to meet his fate. The bearing of the Spanish commander, as he thus answered the buccaneer chie, was dignified and manly, and Swan, with the greatest respect and politeness, informed him that the life of himself and crew should be sacred, but to prevent him from doing further harm, at least for a time, he should be obliged to sink his ship and leave him and his men on one of the neighboring islands, from which if they could get off it would be better for them, but if not, he, Swan, could not help it. The rifling of the Spanish prize-ship was not productive of much profit to the buccaneers, except that they obtained a small supply of ammunition, some provisions, and a few jars of wine. The last came the most acceptable of all, for the pirates for some time had been out of this indispensable article. When the plunder and the prisoners had been transferred to the Cygnet; the prize was scuttled and sunk, and the Cygnet once more turned her course to the south. A few days afterwards, she anchored in a bay at the east end of the middle one of the Tres Maria Islands, which are situated on the coast a few degrees south of Mazatlan, and there the buccaneers made a landing. None of the Tres Maria Islands were inhabited. Dampier says:-..- "The soil is dry and stony,. producing much of a shrubby kind of wood, troublesome to pass, but in some parts grows plenty of straight large cedars. The sea shore is sandy, and there a green prickly plant grows, whose leaves are much like the penguin latf, but larger, and when baked in an oven is reckoned good to eat.". The buccaneers had a taste of this fruit, but from what Dampier says, they did not find it particularly palatable. Swan named the island on which he landed srince George's lslatd, and the pirates had a general carouse in honor of the occasion. The island abounded in various kinds of game, fish and turtle, and it was not, therefore,. very dificult to get up a respect able iast, which they accordingly did           .   DJtVIW HB1 BUCCANEER.  While at the Tres Marias, a distemper resembling-the dropsy broke out among the buccaneers, and several died in consequence. Dampier and' Big John were among the number of those who were attacked, but Aaron, the astrologer, wa the physician, and among many others he cured them. His mode of treatment was somewhat peculiar. He ansled his patients to be laid down and covered all but the head vrith hot sand. A copious perspiration was thus produced, and whether or not Aaron's practice was. in ,accordance with the rules of medical science, certain it is, that in. a majority of cases it was successful. Big John, soon after emerging from his sandy bath, and experiencing its benefits, shook the astrologer by the hand, and ever afterwards re- garded him with far different feelings from those with which he had previously looked upon him., While .at Prince George's Island, a general division of the gold,: silver and gems-which had been collected during the several last ex- peditions, was made, and the share of each man amounted in value to ten thousand pieces of eight. The division having been made, the Spanish prisoners with their captain were landed on the island, and provisions sufficient to .as4 a week given to them. The sails of the Cygnet were then hoisted, and with the flag of St. George flying a= her topmast, she stood out to sea.          . CHAPTER, XTX. The Buccaneers at the Island of Guahan, and its Surrender to thnem.--h Mazatlan Indians and the Natives of. uahan-r whe Buccaneer, at: t Philipine Is4ands-The Mutin of Red and Old Die, and Death of Big John -jEnd of the Cygnet. : WE left the Cygnet in our last,chapter, standing out to sea from the Tres M'trias Islands. For nineteen days, after leaving theTres Marias, she ploughed her way through the Pacific without meeting with any adventure, and on the twentieth reacied the island of Guam, or Gutr han, in latitude 13 20' N.  '             . . It was midnight when the Cygnet came to anchor within' a mile  the shore of the island, and Captain Swan and his crew took an oser vation of the scene before them. . The night was clear, and a Wala IoW fort was distinctly visible, .but, as far as the buccaneers could see, there was not a sign of a sentinel or evidence of any kind of life about, thb place, Swan turned to Reed and Aaron the astrolog r, and asked heir a yice as to the feasiblity of landing and:attacking 1he fortress at ^ce. Their opinion was in .tie, ,afmtnativei and the orders ,for preparation were instantly given. 'By the time, however, all was n reaiinen a small boat was seen p pllt o ut ,frn ithe shore and. apprach the shp. "AS they are so prompt in- seundi an envoy." said' Swan. addes ing Big John, who .stood anxt, toh ai'waiting further orders, "w e will wait to see what they have to say for themselves." As he spoke, the boat reached..the Cyget, and the next moment a     W         DAVIS; Tal- BUCCANEERt portly-looking Spanish priest stood on the decki, gazing with a bewil- dered and frightened air on the grim faces and the signs of warfare around him. .       i. "Well, sir priest; what may be your wish, and what is the message which your master sends to us?" exdlaimed Swan, after he had, with his crew, enjoyed for a few moments, the bewilderment of the poor ecclesiastic. "I thought," at last Stammered out the priest, "that this was a Span- ish ship from Acapulco, which' the governor of our island has been for some time expecting; but it seems I am mistaken, and I believe, therefore, that I had better return to the fort." "You are somewhat mistaken, I must acknowledge," answered Swan, "we are English, and not Spanish; we are from the coast of Mexico, although not direct from Acapulco, and your master is by no means expecting 'us. I am rather incliied to believe he will 'be sorry'whea he hears we have come.'; All this, however, need make no difference;' we are very accommodating-take what is given' to us, and take what is withheld from us. In the meantime, we shall have to ask you to stay with us, until we can see what we can get from yonder island; you un- derstand now who we are, do 'you not?" "Holy Virgin I I do," ejaculated the priest, as he started back a step or two with a gesture of horror; "you are the terror of the South Seas -the sacrilegious, murderous buccaneers." "The same, at your service; and you will now have the goodness to tell us truly the strength of 'yonder fortress," answered Swan, fixing his eye steadily on the priest. The latter now recovered his composure, and assuming en air of resignation to his fate, whatever that fate might be, he said: "A governor, with only thirty soldiers, guards the fort, and holds the island under the crown of Spain. The natives of the island num- ber about one hundred, but they hate the Spaniards, a d would Join you' against them the moment you landed. Therefore, spare the little garrison, and all the island contains will be at your disposal, without the' necessity of shedding blood,' for resistance against you would be Vain" "Such being the case," laughingly answered Swan, "we will sleep on the subject until morning, and in the meantime, sir priest, all things shall be done to make you comfortable, even on board of the ship of the murderous buccaneers." And so saying, Swan, beckoning to the priest to follow him, led the way into the cabin. With the first light of the morning, one hundred buccaneers, headed by Swan, and having the priest with them, landed on the shore of the island in front of the fort. Placing the priest at the head, with a white flag in his hand, they advanced to the main entrance and demanded admittance. The gates immediately flew open, and they found the governor, with his officers around him, ready td receive 'them. The priest was the first to speak, and in hurried language he gave the gov- -enor the history: of his experience since he hiad left the island, the night before. he governor, however, betrayed no sign of fear or sur. prise. Turning to Swan, he informed him in a dignified manner, that   i-bAvI;, THE BUCCA'EEi         m he had feared from the long absence of the priestthat all m AS not tight, but, that he had determined'to wait until morning'before he took any measures to ascertain the cause,; that as Soon as he had seen the buc. caneers land, he knew ;who they were from the vatious descriptions of them which he had heatd, and that knowing hi own weakness to cons tend against theim with his smallf force,' he had come to the conclusion to submit at once, and' save, if possible, a scene of blood and death. The governor, at the conclusion of 'his address to Swan, handed him his sword, and said that he; yielded up to him from necessity the post Session of the fort and the island.  Swan immnediately returned -the sword, telling the governor that he wished neither it, the fort, nor the island. All he asked was a small ransom in money and some provisions for the ship. These two matters were soon settled. Ten thousand pieces' of eight were immediately paid down by the governor for:thetransom, and orders given for. fifty thogs to be delivered at'once te'the buccaneers, that they might slaugh- ter and care them for sea use,: to stuit themselves. Leaving a party to perform this latter duty, Swai, with the rest, returned to the ship, hav- ing first received an invitation from the governor to' make the fort ,his home as long as he staid at the islands and to send as mtany of his men :S' he chose, at any time, to' feast on its hospitalities. . - On reaching the Cygnet, Swan found the:deck crowded withirthe natives of the island, earnestly engaged in talking with his own Indian recruits, and creating a Babel of tongues which iwas completely deaf- 'ening. , Swan, calling the Indian boy Petaplan, demanded to 'know what the uproar nieant. Petaplan informed him Ithat the natives of theil island had come on board and offered to carry the buccaneers to the fort, and Assist them in conquering-the island; that there had late- ly' been an insurrection atnofig the natives on the island, and that fail- ing in their attempts to overcome the Spaniards, they had, although subdued, continued to iidulge in feelings of revenge,: and the hope of ,finally succeeding in their detighs. They were now endeavoring, Pet- aplan said, to persuade the Mazatlan Indians on board the Cygnet; to -leave the ship, and join themon the island. SSwan made no reply!to this information, but giving orders that the iatives of Guahan should be watched. but not interfered with, ho asked his mate, John Reed, and Aaron the astrologer, to acchmpany hit -into the cabin, as he wished 'to hold a consultation'with them on matters of importance.  The consultation of tha chief'of the' bucaaneers'and his two advisers lasted until near nigh't,wnd w hen all the, buccaneershadi returned frbm -the island, Swan ordbred them 'to be assembled on the deck, for a gen- eral conference. Swat then made a speech, in which he said, that after a due consideration,: he had t6mer to the conclusion that it was best for them to return:no ' more to :the coast of America, but to hold ion their way :across the Pacific to the Indian ocean, visit the various 'islands in that quart,;AiAd from thence returni home, Theifaet Was, the coast of America was getting too dangerous for them to pursue their adventures there with' any idegree of fet,; for the Spaniards "were fitting out arnmadas against them in all direetiios, and with their 'preSent small force it Wbuld be ,iadness to remai;n As for the Maat-     Es         PAVIS, THB RUCC AZASl lan Indians whom they had on board the .ship, a good opportunity now offered to get rid of them,. The Indians of Guahan wished them as allies; and doubtless. they were ,willing to go.  The crew of the Cygnet received the a4dress of Swan with an unga nimous shout of approval, and the Indian boy was then deputized to inform the Mazatlan. Indians of the determination of the buccaneers and to discover whether they were willing to leave the Cygnet, and join the Indians of the island of Guahn., Petaplan was not long about his task. The Mazatlan Indians appeared pleased with the arrangement, and professed their willingness to go at Qnce. Before an hour passed away, they all left the ship and landed on the shore, where they weie received with wild gestures of delight by their new allied, who thronged around .to welcome them, The buccaneers remained at the island of Guahan ten days, during -which time, they cured a large quantity of hogs, and loaded the nyg- net with other provisions and with wine, furnished to them by thl governor with a liberal hand. Also during .their stay at the islapnd, the ship from Acapulco, which had been expected by the governor, hove in sight, but the governor took good care to send her word of the vicinity of the buccaneers, and she accordingly altered her course, bearing off south with the greatest speed imaginable. The buccaneers were in great heat to pursue, but Swan persuaded them out of the humor. About a month and a half after sailing. from the island of Guahan, the buccaneers reached Mindanao, one of the Phillippine Islands of the Chinesse sa. The Cygnet anchored at the mouth of the river Mindanao on which was situated a city of the same name, The island of Minda- nao was dividedinto a number of small states, and the part at .hiobl the Cygnet anchored was under the dominion of a Sultan or Prince. The Cygnet as sshe came to anchor, gave a salute of seven guns under English colors, and, the salute was immediately returned by three guns from the shore. On the afternoon of his arrival Swan sent a present to the Sultan, consisting of scarlet cloth, gold lace, ascimi- tar, and a pair of pistols. .The next day, he was admitted to an audi- ence with the Sultan. The Sultan received, him with great considera- tion, expressed his regard for all Ens glishre, and welcomed him to the island. A few days afterwards, the, Cygnet went within the bAr of the river, and the buccaneers soon madeq themselves at home in tho ity and island of Mindanaoi, They had their!pockets full of money which they could not. spendi and being very little troubled by any considerations of economy,they immediately entered into familiar i- tercourse with the natives, and soon becnmetintimates and associates., The buccaneers remained at Mindanao from July 1686 to January 1687, during which time many. of them were esed of all their money, and sixteen of them died by poison, admiiisterl by the Mindanayans who were jealous of; te liberties which the. ;bF ceeers took with their riv  : J     it          , -   ; i t. * i, r It was towards the latter part of their sojourn at Mindanao, when those of the buccaneers, who had squandered their money, became trunly and desperatie and were continully:uraing Swan to p-t out; t   VIft8, +ifti BtdibANiEEi        8 e, that John Reed, the' firt mate:; told Old: Dice, who was of 'coudis now among the poorest 'adi 'iiost dpeperat* of the crew, that 'the tite had 'arrived when he might, stir up a mutiiy; get rid of Swan 'and the Astrologer, and make hiuin (Reed) captain. 'Reed proriised Oid Dice, if he would accomplish 'this,he would make him first mate, aid give -him a large sum i riooniey in: additioni.; '-Old'Dice went about- is task with hearty good will' When the' month of'January came roubid and Swan had determined to, leave' the islAnd,'Old Dice had 'very thing fixed to his mind. A majority of the crew had- been won o&ei to his way of thinking, and the plan fixed upon,that on a'cer tain night, when Swan,' the Astrologer, and Big John should be detained on shore by some of the confederates of the conspirators in the city, the Cygnet should set sail, and leave them. The night anxiously expected by the mutineers came at last. The ggniet had passed without the 'bar of the river, and lie^Feils ere slowly unfurling to the breeze. Swan, Big John, and the Astrologer were supposed to be safely detained on shore,. and the consummation of the nefarious design seemed to be approaching without suffering the least interruption. At this moment a small boat was suddenly observed within hailing distance of the ship. It required but a glairce on: the -part of Old Dic tand :Reed to perceive that it contained' the missing party, who, bending down to their oars, were approaching the Cygnet with, such rapidity that they would inevitably reach her before she was fairly under way,. tiless something was: done to arrest their progress.' .    .    '    '   * -  "Give them a shot, Old Dice," said Reed, "but shed no more: blaQO than' you can help." The flash: of Old 'Dice's, musket followed the worio of Reed, and Big John' bounded from his seat into the water upsetting the boat in this: last convulsive movement of his'mortal agony. The bullet, had passed through his heart; and 'Swan and the Astrologer, as' they. clung to- the oveiiturneda boat,- heard across the; water the mocking laugh of Reed and Dice, as the Cygnet. mpveid slowly out to sea. '          ,  Swan and the Astrologer had the ghod fortune to be picked up by some of the natives, who hastened out. in'boats to their assistance, iAnt they reached the city of Mindanao in safhty. A short time afterward,. they took passage in a mnerchant ship to England, where they arrived- in due time, both bf there poorer in pocket than when they left it,'i li  of their money being on board of the, Cygnet. Thr subsequent fate is not known,'but t is .more than 'probable that Aaron returned to his professiont of 'reading the stars for the benefit of the credublus, and that Swan was bhispartneri'  'For many 'months the' .ygnet, with Reed for her commander, and Old Dice -for'fir&t mate, cruised about the Philippine islands, arid on the coast of Ne Holland.'X Ath the Nicobar ilrhand, Dampier and.&aome others quiitted i her, and& ietifrned to England, wxhere Dampier; tii ster ,his visit t,- Davisi, ,elai d 'in' formber chapter, died in peace "ith the reputation of beingl g I rat taveller, and a iman, of considerable literay attainmentsc. ' Reed attidthose wlio'reiained with him iith, OygaWeti oontiatted to cruse fod s6me time in the Indian Seas, until at     kcX DAVIS, THE    V,CANSEr. length they put into St. Augustine Bay, in the island of Madagasc. ere the Cygnet was fouind to, be, in such a crazy condition, that the crew abandoned her, and she sunk at her anchors. :Some of the bua- caneers, among whom was, Reed, epbarked on board European ships, 'nd arrived in England to finish their career in various ways, unknown X6 the historian. Others, among whQm was OldDice, engaged them. selves in the service of the petty:princes of the island of Madagascar, and there ended their lives. We shall return,:in our next chapter, to the South Seas, to follow briefly the fortunes of the last remaining party of the buccaneers. CHAPTER XX. Jean Rodhx., the Creole Buccaneer--The Chien de Mer, or Dog ofthlSz& -Encounter of the Chien de Mer with the Spanish, Frigate-The Sea Bird, Capt. Straton-The Shipwrecked Buccaneers-The Attack on Arica-"he Straits of Magetlan. OUR history approaches to its conclusion. ..With Davis and Swan, whose fortunes we have followed'to the end, the main body of the buccaneers disappeared from the South Seas. At the beginning of 1688, but a few straggling parties, of which we have any account, remained to excite the terror or disturb the peace of the towns on the coast of South America and Mexico. The records of buccaneer history will enable us to give only a brief notice of each of these parties. In the year 1686, oneJean Rodeaux sailed from the island of St. Domingo, in a small frigate named the, Chien de Mer, or Sea C og with about one hundred French and negro companions, as desperate as himself. The South Sea was his destination. He had heard of the adventures of Grogniet, Picard, and others, and the West India Islands, among which he bad hitherto carried on his piracies, having become too thickly crowded with marauders like himself, he resolved, to try his fortunes in that new El Dorado for adventures, which report told him was to be found on the coast of South America. Jean Rodeaux was, in every sense of the word, a pirAte. He was, if we may so express it, a pirate by nature. He had come into the world a bastard. His thick-set, sinewy form was ungainly and mis- shapen, his features repulsive, and the expression of his countenance, especially when inflamed by the, fire of passion, assimilated to/what the imagination conceives to be that of a fiend of the lower world. He was born on a sugar plantation at St. Domingo,: and his blood waSa, cross between the French and the negro. As he grew up, he worked among the other slaves of the' plantation;; but. the fierce and savage disposition which characterized him from his earliest youth, soo! manifested itself inma startling manner, agd turned the half-breed slyov into. a daring pirate.'. At the age of eighteen, he murdered his maste, or rather his father, and fled. Beingof aqu ok sad intelligent ndid it was not long before he, becamoe epnrold .omqng a band ofo .the Filibusters of the West Indies. As his yearp i nreasqd, so. dSi hi   DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER.         6 ImUeess and fame, and he soon i ecarnie known by the name of Jean Rodeaux, the captain .of one of;the mostdesperate crews of Filibusters that swarmed over the waters of the West Indies l. The Chien de Mer entered the South Sea by the way of Cape Horn, around which her passage had been. so tempestuous, that she Was in a most crazy condition when she arrived off the port of Coquimbo, on the coast of Chili. It was, therefore, with savage gratification that Jean Rodeaux, a few leagues from that place, beheld a small Spanish frigate cross his path, and press all sail to get out of his way. A well aimed shot, however, from the Chien de Mer, which shivered the rudder of the Spanish ship to pieces, soon brought her into the wind, and enabled Jean Rodeaux with his crew to board her. The Spaniards when they had to fight, turned at bay, and did so desperately; but Jean Rodeaux and his crew had not for some time had the pleasure of shedding Spanish blood, and they therefore now engaged in the task with double zest and ferocity of spirit. Trhe contest did not lastlong. The Spanish captain, finding that the issue of the battle would be against him, was in the act of firing his owunship to save her and the survivors of his crew from falling into the hands of ,the pirates, when the hanger of Rodeaux cleft his skull, arid he fell a lifeless corse on the deck, with the lighted match in his hand. This decided the battle. Stamping 6h the match, and pointing to the fallen Spaniard, Rodeaux roared in a voice of thunder to his men-  "I ew 'em down like him. Give.,'en-no quarter, but make them drink their own blood: like dogs.' ,     i  His command, was literally! obeyed, for. the Spaniards after this made no resistance, and were mown down on the blood stained deck without mercy by the pirates. The delight of .Rodeaux and his buc- caneers was unbounded when they came to survey. their prize.: .She proved to be a frigate of about the same size as the Chien do Mer, but she bad the advantage of' being newj was well filled with provisions, had mounted- ten more guns than those -of the pirate. Her name was LaPava, which means in English "The Hen, and thinking that it might sometimes be the means of misleading the Spaniards, Rodeaux determined to retain the name. The' stores'and ammunition of the Chieb de -Mer were soon" transferred on board of the prize ship, and the former vessel being scuttled and sunk, the buccaneers hoisted sail and proceeded on their way in search of new adventures, in the Spanish  ship Pava.            '    We could not, if. we would, follow the fartherF history oof Rodeaux and his companions, .during their cruising for a year afterwards in the South Seas. Althoughi:known as one. of the most cruel .and blood- thirsty parties, of the buccaneers, yet from the smallness of their num- bers, and the fact, perhaps, that their adventures 'presented no new features from those of--the more 1elebrated ^buccaneers who preceded them, history has no particular record of their acts' of piracy.. The buccaneer historians have rather left us to iimagine (other pictures of scenes of bloodshed, plunder, -nd outrage, similari io those whioh have already been narrated in these pages. ,'!rhiendof thel frigate La;PtavH alone particularized. Aftet a year's succsfdl cruising) sheaturned      DAVISS, TE BUCCOAEER. her course homewards, and when passing through the Straits of Magellan, was shipwrecked by the current, Thes night was dark and stormy, and Rodeaux and his'icrew were in the height of a mad ,carouse, when a shock was felt which caused every timber of the frigate to tremble like a leaf,;and which appalled even the revellers into sobriety. They rushed in consternation to the deck, but it was too Jate. The frigate had broken hoc back bn a rock, and the waves, leaping madly over her, swept into thr boiling abyss Jean Rodeaux the huccaneer chief, and all his crew. The, wreck was afterwards dis- covered, and recognized to be that of the frigate La Pava. Another buccaneer party, under the command of one James Straton, and numbering about one hundred and twenty men, was also in the South Seas during the 1667, and the beginning of the year 1668. Captain Stratons frigate was named the Sea Bird, and mounted six- teen guns. She had sailed from London as a merchant vessel, but like the Cygnet, the air of the South Sea soon changed her character, ,and she became a buccaneer. There are also but few particulars left on record of the adventures of the buccaneers under Captain Straton, all of which we can briefly give to the reader. The Sea Bird, Captain Straton, commander, immediately on entering Athe South Sea, by the way of the Cape, anchored at the port of Aran- /oo, on the coast of Chili. Here Captain Straton traded off part of his cargo, and then sailed onward to the coast of Peru. Here he made ,successful attacks on the towns of Pica, Pisco and Huara, and followed up his success by an expedition to Mexico.,.: After remaining in this 'quarter for some months, he turned hisi course again southward.-- When off Cape Corrientes, ond fine morning, the man at the mast- -head cried "Sail ho," and the buccaneers were immediately in motion. As the strange vessel" approached, the pirates were puzzled to make out what she wasa She was not Spanish, and ,the rag of a color which she displayed, although it looked 'something:like the French flag, yet itsidentity was by no means-clear. When, however, she came within hailing distance, it was evident that she was a vessel in distress. iShe was in fact but a crazy old hull, with a small party of haggard and famished beings huddled together on deck, and gazing with straining eyes on the advancing Sea Bird. Straton immediately ordered the boats to be lowered, and a few moments afterwards ten white men and two negroes, all that the wrecked ship contained, were transferred on board the buccaneer frigate. When food and wine had been given to them, the leader told his tale, and Straton learned to his astonishment that they were French buccaneers, who had separated from Grogniet, after the attack on Guaya. quil, and had since-then, during a greater part of the time, been orui. ing about with but little success s Their number had been originally fifty; but all had either been killed in various engagements, or died through the effects of the blimate, except the ten whom Straton had now rescued from the very(jaws of death. When. their number had become so reduced that they were unable to engage with any certainty of success in any enterpriases on. the coast, they had retired to one of the zmany ilands off the coastof Mexoio, andthere made for them-   IAVIS, THE BUCCANEE1 . sefes as comfortable a home as circumstances would permit. ong, weary days, they watched by the sea-shore, hoping that some bucca. raer vessel would come that way, and relieve them from their terrible condition. Their ship, rhich was small, was already unfit for sea, and the island where they landed; was but a barren mass of rocks, and hforded no timber which they could use in refitting. They staid here for six months, subsisting principally on turtle and fish, and at last giving up all hope of rescue.-from any buccaneer vessel passing that way, they determined to trust themselves once more in their ship, in order, if possible, to reach at least some more fertile island. They did so, and eight days before they were met by the Sea Bird, had expern- encepd a heavy storm at sea, which left them in their present forlorn condition. Captain Strton was glad to receive the shipwrecked buccaneers amonog his crew. They formed, from their experience As pirates, and their acquaintance with the coast, a most. valuable reinforcement, ad he therefore treated them with ,the greatest kindness. Under his treatment, health soon returned to their bodies, and the fire of bucca- neer enterprise to their souls, and they soon became an indispensoll part of the Sea Bird's crew.  The most important advPenturi in which Captain Straton engaged, after he was joined by the French buccaneers above mentioned, was the attack on and the plunder of the town of Arica, on the coast of Peru. The details of Captain Straton's attack on Arica, would be monotonous to our readers. It differed ,nt materially from .imilar descents made by other buccaneers on the same place, and which we have before minutely described in this narrative. It required, how- o,vqr,a greater degree of ceurage in him to tiak it, thn viW fWoqrly required in the case of his predecessors--for the Spaniards were now uu the look-out for the, pirates in every-quarter, and better prepared ,to Copqyiith them than they had ever been before. )Bt Capain Straton newfrom the, meatures takep by the Spaiarls, tt his time, as well as that of all buccaneers in the South $ee wat oqrt, and .he deiaerminpes to nmake the most of it. He went altogethr on the  des- pe^te principle, ,nd as 4^ pqatmtms dogs^happe, the principle, in his qiAe, turned out in his favor. ,rica yielded him nd hiso rew fqrky thousand pieces of eight, although they had to i#gli hard to get it arid tcu ilivedwiers the cost ofthe plunder. After the attack oW Atica, Captain Stratpn pressed all sail for the ,trutits of -Migellan. e made 4 .ne bt ifew pases on his course, .nd in A, ue time,!laving sailed fely tthrouglh that perilous ,Pass, whih lbl  -bee g-o . 1ttl ,to the 'Qhipn de Mel he arrived in ,afty t Port Desre, On teGEpast of Ptg w4i, whiere his name was afterwjrds fan4dqut,4po t rock. The .afr-fate pqf1hmsef hiae an his. cirw is not,kpp n. Q hir readerp will ircollept that in our account o,Qaptai DaVa, in -farqier ohapter of this parraci ve, we mpr tioe4 t4F buttdithe4e,4 e ,lithe ,P^h ea1 O1tegosp lJeft oi the is;nipf 4e 9rn . sweyal -/eajine:,^ Elahp ),1xig poe  o poor fo  ng,rpqlYd to pr utatfn^n is sn}dfnA tkvp4re  h  p fJ ,o vq'mB t her" perty / 4ei4esw    gr to la  v^tfeir fr ti tewrqrwid, )f     98         DDAVIS, THE BUCCANEER; become celebrated from the romance of Robinson Crusoe, twhieh Defoe founded on the residence of a seaman named Alexander Selkirk, on that island. Juan Fernandez, however, had its Robinson Crusoes long before Selkirk landed on its shores. William, the Mosquito In. dian, whose narrative we have already given in these pages, was the true original Robinson Crusoe of Jian Fernandez.' The buccaneers above mentioned were the next, and Selkirk was the last. The buccaneers left by Davis, remained on the island four years without seeing any ships but Spanish. During this time they reared goats, and made dresses out of their skins, fished and hunted, and passed their lives in by no means a disagreeable manner, with the ex- ception now and then of being annoyed by the appearance on the island of the crews of Spanish ships which happened to be passing that vay. They did not fear them-for they had plenty of subterra- nean places of concealment to which they could resort and be perfectly safe. It was only the inconvenience of having thus to conceal them- selves, that brought to them the annoyance. At last, in the year 1690, the English ship Welfare arrived off the island and took them to England, where it is probable they ended their lives. CHAPTER XXI. The Buccaneers in the West Indies--Siege of Carthagena-Suppression of the Buccaneers-The End. THE sketch of the two Buccaneer parties under Rodeaux and Straton, which we gave in our last chapter, closes our history of buccaneer ad- venture in the South Sea. The few inconsiderable -parties which re- mained, or appeared, after the departure of Rodeaux and Straton, were soon captured or driven from the ocean by the cruisers of the Span- iards, until at length, in the year 1690, the buccaneers had almost en- tirery disappeared, ahd the South American coast was delivered from the scourge and terror under which it had for so many years suffered. It now only remains for us to notice the final suppression of the buc- caneers in the West Indies.            ' e About the year 1686, active measures were taken, both by the Ehg lish and French governors of the West Indies, with reference to the buccaneers. The plans pursued by the two nations, however, were entirely different from each other. The Englishi by a few examples of severity, inspired their buccaneers with jest a sufficient degree of fear to prevent them fromr engaging in any enterprises of great 'magni- tude and,'atrocity, but not to restrain thetn from cruising about irn small parties, and preserving their distinct existence as bands of buccatheers. The French, on the other hand, fearful of losing the security and de- fence against the Spaniards which their filibusters afforded to their settlemenu tin the West Indies, adopted a method which, while it oer- tainly ttenched on the honor of the French' trmy and navy, had the effet of bringing' the filibusters, or Frene:': buccai6eeri under som   DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER.         '9 degree of control. This method was the taking into the king's'servics some of the leaders of the filibusters,'and granting to them commis- sions of'rank. Ih the year 1688, a war broke out in Europe between the French and Spanish, in which the English joined against the French. ' The war continued until nearly the end of the reign of William II.'of England, and during its continuance the neutrality of the French and English subjects of the West Indies, which had. hitherto been pre- served, according to the terms of an agreement made in the reigns of Charles II. and James II. of England, was broken. At the breaking of this neutrality, and in the consequent attacks made by each party 'on the other, the English and French buccaneers fought. as allies and auxiliaries to the regular forces of their respective nations. They thus became finally separated, and never afterwards engaged in any enter- prises'together.  In the year 1697, a large armament was fitted out in France for an expedition against the Spaniards -in the West Indies, and the command given to M. Le Ba; Jn de Pointis, an officer of high rank in the French navy. Orders were at the same time sent to M. du Case, governor of the French settlements in the West Indies, to raise 1,200 men to assist in the expedition. The regular force under M. du Casse's command was not near large enough to supply this levy, and he was therefore obliged to supply the deficiency from the ranks of the filibusters or French buccaneers. These latter answered cheerfully to the call which M. du Casse immediately made upon them, and by the time M. Le Baron de Pointis reached the West Indies, they had been assembled together in sufficient numbers; De Pointis anchored at Cape Tiberon, on the western coast o St Domingo, early in March, 1697, where he was met by M. du Casse, the governor, with his regular force, and with his filibuster recruits. De Pointis, when he reviewed the filibuster allies, which' were presented to him by the governor, did not regard them with much favor, and-by no means looked upon them as honorable soldiers-of the King. He at once gave them to understand that he should not follow the example 'of the West India governors, and court their good opinion, but told them plainly that they would find in him a " commander to lead them un, but not as companion to them." The filibusters on their side, not being accustomed to such imperiousness from any commander, soon exhibited their dissatisfaction with the deportment of the Baron de 'Pointis. The enterprise, however, being a promising one, they did not at first quarrel with the haughtiness bt his demeanor towards them, but contented themselves with demanding that the share of prize money and plunder, to which they should be entitled, should be clearly specified. It was accordingly stipulated by mutual agreement, that they should have " the same shares of booty that were allowed to the ihen on board oftthe King's ships."' It was also settled thla the fiUhbiutfs should embark partly in their own cruising vessels;'nd, partly on board of the ships of M. de Pointis'squadron, and should be fturnied with six weeks' provision. Ttie force furnished byigoverhor Mfih O Cse amoiuted to 70O filibusters and 170 aidtie' frfinm the: gei     100         DAVIS, THE BUCCANEER. ogetter with enough volunteer inhabitants and negroes, to make up 1,200 men, and the whQle armament under command of Baron de PoPn- tis consisted of seven large ships, and eleven frigates, besides store ships and emaller vessels, and, reckoning filibusters and persons of all ,laWsess, 6,000 men. The fleet, after leaving Petit Goave, arrived, on the 15th of April, off the city of Carthagena, which was the first .point of attack deter. mined on by Baron de Pointis. Gov. M. du Casse accompanied the expedition, but as a subordinate and second in command to De Pointis, who assumed to himself the title of general of the armies of France by sea and by land in America. After the observation of the situation 'of Carthagena, Baron de Pointis came to the conclusion that it was to be approached only by the lake which forms the harbor, and the entrance of which, on account of the parrowness, was called the Bocca-chica. The Bocca-chica was dpfended by a strong fort, on which the French immediately opefied a brisk cannonade. At the same time a landing was effected by a corps of about eighty negroes, headed by a small party of the Filibusters, or French buccaneer The latter fought with their usual desperation and bravery, and the ,consequence was, that the fort soon surrendered. The day afterwards the Nuestra Senora de la Poupa, which was a church situated on an eminence about a mile to the eastward of Carthagena, and command- ing all the approacheson the land side to the city, was taken posse- :sion of by the French, and the capitulation of the city itself soon followed. The main terms of the capitulation were, that all public effects and moneys, and all moneys held by merchants for their cor- respondence, should be delivered up to the captors. That every inhabitant might leave the city or remain in his dwelling. That those who left should give up all their property, and that those who remained should declare faithfully, under penalty of entire confiscation, the gold, ;silver, and, jewels in their possession; and on delivering up one halt should be permitted to retain the other half, and be afterwards regarded as the subjects of FranNe. It was also agreed that the churches and other religious houses should be protected. The terms of the capitulation being settled, General De Pointis '  entered Carthagena in great state, at the head of-his forces, and marched to the cathedral, where a grand Te Deum was chaunted in honor of the occasion. This over, De, Pointis sent for the superiors pf the convents and religious houses, and informed them that. the meaning of the article which promised protection to them, was simpy, that their houses sould not, be destroyed, and did not extend to ,their money. .Their money and jewels they must deliver up without reservation. His next OtQp was to appoint M. du Casse, governor of the city,.aind he strictly J irbade the Wtoops fromentering any house until it had been visited th fficers appinted by himself. The work oofplunder ndw com- menei in good earnest. With all his feelings/of detestation for the bloianeers De Pointi soon proved .himself at buoateer of the frst dr. M. mdu. C   ase, in .the dischbrgo. of what e .ooiererd to re ha Itt sa goerpi  oof Carthagena, eowmenaed tgptigalaunt f tfile   DAVIS, TE BUCCANEER.         0ol money which the inhabitants brought in'according to the terms of the capitulation. This, however, was not what' De Pointis wished, and the consequence was, that high words ensued between him and Governor du Casse, whereupon the latter threw up his office and retired to a house in the suburbs. The field, therefore, was left in the possession of De Pointis, and refusing to admit any other witnesses to the receipt of the money, except those of his own appointtnret, he proceeded ii the work of plunder with a skill and rapacity worthy f a Morgan, a Grogiiet, or a Dayis. At length M. du Casse, from hii retirement, ventured to suggest that some persons from the Frenoh colonies in the West Indies, should be present at the receipt of th'e money, but De Pointis returned for an answer that the proposal was an insult to his dignity, and he should permit no such thing. In the meantime, while the French general was thus carrying out the character of a public robber, by authority, the French buccaneerd were busily employed in doing business on their own account, in a pri. vate way. Many of the inhabitants, seeing the violence everywhere exhibited by the French soldiers, to whom De Pointis delegated solely the task of conducting his system of pillage, hired the French buccan' eers to guard their hotses, knowing that the latter had no great rev- erence for the authority of General De Pointis, and very little fear fbr his soldiers. The consequence of this step was, that while some of these buccaneers proved faithful guardians, the greater part of themt turned round and robbed those whom they were paid to defend. It accordingly became necessary for General De Pointis to get the bac caneers out of the city, as they daily made sad inroads into his receipti To accomplish this, without coming to an open quarrel with them, he caused a report to be spread that 10,000 Indians were marching to- wards Carthagena, with the design to attack it, and ordered the bue. cancers out to meet them. Without suspecting any treachery, the buccaneers went forth, and for some days sought -in vain for the ex- pected enemy. As they were on their return to the city, they received a message from General De Pointis, desiring them, on some frivolous excuse, to stop for a short time without the walls. This caused the buccaneers to break out into curses and imprecations, and they resolred at once to know what had been going on during their absence. When, however, they reachled the gates, they found them shut, and guardb d by the king's troops, and another message from the general awaiting them, couched in conciliating-terms, and stating that, While it was not his intention to interdict thqn from entering Carthagena, he obly wished that "they would' totfenter so soon, nor all at one time, fir fear they would frighten' the inhabitants, who greatly dreaded thbir presence." The buccaneers were forced to comply, and weeb thu kE6p outside of the city walls for fifteen days, during which time the teb- lection ofothe treasure from the inhabitants was completed, secured, and conveyed, to the amount of about forty millions :of liyvtes oh board of the king's ships. The gates were then opened and thbi l.- caneers admitted, A scene of confusion and clamor now followed; The bumoctnee^ loudly demanded that a disttibution should immediately be .mad.     102        DAVIS, THE BUCCANEEB General De Pointis delayed it, and gave as a reason that the clerks had not made theirreturns. To allay, howEver, the tumult, he ordered considerable sums, to be paid to the buccaneer captains and nen who had distinguished themselves during the siege, and also to those who had been wounded. He spoke at the same time with so much pltausi bility of his best intentions to make a satisfactory distribution when he received the returns, that the buccaneers were for a time quieted. Hfis next step Was to issue a proclamation that owing to the unhealth- iness of the place, he had abandoned his former design of leaving a garrison, and retaining possession of Carthagena. Simultaneous with this proclamation, he ordered the cannon of the fort at Bocca-chica to be takpn on board of the ships, and the fort itself to be demolished. He also ordered all the troops together with the buccaneers and colo. nists to embark without delay. When the fleet was ready to sail, he sent word to M. du Casse that the accounts had been made up, and that the share of booty which was due to the colonists, to Du Casse himself and the buccaneers, amounted to 40,000 crowns. Thus the Frepch armament, under the command Baron de Pointis, left the city of Carthagena. It was some time after Du Casse received the account, before he ventured to lay it before the colonists and buccaneer captains. When he did so, the fury of the buccaneers broke forth in a storm. They cursed DePointis, arid at first proposed to board his flag ship and take summary- vengeance. .This scheme, however, was soon abandoned as being too desperate, and a general council was held to determine what course to pursue. After much deliberation, one of the leaders ex claimed, It is useless to trouble ourselves any more about such a villain as De Pointis; let him go with what he has got; he has left us our share at Carthagena, and thither we must return to get it." A universal shout of approbation followed this speech, and notwithstand. ing the persuasions and commands of Du Casse, the ships of the buoc caneers were turned back towards the doomed city, leaving Du Casse to pursue his way alone in his own vessel. The inhabitants of Carthagena, seeing the return of the buccaneer ships, were seized with fear and consternation, and waited in suspense to learn the cause. They soon discovered it to their sorrow. The buccaneers, on landing, immediately seized all the male citizens and shut them up in the cathedral. They then posted up in the city a manifesto, that they had been obliged to make this. second invasion on account of the perfidy of the French General De Pointis, and that they demanded five millions of livres'as the ransom of the city, on payment of which they agreed to leave the city without committing any violence. Strange as it may seem, after all the plunder taken by De Pointis, the buccaneers, by torturing their prisoners, rifling the tombs, and other equally atrocious means, were enabled to. get toge- ther nearly the whole of this-Jarge amount. This being completed, a quarrel ensued between the colonists and the buccaneers about the division of the plunder, the latter contending that the colonists, being but landsmnen, wers not 'entitled to share equally with the. buccaneers, The quarrel was at length checked by the ,news .which, wrad brought   DATIS, THE BUCCANEER.         103 that a fleet of English and Dutch ships had just arrived in the West Indies, and were now in pursuit. The division, therefore, was made without further words, each man, colonist and buccaneer, receiving nearly a thousand crowns. Both then embarked on board of their ships and put to set with all possible despatch. The news of the advance of the English and Dutch squadron proved to be correct. They had lately arrived at Barbadoes, and learning there, that the French had taken Carthagena, had immediately sailed for that city. When they had almost reached it, they came in sight of De Pointis' squadron, and gave chase, but the squadron escaped. The buccaneer fleet was not so fortunate. When thirty leagues from Carthagena, they were met by the English and Dutch fleet, and a general rout was the result. They endeavored to escape by flight, but two of their richest ships were taken and two were driven on shore and wrecked, one of them near Carthagena, where her crew fell into the hands of the Spaniards, and were compelled to work for the rest of their lives on the fortifications. The five remaining ships escaped and reached the island of Avache in safety.  In this last encounter, the French buccaneers fought hand to hand with the English buccaneers, who acted as auxiliaries to the English and Dutch fleet, and it forms the last affair in which the buccaneers of either nation made any prominent figure. A treaty signed at Ryswick, in September, 1697, put an end to the war, and a general suppression of the buccaneers, by severe -measures adopted both by the French Spanish and English Governors of the Went Indies, soon followed. Encouragement, however, was given to them to turn planters, and many availing themselves of the inducements offered, turned to tho occupation of tilling the ground, and became as honest as could be ex- pected from men who had so long followed such desperate and roving courses of life. Others, being unable to conquer their old habits, and finding the waters of the West Indies too narrow for their action, dis- persed to different quarters of the world. A few of their-achievements are mentioned in history; but their distinctive character of buccaneer, was gone. They were known as pirates, and not as buccaneers. Here we end the history of the buccaneers of America. In looking back upon the account which we have written, it is hard to determine whether the actions of the buccaneers, or those of the English or French governments, stand in the worse light. Fostered, countenanced and cherished by both governments, the buccaneersonly carried out in blood and rapine, what was to be expected from men of evil dispo- sitions and desperate fortunes, while the governments, which professed to be actuated by sentimeAts of honor, dignity and honesty, debased them all by winking at the pillage and murder of organized bands of ruffians, simply because some of that pillage found its way into their own hands, or because the ruffians were of service to them against their enemies. It is not necessary for us, in closing this account of the buccaneers, to enter, after the general manner of historians, into a disquisition on their iharacter. Their actions, as we have narrated them, speak their character louder than any labored disquisition from us can do. That they were     t4         'DAVIS, THE BUCCANEJB brave, courageous, apd sometimes generous, is reason why theo should be made in the slightest degree the subject of laudation. The father of evil himself can exhibit all these qualities, when he finds tham necessary to carry out his evil designs. The buccaneers were pi- rates, and, notwithstanding all their bravery-notwithstafding that thy were patronized by the governments, who sacrificed national jus- tice and honor on the altar of policy or' avarice-notwithstanding there were many men of leaining and address among them, they were still nothing but pirates of the deepest, blackest dye. As such the. al entitied only to the detestation of nmankind, and as sueh, we have given this narrative of their actions, not to hold crime up in alluring colors, but to give in its true light and shade, one of its most remarka. ble pictures, which can always be contemplated with no less profistth-. any opposite picture of virtue and honesty. THE END.   -. i. rsril't  SON  & BRBTHE M[ILITARY NOV]ELS. RY; Leter, Dumas, and other Authors. With llumiuated Military Covers, in Colors. Published and for sale at retail, by the single copy 6tf a Wholesatle, by the dozeu,. nauadrd, or thousaud at very low rates. Their 'Nccnme q a as oUoioS . CIharles O'talley ................. ................... 75 Jack lt-itorl, the Guardsman ...................... 75 Tlje ltkitigAt of Gwy    e .......... ............ . 75 lTAirt  Lorreqier.... ..... *.........*.. ......... 75 Tom Burke of OuLrs ............  .............. 75 Artliur O'Leary .............................  75 Con- Cregan's Adventures .....................  Kate O Doltosy   ue.7 ................................... 75 H o[ra e  e  pleto  7.......... ......................... litenhpott tuiin .................... 7 lentine     Vox .........................................""" Tswin Lieutenants .......       .    75 Stortes of W   terloo ......................  75 'i'he Soldier's Wife ........................  73 Tom  BowlitkA Adventres .........      75 uei  th'a t Chief.....................................  75 hre Three Guardsmen ......................... 75 tacek Adams's Adventures ...    ............. 75 Twexty Years After .............................. 75 ra4telofnne, the Son' of Athos ....................... WAlltace, Hero b6   SOtdlAnd. ........ ......... 75 *ttaiy-ifive GuardLmenf ......................... . 75 Follo wing the Drum    ..   ;.... .  60 'qlle  Conscript .......................................... 50 Qusaker Soldier, by Col. J. Richtet Jones. 1.50 ltttfr s in the Army, Booksellers, Pedlars and Can- ras srs, can sell thousanud of the above worls, all of which are published with Illuminated Military covers, in oolors, maki ug them the most attractive and sale-a $TO boolks ever printed. RlEYNOLDS' GREAT WORKS. Mysteries of the Court of London. Com- plete in one large volume, bound in cloth, for $2.00; or In paper cover, pri8e One Dollar. Rose Foster; or, "Te Second Series of the Mys- tieies'of the Court of London." I vol, cloth, $2.50; or in paper cover, price $1.50. Caroline of Bruswlick ; or, the "Third Series of the Mysteries of the Court of London." Complete in one large vol. bound in cloth,  2.00; or in #ipet cover, for  i1.00. Venetia Trelawtaey; b'eing the "Fourth Series or fintl conclusion of the Mysteries of the Court ,o London."  Complete in one volumne, in cloth, for $2.00; or in paper cove,. Prici $1.00. LoAt   S@axdngalet  or, The Court 'ot Queen V'tc- toria. Complete in 6ne large vol., cloth, for $2.00; or in paper cover,;Price One Dollar. O4unt Christoval. The "     Sequel to Loid Saxon- se," Complete in one vo1., bound in cloth, for *2.00; or in paper cover, piice $l1.Q. Vhe  Neeromancet.    A Romiance of the Times 9f Henry the Eighth. One vol., bound in cloth, for 52.00; or in paper cover, price $1.00. lROsa Lambert I oi, Thd ebtndlrs of ill Uniortl. nate Woman. -One vol., bound in cloth, fo- $*2.00; or in paper cover, price $1.00. Mary   Price; or, The Ahdeniunrd  of A Servaht- id.  Complete in one vol., bound in cloth, fo or in paper cover, price, 1.00. westace o-Qentin.   A "Sequel to Mary Pric5.' Coniplete in one largsyvoL, bound In cloth, for $2.00; or in paper cover, price $1.00. osepeW  W ilmot; or, The Memoirs of'a Man- Servant. Complete in one vpL, bound in cloth, for \k Oe:co; Of in p:per cover, ptice 1.'00. The Banker's   bnauahter. A Sequel to "J o IWlth ilmot. '"Complete In one vol. loth, for 2.00; in paper cover, pice *$.00.  CO  Wiof anyof. tis abWs torW lis'1 be seat by 's   -..-.r^^.^,.. .    Ud - *  vn IO, a    --w&    SV 5. qJ l R1iOoi Ds, GREAT W6RKS. k' ' Kennethl. A Itomance of the Highllands. Complate it Ohs ltrge volume; bound in cloth, br $Zoo; Or a paper cover,'price $1.0.     '  Til, e lye-*H ouse PlotI or, Ruth the Con spim tqr's Daughter. One vol., bouud iu clo for o,00 or in paper cover, price One Dollar.   0 7  the' Oera' Darcer; or, 'he Mysteries of London Life. Complete in one large octavo volume. 5 rice 7 cents. o  The Rnined Gamlester.     With Illustratlons. 5   Complete in one large octavo vol. l'rice Fl$ty cents. S  Wallace   the Hero of Scotland. , Illus traled with Thirtr-eigCht plates. Price.7.; cents. The Ctiild of Wat erloo   or, Thle tlo:rr' of the Battle Field. Completeiu one vol. I'rice 50 tents. The Countess anol the Page.      Complete in one large volume. Price o0 ceuts. 3  Ci'prina   or The Secrets of a Pictures Gallery. Complete iM one vol.' Price 50 cents. Robert Bruce     the ite'0o KLng o    Secot- lalnd with huis Portrlit., One vol. 'rico 75 cents. Isabella  Vincelnt   or. The Two Orphas One volume, papealeovbr. Pride 75 cents. Vivian Bertram   ; or, A Wire's Honor A gequli to "Isabella Vincent y"One vol. Price 76 cents. 9 The Countess of-Laseelles. The Continuatton to "Vivian Bertram." Oue volume. Price 75 cents. Duke' of MarchiSont. Being the Conclusion of "  The Countess of, Lascelles." Price 75 cents. Gipsy Chiet.   Beautifully Illustrated. Complete iu one large 8vo. o e. ol Price 75 cents Pickwick   Abrond. A Comnpanidn tothe "tcs . wick Papers," by "Boz."  One vol. Price tlenta q ueen  Jeanita# or, the mlysteties    of the Court of Naples. Price 75 cents. liVary Stunart, Queen of Scots. Complete il one large 8vo. vol. Price 75 cents. aPryce 75 Adlets on; or, The History of a Fortune. The- LwOte   ft the a1rem. Price 50 cents. The Discarded autees. One volume. 60 cstti. Ellen Percy ; or, Memoirs of an Actress. 75 enta. Massacre of Glencoe. Price 75 cents. Agnes Evelyn ; or, Beauty and Pleasure. 75 cta, The Parriclde. Beautifully Illustrated. 60ct. Life in Parts. Handsomely Illustrated. 50 cta. The Soldlers Wife.' Illustrated. 75 cents. Clifford aitn  the Actress. Price 50 cents. ! Edgatr MOt  trose. One volume. Price 50 cent. J. A. MAITLANDS GREAT WORK. lt'he' 'iiree  Cousins, i3y Y A. Maitliand. Oeo vol., paper. Price *1.50; or in one vol., clorth, .00. Thee WaLtehtwhm. Complete in one large iol., paper cover. Price $1.50'; or in one vOl., clotli, i*2 d The   Wa   nderer. Complete in one volume rpap POVer: 'Ptce'$1.50; or in one vol., cloth, for 2.00. The   Diary of an Old Doctor.  One vol., pap coer. frled 1.O50 or bound in cloth for $2.0. The tLa*yetrs St6ryt.    Ono voluine, paper coVer. Price $1.50; or bound in aloth for $2.00. Saftaroe.   A Tale of rNorway; One vdoltu1, paper cover. Price $1.60; or in cloth for *2.00. CHARL]ES J iT PITERSON'S WORKIM The   Old S;tohe  lanstont. By Charles J. P. terson. Colnplete in one volume, piper cover. Price $1.50; dr ione volumnie, cloth, for $2.00. Kate 'AL  esf tMfd. A  Ltove 8tory. One 6t..i  per. Plitae $1.80; or it one eolltme, cloth, for$i b). kC'runsing   in the Last War. Comp1e    4 , 'one toLddm.  Pf*c O    rceCte The   Va ley mtmPaiin ;or, The Antobilography of an Otphaii. d1lce g5 Fetik. Grace Dudkey; or, Arnold at Sitratog.   oenti.     CCLHHCH. --.. -...     WAVERLEY NOVELS.' The Waverley Novels. Bj Sir Walter Scott. With a magnificent Portrait Of Sir Walter Scott, en- graved from the last Portrait for which he ever sat, at Abbottsford, with his Autograph under it. This edition is complete in Five large octavo volumes, with handsomely engraved steel Title Pages to each volume, the whole being neatiy and handsomely bound in cloth. This is the cheapest and most com- plete and perfect edition of the WaverleyNovels pub- lished in the world, as it contains all tue Author's last additions and corrections. Price Twelve Dollars for a complete and entire set bound in cloth. CHEAP EDITION IN PAPER COVER. This edition is published in TWventy-Six volumes, paper cover, price Fifty cents each, or the whole twenty-six volumes will be sold or sent to any one, free of postage, for Ten Dollars. The following are their names. The Heart of Mid Lothian, Guy Mannering, The Antiquary, Old Mortality, St. Ronan's Well,    r, Ivanhoe, Rob Roy, Waverley, The Bride of Lammermoor, Highland Widow, Tales of a Grandfather, Kenilworth, Fair Maid of Perth, Fortunes of Nigel, Peveril of the Peak, The Talisman, Count Robert of Paris, The Pirate, The Abbot, Red Gauntlet, Q4uentin Durward, The Monastery, Woodstock, Anne of Gelerstein, The Betrothed, Castle Dangerous, and the Surgeon's Daughter, Black Dwarf and Legend of Montrose. Moredun.   Price 50 cents. Lockhart's Life of Scott. Complete in one volume, cloth. Price $2,00. WALTER SCOTT'S PROSE AND PO- ETIrCAL WORKS. We also publish Sir Walter Scott's complete Prose and Poetical Works, in ten large octavo volumes, bound in cloth. This edition contains every thing ever written by Sir Walter Scott. Price Twenty-four Dol- lars for a complete set. GREEN'S WORKS ON GAMBLING. Gambling Exposed. By J H. Gren,- the Re- ufireed Gambler. One vol., paper cover. Price $1.50; or in one volume, cloth, gilt, for ,$2.00. The Secret Band of Brothers. ,Onevolnme, paper cover. Pride $1.50; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $2.00. The Gambler's Life. One vol., paper cover. Price $1.50; or in one vol., eloth, gilt, for $2.00. The Reformed Gamsjiler.     One vol., paper. Price $1.00; or in one vol., cloth, for $1.60.   HUMOLrO US AMERICAN, WORKS. Original Illustrations. by I)arley and Othem Done up in Illuminated Covers. Being the most Humorous and Laughable Books eve printed'in the English Language. Major Jones* Courtship.     With Thirteen II. lustrations, from designs by Darley. Price 75 cents. Drama in Pokerville. By J: M. Field. With Illustrations by Darley. Price 75 cents. Louisiana Swamp Doctor. By author of "Cupping on the Sternum." Illustrated by Darley. Price 75 cents. Charcoal Sketches. By oseph C. Neal. With Illubtrations. Price 75 cents. . Yankee Amongst the Mermaids. By W. E. Burtou. With Illustrations by Darley. 75 cents. Misfortunes of Peter    0aber. By Joseph C. Neal. With Illustrations by Darley. Price 75 cents. Major Jones' Sketches of Travel. With Illustrations, from designs by Darley. Price 75 cents. Quarter Race in    Kentucky.   By W. T. Porter, Esq. With Illustrations by Darley. 75 cents. Sol. Smith's Theatrica]l Apprenticeship. , Illustrated by Darley. Price 75 cents. Yankee Yarns and Yankee Letters. By - I Sam Slick, alias Judge Haliburton. Price 75 cents. Life and  Adventures of Col. Vander- bomb. By the author of f' Wild Western Scenes n Price 75 cents. Big Bear of Arkansas. Edited by Wm. T. Porter. With Illustrations by Darley. Price 75 cents. Major'Jones' Chronicles of Pineville. With Illustrations by Darley. Price 75 cents.. Life and Adventures of Percival Ma. berry. By J. H. Ingraham. Price 75 cents. Frank   Forester's Quorndon- Houndh By H. W. Herbert. With Illustrations. Price 75 cts. Pickings from    the 6Plcayune.,     With Illustrationer by Darley. Price 75 cents. Frank  sForester's Shooting    Box, With Illustrations by Darley. Price 75 cents. Peter Ploddy, 3By author of "' Charcoal Sketches. With, Illustrations by Darley. Price 75 cents. Western Scenes; or, Lie on the Prairie. lluhtrated by Darley. Price 75 cents. Streaks of Squatter Life.     By author of "Major Jones' Courtship." Illustrated by'Darley. Price 75 cents.         t       ' Simon  Suggs.-Adventures of Captain Simon Suggs. Illustrated by Darley. 75 cents. Stray  Subjects 'Arrested   andL 'Bbund' Over. With Illustrations by Darley. 175 cents. Frank  Forester's Deer 'Stalkers. With Illustrations. Price 75 cents. Adventures of Captain Farrago. By Hon. H. H. Brackenridge Illustrated.. Price 75 cents. Widow, Rughy's Husband, By author of "Simon Suggs." With Illustrations. Price 75 cents. Major O'Regans Adventures. By Hon. LH. H. Brackenridge. With Illustrations by Darley. Price 75 cents. Theatrical. Journey-Work and      Anec- dotal Recollections of Sol. Smith, Esqo Price 75 cents. Polly  Peablossom's    Wedding. By th6i author of "Major Jones' Courtship." Price 75 cents. Frank Forester's Warwick Woodlsands. With beautiful Illustrations.- 'Price 75 cents. New   Orleans Sketch Book. By "Stahl." With Illustrations by Darley; Price 75 cents. The Love Scrapes of sFudge Fumbl.' By"'  author of " Arkansaw Doctor?"Price 75 ceuts. American Joe Miller. With 100 Illustrations. Price 50 cents.     ,      , '   '  Judge  Hallburton's   Yankee   StoriSle One vol., paper covor. Price $1.50 ; or cloth, $2.00.., Humors of Falconubridge. One vol, pa&p. cover. Price $1.50; or in one vol., cloth, $2.00..    GUSTAVE AIMARD'S WORKS.: The Prairie Flowert Price 75 cents. The Indian Scout. Price 75 cents. The Trail Hunter, Price 75'cents. The Indian Chief. Price 75 cents. The Red Track. Price 75 cents. The Pirates of the Prairies. Price 75 cents. The Trapper's Daughter. Price 75 cents. The Tiger Slayer. Price 7 'cents. The Gold Seekers. Price 75,cents. The Smnuggler Chief. Price 75 cents. All of Aimard's other books are in press byt us. "ADIES' GUIDE TO 'POLITESNESS. The Ladies' Guide to    True Politeness and  Perfect  Manners.  By Miss Leslie.. Cloth, full gilt baclk. 'Price $2.00. The Ladies' Complete Gtide4to Needle- woork   ai d Eimbroidery. 113 Illustrations. Cloth, gilt back. Price *200. Ladies' Work   Table  Book. Plates, cloth, srimson gilt. Price $1.50. GEORGE SAND'S WORKS. Consuelo. By George Sand. Trnslated from the French, by Fayette Robinson. Complete and una- bridged. One volume. Price 75 cents. ountess  of Rudolstadt.    The Sequel to. "Consuelo." Translaited from the original French. Complete and unabridged edition. Price 75 cents. Gonsuelo and Countess of Rudolstadt. Fine edition, both in one vol., cloth, $2.00. Indiana. By author of "Consuelo," etc. A very bewitching and interesting work. One volume, paper cover. $1.00; or in one vol.,' cloth, for $2.00. First and True Love.     By author of'"Con- suelo," "Indiana," etc. Illustrated. Price 75 cents.' The Corsair. A Venetian Tale. One' volume. Price 50 cents. HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WORIKS. High Life in New York. By Jonathan Slick. 1Beautifully Illustrated. One ,ol., paper cover, $1.50; 'or bound in one vol:, cloth, *!.d.' ham   Slick, the Clockmaker.    By Judge Haliburton. Illustrated. One volume, cloth, $2.00; or in one volume, paper cover, for $1.50. Major -Jones' Courtship and     Travels. 'Beautifully illustrated. Complete in one volume, bound in cloth. Price $2.00. Major Jones' Scenes In Georgia. Full of beautiful illustrations. Complete in one volume, - bound in cloth. Price $2.00. ilmon Suggs' Adventures and Travels. Illustrated. Complete in one volume, bound in sloth. Price $2.10. ajor Thorpe's Scenes in    Arkausaws containing tihe whole of the "Quarter Race in Ken- tucky," and "Bob Herring, thoe Arkansaw Bear Hunter," to which is added the '"Drama in Poker-- uille." Withl Sixteen illustrations from Desigus by Darley. Complete in one vol., cloth. Price $2.00. Humors of Falconbridge.     One vol. paper cover. Price $1.50, or in one vol., cloth, for $2.00. IPney Woods Tavern; or, Sam       Slick in Texas. Cloth, $2.00; or' in 1 vol., paper covet, $1.60. Yankee Stories. By Judge Haliburkon. One vol., paper cover. Price$l.50; or bound in cloth, for $2.00. The Sxhamp Doctor9s Adventures in the' '{Sotth-W est.  Coutaining 'the whole of the Louisiaua Swamp Doctor; Streaks of Squatter Life; amd Far-Western Scenes. With 14 Illustrations from designs by Darley. 6lloth. Price $2.00. The Big Bear's Adventures and Trav- els containing all of the Adventures and Travels if the ', Big Bear of Arkaihsaw," and "StraRy SubI jeers." With Eighteen. Illustrations from Original Designs by Darley. One vol.,bound. .Price $3.00. Framk Forester's'  Sporttng Sienes and Characteso. Illnsrrates,.. Tw0vols,.loth,  ,00.'   MISS BREMER'S NEW WORKS. The Father and Daughter. By Frederika l Bremer. One voL paper. Prip $1.50; or cloth $2.00. The Four Sisters. One vol., paper cover. Price $1.051; or in 'one volume cloth, for $2.00. The Neighbors. One vol., papor cover. Price *t.50; or in one volume cloth, for $2.00. The Home. One volunme, paper cover. Price $1.60; or in one volume, cloth, for $2.00. "ife ln time 'OldWorld ; or, Two Years in Swil zerlaua and Italy. Complete in twoqlarge duodecimo volumes, of near 1000 pages. Price $4.00. GEORGE. LIPPARD,8 WORKS. ,The Empire City; or, New York by Night and Day; its Aristocracy and its Dollars. Price 75 cts. Memoirs of a Preachler    or, the Mysteries of the Pulpit. Full of illustrations. Price 75 cents. Weshington and his Men; or, the Second Series of the Legends of the Revolution. Price 75 Its, The Mysteries of Florence. Complete in one large octavo volume. 'Price $1.00. Legends of the 'American ]Revqlution I or, Washington and his Generals. 'ricerJl.50. Thee Quaker City I or, The Monks of Monk Hall. Complete in one large octavo volume. Price $1.50: -Paul. Ardenhelm; the Monk of Wissahikoo. Complete'in one large octavo volume. Price $1.50. Blanche of Brandywine.     A Romance of the American Revolution. Price $1.50. Thle Entranced; or, the W     tnderer of Eighteen Centuries. Prlce 5lbnts. The Nazarene. Price 75 cents. Legends of Mexico. Price 50 cents. The Bank Director's Son. Price 25 cents.    , The Robbers. By Frederick Schiller: With a Preface, by George Lippmrd. Price 25 cents.. DOW'S PATENT SlURMONS. 4W- Each volume, or series, is complete in itself, and volumes are sold separately to'any one, or in sets. Dow9' Short Patent Sermons,     First Se-i ries,  By Dow, Jr. Containing 128 Sermouh. Complete in one vol., bound in clothi, for $1.60; or in one vol., paper, for $1.00. Dow's Shrt Patent Sermons.      Secotnd Series. ByDow, Jr. Containing 144 Serrmbnk. ' Complete in one vol., bound in cloth, fur $1.00; or in one vol., paper, for $1.00. " Dow's Short Patent Sermons.       Third Series. By Dow,-Jr. Co4taining 116 Sermons. Complete in one vol., bound in cloth, for $1.500; or in one vol., paper, for $1.00. Dow's Short Patent Sermons. Fourth Series.' By Dow, Jr. Containing 1b2 Sermons. Complete in one vol., bound in cloth, for $1.50; or in one vol., papir, for $lSOO:  EUGENE SUHE'S GREAT NOVELLS. Illustrated Wai dering Jew. With Eighty- seven large Illustraiions. Complete in onklartft octave volume, paper cover. Price $1 50; or in ole volume, cloth, for $2.00. Mysteries of Paris'; and Gerolstein, the Sequel to it. Complete iu one vol., paper cover. Price $1.50; or In one 'vol, cloth, for $2.00. Martin   the 'oundling.   Beautifully llus-. trated. One volume, paper cover. Price $1.50; or' in one volume, cloth, for $2.00. First Love. Price,25.cents. *tomale'sLove,    Illustrated. Price 25 cente. - The Manof*Wa"rsi-Man. Price 25 centa, The feinale Bluebeardi Price 25 cents. Raoul De Surville. Price 25 cents. SIR  .E.'L. BVLWNIRR   S IVlOVILLS. Falkland. A Nlovel. 'One vol, octavo. 25 cls.'tL'  The Rone; or, The Hazards of Women. 25 Cent* The Oxopnians*, A lSequel to ' The lque." 2Q5 The Corttier., ,By  Gilr B eL Bulwer. 2SeliSi.     Vi'stf GREAT WAR NOVELS. bhoulder Straps. Aknovel of New Yorfi and the Army in 18t62. By loety Morford, editor of the "New York Atlas." It is the book for Ladies, Gen- ttlemen, and Soldiers! Wives and Widows, Fast Young Ladies, blow Young Ladies, Married Men and Bachelors, Yutihg .Ladiet about to be Married, and those who have no matrimonial prospects what- vyer! St,.y-at-home Guards, Government Officials, Army Contractorse Aldermen, Doctors, Judges, Law- yers, etc. Price $1.50 in paper; or bound in one volume, cloth, for $2.00. T'hf Days of Shoddy. A Novel of the Great Rebellion of 1861. By Henry Morford, author of "Shoulder Straps." Priee $150O in paper, or $2.00 in cloth. qhe Coward. A Novel of Society and the Field Lu 1861. By Henry Morford, author of "Shoulder Straps." Price $1.50 in paper, or $2.00 in cloth. T. S. ARTHUR'S BE!S'T WORKS. Price Twenty-five cents each. I '[te Lady at Home. Year after Marriage. Cecilia Howard. Orphan Childrdek. Love in High Life. Debtor's  Daughter. Agnes; or, The Possessed. Love in a Cottage. Mary Moreton. The Divorced Wife,        / The TWio/Brides. Lucer Sankdford. The Banker's Wife. The Two Merchants* Insubordination. Trial aend Triumph. The Iron Rule. Pride and Prudence. "Jizzfe Glenn I or, The Trale lof a Se*rMi- stress. By T. S. Arthur. One volume, cloth, gilt. Price $2.00, or in one vol., paper cover, for $1.s0. D'ISRAELI'S   POPULAR   NOViVELS. Vivian Grey. Complete in one large vqlume, oc- tavo. Price Fifty cents. Venetia ; or, Lord Byron and his Danghtes. Com- plete in one large volumem Price Fifty cents. The Young Duke. Fifty cents. tHenrietta Temple. A Love Story. Complete In one vol. Price 50 cents. Miriam  AIroy. A Romance of the 12th Century. Price 50 cents. Contarini Fleming. Price Fifty cents. "AN4IUAGES WITHOUT A MASTER. Price' Trl0nty-Pt-e Cents each. lrTench  without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons. By A. H. Monteith, Esq. Spanish viit hout at Master. Ia FOur Easy Lessons. By-A. H. Monteith, Esq. Germtan  without a Master. In SIX Easy Lessons. By A. H. Monteith, Easq. Italian without a Master. In Five Easy Lessons. By A. H. Monteith, Esq. Latin xwithout a Master. In Six Easy Lessons. The whole of the above five books are also bound in one. volume, cloth, and all the Languages can be learned without a Teacher, with the aid of this book. Price $2.00 a copy.  R. HOLLICK'S WORKX., Dr, flollicks, Anatomy and Phlsiology; gith a large Dissected Plate of the Humab Figure. XPrce $l.50, hbound. 1D  ioln  ics o 1 ac tlkk*s Famil Physician. A PaIMbettGuids ftr Bveryboy... iPriest5 2ebss.   HARRY COCKTON'S WOReS. Valentline Vox, the Ventrlloquut. ao volume, paper cover. Price 75 cents; or a, Snt edition in cloth, for $2.00. Sylvester  Sound, the   Som  anam1tullit Illustrated. One volume. Price 75 cents. The Sisters. By Harry Cbckton, author of "Vae#a tine VoX, the Ventriloquis'." Price 75 centW. The Steward. By Harry Cockton. Price 75 cen" Percy Effinghain. By Harry Cockton. 75 ceOt MSS ELLEN PICKERINIGOS WORKS. Price Thirty-Eigld Cents each. Who Shall be Heir i Merchant's Daughter. The Secret Foe. The Expectant. The Squire. tauiet Husband. Ellen Wareham. Nan Darrel. Prince and Pedlar. The Grumbler. 75 cents. Orphan Niece. 50 cents. BY VARIOUS GOOID AUTHORS. Webster ald   Hayne's Speeches in tin United States Senate, on Mr. bloot's Resolntion of January, 1830. Also, Daniel Webster's Speech l the Senate of the United States, March 7, 1850, on it. Slavery Compromise. Price 75 cents. Robert Oaklands; or, The Outcast Orphas By Leigh Ritchie, author of "Robber of the Bhie'" Price 50 cents. Ella Stratford8 or, the Orphan Chil4, By the Countess of Blessington. Price 50 cents. Abednego, the Money Lender. By Mrs. Gom One large octavo volume. Price 50 cents. Josephine. By Grace Aguilar, author of "HosM Influence." Price 00 cents. Sybil Grey. A Romance of the Opera. 50 cents. Somebody's Luggage. By Charles Dickene Price 25 cents. The Two Prima Donnas. By George Augat tus Sala. Price 20 cents. The  Haunted   House.  By Chas. Dicken, Price 25 cents. Traln's VUnion Speeches. Complete in to; volumes. 25 cents-eacsh. COINS OF THE WORLD. Petersofts' Complete Coin Book, containin{ Perfect Fac-Similes of all the various Gold, Silver, and other Metallic Coins, throughout the World, near Two Thousand in all, being the most complete Coil Book in the World, with the United States Mint Valts of each Coin under it. Price $1.00. "EBIG'S WORKS ON CHEMStTT. Agricultural Chemistry. By Baroau Justs Liebig. Complete and uuabridged. Price 25 Cents. Antim  I Chemistry, Complete and unablridged Price 20 cents. Familiar Letters on    Chemistry. Chemistry and Physics in relation to Phy* ology and Pathology. The Potato Disease. Lietig's Compblte Works on Chemistry.-The '*{I nh of the above Five works of Professor Liebig are aslo published complete in one large octavo volume, bonudL Price $2.00. The three last works are only paiisblt in the bound volume. gSMOtlATTS' AND       PIELDING'S GREAT WORKS.  Peregrine Pickle.; and His Adventures. TI ,vli, octavo, Price $l.0 0 Tom Jones.; Comiletd in two-volt. Prlcedl.*j   9IUGWAYM'EN, XMVRT     RERS, etc. Price Twenty-five cents each. Life of John A, Murrel, the Great Western Land Pirate. , Life and Adventures of Joseph [. Itore. "ife of Hielen Jewett, an4 R0chard P. Robinson.  Life and Adventures of Jack Rann. Kit Clayton. Sequel to Jack Mann. - The Robber'i -Wif.' A' Domdstiw'R'oiauce. Obi; or ThreeoFltSgered 'Jack. Lives of the Felons. Illustrated: Tom  Waters; or, The Haunted Highwayman. Nat Blake; or, The Doomed Highwayman. Galloping Gus; or, The Purse and the Pistol. Wed 'Hastirgs; or, The Terror of the Road. itlddy Woodhull,4the Beautiful Haymaker. Bill Horton ; or, the Doomed Highwayman. Eveleen Wilson ; or, Trials of an Orphan Girl. Silver and Pewter ; or, Life in ,New York. Sweeny Todd ; the Ruffian Barber. - * Life and Adventures of Jonathan Wild. Life of Jack Ketch, the Murderer. Life an i-Adventures of Mary Bateman. Life of Mother Brownrigg. Life of Raoul De Surville. Life and Adventures of Rody the Rover. The Life and Adventures of Arthur Spring. Life of Captain Blood, and the Hangman's Oag lnter. Captatn Blood and the Beagles. - Life of Dick Parker, the Mutineer. Life and Adventeres of Henry Thoreas. ,The Desperedoes of the New World. Life of Ninon De L'Enclos  1!fe of Galloping Dick, the Highsymaan. Sixteen-Strlnged Jack   and  is- ,Pals; or, the Highwa Wnau's Captive. SIxteen-Strlnged JaCk's ]right for Life. The l[Ighwaymans Avenger; or, the Es- sape of Sixteen-Striaged Jack. The Diary of a Pawnbroker: or the Three' Golden Balls. Illustrated. Price 50 cents.  Life of Col. Monroe Edwards. 50 cents. Mysteries and Miseries f' New Orleans; ,Life and Adventures of Dick Turpia. The Banditti of the Prairie. Price 50 cents. Life of Jack Sheppard. 50 cents. Life of Davy Crockett. 60 cents. Life of Grace O'Malley. 560 cents. Life of Guy pawkes. -50 cents. ,Memoirs of Vidoeq. Principal -Agent ot the Brench Police, 2 vole., paper,$l.50 ; or cloth, $2.00. CHRISTY   & WOOSD,   SONG, BOOKS. - 'o music is so generally esteemed, or songs ;so fre- e4untly sung and listened to wlthiso much delight, as is the music and the songusof the Ethiopian -Minstrels. They have 0ommenoed'a new epeoh In ia nusiand -the ,best works relating to them are those mentioned below. :ach Book contains nearSeventy8ongs. Ohristy & Wood's New Soias BoOk. In 'ted. Price 12 cents.   . The 'felojdeon aSoug CtBooe.' riieIT2 ieSnts The Plantation Melodi0i. S'ise42 cet '. The Ethiopian SWo)?-Boot.   .tori2 elts. eLs  srt'nasde?'S oBs g osIcen . IB' 5n BSisstisortl's Soag. IT cents. ^{^y Sttsad W)74 %f.4Jplete Ethi-. epian Melodies, contaning .891 astisge, ad beLrl ennlj bo  ,1 csPnolr 'trj ,$.00.   2tCVOLVTIO  NARyr TAL   . -Price TweenssyJv, aewts each. The seven Brothers of Wyoming;i 0 The Brigands of the American Revolution. The  3risgand ; or, The Mountain Chief. The Rebel Lride. A Revolutionary Romance. The lyling Artillerist, or Mexican Treachery. Old Put; or, The Days of '76. A Revolutionary Tale. Wau-nan-gee 1 or, The Maasacxe at Chicago. '  Lrace!udiley! ;or Arnold at Saratoga. tRalph RiunmLon; :or, Outlawl Doom. 60 cents 'The Guerilla Chief. Price 75 cents. Lippards Legends of Mexico. Price 10 ctk. Red Sleeve, the Apache Chief. Price 60 cents. The ',uaker Soldier* One rllllm, paper,$l D0; or clot,-$2.,00. SE]A AND PIRATICAL TALES. Life and Adventures of Jack Adams, the celebrated Sailor and Mutineer. Price 75 cents. Life and Adventures of Benialrace, the Sailotr. Price 60 cents. Jack Ariel ; or, Life on Board an East Indiaman. One vol. Fifty centp. Life and Adventures of Tom Bowlnfg, the Sailor.- Price 75 cents. , The Petrel; or, Love on the Ocean. A Sea Novel By Admiral Fisher. One volume. Price 00 cents. Cruislang in Last War. Price 50 cents. percy Eflinugham, Price 50 cents. SEA TAL8E, AT 50 OEINTsI1-     IR. Perclval Keene.     .  he Sea Kltng. Peter Sisjple.      Poor Jack. 'Newtn Forilter-     Naval Ofilcer. Phantom BShip.      Snarleyow. The Thea*e Pirates.    The Corsair. Jacob ,Paithfush.    King's Own. ]Midshtipmmsa -Easy.   Japhet. The Pacha of Many Tale#. Pirate and 'Three Cuttcr... ..    - SEA TALES, AT 2    CENITTS EACVH. The Doomed Ship ; or, Wreck of Arctic Regionm The Pirate's Son. Illustrated. 'Thwe Plying Dutchman.  Lgie if "Alexander Tardy, the Pirdatl* The Flying Y   lankee By'Harry Hazel. The YankeeoMPldiy; or, The Two Frigsate. T'he Gol-deekelrs- i or, Cruise of'the Livelyftt5. The RIiv'er tirate. A Tale vf New Yoa. Dgrk- Shia ds otf-Oiy Life. ,Rats -of ,4he -Snie! ,r, River Thieves of. iad ' -Yuankees in Japan; or, Adventures of a 8a*eU' Re*d' Kin orKtheCoosairChbifeftn. iMorga, the B!,uceaneer j, or, The FreaobpW , Jack Jannk-, or, Tbel'Tartr all Weathers. , 'aDnavtis. Pa, -' 1'Pirttj -0, reebo9ter of the PMb. - ' Vadeez,'te Piri-t 'His'Ilifeand Adventei.. -alUaAt XTo, ;    s og, Pi els of -qean., Y' ianke eak ja , or,'The'PerilSaof c PrIvateerssm. ' J4rry E  ,1h, or,' merm tf toe Blo] qspd. i -Harry Tempest ; or, The Pirate's Protege. 'hoe fRin'sCrtlUrs. By Harry Hazel. The MhbHfWi4.4ta. -  s".L'aW" wep9l$aary     1           ... ,--- -- -- -- -.a .N  xrA .Lx. 'C! ,V V -. L. FT-V JL . L / T. B. PETEROAN AND BRO TH                   E  "BRARY-Y OF STEBLINGI NOVELS. , BOOKS                            STEAMBO A FOR,TIZEZ                                 - AND PARLOR,                             RAILWAY SOLDIERS,      -                      READING. irr T. B-PETERsoN & BROTHERS inrltetheattenlon of all lovers of rood ardwholesomereadlnortothelr CA'rALO5r 6r STPLINO NOEVELS, which they re constatly addi to, and In which ran always be found the fuinest efforts of modernl witers inclding the works of CHASR. DICkERS , (HO); SIo, ALTER SCOTT MRS. woo MSS BRADDONI BIS. CAROLINE LEE HESTZ r MRS  O 8 WUT WRTH'S i IRS. ANN S. S'EPHENS't HENRY SIOltFORD'S; GUS- TAVE AIMARIYS; FRANK FAIRLEII'S I WILK. COLLINS; FRANK FORRESTERNS i FREDJIRKA IABR- MER'8 I MSS PARDOE'S JAS. A. MAITLAND'S; SIR E. I. BULWER'8S G. P. . RAVE8S't ELLE1i PICKER. INaG'S, CAPTAIN MARRYATTI'S MR8S. GRE:Y' T. S. ARTIhUR'St CR4RLES LE;VER'S: W. HARRISON AINSWORTEI'P; ALEXANDER DUMAS'    A DISRELI'S TiACKERAY'S SAIMUEL WARREN'SY G. W. If. REYNOLDS'; W. H. MAXWELL'S; PROFESSOR LIEBIG'S; DR. IiOLLICK'S; J. F. SMTH'S- GEORGE 8AND'S1 EMERSON BENNETT'St1 EORGE LIPPARD'S. J. II.   REEN'S; PETERSON'S HUMOROUS "BRARY; HENRY COCKTON'Si EUGENE SUE'S: CURRER BELL'St COOK BOOKS. SONG BOOKS; DOESTICKS. The publiemay rest aured that every wobrk wh6se'eover bears their imprint may be taken up with coS.- depce. and read with corresponding interest and pleasure. The leading AUTHORS (BOTEH AMERICAN AND FOREIGN,) of acknowledged talent and celebrity, are the source of Pupply for this Library, and embraces Ihe nnOeS of the bet WRITERS OF MODERN. LITERATURE, and oufr PUBLICATIONS enjoy a larger patrodage i 'ad  wider pooulkrity than any simil&r eot rle ever undertalen in this country AlI the Books ointhis series are COMPLETE AND UAABITIDGED. All WORKS OF FICTION, when bearing the imprtss of unmtsfakeable talent, shall be incorporated into our ".LIBR'ARy,"and platei before* the Amerlcicn public with' all the advantapes which' new'rid refsdatle type, good priting. add firnp white paper can give them. These volumes will be found admirable cempanlooesfey leliure hours; they will serve'to shorten the journeys of all railroad travelers, enliven the weiry hours n the soldier' ora g. and while awytran eveninr at'home most 4ellfhtfil lv The price of "THE LIBRARY OF STERLING NOVELS" is from 25 cents to 12.00 each. thus affording veryrbo-y the means of eojioyne m'ntal recreattoni at a Verr trifllng oultlay. All of our publicattons may be0had of book sqlrn, news aens and rperlniteal delers, throughout the lTnt ed Statt, aCM ourt caislstue will be sent to any addres seo application. Orrders solicited from Librarles, Bpoksellers, Canvassers, News Agents, Sutlers, and all others in want of goesand fast selling bo*;, aqd they *llrtl'fte send On their orders ..ounce. for whbt, they miayrant otf our publiUatla.  . . PETUB}SON& R OTNB8,'Pnublishers &S Booksellers ' 'blaei hia Pa. retu   ther pte  thanSkasor the serel smpp6^twi themb 5-hpast Feaseon, twon Aat oSen. of I Ae BeSt T'rd8to            p,                           ! .* the at advantae. th'e can gain by ort4  our nublictlons direct nf us.?hblishinag. a enunbew of TNAIi AN i) PtPIUAR BOO5JL wfe-t iit(fwehd ig eerrse the high tsadtno ols n ilr, C oupl s ep  a, ,eu&sent * thra all erters 11 be 1ltle4 wtilt the 1ost caro ne o ttenttan-, Shfow ulAc 11, C taal-guesC ikt 0if! 194W allto*k.   ur Wholeiigl I nosut abe W w tto any o pp31totsu. T a B            ton,                AVIS +S ^86f^^ - , *e 61^XSio.4A ^ ?No. 306 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Penma.  v r-&---               .     ..       ..   GET UP YOUR CLUBS FOR 1865! THE BEST AND CHEAPEST OF' THE MAGAZINES! P ETERSON' MAGAZINE Notwithstanding the onormously increased cost of Paper, and the consequent rise in the price of other Magazines "P terson's" will still be furnished to Single SubScribers at Two DOLLAI A YEAS, Clash ini Advance. Arrangements have been made, by which, in lb65, it will be better than ever. No Magazin of similar merit will approach it in cheapness, hence it will be emphatically,  ' THE MACAZINE FOR THE TIMES! The stories in "PetersOn" areconceded to be the best published anywhee. Mrs. Ann S. Stephens, Ella Rodlman, bMrs. Denison, Frank Lee Benedict, the author of,."usy 1's Diary," T. S. Arthur, E. L. Chandler lMoulton, Leslie Walter, Virginia F. Townsend, Rosalie Grey, ClaraAugusta, and the author of "' Tho Second Life," besides all the most popular female writers of America, are regular contributors. In addlitiol to the usual number of shorter itories, there will be given in 1865, Four Original Copy-righted Nove- letes, viz:     .  THE LAST PLANTA6ENETi by Mrs. Ann S.: Stephe;n. THE MSSING' DIAMOND, b y the Authqrsof.'"The Second Life." A WOMAN'S$ REVENGE, by Louise Chandler, MouJton.  ' -, .  COQUETTE. s :tRbQUET, by Frank Lee Benedict. In its Illustrations 1lsp, "Petersoln" is unrivalled.' The Publisher, challenges a comparison betweenI its SUPERB MEZZOTINTS AND OTHERT ESTIL ENGRAVIGS, and those in other Magazines, and one at least is given in every number,  .  ICOLORED FASHON PLATES1 IN ADVANCE  It ii the ONLY MAGAZINE whose Fashibn Plates can be relied on. Each number contains i Fashion Plate; engraved on steel,:and c lored--from Fashions later than any other Magazine gives; also, a dozeie'or mofe New Styles, engraved on wood; also a Pattern, from 'whlch, a Dress,  antilla, or Child's Costumin can be cut, without tho aid ot a nantua-miaer-so that each number, ih this way, will SAVE A YEAf'S SUB$CRIPTION. The Paris,: London, Philadelphia and Now York fashions are described, at length, each month. Patterns of Caps, BonnetSHead 'Dresses,&c., givtn. Its  CO;LORED PATTRNS IN EiYIBa         iDETY, CROCHET, &c. The Work-Table depa'tmentof this MagazinS tWHOLLY UNR IVALLED. Everynumber contains a lozen or mrore patterns if every variety of Fancy-wh'tk: Crochet, Enbroidery, Knitting, Bead-work, Shell-work, t Hlir-work, &c., &c. , &, Ever month, a SUPERB COLOREt P AT'ITERN FOR SUPPER. PURSE or CHAIR S'fAT, &c., is give-:-each of which) at a retail store, would cost Fifty cents. No other Magazie gives those Colored Patterns. -:;      ,     .  ' $ EXTtRELY NEW COOK*BOO*K The original Housofold receipts of "Peterson" are quite, qamis. For 1865, receipts for every kind of dish will be given. EVERY ONI. pOF THESE RECEIPTS HAS BEEN, TESTED. The whole, at the end of the  year, will make a COOK-BOOK in itself. This alone will be worth the price of "Peterson." Othor receipts for the Toilette, Sickroom, &c., &c.,will be given. NEW AND FASHONABLE MUSIC will appoar in every  number. Also, Hints on all matters interesting to Ladles. -                 . TERMS-ALWAYS IN ADVANE.  To single subscribers, the price of "Peterson" will remain ai we 'have, said, WO T DOLLARS A YEAL. ' But i order that friends anid.,eig4hdra may 4ave mone'y, by clubbing together, th ottowing , - ,   , , ; tempting terms are offered vz ;      '       ,  Two Oopies for one year,' -   -  $3.00 j Eight 0opjp for. one year,      $12.00 Four Copies for one year,  -  -  6.00 I Fourteen  0p ies for one year,  20.00 PREMUMS FOR CLUBS OF,:EIGHT OR',FOURTEEN.-To any person getting up a club of-right and remitting-Twelve hDo]lers--r itlub of Fotrtesenand remitting TweatDollans, we will es, a a Premium. our new copyright steel-engravitig, fo fatlWtig-siz0 27 inches bt' "-'WASB I 4 aTON PARTING- FROMX ' HS GBNERALS,"afthr a' drwingtJ  F. 0. Darley.. This" is thnmosAt'superb?rrmiimanever offered. 01W  i f preferred, we will send for the,-reii'iuma LADY'S ALBUM, illra, , and 'bandsdlely bound ad gilt , Or if preferred to either of these, we .wil 'endas a'Premim,I a utr, copy of tie aaM o18. W clubs of two or four, no lrenglepisare given: Always say, ia rettiik fbr a club of eit, o clu of fo. tee4, which of the Premiums ispreferred. .   -  r,            a  I 1f f '.. *; .s ;        "o ;  r' ,s tpoeatppaid, qUAB'IS8 J, I1   @R SyQmbo   4     , i                  0' - '               - .* ' - . . '.. . ;o . -  */.w*. i .w".;'- : v :;- ' ,; . I - - ' . .; , ': , -            -  I.'- . '1 t r*  ;  1*'3-vlia -. -r5 ..u S; . -rvI  '. 1          O .0-1 '0    O..^*, .r v R' Ct-     , E. L. BULWER'S NOVELS. The Roue, .     - 25 The Courtler, .  .  5 Fslkland, -   -   25 'The 0i-ia, .   . BY THF BEST AUTHORS. Tle Life, Campaigns, Reports. and PublicServices of General McClellan. Cloth 75 cents, or paper,. 50 The Life, Speeches, Proclamatiolls and Public Ser- vices of Preident Lincoln. Cloth 75 ctl., or paper 50 Websterand Hayne's Speeches ia Reply to Col. Foote, 75 IBuditti of Prairie, - 50 Mysteries Three Cities 75 Greatest Plagueof Life, 50 Clifford & the Actress, 50 Sn Itacquet,   -  75  enevra, -  -    50 X du Indians of Now-    Two Lovers,    -  s0 toundlaud, -   -  50 Ryta's Mysteries of SUdathlel, by Croly, - 75 Marriage     .  0 Corinne, or Italy,by   Fortunelluqter,  -  0 Madame De Stael,   75 The Aphe  Chief, . 50 A istocracy, -     50 The Orphan Sisters, - s0 Iltulsitlon in Spain, 50 Nothing to Say,    60 Flirtations in America 50 Romish Confessiopal, '50 T'le Coquette.  -  75 Father Clement, paper, 50 life in the South, -  60    do.    eloth, f 'Thckeray's Irish Sketch  Victims Amusements,  50 Book,   -   .  75 Ge,. Scott's Portrait, 1 00 Whitehall, -   -  75 Henry Clay's Portrait, 1 00 LiifeofJack Sheppard, 50 Violet,   -     50 The Jesuit's Daughter, 50 Montag6e, orAlmacks, 50 l'ra^n' Union Speeches, 50 Tangarua, a Poem, - 00 Miser's Heir, paper, - 50 New lope I or Rescue 75 do.  cloth, .  75 Alleford,  .  .  0 Petersons' Complete Coin Book, containing fac- similes ofall the Coins in the World, -  - 1 00 \ The Cabin and Parlor; or Slaves and their Masters. By J. Thornton Randolph, one vol., paper, prie 81.50, or one vol., cloth, -  .   .   g2.00 NEW AND GOOD BOOKS. Life of Bishop Hughes, 25 Wreck',Golden Mary,  25 Iit'e Qf General Grant, 25 Per e  EnglishPrisoner, 2 Life of General Butler, 21 Somebody's Luggage.  25 Liti of General Meade, 2, American Joe Miller, 60 The Deformed,  -   - * The Ladles' 'Senee of Two Prima Donnas, -     Etiquette, .  -   The. HaunTted House,  2 The Gentleman's Science "on Tiddler's Ground, 2) . of Etiquette, -  - 2 Iysterlous Marriage,  25 Grace Dudley; o Arnold J Ack Downing'sLetters 25  at Saratoga,   o 2 Itpteries of a Convent 25 The Valley FSurm, . f5 Boll Brandon,   -  25 Ella Stratford, -  -  Rose Warrington, .  2  Edgar Montrosi or the "hi Iron Cross, -  25  iysterious Penitent. -O0 Chirles Rnsftord,   2 25 Abbey of Innismoyle  25 8blt Glrey,  .  -  60 Gliddon's  Anoiemnt 'Female Lie in N. Yor 2   Egypt,  Agee Grey, -   -  2. Josephne,     -  20 sLgends ot Mexico, - b0 Philip in Search of Wife, 2 Evo St. Clair,  -  50 Father Tom and Pope,  25 Diary of a Physician- 286 The Oxonians,   - 25 I  Emigrant Squire,  25 1 The Roue; or, the Ha- M3Blk, by Lewis, -  25 - zarde of Women  - BeFttiful French Girl, 25 Hollick's Ffilly -Ph- Mt*lies of Bedlam,  25  'ician  -  -   25 N* leuma's Daughter, .25 Robert Qaklands; or, Bci of Ghost Stories, 25  the Outcast Orphan, 80 N4 Ison's Exposition   Abednego, Money Lender 60 4 Odd Fellowship,  25 Falkland,  -  -  .- 5 A  oue to Let,  -  25. The Skillful Honuewife, 25 Ti'1 Two Apprentices, 25 Christmas Carols,  - 2S Jr  Ambrose,     25 Southern Chivalry,   25 Aioral's Daughter,   25 Rifle Shotr,     - CHOISTY & WHTE'SONGO B00,. Oaly- aind Wood'i    Bren Sl deren  Song Book 13 Comiplete'Song Bok,  1S 'Buworth's Songe, -  MSldeon Song  ook ,  13 "C(hristy ansd Wlite Plitatlon Melodies, 13  Complete Ethioapa ]lt{lK*n Song Book,  18 1 MelodieL. Cloth, 1 90 STAMP DTY CABND. Neo   Card ot Stamp' Duties, approved bythe 1 "i4O Conitess o 186,n ola ler,card, -   - .I DICENWS' AND -OTHR           BO0S. ot IwloohMpBsposd, Bd Dr. Bergn  Jtults, .  1 1iesatissbm *ipoeed, i4 Dr.    r lIg' rsawlto .i uislelof W    .aOn, w Archb bop aP5he, 18  t13 Seepln Sentinel, 1S Magic Caidsrt' '   t  Ild f RevJohn Maflt  18 Stamp Duty Cards,  15 iwi1 i,. 1Ivngsrmon *             1 vW  iaT   Brat'  Union sa  ,     i s 1 *^ ui-B,   ryr Chs   PETEaSONS' ILLUUJNATE3 STORBSRp PaCSE   5OiTS    E CH. Each Book being In aln"TLIUfliNATED COVRR.,A five colors, full of Illustratioan, and re alre  the mooa saleable series ofbooks ever printed in this countr. Booksellers and all others will be supplied with them, y the hundred or thousand, at very low rates.   The Flying Artillerist, '25 The Rebel Bride,- -  25 Old Put; or, the Days of Seventy-Six,  - 25 The King's Cruisers, - 25 The Flying Yankee, - 25 Gallant 'Tom; or the Perils of the Ocean, - 25 The Doomed Ship,    25 Jack Junk, -   -  - 25 Harry Helm, -    - 25 Harry Tempest,    - 25 Rebel and the Rover,  25 The Yankee Middy, -   35 Galloping Gus; or, the Purseand the Pistol, $5 'Sylvia Seabury; or, the Yankees in Japan,   25 Sweeny Todd,    . .- 5 The GoldSeekers,   . 25' Valdez, the Pirate,  25 Nat Blake i or, the Dooned Highwayman   21 Tom Waters the Haunted Highwayman,  -  - 25 Ned Hastings; or the Terror of the Road, - 25 Bill Horton; or Mys. terious Highwayman, 25 Dick Parker, -  -  - 25 Jack Ketch, -.    - 25 Mother Bownrigg,   * 25 GallopnDg  ick, -  - 25 Mary'ateman, .   - 25 Raoul De Survllle,  - 25 The 'obber'a Wifi,  - .5 Obi I or, Three-Fingered Jack, .   -   - p5 Desperadoesof the Newr rWorld,  -  -  - 25 tfarry Thomas,  -  - 25 Mrs. Whipple and Jesse  S-trangts Adventures, 2,  Jonathan Wild's Ad- ventures. .. ..  - 25   Morgan, the Buecaneer, j2S ives of the Felons, - 35 Joseph T. Hlare, - - 2 '!t Clayton, - -  - 5 Alexander Tardy,  * i2 The Seven Brothers of Wyoming, -     - 2 . Silver and Pewter, . a5 Ninqn  Deo L'Enelo's Lfe a'nd Adventures, 2S The River Pirgtes, - 2 Dark Shades City Life, LS Female Life in New York City. - -  .- $ The IRats of the Selne, $5 Mysteries ot Bedlam,  5 Charles Ransford i or Love on Board Cruiser, p5 Eveleen Wilsoln, - - 2 'The Iron Cross, - - Biddy Woodhull, the Beautiful Hlaymaker, U Mvsteriee of a Convent, The Man-o'.War's-lan, 25 Mysterious Mtarrale, p$ Captain  Blood, the Highwayman, -   -  Captain Blood and the Beagles; pr. Highway. man's Leap for Lite $5 Highwayman's Avenger, Qr, the Escape of Six- teen Strineed Jack, - p Body the Rover's Ad- ventures, -  -  - 5 Sixteen- S tringed Jack's Fight for Life,  Rose Warrington,   .5 Ghost Stories, -  -  First Love, -   - .  Arthur Sprinr,   -  5 Davis the Pirate i or Freebooters ot the Pacific, -  .  -  The Pirate's Son.  -    T TE "dKURRELLR STRRT RR   Life of John A. Mirrel, 25 Lif of Monroe Edwards 50 Life of Helen Jewett, 25 Life of Dick Turpln, - 0 Wau-Nan-Gee or; the' Massacre of Chicago, 25 The Mysteries and Mis' eries of New Orleans, 60 The Brigand; or, the Mountain Chief, '   50 Yankee Jack; or, Perils ofa Privateersman, - 25 The Three Pirates or. Cruise of the Tornado. M   Red King; or, the Cor- sair Chieftain, - -  The Flying Dutchman, 45 Ralph Runnion; or, the Outlaw's Doom,  - 0 Life of Jack Rann, lia" Sixteen-Stringcd Jack }t American Joe Miller, 00 Dlary of a Pawnbroker, 0 Red Wing, - .   . TheFemale Bluebeard, The Monk, .  .  - (5 The Corsair, - . - Woman's Love, L - *-    '5I-ac9K SH PP4aiY' I)UE8   Life and Adventures of Jack Sheppard, -  * 60 Lite and  Advernture  of Guy Tawkes,.  - t Life and  Adventures of I avy Crockett, - , Life and Adventures of Grace O'Malley,  - sM Pictoral Old St. Paul', 76 ,TIe Star Chamber,  - 74 Mysteries of the CierUt of Queen Anne,  -* 6 Mysterie0of the Cort-  , of the Stuarts, -  -75 Windsor Castl], .-  * '7 JIfe and Adveegures of prAl Periwinkl.,  - ,   Life and Adventures of  Jack Adams, -  - 4fe and Adventures of Ben Brace,  -  - 0 Life and Adventures of Jdfk Ariel,. - -.  Life and Adventures of "Tom Bowling  -  - Cruteing In Last War 50 "ife of PerEfingha',  PercaKeene, e   - .. 'he Sea King, s  - 0 Peter Simple,    -  Are  es  of , po VoiJS1 -,    -  -f Abld0e1 ,t Ad k quiets * * *   MLITARY      O wlith tilumrlartal tillar-v Coei-. in Ola- L   arled, O'Malq. . -' Aed    qyLorrevuerj7 Swy Hntn ;  .  I Guardsman, ...... 1 Tomr Burke of Ou, . 7rS rthur O'Leary, . .- 7 Dorlce TmpTetoDn, 78 *  M^^  TO.  TSSSK vSS-*^ '^S.-    "-V "errolln Volor. Ti in'Lleiutenant., .  Sttrieir of'Waterloo, '- ' O, 4'A The soldie,',WIre,'  5  G ertha Chief, .- - t Jaek Adam's Advelet's, i  Three Guardsmen,  Twenty Years After, . f WortyYiie&: Tows Bowlnlag' Adveat'     n e ecr f i t  - -  I I% Coswipt. -    W I      
         
      
   
