
    ----CITATION----
        De Forest, John William, (1826-1906). The Wetherel Affair .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6242
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Wetherel affair 
            
               I

_,

THE

WETHEREL AFFAIR.
J. W. D  FOREST,
AUTHOR OF ''OVERLAND." "KATE BE~AUMONT." ETC.

NEW YORK:

J

SHELDON AND COMPANY,
1878.


i5          "
F=
"r
.,t
f
r
r

Entered, according to Art of Congress, in the year 1873, by SHELDON &amp; COMPANY, in the Office
of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.
CHARMING NEW NOVELS.
Miss Forrester.
By-'MRs. ANNIE EDWARDS, author of "Ought We to Visit Her ?" "Vagabond Heroine," etc.,etc.
I vol. 8vo.
Cloth .........--------------    ----------------- -................-----...------.................$1.75
Paper...............-.      ......  ..............................1.00
"Mrs. Edwards could hardly be dull if she tried."--Courier, Buffalo.
"Mrs. Edwards has no/ superior among the living female novelists of England.'--Press,
Philadelphia.
The Wetherel Affair.
By J. W. DE FOREST, author of"'' Overland," ''"Kate Beaumont," etc.
1 vol. 8 vo.
Paper........ ...---------..........-..-----------....... -..... .   " ....-- ...-.-.-.--....1.00
" Overland" places the author,- Mr. De Forest, in the front rank of American writers of fic-
tion."-Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston.
The Rose of Disentis.
From the German of ZScHO'KKE. This is a charming historical novel by one of the best .of the Ger-
man writers of fiction.
I vol. 12mo.
Cloth---,-------------------------............................................. .-----......--$1.50
Paper..---------------------------,--................................---................1.00
JUSTIN McCARTHY'S NEW.'NOVEL.
A CHARMING STORY - BY A BRILLIANT WRITER.
A FAIR SAXON.
I vol. l2mo.
Fancy  Cloth---..---------------------. ----------. ---------------------------.............- $1-50
Paper---------          ---------------------------......................................................1.00
"Mr. McCarthy's reputation as a novelist is so firmly established that no recommendation is
necessary "-St. Louis Democrat.
MRS. ANNIE EDWARDS' NEW STORY.
A VAGABOND HEROINE.
I vol. l2mo.
Fancy Cloth.........-- - --.......---------------------................................$1.25
Paper------------------------------------...................................................... .75
"A Novel by Mrs. Edwards cannot fail to be bright, graphic, and original."-Daily Press,
Portland.
ELI PERKINS' GREAT BOOK OF SATIRE, LOVE, FUN AND
STATISTICS,
ENTITLED
SARATOGA IN 1901.
200 Beautiful Illustrations by Arthur Lumley.
C tI vol., 12mo.
Cloth----------------------------------------..------------------------------------------------$2.00
OVERLAND,
By J. W. DE FOREST, author of "Kate Beaumont," etc., etc.
Price-----------------------------------........................-.............................$1.00
Cloth---------------------------......................--..........................-.-$1.75
"A strictly American novel, and one of the most original and entertaining we have ever met
with,"-4ge, Philadelphia-.
Either of the above sent by umail, postpaid, on receipt of the price.
SHELDON &amp;COMPANY, New York.

I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.
XI.
XII.
XIII.
XV.
XvI.
XVII.
XVIII.
XIX.
XX..
XXI.
XXII.
XXIII.
XXiV.-
XXV."
XXVI.
XXVII.
XXVIII.
XXIX.
XXXI.
XXXII.
XXXI-I.
XXXIV."
XXVt.

PAGE.
A RAY FROM THE EAST... .    ,    .  ...  5
A BEGINNING OF SORROWS.. .  . -,. ,. ,.,., .8
A FRIENDLY WELCOME. , . . ... ,.,  ,  12
THE MASTER OF SEA-LODGE. . ...  - .  .  . - .  15
THE JUDGE'S MANNERS AND CUSTOMS... ... . .. 19
THE CONVERSE OF Two YOUNG LADIES ; OR, A WISE AND A FOOLISH
VIRGIN   .  .  .   .                   22
A FRIENDLY WARNING.. ,. , ,.     .  .  26
THE JOYS AND SNARES OF MOONLIGHT... . . 30
A WRONGHEADED HERO .. ,.   ..,      .34
A GENTLEMAN AND A SCHOLAR. . .... ... .37
TIHE FLIRTATIONS OF A PIIILOIOGIST. .  .41
A DAUGHTER OF ZION AND A SON OF BELIAL.. ... 44
WARNINGS WASTED..- . ....49
AN HEIR-AT-LAW DISINHERITED.- ... ,. ..,. ..,52
A WOOING PROPHRTIC OF TROUBLE  - .-' -,-. 56
JUDGE WETHEREL DISSENTS..               60
A COUNT'S PHILOSOPHY  .4
ANOTHER LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT, ..-.67
THE MURDER .
A HEROINE VANISHED .. ... -.74
FRIENDS AND COMFORTERS..-9
THE ACCUSED MAN...82
THE TRAGEDY A MYSTERY.86
THE FLIGHT OF NESTORIA..90
A SALVATION FROM THE SEA. -94
ROMANCE IN FACE OF REALITY  --98
ANY PORT IN A STORM. -.-.-.-.-.,-.,.-.-... .  101
IN. THE DEPTHS.-.. . ,.,  .105
PERILOUS ACQUAINTANCE . ..110.  .        110
FINET ALK AND UGLY NEWS..              114
WHITHER, 0 WHITHER? -..-.. ...... ....118
A SAD FAIRY AND A COMFORTING BROWNIE. .., .122
REMINISCENCES AND SUSPICIONS  -.. -. -. -. -. -. 127
'REAPPEARANCE OF THE FLIRTING PHILOLOGIST  131
DOLOROUS EAVESDROPPING                  135
WILL SHE FLY  . ., . ., . ., ,.  -. ,. . .139

,1 r7

I'

4

CONTENTS.


CONTENTS.

CHAP.
XXXVII. PBRSUASION AND EXPLANATION

A SORE CONSCIENCE AND ,TENDER HEART  .     e   *
A RATIONAL AND A WHIMSICAL COMFORTER     "e   e
INQUISITIONS AND ADMONITIONS.*
PEDANTIC LOVEMAKING  -   -   - ~
THE PLAINDEALING OF TRUE FRIENDS  .  -      *.
A SPARED ROD AND A SPOILED CHILD  .           *
A PROSPECTIVE COUNTESS -    .     *
A PHILANTHROPIC CONSPIRACY .       *      *
SEVERE MERCY  -        -*              *
EXORCISING A SON OF BELIAL  -   *   *     *
A STREET-CAR FLIRTATION  .  -  -       *
A DETECTIVE IN FULL SCENT  .  -      e
HARK FROM THE TOMBS A DOLEFUL SOUND  . e     -
WILL SHE ESCAPE  . '    . -     '      "
HIDING, WATCHING, AND HALF DISCERNING  .   -
T E WETHEREL WILL FOR SALE   .        *E      *
THE MASK TORN OFF.     .   .*.*.*.*.
FACE TO FACE --e

LVI. WHAT BECAME OF THEM ALL

PAGE.
144

XXVIII.
XXXIX.
XL.
XLI.
XLII.
XLIII.
XLIV.
XLV.
XLVI.
XLVII.
XLVIII.
XLIX.
L.
LI.
LII.
LIII.
LIV.
LV.

*    148
* . 151
*    153
158
*    161
.     .166
*    170
*      174
*  179
*  . 182
' 186
*  . 190
*    195
. . 199
s    203
*    . 207
*    210
.    . 215
. 219

/1
4/'

i

-

1y

THE
WETHEREL AFFAIR.
CHAPTER I.
A RAY FROM THE EAST.
YOUNG Mr. Edward Wetherel and his more mature friend Mr. Frank
Wolverton were on the after promenade deck of the steamer Elm City,
bound from New York to New Haven.
" Yes, I see her," said Wolverton, looking at the young lady whom Weth-
erel was pointing out to him. "Pretty girl. Shines like a star. Wonderful
air of innocence. Who is she?"
"'I think I shall astonish you, Wolverton," replied Wetherel, obviously tak-
ing much pleasure in talking about this young lady. " She is the daughter of
a missionary."
"Missionary! You do astonish me. One has an idea that such people
don't have children, or have little monsters of plainness and grimness. 'A fel-
low naturally thinks, you know, that a missionary's daughter would only mak
a show in society on the principle that handsome is as handsome does. Whe e
does she come fromP"
"From the Nestorian country, somewhere in Persia, I fancy. Her father
is quite a famous man among his set, I understand. He has done some n6tori-
ous wrestling with heathenism, or whatever the religion of -the country may
be. ' The celebrated Doctor Bernard.' I heard a white-cravated gentleman call
him."
He had better leave his missionarying to his daughter," pronounced Wol-
verton, gazing steadily at the girl and with a gentler  expression in his eyes
than was habitual with them. "I don't believe the celebrated Doctor Bernard
could hold a candle to such a young lady in the work of bringing over mishe-
lievers. If I were the .chief high priest of the Nestorians, or whatever they
call themselves, and that little beauty should ask me to break down my altars
and forsake the faith of my ancestors, I should say, Certainly! any little thing
of the sort to please you."
This talk was both jesting and serious. The two men spoke lightly of the
missionary "work," obviously to them a dim and unimportant quixotism; but
with regard to the girl they were entirely sincere and respectful. Of the so-
lemnity of religious matters they had apparently no more perception than if
they had been denizens of some planet to, which no divine revelation, whether
natural or verbal, had ever been granted. The worshipfulness of beauty, how-

.6


T                    THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
ever, they could see plainly, and they were creditably sensitive, as it appeared,
to maidenly purity.
Personally these two civilized heathens were themselves worthy of admir-
ing consideration. Wolverton, although not much short of forty, was as agree.
able to the artistic eye as many much younger men are, his curling black hair
being still fresh and glossy, his large brown eyes healthfully clear and resolute,
his darkly-pale cheek as firm in look as marble, and his broad, muscular fig-
ure fitfor a boat race. Wetherel, who might have been about twenty-five, was
tall, flexible, and graceful, with a blonde complexion, waving light hair, intel-
ligent gray eyes, and features in the main regular. The defect in his face was
a chin too prominent, too domineering, and we might say too virile. Even
in a man one would like to see more meekness of temper and persuasibility of'
mind than this chin permitted.
Both were dressed with a scrupulous neatness and fastidious taste which in-
dicated a brahminic position in society. Only the rich and leisurely, only those
who have been able to, give their lives to.dandyism, can attain to such fault-
lessness of costume. They were in summer suits, and yet they mirrored the
fashions. It seemed as if dust would stop short in its flight toward such neat-
ness, and as if grime would fall reverentially at its feet without soiling it.
Spectators of the workaday class, if of a humble-minded and impressible na-
ture, might easily imagine such clothing as exhaling an aroma of daintiness
and giving forth a halo of high-breeding. Of a hot summer's day it would
have seemed little less than abnormal and monstrous to be so vestured in neat-
ness and freshness and triumphal grace as were these lilies of the club and the
drawing-room. But the day, although sultry enough on shore to remind one
of the air of forges, was breezy and restorative on the deck of the Elm City.
The stainless flannel coats and delicate silken scarfs of the two dandies were
appropriate to the cleansed and sweetened air which blew over the azure wave-
lets of Long Island Sound.
"Look at her now," said Wolverton, attracted by some change in the'coun-
tenance of the girl whom lie was watching, one of those beautiful changes
which come over young and innocent faces, the reflections of a fawn-like enjoy-
ment of life. "I never saw such another entangling, attaching face." Then
he added, after a long pause as if for a deep sigh, " Never but once! There is
something tremendous in the power of a resemblance. I don't mind telling
you, youngster-in fact it is a sober sort of pleasure for me to tell you-that I
have seen such a face as that once before, and that it was the angelic sight of
my life. Death is a scoundrelly robber. If that face had not been carried be-
yond my sight, I should have passed my life beneath it, looking up to it. I
have been a worse man for being plundered in that way. Well," lie con-
cluded with another sigh, "that was seven years ago. I wish we could smoke
here."  .
The younger man looked at the elder with respectful astonishment. He
had discovered a heart where he had little looked to find one. He was like
one who, wandering through halls of gayety and watching the feet of dancers,
beholds the bloodstain of a bygone tragedy. In the unexpected presence of
revelations- of this sorrowful aspect, the eyes of the lightest and hardest are apt
to fill with solemn wonder, or at least with pitying curiosity.
" You, Wolverton!" said Wetherel, in a tone of pensive amazement. Then
he changed the subject, for he had some capacity of delicate sympathy in him
or at least lhe, had its counterpart, good-bieeding.

7A,1t

TILE WETIHEREL AFFAIR.                       7
"Of course we cati smoke on the forward deck," he added. " Do you par-
'ticularly care for it?"
"No. I would rather look at this girl."
"Do you want to talk with her? I know her well enough to take you up."
"No. The charm might pass away. - It wouldn't be the same voice.. I
prefer to look at her. By the way, where did you meet her?"
"On the steamer from England."
" Oh, the steamer! Jolly place for courting, an ocean steamer," said Wol-
verton, throwing off his rarely-worn seriousness, and appearing once more in
the spiritual garb of a veteran of society. " Your romance kills mine. Of
course you two became intimate and walked arm in arm by the moonlight, and
all that sort of thing. So she is just in the country, just fresh from the mis-
sionary harvest, just from the Orient!. How odd and interesting our stupid
American life must seem to her! She, is having emotions every minute. I
wish to heaven I was young again. The greatest pleasure I know now is to
take a child to the theatre and watch its wonder. I shall have to smoke," he
added, turning serious once more. "Go and talk to the new soul from Mount
Ararat. Show her the tower of Babel."
With th6 serious face of a wearied worldling who remembers that he once
came near living a' better life than that of egoism, he drew from his pocket
the consolation of a cigar-case, and sought the forecastle deck of the steamer.
Wetherel, left to himself, wavered hither and thither an instant, and then
advanced to the young lady. She did not see him; her eyes wire fixed on the
distant blue shore of Connecticut; they were settled,,pensive, nnd almost sad,
- as if longing for the far-away home.
  "Nestoria?" he asked.
What    she replied, looking up at him with inquiry and surprise, while
a fairy mob of blushes rushed into her cheeks.
" Have I spoken the magic name? " he smiled.
"It is my name," she, confessed. "IIow did you know it?"
" What! Is your name Nestoria?" he almost exclaimed, so interesting was
the discovery. " I did not know it at all, and couldn't have guessed it. I sup.
posed you were thinking of your native mountains. So I asked you, Nesto-
ria?"
"Oh!"   And here the blushes rioted again, fighting in a field of lilies.
"So I exposed myself."
"Don't you like the name? " he wondered, for he had already decided that
it was a chai-ming one.
"i I ought. My father likes it; and it is his field. Ie named me after the
people among whom he labors., And yet I can't quite like it. People ask me
so many questions about it, and exclaim so much about it; such a strange
name! atnd oh, what a beautiful name! and isn't it singularP I am so tired of
=      hearing about it that I call myself Nettie. Nestoria sounds too grand for a lit-
tle bit of a woman. Don't you think so ? It seems like blowing a trumpet before
me. I like Nettie best."
"I like both," responded the New York dandy and man-about-town. The
tender seriousness with which he treaed the subject was certainly curious in a
practised beau who had the fame of being a lady-killer. It was also very
agreeable; it ridded him of the confident smile and fatuous levity with which
r   no was wont to spoil the effect of his compliments; it enabled him to say his
pleasant thing with a sincere tone, which made it gracious and effective.


/

s'
y,
;s

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

9

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
It must be understood that he already knew the missionary's daughter well,
and liked her much. Eleven days of close companionship on shipboard had
made them intimates, and had landed him on that island of norceries where
men see women as seraphs. He knew the girl's whole history; he had drawn
from her long reminiscences of her secluded, strange life in Erzeroum and the
Kurdish mountains; he had heard her tell of turbaned chiefs and veiled beau-
ties until it seemed a wonder to him that she wore familiar vestments and,
spoke English; he had looked at her through the enchantment of distance, and
clothedaher in the mystery of the Orient, and made a poem of her. She was,
in many ways, like an inhabitant of some other world to him. Her ideas were
as novel and curious as her recollections. She knew almost nothing of the
fashionable, worldly existence which was nearly all that he did know. She
was as ignorant and innocent as if she had just come out of the Garden of
Eden. Even her language was odd to him; it sounded in his ears as did the
speech of Christian and Faithful in the ears of the men of "Vanity Fair."; he
was at first displeased, then amused, and then charmed when she talked pf
" the missionary work," of "Christian labors," of "the conversion of the East."
These phrases sounded like cant, but in a little while they sounded like poetry.
He likened himself to an angel of darkness who should take a fancy to the so-
ciety of a cherub fresh from Paradise.
What a fascination, there was in her innocence and simplicity! When he
told her that he liked both her names she did not guess why; she looked up at
him with a childlike expression that was part surprise and part pleasure. He
had never before seen such virginity of soul, and he had the exultation of a
navigator who discovers a new island hitherto unvisited by mortals.
"Did you ever know any or e called Nettie? " she asked; meaning, did you
like her, and so like the name?
"I never din," he answered smiling, because he understood the drift of the
question, and was charmed with the lack of egotism which it proved.
"Then why    - -" she hesitated.
"Oh, they are pretty names," he said, feeling that he was on the brink of
an abyss, and drawing back from it. He did not dare to say, "I like the names
because I like the person who bears them; " for an interior thrill warned him
that the confession might have a mighty momentum in it; and he was not yet
prepared for a declaration of, love.
CHAPTER II.
A BEGINNING OF SORROW.
" THEY are both pretty names," Wetherel repeated, unable to let the fasci-
nating subject alone. "And of the two I think I like Nestoria the best. If I
were related to you, I should call you Nestoria."
The girl wanted to say, "You may call me so," but after reflecting a mo-
ment, it seemed best not. The young man's eyes were be~nt upon her face
with an expression of admiration which she did not fully comprehend, but
which nevertheless embarrassed her and thwarted her childlike confidence.
Of course the most potent spring of the (- may's admiration for Nestoria was
her beauty. Her guilelessness of character and her puritanisms of speech'
would have appeared to him ridiculous, had she been homely. But he found
it impossible to laugh at her, impossible not to -grant her a certain worship
when he looked at her.

ay  ~     a
_ T

She was certainly quite handsome, and there were moments when she daz-
zled. At first you hardly noticed this little figure, and this infantile blonde
face. But presently you could not help remarking how regular the small fea-
tures were, how delicate the rose and lily complexion, and how heaven-like
the blue eyes. Then came a revelation of golden hair, so luxuriant as to re-
mind one of fields of yellow corn, and bright through all its wavings with an
inner sunshine. This hair had fascinated Wetherel; one stormy day on the
occaii it had burst its bonds and flooded the girl to the waist;. and he never
afterwards escaped from the bewildering influence of those radiant tresses. It
was from the date of that aureate inundation that .he began to find all Nesto-
ria's ways, all her retired, prim ideas, and all her puritanic phrases, no longer
displeasing or odd, but charming.
All the sense and self-command that he possessed had been needed to keep
him from making downright court to the girl on the Cunarder; and indeed,
nothing but luck, nothing but accidental interventions of fellow-passengers,
had delivered him from the snares set for him by certain moonlights. One
might think that the obscurities of evening would have shorn the brilliance
from a beauty-of which color formed so great a part. But it was not so; this
child could spare the rose, the lily, and the gold; her features were fine enough
for that. And the moonlight so idealized her, it made her so like ethereal mar-
ble, it gave her such a brightness of better worlds, that she seemed more than
human., Like a star she grew in loveliness as evening gathered its magic.
veils about her. Wetherel, who was half a pagan in education and almost
wholly pagan in soul, used to'think of Venus rising from the sea and of Cyp-
rian multitudes bowing in adoration.
, Well, he had not proposed to her during the ocean voyage ; but he had
shown his interest so plainly that a coquette would have been aware of a con-
quest; and even this innocent from Kurdistan had perceived that she was liked.
They were well acquainted; when they met on the Elm City it was as two old
friends meet; it seemed to each-of them that they had known each other, for-
ever. As the boat wound up the picturesque turns of the East River Wetherel
had pointed out to Nestoria all the objects of note, delighting in her naive
4    pleasure and wonder. Then,.discovering Wolverton, his model and mentor in
the ways of worldliness, he had joined him for a moment to show him Nestoria
and to enjoy his admiration. And now, Wolverton having gone to his lonely
solace of a cigar, he had fluttered back moth-like to his candle.
As that luminary made no response to his declared preference for her name
of Nestoria, and as he felt that the subject might be perilous to his bachelor
freedom if he should pursue it, he looked about the visible cosmos for another.
"Ilow perfectly beautiful the sea is to-day," was his commonplace remark,
greatly ennobled to him, however, by the feeling which prompted it. Try as
he would to evade the dominion of this girl, he could not utter a word which
was not pervaded by her. The sea was more to him than its wont, simply be-
cause it served as a background to her face and figure, and thus seemed to
y     partake of her personality. Everything that he looked upon in her company
acquired beauty in his eyes, for the reason that she also beheld it. Within
the last fortnight he had discovered a new heaven and a new earth, hitherto
unknown to him and even unsuspected. It is pretty clear that, notwithstand-
ing some remaining anchor of prudence, his heart was beginning to drift dan-
gerously. We can understand now the prompt and serious sympathy which
he had accorded to Wolverton's tale of shipwrecked love.


10                   THE WETIHEREL AFFAIR.
"It is beautiful," replied Nestoria, her clear blue eyes looking down like
two little cloudless heavens upon the indigo wavelets. Then, with a pathetic'
expression of sadness, resignation, and awe, slip added, "And wonderful!"
She wanted to say, "Terrible!"  The ocean represented to her a majesty
and power which were more than earthly; there were moments when it seemed
to carry her off, as a little speck, beyond the bounds of time; moments when
it was no longer an ocean, but an eternity. A feeling of intense loneliness and
a longing remembrance of her only parent, so far away, deepened this senti-
ment of solemnity and also touched it with tenderness. Had she known Weth-_
erel well enough she would have taken his hand, and held it for a sense of com-
panionship. As it was, she turned to a text: " 0 God of-our salvation, who
art the confidence of them that are afar off upon the sea; " these words seemed
to walk before her upon the waters. It was one of the verses which her father
had asked her to learn by heart before he parted with her. Had she been
among her familiar friends, the devout missionaries with whom she had passed
her youth, she would have repeated it aloud. Even now the sentence seemed
to wrestle at her lips; but glancing furtively at Wetherel's face, she said to
herself, "IHe might think it very strange; " for gentle and sympathetic as he
had been to her, she did not yet feel certain that he .could stare all her ieas;
and, indeed, well might she doubt it.
Of a sudden she turned her face toward the waters. Wetherel leaned for-
ward ever so little, and saw a single tear upon her cheek. .As much moved by
it as if it had been the only tear ever shed in the world, he said in a burst of
pity, "Y du are very lonely."
"Yes' I am," she murmured, still trying to hide her face.
The confession hurt him; then he was nothing to her; his presence was no
consolation! But of course there was nothing to be .done about it, and while
he was still looking blank and feeling uncomfortable and finding nothing to say,
the girl unexpectedly recovered her self-possession as women will, and looked
up at him with a peculiarly arch, childlike smile, which was characteristic of
some of her moods, and which had already delighted him many times.
"If it would relieve your mind to call me a baby, you may do so," she
said.
"I don't think you are a baby at all," he protested. " Why, what a great
distance you have travelled, and almost alone! "-i
"A baby might go as far in a baby-wagon, if its nurse would only push it.
I couldn't very well help myself. I was put on a mule, and a screaming
mountaineer drove it; and then I was put into a steamer, and other men drove
that. Oh, the journey has come easily enough; one day followed another.
You are never called on to do on Monday the work that is allotted to Tuesday
and Wednesday and Thursday, and so on. And so it will be, I suppose,
throughout life and with other things as well as journeys."
"You are as brave as a lion," he laughed approvingly, at the same time
thinking what a cheerful little wife she would make, and how well she would
bear his troubles for him. "But what do you mean to do throughout life?"
" And you?" she asked, her arch smile sparkling up once more, like a
runny bubble rising to the surface of a fountain.
"I? " he repeated somewhat discomfited, for his existence hitherto had
been idle and his future was aimless. " Really, I hardly know.".
"Then how can I know what I shall do?" she answered more pensively.
"Awoman has so little strength that she can hardly have plans; isn'tta sor

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         11
And yet, although you will perhaps laugh at me when I tell you of it, I do
venture to harbor some aims and aspirations. I want to do what work I can
and what good I can."
"Oh, don't!" he protested. " People who live to do good are -generally
awfully irksome."
"I am sorry you think so," she replied, looking him full in the fate with
an air of grave surprise and disappointment. " It has not been my experi-
ence." Then,-thinking no doubt that her tone had been too monitorial, she
threw out a meek olive-branch of a smile and added, "I wish you could meet
my father. You would see one man who lives to do good, and who is charm-
ing."
"I should feel honored to meet him," bowed Wetherel, anxious to recover
lost ground in her esteem. "You must excuse what I said just now. I was
thinking perhaps of people who merely talk of living for the benefit of others,
and stop-there."
"Parrots who say1Pretty Polly, and never do anything pretty," she laughed,
_.evidently pleased to hear him right himself.
Now this was cheerful conversation, and Mr. Edward Wetherel could not
of course help finding it pleasant, and yet his soul was not entirely satisfied
with it. lie was more sentimentally content with the girl when. she was sad,
because then he could imagine himself as gathering her into his philanthropic
bosom and cherishing her with consolation. So he reverted once more to her
condition of isolation and loneliness.
You have, I am afraid, very few friends in America."
Very few," she admitted, with the cheerful little nod of a canary, and in
fact with far less of depression than he had longed to see. "But the few are
very good. I shall be with sonic of them to-night. I wonder if you ever beard
of them-a Mrs. Dinneford and her daughter Alice."
"A Mrs. Dinneford and her daughter Alice are my relatives," he answered,
surprised rather than gratified.
Are.-they?" said Nestoria, obviously delighted., "I was with them often
in London. You'know I stopped almost six months in London with an Eng--
lish lady-a lady who knew about my father and who is very kind to mission-
ary people. Her brother brought me on from Erzeroum; he is a great anti-
quarian and made wonderful discoveries in Babylon; but I told you all that
on the Arabia. At this lady's house I met Mrs. Dinneford and Alice. Isn't
Alice pleasant, and isn't her mother good? They asked me to visit them in
Anerica, and when I reached New York I found a letter for me. Oh, you
can't imagine how it cheered me., I felt like Paul when he met the brethren
at the Three Taverns. They are at Savin Rock, near New Haven."
"At the house of a Mr.. Wetherel?" asked the young man coldly.
"Yes," she said, her smile dancing out gayly,.like a fairy leaping from a
rose. "our name!"
Ile pondered a moment, and then observed gravely, "I cannot call on you
there."
She did not reply; it was clearly a momentous piece of information; and
her gaze of inquiry showed even more regret than surprise.
"No," he went on, biting his moustache. "Mr. Jabez Wetherel is my un-
cle; and I ami sorry, very sorry to say it, but we are not on good terms."-
"Ia  orry too," sh1e murmured; what else could such a child say?
" Still, I will try to see you, if you permit it," he continued. " I venture to
hope that I shall, be able to meet you again somewhere."


12                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"I shall be pleased," was her answer. Then she said no more on the sub
ject, being not quite'sure that she had not done wrong in saying even so much;
for the fact of a family quarrel was a terribly ugly one to her mind, throwing
doubtful shadows upon the people who were engaged in it, and rendering her
pathway among them intricate.
CHAPTER III.
A FRIENDLY WELCOME.
THE Elm City, although freighted with a possible hero and heroine, reached
New Haven without misadventure.
As it zigzagged up the shallow harbor Wetherel pointed out to Nestoria the
country-seat of his uncle, a low, wide-spreading wooden house, with pillared
veranda and pointed gables, nested on a little rocky bluff which rose some
thirty feet above the yellow beach. The girl looked at it in silence and with a
slight sense of aversion, for which she conscientiously reproved herself. The
dwelling did not seem to her heartily hospitable, because this very kind and
sweet-mannered young gentleman might not enter it. Notwithstanding her
keen sense of loneliness in America, and the pleasure with which she had but
lately looked forward to meeting her friends, the dear, good Dinnefords, she
would have been not unwilling.to pass the night at a hotel.
"It is a long way from the city," she said, with a suppressed sigh which
meant, "Perhaps we shall not meet again."
" Yes, four miles," he replied. " If you will allow me, I will drive out there
with you; that is, if my uncle has not sent a carriage for you."
"I expect one," she sighed, again, half hoping that it might not arrive.
" Alice tdiegraphed me that she would be on the dock. She would have come
to New York for me, only I wouldn't let her. I hate to have people take
trouble about me."'
"You shouldn't," he declared. "You are worth taking trouble for." .
He looked down in admiration at the sweet innocent face which was turned
up towards his in wonder at his flattering speech. It was a constant marvel
to him that she should not be aware of her own fascinations and'use them to
command service. A dandy, a mere worldling, a spoiled child of flattery, he
had not a suspicion of the education of humility and self-abnegation which she
had received. He had serious-minded relations,-it is true, but he had avoided
them as far as possible, and in his aversion given their characters no intelli-
gent study, so that he had grown up in a sort of heathenish ignorance of 'the
workings and ways of devout souls. He could not have guessed that any one,
not even' a piously faithful father, not even a clergyman and missionary, would
say daily to such an endearing little beauty as this, " We are dust and ashes;
we are worthless worms of the earth; we have no manner of merit of our own;
we live from day to day by sufferance; our sole honor is humility, our sole
hope is mercy." Even had he divined the fact of such lessons, he could not
have, believed that she would take them seriously to heart and learn from them
to hold herself in little esteem. That she was not vain or self-consqious he had
discovered; but he attributed it'to natural modesty, and gave her all the glory.
.The touch of the steamer against the wooden sides of the Belle D~ock brought
Alice Dinneford upon the scene, as the rubbing of a lamp or other talisman in
the "Arabian Nights" calls in a friendly genii. The moment the gangway

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        13
plank was laid, this impulsive young lady bounded across it, rustled vehe-
veh mently through the throng of disembarking passengers, and gathered her guest
into her cordial arms. -A tall brunette, with flashing eyes and an assured man-
ner, she was a striking contrast to the blonde and childlike Nestoria, the two
forming.some such a bouquet as a pink and a lily of the valley.
In a few minutes the waif from the Kurdish mountains found herself in
Jabez Wetherel's ancient rockaway, driving soberly among the rectangles
of New Haven. She had not bidden good-by to Edward Wetherel; he had
disappeared during the confusion of the landing. It seemed to Nestoria that
he must have avoided Alice intentionally, and the suspicion was sad enough to
throw a chill over even her meeting with a dear friend. It was so strange
and dreadful that cousins should not speak, especially when they were both
such good and charming people! During the whole drive Nestoria thought
of this ugly avoidance; and it was because of it she did not mention Edward
Wetherel's name.
"nSo here you are at last! " prattled the lively Alice. "I am so glad to get.
hold of you. Why didn't 'ou let me come down to New York after you P
You are such a little speck of a thing that you mustn't go wandering alone in
this way. You might get lost out of a sail-boat, out of a basket, out of a
thimble, and nobody notice it."
"I caine across the ocean with only an old lady," said Nestoria. "I know
how to cling fast to. somebody or other."
'She had hold of Alice's dress at that very moment. It was a charming little
- trick of hers, indicative of her ,clinging, confiding nature, thus to lay an infari-
tile, tendril-like clasp upon the garments of her friends. On the Elm City there
had been a minute when she could hardly refrain from slyly taking the skirt
of Edward Wetherel's coat between her thumb and finger in order to enjoy
that precious luxury of hers, the sense of attaching herself closely to a protector.
'Besides," she added, "my father doesn't like to have me be a charge to
people."
"A charge to people ! You! " laughed Alice. "Wait till people find fault
about it. What Turkish ideas your father has. He has forgotten what a
young lady passes for in America. Don't you know that we are the salt of the
earth hereP"
' Oh, no!" protested Nestoria, who was' accustomed to hear that phrase
used in a very solemn sense.
The cream of the cream, then," varied Alice, with a glimpse of her friend's
sensitiveness as to the perversion of Scriptural language.
"It depends upon how we behave," seriously replied Nestoria. She re-
membered at the moment a sermon of her father's to his, oriental flock, in
which he had said, "Men aid women are precisely equal in the sight of their
Creator; they are both of value merely because the cross was uplifted for both;
merely because both may equally lay hold of divine mercy."
"It depends upon how we look," insisted Alice. "But ,never mind about
that now. I must tell you what sort of a life you are to have at Sea Lodge.
Sea Lodge is the name'of Uncle Wetherel's villa. He wanted to call it Mount
Horeb, or Mount Pisgah, or something of that sort. Oh, lie is such a queer old
gentleman, with such old-fashioned antediluvian notions. One would think
that he had just come out of the wanderings of the children of Israel, and had
got into the world 'of our time by mistake. I beat him on the name of the
villa. ,I dated all my letters from Sea Lodge, and I had a signboard put up


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

with Sea Lodge on it, and now everybody calls it Sea Lodge, and he can't help
himself. He has given in, however; he found the word lodge just a little bit
Biblical-a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, you know. And that is just about
it, for he does garden it away in a .most extravagant manner, and we do have
an abundance of cucumber vines, and the place isn't an enchanted palace, nor
a castle of chivalry, nor anything very scrumptious. Now don't bother your
head about the word scrumptious; it just means sumptuous, I suppose. You
will like Uncle Wetherel; he will exactly suit your tastes. That is, you will
like him if you are not afraid of him. Don't be afraid of him. I am not. And
yet some people are, he is such an old Plymouth Rock of a man, with eyes
which are as set and glassy as a ghost's. He is almost eighty years old and as
thin and bony as an umbrella. There is nothing of him but a frame and a
black cloth covering. I sometimes feel as if I should like to pick him up and
open him with a slap, and shut him up again and put him in the umbrella
stand.".
"Don't!" begged Nestoria, irresistibly tempted to laugh, but feeling that
it was wrong, for Mr. Wetherel was old and good. How .could Alice make
such fun of her uncle?S
"Well, I won't,". answered the irrepressible Alice. "He shan't be put in
the umbrella stand if you don't want it. But he is so queer that one can't help
having queer plans and projects for him. Can you imagine what he does when
he drives out in his phaeton with mamma or me? Every time he finds little
boys swearing he pulls up this old poke of a horse and reproves the little ras-
cals; and if they keep on at it, he gets out and chases them with his horsewhip.
Of course he can't run, and of course they scud away from him, and then
swear worse than ever. All the small wretches around here'know him now,
and blaspheme him out of his-phaeton as often as they can. I do believe lie
has increased the profanity of the township enormously."
"Perhaps it is not a judicious way of dealing with bad boys," admitted
Nestoria.S
Dealing!" repeated Alice, laughingly catching hold of her friend and
shaking her. "You dear little primness! did you learn to talk out of the cat-
echismP Oh, you will get along famously with Uncle Wetherel. He will say
that you talk the language of Zion. Besides, he is all primed to like you; he
is fairly addled about missionary people: the forlorn-hope of godliness, he calls
them. Your father is a particular admiration of his. I really believe he puts
your father alongside of John Bunyan or Jonathan Edwards."
Does he?" murmured Nestoria, with a thrill of filial pride which sent the
tears into her eyes. "I wish my father could come home and see the kind
people who care for him."'
" I wish he could," replied Alice, divining the girl's emotion with that sym-
pathy which is so quick in woman, and passing an arm around her waist.
" We should spoilt him. Well, so much for Uncle Wetherel. He will like you,
and you will like him. As for my mother, you know what she is."
" Oh, yes," said Nestoria, with a sigh of satisfaction-the sigh of a contented
infant. Now tha a lehad a little lost out of mind the mysterious troubles of
Edward Wetherel, it was a pure pleasure to her to think that she would shortly
meet the good, cordial Mrs. l)inneford.
"And that is all," continued Alice. "Uncle Wetherel is a widower, and
has lost all his children. No young people except myself; no beaux and no
chance of flirtations; no adventures except driving and seat-bathing. We two :
women take care of Uncle Wetherel; that is our life. I wish we could have a

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

picnic, or give a dinner now and then. But we mustn't; it costs money
Uncle has a million or so, and he spends less than four thousand a year. It
seems to me precious mean  I could spend fifty thousand. But then he gives
away fifty thousand."
He must be a very noble man," judged Nestoria. "The Turks would re-
spect such a man."
"A lesson for me, I suppose," laughed Alice. " I won't take it; I won't
be advised by the Turks; they don't know as much as I do. But of course
you must like him. I want you to, for your own sake. I want you to be con-
tented with us. One thing more I must tell you. Don't be scared and get
faint at his way of carving and helping. He carves, and gets tired and sits
down and rests himself, and then tries it again. Then he shies things at you;
he takes a piece of beefsteak on the fork and hits it with his knife, and away
it goes; you would think a frog was jumping across the table at'you. But he
has done it so often that he always hits his mark. It will land on your plate,
and not in your lap. . You won't have to wear a baby-apron."
After nearly an hour of this prattle, and of such leisurely journeyingrthat
Nestoria once looked at the horse to' see if it were not a cow, the rockaway
pulled up in front of a red glimmer showing through shrubbery, and the girl
perceived that she was at the gate of her new home.
The thought which came into her mind at the instant was a wondering
query as to what might be the real, fund bhental character of an old gentle-
man who could quarrel with his own nephew, and such a gentle, charming,
and seemingly altogether admirable nephew as Edward Wetherel.
CHAPTER IV.
THE MASTER OF SEA LODGE.
AT the gate of Sea Lodge Nestoria was welcomed with little less than
boisterous gladness by Mrs. Dinneford.
Y       She was a lady of fifty, above the middle height, and of considerable vol..
ume, but giving one an idea of solid brawn rather. than of fat, and with a vig-
orous style of action - and elocution which betokened strength, and robust
health. Her features were irregular and boldly marked, but they beamed un-
mistakably with cheerfulness, good nature, and cordiality, and they disclosed
lurking symptoms of what seemed unconscious humor.
her dress was flying; her handkerchief was fluttering to the ground behind
her; her spectacles were holding on to the bridge of her nose with an air of
desperation; one hand dragged along the "Puritan Recorder," which she had
been reading to Mr. Wetherel; and altogether she had a flurried, windy air, as
S of a person descending in a parachute. She was the image of headlong hospi-
tality rushing forth to greet a desired guest. The hilarity of welcome in her
wide mouth'was not so much a smile as a broad laugh, the preliminary of a
somewhat clamorous explosion of kindliness.
. .So glad to see you!" she almost shouted, as she caught Nestoria on' the
intricate steps of the old-fashioned vehicle and kissed her to the ground.
"You come to 'us like a dove out of the ark. One may almost say that you
arrive fronm Mount Ararat. I feel like asking you after the prosperity of Fa-
ther Noah and his children. What is your last news from your dear good fatherP
We have taken his hand so often through the 'Missionary Herald' that we

I'll,

14

15


16                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
all feel as if we had shared his labors and seen his .face. Come straight in.
James will attend to your baggage. Alice, run, tell Cousin Wetherel 1iat it is
Miss.Bernard. No, never mind; he must know it. How pleased the old gen-
tleman will be to see you under his roof-tree. He has looked forward to your
coming as if you were the Queen of Sheba. James, unstrap that trunk and be
careful not to drop it, and carry it up stairs immediately, will you? How tired
you must be! And how we do come together from the ends of the earth and
the islands of the sea! The devious ways of the great deep are lighted up by
Providence in a way that is wonderful to our eyes. I was just reading a piece
in the 'Puritan Recorder' which put me so in mind of you! Bless me, where
is that paper? Cousin Wetherel would have a fit if I lost-it. Oh, here it is in
my hand; I thought it was my handkerchief. Alice, do look for my handker-
chief. It is somewhere- or other, flying all abroad like-how does the hymn
go?   And so here you are at last, arrived upon us out of mysteries, safe
through a thousand perils. Walk in and see Cousin Wetherel.; Dear me, there
the old gentleman is, coming out to meet you. I don't know whether le looks
most like one of the ancient kings- of the order of Melchisedek, or like one
risen from the dead."'-z
Mrs. Dinneford talked, like her daughter, with the utmost volubility. In'
her haste and glee sheasked question after question without waiting for-an an-
swer, and poured out her feelings, her thoughts, and her news in a commingled
and ceaseless torrent. Her conversation was the oddest miscellany of com-
monplace observations, of Biblical allusions, of whimsical comparisons, and oc-
casionally of striking if not absolute poetic fancies. There is no possibility of
adequately describing or reporting it.
On the front portico of the house, his hair shining like silver under the light
of the hall lamp, stood old Mr. Wetherel. He was a man of medium height,
but lie seemed tall because of his exceeding leanness, and perhaps he would
have been tall but for the stoop in his narrow shoulders. His alpaca clothing
blew about him in the light evening breeze as if it draped a mere skeleton. His
face was a singularly narrow one; the high, hard, shining forehead was narrow ;
the sunken, dusky temples approached each other; the cheek bones were close
together; the jaws had no breadth. ' Viewed in profile, this face reminded one
of those caricatures which artists sometimes figure in the convex of a crescent
moon. A strangely projecting brow looked down over a thin, straight nose at
a strangely projecting chin. The expression. of the countenance was grave-
even to austerity,'but sweetened by a benevolence of that enduring sort which
springs from sense of duty, and lighted now 'and then (if one studied it long
enough) by faint glimmers from a humor which an anxious conscience vainly
strove to hide under its bush&amp;. '
Mr. Wetherel did not advance to meet Nestoria. It would undoubtedly
have been a task of some little difficulty for him to descend the steps. But as
his guest reached his po t of audience he put forth a thin, wrinkled, hand,
grasped her plump and soft one with a hospitable firmness, and, looking
searchingly, steadfastly iiito her face, said in a tremulous, yet clear voice, and
with impressive deliberation,  I am glad-and honored--to receive under my
roof the daughter of the great-and GOOD-Doctor Bernard-whom Heaven
bless! If that light among the dark places of the earth had himself come hith-
er, I would have gone forth to meet him, as the brethren of Rome went to
meet Paul.- Is he well ?".
This singular speech, so unworldly in diction and feeling, was uttered with

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         I-
' patriarchal simplicity and sincerity of manner. There was no affectation
about it, and not the slightest consciousness of cant. The man had so con-
stantly read the Bible, he had so closely identified his sentiments with the faith
of the Bible, that whenever he felt strongly his languag- was naturalyBibli-
cal. There were times, indeed, when he talked in Scriptural style with an ev-
ident sense of humor. But that was only in his gayer moments; in such mo-
ments of hilarity as would have led other men to joke outright; and even dur-
ing these ebullitions he never smiled.
"My father was well when I last heard," replied Nestoria.
His work is not yet finished," said .Judge -Wetherel. " We are stayed-
those of us who are worth staying-until we have wrought our task.
,, g .ome
in."
le wheeled slowly, not pivoting on his heel, but taking little steps in turn-
ing, with an obvious care as to keeping his balance,,and marched by her side
into the' house. His gait was much like his utterance ; it was deliberate, mo-
notonous, and solemn. Even among the calm people of the East Nestoria had
never seen any human being of such gravity and staidness. A ljevirential
imagination than hers might have amused itself with the idea that the old gen-
tieman vent by clockwork and was wound upto valk, speak, and think j
so:   fastad no faster. A circumstance, byf the way which added much to his
air of stifrness, was a high, old-fashioned black stock, which completely hid his
emaciated neck, and seemed to be the only support of his head. This head he
turned rarely to right or left, frequently addressing people wiut looking at
them, or bringing himself to face them by slowly wheeling his whole body, as
if he were a battalion changing front to o en fire. It was with his eyes set
straight before him that he carried on a con ersation with Nestoria as he es-
corted her'into his parlor.
"Miss Bernard," he continued, in his deliberate monoton  yincing slowly
and with frequent halts, like an army under a cautious gen  if I were an
Oriental, I suppose I should say to you that this house and a at is in it are
yours. A I am  an Occidental and a descendant of the exact-speaking Puri-
tasa tanthurer hele      dto utter strictly what I mean, I will simply
say that you are weleonm to stay in this house as long as I live."
wItrustthat that would mean for a long time," replied Nestoria with hon
"Thtt is -speaking like an Oriental,"
h ais i  itheastins egravely -emarked Judge Wetherel.
SWhat kindness the  easterns, feel they also feel at liberty to butter."
I aI so really and deeply obliged to you for your invitation!" added the
r- girl." I shall want to stay with you a long while."
. -  "With the ,permission of Divine Providence you shall," declared the old
man. The child of God's apostle to his ancient church in the Kurdish moun-
tains shall be a member of my family as long as she chooses to be."
"But I t st not stay here a very great while," said Nestoria. "My father
told that Iinust not live an idle life in America. I have studies to com-
Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might," repeated the
JudTe. "But until the hour of labor comes, repose here."
pThey had now reached a small and plainly furnished bu profusely lighted
occupy it, seated imsel wth cefu delieat    in anoth  leaed forward
and gazed at her intently
"Do you look like your father? " he asked, after a pause.

rI


[8                   THE WETHpREL AFFAIR.
"I do not," said Nestoria. " My father says that I look as my mother did
at my age."
"I wish that you resembled your father," was the response of the Judge,
who seemed a little disappointed.
"Why, Cousin Wetherel, what do you mean? " burst in Mrs. Dinneford,
who had just bustled into the room, having been engaged in' worrying James
about the trunk. "Don't you think she looks well enough ? How could any.
body want her to be different?"
Cousin Wetherel. saw, as clearly as Mrs. Dinneford did, that the damsel, as
he would have phrased it,.was comely. But he would sooner have been smit-
ten on the mouth than have permitted himself to tell her of the fact. In his
belief beauty was a snare, and the consciousness of the possession of it ruin.
Without moving his head he turned his eyes upon his relative with an air of
reproof and quietly answered, "She is a  - God made her, and it is enough. 1
was merely anxious to know somewhat concerning the physica appearance of
her ather."
"Well, so am I," cheerfully declared Mrs. Dinneford, not in the least
abashed or hurt by her reprimand, and in fact too busy with her own thinkints
to notice it. " It is a great satisfaction certainly to become acquainted with
the outward man and similitude of good people who have been blessed to (10a
great work in the world. I should like to know the appearance of Moses ben
Samuel and Isaiah. and the rest of the old worthies. They must have been
delightful to look upon, each after his fashion. You know what I'upper says,
'There is a beauty of the spirit-mind in its perfect flowering.' I quote Tupper
Just as much as ever, Miss Bernard. Cousin Wetherel sometimes reproves
me for it; 'he says I seem to put Tupper above the Bible; andhoindeed, I dont
put him far behind. Tupper is so elevated and philosophical, and such a
-painter of character! Just hear this now: 'There is  a beauty of the reason,
grandlyindependent of externals; it looketh from the windows of the house,
shining in the man triumphant.' Don't you seem to see St. Paul in that? He
was little of stature and of mean countenance, but his great min must have
made -him impressive and a feast to te eye. sOhb ys thermi you rveren'oe.
satisfaction to be got out of a portrait of somebody whom you reverence.
Why, I have studied with a great deal of pleasure the picture of old Pete in
the 'Lives of the Popes', I don't suppose itantinoble him ane Wanein
it resembles Methusaleh or the Patriarch of Constantinople or the Wandeint
Jew. But I could imagine it was Peter sayaLord, thou newest th t I
love thee,' though he had more of an air as ifecl ha ut Judg dein Is shk-
ter. And so, as to your good ither,        tl     u
like to see his photograph. Haven't you got one wit yonuaehtgrps
"No," said Nestoriam  eI wishai had uithtey-on' tei puholgdras
yet in our mountains. Howeve7 he is a litelk-ol-ei muhole-
little like-" and here Netori -came to apause. t
l tLike whom?" queried Judge Wetherel with interest.   wso       n
,f i'he girl thought that she had gone too far to sBt p, a sh toorcon-
scientious to conceive of an evasion.s'i     te-oat " shde    r-
" Like a gentleman who came up with me inrh  bat" Where. c
ing deeply. "lHe said le was your nepe-hew-l. Mr.dw d   aseifthisr
The old man's countenance darkened a ite,  t saeined astifhas hnen
eyes sparkled. Any one who knew him wel might have daoivikett he w
not pleased with the fact of this acquaintance, and thahe iel
tion the girl further about it.

TElW WETHEREL AFFAIR.                '
CHAPTER V.
THE JUDGE'S MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.
III catechism concerning Edward Wetherel did not come hastily. The
'J.Told Judge, following up the matter in his own deliberate fashion, as if
to give himself time for meditation and prayer over it, (lid not speak of the
young man to Nestoria for a day or two. Perhaps his intent was that she
should learn to look upon him as a friend before she was summoned to accept
him as a mentor. A'dictatorial' soul by nature, and c Paile of being very
grimly authoritative under a consciousness of duty, so that he was an absolute
terror' to all evil-doers whom circumstances placed under his thumb, he had at
the sine time a most mellow streak of considei-ate, old-fashioned courtesy in
him, and knew how to be gentleness itself with the gentle.
"{ A Christian," he was accustomed to say, "ought to be the most perfect
gentleman on earth; " and in his secret heart he could ndt help feeling that this
rule was especially binding on Wetherels. All his ancestors, as far back as
the (lays of the Mayflower. had been not only Puritans, but Puritans of good
social position and of high breeding. In spite of his earnest yearnings after a
humble spirit, he was proud of his lescent from such men; and because of
this pride he considered .himself bound to emulate their graces and virtues.
Furthermore, his judicial mind, partly the gift of nature and partly the result
of a long habit of examining both sides of weighty questions, enabled or rather
a   forced him to be deliberate, considerate, and delicate even in matters which
concerned his strong prejudices.
Thus for two days the missionary's daughter had an opportunity to study in
perfect peace the ordinaryjlife of this household. -Had she belonged to the
class of persons whom Judge Wetherel stigmatized as worldlings (looking
upon them as more guilty and pitiable than the outright heathen), she would
ha   found that life either dismally irksome or whimsically amusing. When
she went to bed she discovered on her dressing table a little congregation of
the publications of the American Tract Society, with a Bible officiating as cler-
gyian, and a hymn-book as chorister; and a tour of inspection.through the
house wouldhave revealed the fact that every other dressing-table, gentle or
simple, wias provided with -a similar library; so that, if devotional books have
any soporific gift, the Judge's retainers and guests had no excuse for lying
awake. Indeed, Edward Wetherel was accustomed to say in his light and fab-
ulous manner that he could not lodge' at his uncle's without catching cold, be-
cause these composing volumes always caused him to snooze off in his chair
and 'pass the night without sufficient covering.
At half-past six in the morning, as virtuously brisk and punctual as
early bird that catches the worm, a servant mnaid skipped through the house,
and, applying her knuckles to every bedroom door, pecked up the- slumberer
.within. If Alice or her mother-b~oth dilatory persons, and occasionally averse
to duties--proffered any remonstrance against the clamor, this maid, by the
Judge's express orders, put her mouth to the keyhole and said in a monoto-

6
F{


20                    THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
nous, official tone, " Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways and be
wise."
An hour later, precisely at half-past. seven, the old gentleman entered his
parlor, marched with the deliberation and gravity of a procession up to a large
Bible which occupied a table by itself, took it deferentially in his meagre arms,
seated himself, opened the book upon his knees, wiped his spectacles, and rang
:a little bell. This bell, by the way, was of bronze; and when Alice once sub-
stituted for it a silver one which she had bought with her own money, her
grave relative put it aside and called for the plainer instrument; at the same
time remarking, with his characteristic solemn humor, that silver was a noble
metal and worthy of the New Jerusalem, but brass was good enough to call
sinners together.
It was expected thatsat the sound of this bell, all the family, including the
domestics, should appear immediately. If one lingered, that one was sent for;
but meanwhile the Judge showed no annoyance or even impatience; he waited
in solemn silence and with an air of abstracted meditation; his sunken, glassy
eyes were never lifted from the sacred page. On the advent of the loiterer he
invariably said, " The king's business requires haste," and then proceeded with
his service.
To save Nestoria from the chance of this reproof, Mrs. Dinneford went to
her room on the first morning of her visit. To her great satisfaction she found
the girl dressed and i-eady.
" How do you do, my dear?" she said, with a kiss. "I hope you slept the
sleep of youth and health. You must have been as tired as a little bird when
he first tries his wings. Have you looked at this glorious sea this morning?
The sun is shining on it like the sun of Austerlitz. It must remind you of
your native mountains."
Mrs. Dinneford always had so much to say, and was moved to say it in such
a hurry, that she was frequently not a little vague and dislocated in discourse,
leaving her connections of thought to be guessed at. The association, for in-
stance, of the Kurdish mountains with Long Island Sound, strikes one as loose.
"nut .I am so glad you slept," she ran on. "Young people, and old peo-
ple too, for that matter, don't always rest well in ; new place. We human
creatures are a little like cats; we get along best in our own garrets. And it is
even so in matters of religion; many people can't worship God except in their
own church; indeed, it's wonderful how many cat Christians there are. As
my excellent and wise friend Tupper says, 'We are frail, and governed by
externals.' But I am so glad now you are all ready. I was a little afraid you
might have overslept, in spite of those spirit-rappings that worry us up of
mornings. You must, know that Cousin Wetherel is very particular about
promptness at family prayers; and I just ran up to see that you didn't fail, and
made a good impression'upon him the first morning. Well, we'll go down
now; there's the prayer bell. It's just like a college or a church, isn't it?
Dear me, how much bell-metal has had to do with Christianity. I sometimes
wonder how the faith would have been spread if bronze had never been in-
vented. . As some Frenchman has said, everything has to be advertised, even
religion; and though he may not have said it in the most respectful spirit, nev-
ertheless there's some truth in it. The deaf ears of this world have to be as-
sailed in all sorts of ways to make them hear; and bell-rimgng is only another
kind of crying aloud in the waste places. It is one of the indirect influences
that Tupper speaks of;. you know he says, 'Hints shrewdly strown mightily dis-

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR..                       21
turb the spirit.' Well, we shall find Cousin Wetherel all ready for us, with his
Bible on his knees. He won't look at you,{but don't mind that. He never en-
t   ters upon the conversation of the day until, as he says, he has invoked Ileav-
9ns blessing upon it.. Prayer before speech and thanks before food, is one of
his mottoes. There is Alice now. Alice, come and speak to Nestoria while
you have a' chance. You see, child, we don't follow Cousin Wetherel's pre-
cepts. We talk at all times, in season and out of season, and sometimes, per-
haps, without a blessing upon it; or if there is one, it comes by good luck and
no merit of ours. Talking seems to be our mission. It's just as natural to us
as rattling to a wagon."
During this speech Nestoria had several times tried in vain to make answer.
She had sought to say that she had slept well, that she had admired the sun-
light on the sea, that she had thought of her native mountains, and that she
thanked Mrs. Dinneford for calling her. But the fluency of the elder lady per-
petually submerged her, and she had not been able to get a whole sentence to
the surface.
She now exchanged a kiss and a little hurried whispering with Alice; and
then they were in the parlor in the solemnizing presence of Judge Wetherel. As
Mrs. Dinneford had predicted, he did not address his visitor on her entrance,
and his glassy eyes remained fixed upon his Bible. The servants, an elderl
English coachman, a still more venerable cook of the female gender and Amer-
ican stock, and an Irish Protestant chambermaid of thirty, who had all been
respectfully waiting the arrival of their betters, now came in and took seats by
Rc door. Only when perfect silence and quiet had been 'established did the
Judge commence his'devotions. Lifting his eyes for the first time in two min-
utes, he turned them slowly from face to face, and uttered in his tremulous
monotone the following words:
" My Christian friends, unworthy as we all are of such mercy, our Creator
has permitted us once more to look upon each other, and to ,join in returning
thanks for undeserved blessings. I-shall now read'a portion of this Holy Word
which was revealed to us as a guide whereby we might reach a better and hap-
pier life. If wisdom seems to be given me, I will endeavor to speak a word or
two of interpretation; and if I seem to you to pass any dark places without
ptoper note, I pray that you will deliver your miiids thereupon, aid if you can-
not shed light at least shed darkness; for the exhibition of darkness may lead
to a correction of light."
He then read, very slowly, the eleventh chapter of Ihebrews, pausing occ-
sionally to utter brief comments, some of the ordinary type of Biblical exege-
sis, and others of an originality which bordered on humor. But whatever his
thougits might have been, his Countenance remained grave; not even a comic
incident could ruffie the icy surface of its solemnity. After le had read of the
faith of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, etc., he paused over the inquiry, "And
=    what shall I more say?"  Here the elderly cook, who took it that this was a
question of Judge Wetherel's own asking,.and that lie was hard bested to an-
swer it, came to his relief.
"Say?" lie repeated in a prompt, confident treble; "why, say they were
good men amt ought to go to heaven."
Sarah,' tranquilly remarked the old man, "there is a wisdom which is
profl~tab~le " and continued his readiing.
Sarah, obtusely conscious of approval, glanced cheerfully at her juniors in
domestic travail, and then, curbing her spiritual pride, bent her loose eyes


22                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
upon the floor. A sparkle of' amusement danced under Mrs. Dinneford's
lashes, and the r.attleheaded Alice barely prevented a smile. Nestoria, educated
in habits of the profoundest respect for devotional matters, exhibited not the
slightest change of countenance. Nor was she at all diverted when a sportive
kitten mounted the Judge's back while he was on his knees, and played with
the silver locks which hung over his high coat collar. The old gentleman,
too, was equally indifferent to the feline disturbance; he touched upon all his
customary "topics " with his customary deliberation.
At last the service ended; the Judge rose with effort to his feet; and now
he allowed himself to salute his guest.
"Miss Bernard," he said, walking composedly up to her and taking one of
her hands in both his, "I am rejoiced to see you at my altar and by my hearth.
Let me trust that the daughter of that servant of God, Doctor Bernard, will
make herself at home in a family which fervently admires ber father.. I will
not say this again. I am sure it will not be necessary."
"I am glad to hear family prayers once more," said Nestoria. "Of course
I have always been accustomed to them. It puts me at home at once."
There was no tone of cant about this declaration, nor did the girl utter it to
please her company. ,She spoke with the utmost naturalness, and with unpre-
meditated sincerity. It had seemed to her while listening to the Judge's peti-
tion that she was once more in her childhood's home, and the power of remi-
niscence that there is in familiar words and feelings had deeply moved an af-
fectionate, lonely heart.
Mr. Wetherel showed no sign of emotion in his wrinkled, imperturbable,
countenance, but he walked slowly over to Mrs. Dinneford and whispered in
her ear, "She will find herself at home in Paradise."
The utterance was so sublimely unworldly, and its enthusiasm was such a
matter of surprise as coming from the grave Judge, that for a moment Mrs.
Dinneford's soul was loftily shaken, and she could have found kindly pleasure
in.crying.
"Uncle Wetherel, did you feel the cat on your back at prayers?" put in the
jovial.Alice. "I would give a sixpence to know what you thought."
"I was reminded to pray specially against the temptations of Satan," an-
swered the old man. "Not that the cat can be a satanic'incarnation, as our
worthy ancestors were suffered to believe. But wanderings of mind in devo-
tion, resulting from no matter what cause, are diabolic. We must resist them."
Having dropped this insidious reproof, which Alice, by the way, took no
profitable note of, he proceeded to breakfast.
CHAPTER VI.
THE CONVERSE OF TWO YOUNG LADIES;. OR, A WISE, AND FOOLISH VIRGIN.
AFTER a long grace, uttered in a standing postlire, the Judge fell to his
carving.
He stood up to this duty also, for in a sitting position he would have been
no match for the broiled chicken, and -even with the aid of avoirdupois his
trembling hands did their work slowly. Now and then an involuntary grimace
indicated his physical weakness, or perhaps betrayed some dolor of old age.
Over one tough joint lie paused for some time, meanwhile talking composedly,

THE WETHEREL ,AFFAIR.                         23
knife and fork in hand. His, subject was'the missionary work in general, and
that of Doctor Bernard in particular.
"The goings and comings of the truth on this dark earth are wonderful,"
lhe bserved. "The revolutions of the light of the soul are like the revolutions
of day and night. When our savage ancestors were still worshipping Thor
and Odin, the Nestorians had long.since been keepers of the faith. And now
we, having received it into our Anglo-Saxon minds from the East, are per-
mitted and commissioned to carry it back to the East. But what can you tell
me of the Kurds? Are they the descendants of the ancient Carduchians? "
"My father thinks so, and I believe every one in the mission does," replie
Nestoria, as coniposed as the sublime 0d gentleman himself, and not once
glancing at her'empty plate, although very hungry.
" So," continued the Judge, "the same ferocious people who annoyed the
treatt of the Ten Thousand have in these days impeded the labors of our
saints and inassacred their disciples. I am not a man of war, but of -peace,"
he-continued, with something like smothered indignation; " yet ani I tempted
to wish that the Nestorians had had somewhat of the Greek discipline, and a
Christian Xenophon to direct it. However, the Creator knows what is best
for his Church, -It becomes us to wait his labor in reverent silence."
Having reposed himself during this dialogue, Mr. Wetherel resumed his
attack upon the broiled chicken, treating it with some such severe vigor as if it
represented- a Kurd, and by dint of much "bearing on" .eventually getting the
better of it. Other eccentricities, even more notable than his manner of carv-
ing, were forthcoming. Like many elderly persons, he had dropped sdn e of
the prmidial courtesies of his prime and returned to the simpler manners of
his childhood. le preferred to help his guests directly, rather than tarry for
the slow plate-bearing of the waiter girl, who, by the way, was the chamber-
maid. Once he accomplished the difficult feat attributed to him by Alice,
namely "skippilig1" a bit of chicken across the table from his carving-fork and
lodging it dexterously on Mrs. Dinneford's plate. Another performance con- .
sisted in taking a slice of bread in his fingers and tossing it over his shoulder
into the grate, 'This seenied to be so entirely irrational, unless indeed it were
some ki d f ceremonial akin to the pouting out of libations, that Nestoria was
s  lost in stonishument.
Fri     " C)usin Wetherel!" laughed Mrs. Dinneford. "You forget that there is
no-" fire."
"Mrs..Dinneford, I stand corrected," replied the Judge with monumental
composure. "Ellen, carry that piece of bread into the kitchen and toast it."
" Take a fresh slice,?' suggested Mrs. Dinneford. " That isn't fit."
It is good enough for an aged sinner who 'can't remember whether it is
summer or winter," affirmed the Judge.
"Cousin Wetherel prefers to toast his own bread," explained Mrs. Dinne-
forgl to Nestoria. "lHe wants to make sure that it shall be burnt to a coal."
" At my age a man must how to his stomach," added the old gentleman.
"lIe must say lihumbly to that organ, What will your highness please to digest?
It is a hard and low master. I serve it while I despise it."
" You ought to read Tupper on ' Hidden Uses,' " remarked Mrs. Dinueford,
".He has some noble thoughts on the value of things which seem to be of no
worth."
"Whien I have exhausted Solomon I will turn my attention to Tupper,''
answered the Judge with sedate scorn.


24                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"Well, do give Nestoria another bit of chicken," put in Alice. "She has
nothing to eat."
"Miss Bernard, you must pardon my spectacled purblindness," apologized
the descenidant of many Wetherels.  ' "I may say that I see you through a glass
darkly."
Not only the Judge's ideas and manners, but also his turns of speech, were
original. But his obvious sincerity of character, his venerable age, and even
his physical feebleness lent a dignity to all his peculiarities, and made him a
patriarchal figure. Nestoria was not in the .least disposed to laigh at lhim;
she regardedhim with a respect which did her honor; for in truth he was
worthy of respect. It must be observed in passing that lie bore, a graver
aspect at table than was usual with him. "A meal," he was accustomed to
say, "should be looked upon as a species of solemn ceremonial, inasmuch as
it is a celebration of a fresh grant of undeserved mercies." Thus when he
rose from breakfast it was with a more lightsome, face than he had worn
hitherto..
ll" Now, Miss Bernard,. a duty is over," he said cheerfully. "How shall we
spend the day ?"
"I should like to do something for you, sir," replied Nestoria.
"I am sincerely obliged to you for the desire," bowed the Judge, with the
solemn courtesy of a gentleman of the old'school. "But my .needs in the way
of amusement are few. Let me urge you to think of yourself. You can drive.
I have but one horse, and Jelmi would not have given a shekel of brass for
him, but he answers our purpose. He is usually gracious enough to take out
Alice in the morning, and myself with Mrs. Dinneford in the afternoon. Some,
day, when it is agreeable to you, you can go with me. I should take it as a
pleasure."
Of course Nestoria replied that it would also be a pleasure to her; and
although the answer was a courtesy, it was not the less uttered in sincerity.
Generously sympathetic by nature, and educated in ways of self-abnegation by
parents whose life had been a continuous self-sacrifice, she had grown up with
a disposition to fill the cup of others rather than her own; so that, however
dull a drive with Mr. Wetherel might have seemed to her imagination, she
would have'found a sort'of dutiful satisfaction in driving with him across the
continent, had he declared for such a -recreation. But, more than that, she
really liked the society of elderlypersons, for the reason that she was accus-
tomed to it.- Infants had not swarmed into the ark of the Nestorian mission;
and of the few who had been vouchsafed to it some had died promptly, and
others had been sent in good time to America; while with the native youth
of the land she had not been allowed to associate freely, for fear of evil com-
munications. Thus nearly all the people whom she had known familiarly
during her childhood and girlhood had been many years older than herself,
while the gravity of their pursuits and character made them seem  even
older than they were. We need not wonder therefore that she should look
upon the venerable Judge as a. suitable comrade, and should be able to say
to him honestly that. she should like very much to share his phaetonic ad-
ventures.     .       .
I must admit here'that such an old-minded young lady seems at first sight
to be hardly a taking heroine. The ordinary healthful soul may be pardoned
for suspecting that she must have been a little hypocrite or an unnatural little
prig. But those who knew her ways best and were allowed to see deepest into

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         25
her heart did not think her either. There was not a bit of affectation or of any
manner of pretence in her demeanor or in her character. She was as natural
as a bird; and all you could say against her was that she had been brought up
in a cage instead of the wildwood freedom of a nest; and even if you chose to
add that it was a pity, you had to concede that she was not to blame. It
would have been dreadful, to be shrie, if her convent-like education had crushed
out of her those instinctive emotions which form one of the chiefest charms and
one of the purest joys of youth; and we must admit that, had that been the
case, the girl would not have been attractive. But the events of this story will
show that Nestoria was not deficient in feelings, and that she could be led by
them to do things which a more worldly-wise young lady might have recoiled
from; experience in perils being oftenest the parent of prudence.
Returning now to the course of our story, we will state the commonplace,
composing fact that Alice and Nestoria dIrove out together, perambulating
such a wide extent of sandy coast country that Old Sorrel twice came to a halt
in dumb remonstrance.
"Get up!" screamed Alice, twitching at the reins. "I declare I believe
he is going to1lie down. Such a horse! Uncle ought to have a spanking span,
and a fine carriage and a regular coachman. And here lie keeps this old fatty,
and James hoes potatoes! If I had a million, wouldn't I make it fly! What
a breakfast that was! Did you ever see the like"
" A great deal worse," answered Nestoria.
"Oh, yes, on missionary ground. But poor breakfasts are quite appro-
priate there, just to teach the heathen not to he greedy. Rich people at home
should spend their money."
JTo teach the missionaries not to be greedy ?" asked Nestoria;
Alice laughed. "You are awful clever sometimes," she confessed. "You
look so demure, and all of a sudden you say something cunning, and it aston-
ishes people. It strikes one as if a rabbit or a chicken had made a joke. How-
ever, I wasn't complaining of the quality or quantity of the breakfast; there is
enough to eat on uncle's table, and it is generally good enough. I meant the
grimness and the queer behaving. I do'so hate grimness and queer behaving.
Did you see that chicken wing fly P It couldn't have done better if it had been
alive and had all its feathers. I expected to hear'it cackle cut-cut-ca-da-cut.
4   I hate such fashions."
"Don't you think your uncle is a very good man ?" asked Nestoria, quietly
remonstrating against this light-minded and unfair criticism.
"Good? ,I guess he is. Too good. Think of his giving awny fifty thou-
sand a year to charities and Bible societies and that sort of thing. It puts me
out of all patience. .I would like a five hundred dollar dress, and a five hun-
dred dollar brooch, and a thousand dollar shawl, and so on. But he gives me
nothing unless it isnvow and then some solemn book. le says I have enough
.moneyof my own for vanities."
And haven't you?" asked the missionary's daughter, glancing at Alice's
coral earrings. The glance, we must explain, was not one of austere reproof,
nor of greed, or envy, or jealousy. The girl frankly admired the earrings,
taking a heartfelt, natu al pleasure in their shapely form and rich color, and
simply marvelling that uch luxury could feel discontent.
"No," declared Agee. " What girl. ever did have enoughP Well, I
mustn't complain ; it is father ungrateful. I suppose uncle means to leave us
a gr at deal of money.'


26                   THE WETIIEREL AFFAIR.
" And won't he leave anything to-?"  Nestoria began the sentence eager-
ly, but she did not finish it.
" To whom? " stared Alice.
" I thought he had a nephew," said Nestoria, coloring over her speech, but
conscientiously bound to be frank.
The garrulous Alice turned discreet in presence of the family skeleton, and
merely replied, " So he has-I don't know."
"We are lucky," she presently added, unable to repress entirely her con-
municaitive nature. " The Judge is not my own uncle; he is only. mamma's
first cousin. But he has taken a great fancy to us. It is one of his whimsies.
I am sure I don't know why lie should like me, such a piece as I am."
Perhaps he trusts you will come to resemble your mother," suggested
Nestoria.
Thank'you." laughed Alice. "Mother is nice enough, and I don't object
to being like her, when the time comes."
But -we Must not spend too much space upon the talk of these girls; we
must hasten on to the more momentous drive of Nestoria with the Judge. The
old man haid proposed the expedition in order that he might he alone with his
youthful guest and catechise her as to the extent of her intimacy with his_
nephew, and perhaps say a word in season concerning so perilous an acquaint-
ance.
CHAPTER VII.
A FRIENDLY WARNING.
IT was five o'clock in the afternoon when the Judge and Nestoria set out on
their progress through the sandy byways of the shore.
The old man drove in a leisurely fashion, according to his octogenari( cus-'
torn, talking much to his beast in a remonstrative tone, using the lsl . rely
and at regular intervals, as if it were a matter of stated duty, and apply1fg it
even' then in a perfunctory, ceremonial, and not altogether sincere manner.
Old Sorrel took his own gait; when admonished, he went a little slower, as if
to listen; when whipped, he whisked his tail over the spot, under a pretence of
brushing off flies; if he came within reach of a thicket, he made a bite at a tuft
of leaves, and left off trotting to munch; if he discovered a hill a quarter of a
mile ahead of him, he prepared himself for it by falling into a walk; in short,
he showed that he was a dilatory, obstinate, and self-seeking old quadruped.
"Sorrel is not- event a good eye-servant," remarked the Judge. "le
evades his due labor under, my very spectacles."
"lHe can go faster," said Nestoria, remembering how Alice.had got the an-
cient shirk over the ground.
"ie can, but why should lie?" answered Mr. Wetherel. "We shall get
home to tea, and he knows it. What is time to an old man like me? Hardly
more than to an old horse like him, Time, Miss Bernard, is chiefly of value in
our youth, when we still have strength to improve it. ,One of the soirowfulest
things of my present age is the thought that my days are now of less worth
than they were to my fellow creatures. The Creator is divinely right in re-
moving the old to niake place for the young-.,
"1i wonder if I shall ever' work," queried Nestoria. " My father," she
added, uttering the word in a charming tone of reverence and belie, "my

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR..                        27
father warned me that I should be exposed to one great temptation in Amer-
ica. He said that you good people at home spoil missionaries' children. You
pet them and support them, he said, and so make them shamefully lazy. Now,
Mr. Wetherel, are you going to spoil me? Don't you know that I ought to be
set at work?"
"And what shall we set you at?" inquired the Judge, who was not in the
eastinelined to put his shoulder to this duty, and had evei dallied with a tem -
tation to-dower the girl out of his own riches.
Couldn't I help in a school? I might teach painting, as well as other
things. I learned to paint fans from the lady who entertained me in London."
Do you never mean to go back to your father? " asked the old man, who
considered missionary work the noblest labor possible to mortals.
"Oh, yes, when I am tit for it; but my eduic:ition isn't completed, you
know; and my character isn't formed-so my father says. Yes, I suppose I
shall go back in a few years," she added dreamily, while an unbidden query
came into her mind as to whether she would go with a husband, and whether
Edward Wetherel      But here she promptly checked her imagination; she
must not thmil so seriously of a man who had said so little to her that was se-
rious; a man, too, who eight not be as good as she hoped he was; who might
even be what she called " an unbeliever."
"And in the mean time you desire to study'and also to work," said the
Judge with an approving nod. "V9ry good. It niust all he lone, But there
is time enough. You must abide under iy roof during the vacations. After
that we will see."
" You must be sure to see," responded Nestoria, with conscientious u-gency
{nd woman's dependence.
"You spoke of meeting my nephew Edward," continued the old gentle-
man, whose undercurrent of thought had all the time been eddying about that
dreadful topic. "hIow caie'you to encounter him?"
Mir   Nestoria colored brilliantly; it was even a greater subject to her than to
her companion ; that name of Edward was the only one that had ever made
her heart beat.e                                                m
I iet him on the Atlantic steamer," she answered, just a bit suffocated by
,wthe cxpllanmation.
yIndeed!" exclaimed the Judge, not a little alarmed, for he knew of the
youig man's pleasant ways with women. "Then you have seen much of
"eYes," said Nestoria, happy in the recollection, and smiling back at those
pleasant hours. "le was very, very kind to me. He took me to walk every
nmorningand afternoon in rough weather, and it was always rough, at least
a little. I should have been much more lonesome without him."
"I trust you saw nothing in his walk and conversation but what you
could approve," added the old man in a tone of doubt which did not flatter
r Edward.
No," answered Nestoria frankly and firmly.  Indeed, she had seen a
great deal to approve in the said walk and conversation, Had not the young
fellow treated her with perfect politeness, and even with charming considera-
tion and delicay? Notwi-hst-n-i-g-
y? Nwitstanding this mysterious quarrel with his good un-
cle, she found it impossible to believe that ie could be very bad, or so much as
bad a little.
"Isppose he smokes still?" queried the Judge, in a tone which seemed to


28                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
declare that smoking leads to drinking,.and drinking to murder, and murder-
to the gallows, all three-doubtful statements in our day.
"Yes," admitted Nestoria. "But is that wrong? Some of the missiona-
ries smoke."
That is possible," groaned the venerable Puritan, unwillinglyconceding
the stumbling fact, and seeking to excuse it to himself'on the plea of Oriental
custom. "But at all events they don't drink ale."  -
" There isn't any ale," said Nestoria. "However, I don't suppose they
would drink it if there was any. They are all teetotallers, I believe."
" I trust so," fervently returned the Judge. Then he thought, in the anti-
nicotine corner of his earnest soul, What a pity they should smoke! This re-
tiection, however, he did not utter; he would not lead the girl to question the
goodness of her father's comrades in pious labors; he had his strenuouspreju-,
dices, but at times he could be wisely considerate in spite of them. By the
way, it seems appropriate to relate here a story, which illustrates the old man's
hatred of tobacco;, a hatred so hearty that it could confound his judicial mind
and cause him to pronounce judgment without hearing evidence or argument.
In a certain grave convocation there had been a question of passing censure
upon clerical smokers; whereupon an erring brother of a scientific turn rose
to his feet and attempted to demonstrate that, under given circumstances, of
habit and constitution, a cigar or so per day would not be injurious, and conse-
quently not immoral; whereupon Judge Wetherel made a reply commencing
with these memorable and monumental words, more immovable than a sen-
tence of pyramids: "Mr. Moderator-I thank Heaven-that on this subject--
my -mind is not open to conviction."
But we must return to his catechism of Nestoria concerning Edward; he
was anxious to know how she happened to meet the young man on the Elm
City.
"It was just an accident," she said. "lie was coming up this way to a
fishing-place.".
" What fishing-place?"
" le did not tell me. Are there so many?"
The Judge was relieved; then there had been no agreement to meet again;
there was to be no correspondence; it was not a flirtation. The dove under
his roof, the innocent daughter of the "great and good" Doctor Bernard, had
not become entangled in the talons of that unclean bird of prey, his reprobate
nephew. Their companionship had been a mere transitory acquaintance, and
there was no need of asking any painfully searching questions about it, nor of
entering into monitory disclosures of the young man's character. Mr. Weth-
erel was glad of it, for, like other wise and decorous men, he hated to talk of
the skeleton in his closet; and furthermore, he was conscientious as to bearing
needless evil witness, even against the ungodly. As long as there was hope
of reforming Edward he had withstood him to his face, as he expressed it. in
his Biblical way ; and when all such hope had died out of his heart he, had re-s
solved to disinherit him, and that was enough. Ile would not, in addition, as
perse his name, unless such accusation were needful for the salvation of others.
Nestoria put his reticence to the proof. She was anxious to speak of the
quarrel, because she longed to put an end to it. At the bottom of her childlike
innocence and simplicity there was, a solid foundation of moral courage, which
was made up partly of conscious rectitude of intention and partly of a beauti-
ful confidence in the goodness and kindliness of her fellow creatures. It was

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR-                          29
not unlike the courage of those untaught birds on the shores of rarely visited
islands who valk deliberately up to the feet of marvelling explorers.
"He told me," she added in a slightly agitated voice, "why he did not come
to see you in passing. He said you were not on terms with each other."
In spite of the temptation offered by this statement, the old man remained
firm to his abjuration of needless evil speaking.
"We have not been able to agree," he said gravely, and with honest sor-
rowfulness. "It is verge sad that relatives should take such differing, such di-
verging paths in life. But we have not been able to agree., May He who is
all-wise and all-pitiful have mercy upon him who is in the wrong, be it Ed-
ward or myself!"
lie said no more; the door to this subject was evidently shut upon hei She
had transmitted the young man's apology for passing his relatives by; it was
all that she had a right to do.
Thus it came about that Nestori was left to live on in ignorance of the na-
ture of this quarrel, and even in uncertainty as to which of the two parties to
it was in the wrong. Both of them seemed to her altogether lovely in charac-
ter, and incapable of truly meriting the other's condemnation. Educated in a
little dovecote of piety, far withdrawn from the great world of fashion and dis-
sipation, and unaccustomed to see any bad people except such as wore turbans
and carried pistols in their sashes, she knew nothing of wild young men except
by insufficient report, and had no, manner of skill in detecting them. -She
thought that of course they carried the marks of'their wickedness in their per-
sons and faces; that their hands were tremulous, their countenances haggard,
and their eyes sunken; that their expressions were hideous with evil passions
and with the torments of remorse.
Now no such shocking stigmat 4 were visible in Edward Wetherel; his form
was vigorous, his skin healthfully clear, his look cultured and gentle. Evil
had not set its well-known brand upon him, and therefore in her opinion, he
could not be the child of evil. The quarrel was a mystery; perhaps it was
about some matter of business, inexplicable' to women; perhaps both Edward
and his uncle were in some incomprehensible way right. She could not solve
the disagreeable puzzle, and for the present she left it in the hands of Provi-
dence, trusting that the day of unravelnient would come.
'You will find our life very quiet here,"- said the Judge as they drove
homeward.
And so she did, at least for a time. There was not another country resi-
dence within miles of Sea Lodge. A so-called hotel stood near by, indeed, but
its inniates and visitors were mainly persons of the ruder if not lewder sort,'
and they no more frequented the Judge's house than Canaanites of old infested
the schools of'the prophets. In the neighboring city the family had few-ac-
quaintances, and those few rarely drove out to render it visits. Sometimes
hack loads of singing or yelling revellers clattered by of nights, inciting Mr.
Wetherel to repeat Milton's verse concerning "The noisy sons of Belial, -flown
with insolence and Wine." 1 But in general Sea Lodge was a refuge of quiet;
hearing no clamor but the thump of waves on the beach, and certainly produc-
ing no uproar of its own.
Nevertheless, Satan was prowling about, as the Judge frequently-asserted;
kep, suc being the case, disturbances and evil adventures could not long be

I      (


30                   THE WETIIIREL AFFAIR.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE JOYS AND SNARES OF MOONLIGHT.
"DID you ever see such a dull place!" demanded the sociable Alice, quite
ready, we fear, to let Satan into Sea Lodge rather than bear with itsdulness.
"Alice, I am perfectly happy," answered Nestoria. "That is, almost,"
she added, recollecting certain absent ones whose presence would have made
the happiness perfect. "I find every day too short. I hate to go to sleep."
"Well, if you are not joyful on the very smallest provocation,! What in
the world are you happy for? Because we never do anything? Because we
never see anybody? Because we are shut up in an enchanted castle, with Un-
cle Wetherel for a magician?"
"But we do do something. I have read half of Robinson's 'Syria' to
your uncle. I have written twenty pages to my father. We have driven and
sailed and walked. I could look all day at the sea,.it is so beautiful and mys-
terious. How can you find it dull! You ought to live in a Nestorian village
for a few years. It would teach you what sameness is."
"Why, my dear little canary bird, I do believe you are scolding," laughed
Alice.
"Scolding-? "asked Nestoria
"At any rate you lectured. It was borne in upon me that I repine without
cause. You certainly lectured."
"Did I? I mustn't. I am not fit."
"Oh, don't be so humble! And do, please, don't be so reprovingly con-
tented. You wouldn't be, perhaps, if you had seen as much of the world as I
have, and knew by experience how much livelier places there are in it than
Sea Lodge. What I am crazy for is Newport."
"What is Newport?" inquired Nestoria.
What is Newport? " repeated Alice. "Oh, of course you don't know.
Well, Newport is the pri ncipal seaport of-of Mount Pisgah."
Nestoria perceived that Aliee was laughing at le:, and a blush of dismay
and distress danced into her cheeks, so sensitive can a young p rson be who
grows up'in Nestorian hamlets, surrounded by grave, considerate, kindly peo.
ple.
"Really, you ought to be shown Newport," continued Alice. "If uncle
wasn't shamefully mcan  "
"Don't!" pleaded Nestoria, forgetting her sense of humiliation in her de-
sire to defend the excellent Judge.
"I mean if he wasn't dreadfully good and conscientious, and so forth, he
would take us there. We should see some living life, and we should pick up
beaux. They are a deal finer than cockle shells. They are the most interest-
ing of objects by the seaside. And there is.one particular beau of mine whom
i should dearly like to meet again for the ,fun of laughing at his oddities.
Men are always more entertaining than women; they are so much more un-
trammelled, and do so much queerer things, and have so much more charac-
ter; but this special man is as diverting as a cage full of monkeys. He is a
Pole, so he says, and a count also, so lie says, and I never heard anybody- say
to the contrary, and it may 1)e so. But at 'any rate he is a gentleman, and
handsome, and pretends to be very learned, arid as polite as a pickpocket, as I
hoard somebody put it; and oh, so devoted, such compliments, such nonsense

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         31
I could listen to him forever, only it might kill me with laugmng. Count Po-
loski. It's quite a distinguished name, isn't it? And he is a great favorite, I
can tell you; and the attentions he paid me set more than one other girl on a
pincushion; and of course that made the fun all the greater. Oh yes, what
with the Count and lots more not so very much wiser, and a few who are re-
ally fascinating and irresistible, Newport is a delightful sort of Vanity Fair,
and well worth showing to you."
Nestoria made. no response. Either Alice's description of the charms of
Newport  did not present a temptation to her mind, or she thought it wrong to
discourse of such temptations.
'This evening we will get u our own Newport," continued Miss Dinnefoid.
"We will walk alone and in sil nce on the beach, and view the moonlight."
"I wish you would,"answered Nestoria, who honestly thought this simple
treat delightful.
" You don't mean it! " echoed the worldling of twenty, in mockery. '' Well,
reckless as the dissipation may be, we will plunge into. it. But what would
your father say?"S/
" don't see why he should object,"t wondered the innocent from the dove-
cote in Kurdistan.
'Nor I either, on second thoughts," laughed Alice. "We may meet a
few oysters, but they are deaf and dumb, you know; they won't even make
signs to us. And even if they do, I hope we shall be above flirting with mol-
lusks "
Are they mollusks?" queried Nestoria. " Oh dear, how little I know
about this wonderful world that I live in! I must recommence my studies."
Let them go at mollusks," advised Alice. ."I am sure I don't know
whether they are or not, and don't care. I am sorry I used the horrid word,
since it has waked up your worrisome conscience. What do you have such a
conscience for? It must be very inconvenient."
"Alice, I should be afraid of you if I thought you meant half you say,"
gravely observed Nestoria.
"Oh, I don't; I don't mean a quarter of it," affirmed Alice. "I mainly
mean to talk. When I can't find any human being to listen to me, I talk to
the cat; and didn't I get a lecture on the subject one day from Uncle Wetherel!
Alice,' said he, ' conversation addressed to a dumb beast must be considered
as idle conversation, and as such we shall be called to account for it.' Now
ho you believe that the recording angel takes down what I say to a pussy cat?-
If so, he must take down what Uncle Wetherel says to Old Sorrel. But I
don't believe it. - I don't believe that angels attend to any such small busi-
ness."
"Alice, I wish you wouldn't speak of such subjects so-gayly," murmured
Nestoria. "You fill ie with astonishment and perplexity."
"Poor little. dove!" said Alice. "how could they send you out of the
ark? '"
As the girls prepared to take their walk 'in the evening Mrs. Dinneford
asked where they were going.
" Nantucket, Cape Cod, and all along shore," answered her daughter.- " If
we don't come hack, inquire at Marblehead."
"Don't expose'yourselves too long to the night air." counselled the elder
woman, o, lihtsmano eder women, was much given to medical precepts.

op


32                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"The moonlight is healthful, begging your pardon, Mrs.:Dinneford," in-
terposed the Judge. "The moonlight is but the reflection of the life-giving
sunlight. It is the dampness of the night air which is not healthful."
"I was always brought up to believe that it was the moonlight which did
the harm," persisted good Mrs. Dinneford, a kind soul not without obstinacy.
" When our bringing up is contrary to the truth, we must abjure it, as we
would abjure and renounce our original sinfulness," lectured the old gentle-'
man.
"I have the greatest mind to walk out with you, children,"~said Mrs. Din-
neford. 'If you'll wait just a minute till I find my hat and shawl-"
"Oh, mamma, don't!" protested Alice. "You know you never will find
your hat and shawl. And besides we want to take a romantic walk and fill
our tranquil souls with meditation, and if you go with us you will spoil all
that by talking-a steady stream and quoting Tupper."
Well, go along," laughed the mother. "But do be careful, and if you
meet any strangers turn back, for there are too many wild people about here
of nights."                '
" Without are dogs," quoted the Judge.
Sothe two girls went unattended down to the beach and strolled along its
enchanted meanderings. The ripples of a brimming tide joyously patted the
sands at their feet, and a varying moonlight descended upon them through
the shifting mountains of cloudland. The harbor, a sheet of sombre azure
chased with sparkling silver, swept out into the broad expanse, here obscure
and there effulgent, of the Sound. Miles away a light-house beamed luridly
"like a star on eternity's ocean." A single sail, undoubtedly that of a pleasure
boat, now gleaming like polished marble and now darkening into a misty
ghost, was the only moving object in the exquisite picture. For nearly half
an hour the pair wandered; the lively Alice chattering gayly, or throwing
pebbles into the water, or whirling on her heel to make marks in the sand;
while the quieter Nestoria listened, smiled, and loitered, half lost in waking
dreams.
"I would like to stay here till morning," murmured the waif from the
arid Orient. "This world of waters is something so new to me, and so inex-
haustibly wonderful, that it bewitches me."
"So would I like to make a night of it, if there were only dancing," an-
swered the representative of New York society. "Oh, don't I hate quiet, and
don't I love company! I was made to buzz. and hum through life like a fly,
always looking for a swarm of other flies. Uncle Wetherel compares me to a
hornbug; you know what headlong, noisy things they are, and how they blun-
der about; buzz, bang, and down they come on their backs and kick dread-
fully; and then up again, to knock their heads against some other corner and
get another great fall, like Humpty Dumpty. It's an odious comparison, and
I don't assent to it altogether; and yet I must admit that there is something a
little like, for I do have a great many adventures, and bounce out of them
safely."
" That sail boat is coming to land," observed Nestoria. " Ought we not to
go back? "
"Go back? No. There are sail boats spinning up and down the harbor
every evening, just for the sake of spinning up and down and enjoying the
mnot'on. You might as well be afraid of gulls. The one lauds as often as the
other."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

But it is close under that rocky point' declared Nestoria. " They could
disep1bark there without our seeing them."
"Oh, boats frequently sail under the bluff and then sweep on into thecove
thend Wound they come very near the shore, too; we 'might perhaps hail
them. Would you mind hailing them and then running away? There is just
a possible small chance that sonme of our New Haven friends mightee in the
boat. You won't? Oh, Nestoria, you are a regular drag and drawback to
fun, and more prudent and shysthan my mother. You stay here while I climb
up the rocks and look over to see who they are. It is only a few rods. Will
youp"
"Yes,1 conceded Nestoria. "But don't be gone long, and do be prudent."
"If they are strangers, I will come directly back," promised Alice. She
hufrri aay bn heart  g ecnnoissance, and clambered the little rocky
bluff with a beating heart but with, a soul prepared for audacious ventures
Reaching the seaside brow of the knoll, she looked down upon the boatures-
covered thatit had drawn close up to the shore as if -the men in it  boat
land, and was about to slip backhand return to Nestoria, when shepro se
self called by nam e.whnseeadder
"Who is it?" she asked in a voice of gleeful excitement.
"Edward Wetherel; and Count Poloski is withtme."
"Oh, Cousin Edward." -erxclaimed Alice. She hesitated -an instant and
d, ome up here, Edward. And the Count may come, too."

i


CHAPTER IX.
A WRONG-IIEADED HERO.
divulge what Edward Wetherel lhad to say to his cousin and
ErFOrIE we mulgo ba  a little in his history and see how he had brought
about this interview, or rather how he had been led onto it.
He had parted from Nestoria on the Elm City, as we remember. without
bidding her good-by; and we will add that he had left her thus because when
nt to say his last word he found her already in the arms of Alice Dinne-
herd;and with the Dinnefords, his lucky rivals in the good-will of his uncle, it
was not possible for him to be cordial on instant notice.   .      f
Now Edward was a wilful, self-seeking, pleasure-loving youngster. He
ow         wa   , and he was greedy after agreeable emotions, and he took
disappointments very unkindly. It annoyed him to lose the farewell scene
which he had meant to have With Nestoria; to be cheated out of a final pres-
suie of her soft hand and an investigating gaze into her blue eyes; to be gagged,
as it were, just as lie was aboutto utter some sweet word which should com--
pai her not to forest hi. Moreover, the mere sight of Alice was dishearten-
ing and vexatious, reminding him as it did of that inconvenient quarrel with
the Judge, which had been so hard on his feelings, and which threatened to
e ruinous to his nurse. In asbitter modd he took a hack with his friend Wol-
erton and drove to the New Haven House, very sadly disposed to call for
wine or other mightier drinks ard make what lie called a night of it. They
obtained adjoining rooms, and Wetherel presently threw the connecting door
open, being much in need of uplifting converse.
" Awfully depressing, this living alone in the world and doing nothing," he
observed as he "curled and combed his comely head."  "I wonder if every
fellow finds it as heavy work as I dodok                        self
" I have rounded that point," said Wolverton. "I have broken mthse
fairly in to an idle, useless, unfruitful bachelor life. I am serious in these
days, but never desperate."
"You are confoundedly discouraging, Wolverton," sulked the younger
pleasure-seeker. "Is that all a fellow gets by giving himself up to having a
goad time?"               'Ic'rta          m"alre      n  edrma
"If he gets any more, he is luckier than I am," affirmed treelder man.

TIIE WETHIEREL AFFAIR.
composedlyy but with sincerity. "On the whole I made a mistake in not mar&amp;
ring and going to work. That is, so I think. My notion .is that a wife and
children keep a man full of work and worry, and so cheer him up by relieving
him of himself. It is like putting on a blister to mitigate the rheumatism.
Both are bad enough, but the blister is the best."
Wetherel, a hopeful young egotist, never quite content in his selfishness,
but always looking forward to a day when joy should be unconfined, was dis--
mlayed by this unlooked-for confession.
I have a great mind to turn a corner, and settle down to business, and
perhaps marry," lie said.
"Why don't you?" answered Wolverton, who was a kindly-hearted crea-
ture enough, never doing mischief except when it was agreeable, and apt to
wish well to young men. "And let me advise you. to begin by making up
that family quarrel. .Go down to your uncle's villa and fall on his venerable
bosom and get hold of the fatted calf. You are just a little bit of an idiot,
youngster. - A man who will quarrel with a million ought to have his organs
examined. I have had softening of the brain myself occasionally; but I never
yet was so far gone as to disagree with a million."
"It isn't I who quarrel," asserted Edward; and he was quite blindly seri-
ous in so declaring. "It is the old one. He wants to govern me; wants to
governme physically, morally, and intellectually; wants to'say what I shall
eat, drink, think;and believe;- wants to rule soul, body, inwards, and exti'emi.
ties. He is down on everything that a young man naturally prefers. Opposed
to lager, opposed to dancing and whist, opposed to reading novels, opposed
to fashionable churches and episcopacy, opposed to everything but Plymouth
flock puritanism. low can a fellow submit to such prejudices and irrationality
and domineering?  Quarrel?   I live my natural life and say my-honest
thought; and thereupon he exorcises me as if I were Apollyon. I only ask
leave to be human, andl he insists upon my being a ghost. His very way of
talking makes his ideas forbidding. One word marches solemnly and grimly
after another, like bearers at , a funeral. At the end of every sentence you
think he is dead and want to pnt up a gravestone. lIe makes religion disagree-
able. I don't hate religion; I am capable of admiring it; in such a shape as
Nestoria Bernard I can worship it."
It is more or less instructive to hear both sides in a controversy. From
Edward's philippic, immoral and unreasonable as it was in the main, we can
gather the regrettable fact that the exterior of Judge Wetherel's noble probity
and sincere piety had some severe features which repelled instead of enticing,
and that, had lie been less exacting and inflexible in the minor matters of his
moral law, he might more easily have led souls into his own circle of beliefs
and sentiments. It is furthermore worth considering that this same Nestoria,
whom the young man was so ready to accept as a model of attractive devout-
ness, found no difficulty in appreciating, respecting, and loving the Plymouth
Rock puritan. One is tempted to query doubtfully whether two youthful peo-
ple, who could look at the same standard character from such diverse stand-
points,lwould be likely to join heart with heart for a journey through life, and
whether, if they should so join, the result would be happy.
Even that unenlightened worldling, Wolverton, a man little given to deep
moral philosophizings and spiritual insights, eduld see through his friend's sec-
ond-hand respect for religion in the form of a handsome girl, and smile at itsa
preposterous magnanimity.


.36                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"Gracious youngster!" he grinned. "How much you c:an put up with
if it's only pleasant enough and pretty enough! Perhaps you could fancy St;
Cecilia, now, or the Sistine Madonna. However, I must put something to
your credit; there are stupider sinners than you; there are men who wouldn't
like the irl at all. Well, how much and how long are you going to woi-
ship the Final Good in her shape? I am interested in the child, and should like
to knov what is going to be done for her."
Wetherel made no reply; his face was agreeably pensive and his eyes
softer than usual; he was pondering whether it would be well to fall in love
with Nestoria.
11Would you want to marry a staid little puritan, with a conscience and all.
that sort of thing?" asked Wolverton.
"I don't object to piety in a wife," responded the young man, with a liber-
ality for which the Christian world surely ought to he grateful. "Indeed, I
would rather have it. Do you suppose that I want one of the wild girls that
I flirt with and everybody flirts with, and that have got, all the down of inno-
cent simplicity rubbed off them, and that know so much too much of pretty
much everything?".
Well, it isn't nice; but plenty of fellows do marry just that sort; and
somehow or other they makeover as good as new. Our American girls are
a queer lot; they seem to have an inexhaustible reserve of innocence laid up
somewhere; when the first supply is out, they absorb more. However, I like
this' little seraph better than the other sort. She is such a replica of the one I
knew! Why not keep her in mind? Such a match might bring you around
with the Judge. I hate to see you lose that fortune."
"I don't know," muttered Wetherel, with the vagueness of a man who is
lost in troublous meditation. " It is all a muddle. Life is a confounded mud-
tile."1
The wilful and impulsive youngster, who had taken his own way so stub-
bornly and got himself into difficulties thereby, was not quite certain that he had
better do just what he wanted to do in the immediate future. He liked Nes-
toria much, and believed that e should easily learn to love her, and found it
veriy pleasant to think of marrying her. But there was a great risk in the
roseate adventure; there was a chance of dropping from the horns of the
matrimonial altarintothe trials of poverty; somewhat as the sacrificial in-
fants of the Sidonians rolled out of the arms of. the god into the blazing fur-
niace beneath.                                        dh    a   ut
Lce feared lest the Judge had already disinherited him; and he was quite
sure that le had spent the last penny of his paternal fortune. Indeed, he was
in debt; creditors had drivenhim from New York and other creditors from
Saratoga; at this very moment he was subsisting on money borrowed from
Wolverton. Fifty thousand dollars had danced through the gateways of
leasure, and only left him a craving for delights which he could no longer
purchase. He had been- one of those thoroughly headstrong and reckless
youths who are so common in Europe and so rare in America. Strong emo-
tions, thoughtless generosity, and an 'ostentatious love of expense had bank-
i'u pted him, In the last four years their malign magic had degraded him from
the position of a youth of fair fortune, and made of him that wretched and
ridiculous personmage whom slang has christened a " dead beat."
luarry? Marry without a profession, without habits of labor, without a
dollar to fee the parson ? And suppose his uncle should 'be unrelenting, and

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR37
give him nothing, and even decline to recommend him for a position in the.
custom-house? He-knew that, froni the staid and severe old man's point of
view, he was untrustworthy and unendorsable and little less than abominable.
He had disputed rules of conduct and articles of belief which the Judge held
to be inexorably binding and -tremendously important. There had been wild
orgies in his life in Paris and painful scandals in his life in New York; and a
sufficiently accurate report of these excesses had reached the horrified ears of
his relative. Finally (and here was another terrible charge against him in the
eyes ofa prudent business man), he had beei not only unwise in regard to the
concerns of the other world, but reckless in the affairs of this, investing reck-
lessly and utterly wasting his substance.
For these things he had been sternly reproved, and warned that severe
punishinent would follow on continuance in evil, and all to no purpose. lIe
had argued with lofty flippancy in defence of his ways, and had irritated his
grave and conscientious adviser to the utmost. There had been a quarrel;
the uncle had ceased to invite the nephew to his house; then he had sent for
his more distant relatives, the Dinnefords; finally it was supposed that he had
altered his will. - This last story Edward did not credit, until, having spent or
lost his ultimate dollar, he fell into that depression of spirit which poverty
brings to those whom it visits for the first time.
1ow. lining on borrowed money, he did fear seriously that he had sold his
birthright for departed messes of pottage. As he mechanically continued his
light labor of personal adornment he meditated on the pit into which he had
st'unibled, and on the chances of getting out of it. If he should reform, or
pretend reformation; if he should humble himself before the Judge and lead a
quiet life; if he should marry this daughter of a missionary, no doubt a pet
with the devout master of Sea Lodge, would the riches which had taken wings
fly back to him? The "dead beat " was far from certain of it, and no wonder
that his fine eyes were gloomy.
"'Well, Wolverton, we will see," lie said at last, trying to puff away his
sorrows with a sigh. " I have a great mind to turn a corner, I don't like it.
Be good, and you will be happy, but you won't have a good time. Now I
want a good time. Still, it seems to be advisable to turn a corner ajid try the
next street. Only we won't do it this evening. Let's get up some fellows and
be jolly."
There are no fellows here, I suppose," replied Wolverton. "None of
our fellows."
I saw the Count in the reading-room as we came tgp stairs."
What Count?   here are so many counts! "
Poloski, as he calls himself," said Edward, ringing the bell. " I'll have
him up."
CHAPTER X.
A GENTLEMAN AND SCHOLAR.
" POLOSKI!" grumbled Wolverton. "What the deuce is.he here for? Run
aground on the bottom of his purse and waiting for.a chance to gamble, I sup-
pose. What (10 you want him up for.? I don't believe in him."
"There is something in blood," said Edward, remembering, with more than
the pride of his uncle, that he was descended from many recorded Wetherels.

/


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"I suppose a count must be a gentleman in some one point of his character, if
you can only discover what that point is."
"I never knew one in this country who could be trusted," asserted Wolver-
ton. " They are all dead-beats, looking out for a rich marriage or some other
chance to swindle somebody. And to the best of my travelling observation and
study, four-fifths of those in Europe are no better. Poloski at any rate is a
sucker. He is a sponge incarnate."
"You needn't lend him anything. Tell him you have passed over all your
flush to me., Come. let's have him in. He is such a confounded blowhard and,
monkey that he is amusing."
"Send for- him," returned Wolverton, a lazily obliging man, as many idle
people are.
On the arrival of a waiter to answer the bell, Edward despatched him in
search of the distinguished foreigner.
" Tall, light-complexioned fellow," he. explained. "Looks a little like me;
perhaps a good deal."    .
"I wouldn't say that," put in Wolverton when the servant had departed.
"It's a resemblance that isn't recommendatory."
"I don't brag of it," laughed the young man. "But I have been taken for
him, and I know he can wear my clothes. Borrowed a tiptop suit once and
never returned it. Fitted him like a glove. Whenever I met himin it, bow-
ing and grimacing in his ridiculous style, I felt like saying, 'How are you, you
jackanapes of a Wetherel, and what are you cutting up those monkey-shines
for?'"
Presently the noble guest of America entered the room. He was certainly
very like Wetherel; he had the same fair skin and hair, the same resolute blue
eyes and prominent chin, the same height and slenderness; furthermore, he
appeared to be of about the same age, although he was in reality several years
older. The resemblance between the two men did not, however, extend tO
expression and mann er. Poloski's expression was against him; it had un-
pleasant gleams of furtiveness and dexterity; it suggested a man who lives by
his wits; In gesture and style of speaking he was more graceful and animated
than the young American, or than Americans- in general. Nor. was it quite
just to accuse him of " monkey-shines "; his address, though lively, was hu-
man enough, and fairly agreeable. His accent in English was.nearly perfect,
which, I believe, is not a wonderful thing in a Pole.
"How do, Wolverton? How do, Wetherel?" he said in rapid, cheerful,
pleasant tone, at the same time showing his teeth cordially. "So glad to find
you here! What a dull place this is, to be sure! 'But I am in luck. I was
just thinking how I could pass the evening, and here you are;. the riddle is
solved.. Thank you, Wolverton; I never refuse a cigar ;. at least, never yours.
Have you taken tea? So have I. We.bnve the evening before us, and it's all
serene and the goose hangs high; as you Americans say. I like your slang, so
fresh and picturesque, so full of metaphor. All slang is worthy of study; it is
the source and life of language; speech would become dead without it. I read
an essay. on the slang of the Teutonic tongues before the Royal Society of Ber-
lin.. I will show it to you some day."
Wetherel gave Wolverton a glance which was as much as to say, "There
.he goes again!" To boast of literary and scholarly attainments was one of the
habits of the Count. He was continually telling you that he had written this
or that elegant or recondite work, and promising to let you see it, only he never

THE WETEEREI AFFAIR.                   . g
brought it. If he borrowed a book or bought one (which he frequently did on
trust), he would usually remark, "I take this for the pleasure of studying the
nian's style; the subject is familiar to me."              t
"What brings you tothe Athens of Connecticut, Count?" asked Wolvertnn,
easily repressing what desire he had to examine the essay on the "Slang of
the Teutonic Tongues."
" A young lady," replied the noble stranger, showing his teeth with a glee
which was close upon triumph. " What else could bring me anywhere? '
lovely and dashing Miss Alice."
"Family name? " inquired Wetherel.
"I'beg your pardon," smiled the Count, leaning forward apologetically.
"What is her family name?" repeated Wetherel.
"IAh, yes; Dinneford."
The two Americans exchanged glances, and Alice's second cousin looked
slightly indignant.
"I hoped for her at Newport, but she did not come," continued Poloski.
"So I learned of her whereabouts and followed her to her retreat. Besides, I
wanted a quiet seashore place. I propose to sail, fish, and pay court to Miss
1)inneford."
"Nice plan," observed Wetherel, who had recovered his good humor, see-
ing perhaps a chance to make sport of his patrician. "I shouldn't wonde4if
you succeeded. You are a Pole, you know, and a long one, and they say the
longest poles knock the persimmons."
"Is that a slang?" asked Poloski, with the joy of a discoverer. "But I do
not perceive the application. What is a persimmon, and what has a Pole to
do with it?"
" A persimmon is a fruit and a pole is a stick," explained the young Amer-
ican, with an indifference which apologized for his poor joke.
But the student of slang was delighted. "Oh! I understand," he ex-
claimed. "A Pole, yes! The longest poles knock the persimmons. Very
good. I shall remember that."
" I know where your Dulcinea is staying," continued Wetherel. "If-you
want,,I will take you to a quiet boarding-place hi plain sight .of the house
where she is."
" Will you? " said the gratified Count. " I invite you to lodge there with
me. We will make a summer together; that is, we will make an August to-
gether."
"How are you off for stampsP" prudently inquired the American, not car-
ing to furnish the funds for both.
"The looker is full of shot," laughed Poloski, slapping a pocket.' "I was
in luck at Newport. Poker is for me a propitious pastime, a game of good for-
tunes. By the way, do you care to play to-night-just a little?"
"No, no," said Wetherel, shaking his head with frank positiveness. "You
are too many for nme."
"Too many for me," repeated the Count. "Another of' your American
slangs; and good-very expressive.;, Too many for me. Very good."
"You had better go along with us, Wolverton," added Wetherel. "The
place I. mean is on Lighthouse Point. We - can bathe and sail all we like, and
there ;is fishing among the Thimble Islands. Come, old fellow ; say you wil.
" Yes, say you will," echoed Poloski, catching at the phrase as a new one.
" Where there's a will there's a way. Say you will, and then go It."


40                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"While you're young," suggested Edward. " You are in the vein, Polos-
ki. Tell him to go it while he's young."
"Yes, go it while you're young," laughed the Count, enjoying this sort of
talk amazingly; for was it not linguistic exercise and getting a mastery over
slang?
"That will do," said Wolverton. "I don't mind trying it for a few days.?'
He did not care to leave his young friend with Poloski, lest there should be
poker and the funds which he had loaned should evaporate. At the same time
he approved of the selection of Lighthouse Point as a place of sojourn, for the
reasons that it was within easy reach of Sea Lodge, and that it was quite nat-
ural that Edward should want to be near Nestoria, and that good might come
of his being near his uncle.
On the following da~y, therefore, this trio drove in a hack to the Point and
secured lodgings in the house of one of t ose seaside farmers who combine
fishing with agriculture and "summer boars." Remembering that the Count
came hither in order to be within flirting re ach of the '"lovely and dashing"
Miss Alice, and appreciating with due sympathy his fond dreams of walking
daily under her window and gesticulating at it with a sentimental handker-
chief, we can imagine the surprise and discontent with which he learned that
s   dwelt on the opposite side of the harbor, divided from his palpitations by
ee miles of salt water.
"I thought you told me it was close by," he remarked with a grin of an-
noyance.
"In plain sight, I said," returned Wetherel. "Don't you see it?"
"Yes, I see it. But what is the use ? I cannot pay court through a tele-
scope; and she will not even know that I am here. One might as well be the
man in the moon. How am I ever to reach there?"
" Leander swam the Hellespont, and I will swim this here," chanted Ed-
ward.-
" How shockingly you sing," sulked Poloski. "No Americans have ear or
voice. And the air is utterly common."
At the same time he resolved that if Wetherel ever should enter the lists of
poker with him he would show him no mercy.
If you don't like swimming, you can sail," continued the American.
"Take a boat and go over there by moonlight. No young lady could resist it."
" Delightful! " cried the Count, cheering up at once. " Exquisitely roman-
tic! My dear Wetherel, you sing charmingly. . When will you go?"
Edward reflected for a moment. Should he take this adventurer, this possi-
bly vulgar impostor, into the neighborhood of his relatives? Well, yes; there
was little likelihood of serious harm.resulting; his cousin was sufficiently ex-
perienced in flirtations to be able to take care of herself. Furthermore, why
should he be tender of Alice? The Dinnefords had been injurious to his pros-
pects in life, as he supposed; and perhaps if they should commit a folly,-if
Alice should accept the attentions of this absurd and dubious Count, it might
diminish their noxious influence; the strict and practical old Judge might take
a disgust to them and turn again to favor his nephew. In allowing these
thoughts to rule him he did not see proof that he was a bad fellow; he merely
understood in a careless way that he was justifiably vindictive and intelligently
politic. How clement we are apt to be in the matter of ehrging meanness or
guilt upon ourselves! There is surely some need of an ace sing angel.
But in spite of his egoism anid his imperfect percepti n 1f the beautiful and

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          41
good in conduct, he did feel bound, if only out of respect to himself, to give the
fount a warning that the proprieties. must be strictly observed, even in paying
suit to a young lady who could be fairly described as " dashing."
"You must understand, Poloski," he said, " that this Miss Alice is my sec-
ond cousin."
"You astonish me," bowed the Count. "I incline to your authority.''
"1I don't boast any," continued Edward. " Her mother and her uncle claim
all there is, I suppose. And besides, I believe that the girl is more than your
match, and that you can't fascinate her."
" At least permit me to pay her my humble respects," begged Poloski.
" We will sail over there," assented Edward. "I have my own reasons for
going. And you may walk by the house once and wave your handkerchief."
So, one moonlit evening, Wetherel took Poloski in a "sharpy " and pi-
loted him to the other shore; and there, as we already know, they came upbn
Alice Dinneford, lightheartedly watching for adventures.
CHAPTER XI.
THE FLIRTATIONS OF A PHILOLOGIST.
" COME up here," Alice Dinneford had called, when Edward announced him-
self and his companion from the boat.
Oh, Count Poloski! " she added, with a hearty laugh as the two men
clambered the face of the little bluff and reached her side. " Who could have
huagined meeting you here! Isn't this romantic! Isn't it bully! " she para-
ph'rsed, remembering the, Count's appetite for slang. " Did you sail all the
way from Newport? Where do you hail from and where are you bound?'.
Like a youthfull veteran in flirtations, as she was, she was not a bit.embar-
rassed, much less frightened.
"I have hailed from clouds of despair and I am bound in chains of admi-
ration," replied Poloski, somewhat elaborately polite and complimentary, as
continental Europeans are apt to'be in our judgment.
Alice laughed again very merrily, immensely amused with his turn of her
inquiry, and amused too with the situation.
"I know, I know,".she said. "You are always in chains for every lady
you see. I thought you were at Newport, worshipping a hundred of them."
"I was at Newport," admitted the Count, with a look which seemed to cast
scorn upon the place. "But how could I stay at Newport when Miss Dinne-
.ford was not there ? "
"Oh, of course you couldn't,", declared Alice with renewed laughter.
" Who could P Of course the men are leaving Newport by hundreds because
I am not there. Oh, Count, how you gentlemen from Europe do flatter! You
tell us simple American girls all the fine things that you used to tell the grand
ladies of all the courts. And some of us believe every word you say."
She laughed at his compliments, and yet she was gratified by them; she
laughed at the man himself, and yet she liked to have him about her; was he
not an admirer, and was he not a noble ? While Poloski was fishing in the
-depths of his fancy for another scrap of adulation, she turned to her relative
with a graver air than she had worn hitherto, and -asked, " Where are you
staying, Cousin Edward? "
" At Brown's, on the other side of the bay," he said. " The Count and Mr


42

THE-WETIIEREL AFFAIR.

Frank Wolverton are with me. We thought we could amuse ourselves there
for a while. How is your mother?"
"She is verywell, thank you," the girl replied mechanically. "Always
well and in good spirits, you know."
And my uncle?" lie added after a pause.
"As usual," she said. It was not easy for hei to talk with Edward on that
subject. In the first place, it suddenly occurred to her that if the strict and
prudent old gentleman should hear of her being out alone with her present
company, lie would not take the adventure in an approving spirit. Further-
more, she knew of the family' quarrel; and she guessed that there might be a
last will and testament of a retributive character; a will, possibly, that would
lead Edward some day to denounce her and her mother as unprincipled and
grasping intriguers.-
"Are you coming to see him? " she faltered.
Some day I may venture," lie replied moodily.
" Will you!" she exclaimed cheerfully; for she was not selfish, knowing in-
deed too little of the value of money to be greedy about it; and she would
have been heartily glad o - reconciliation between the young man and the
old one, even though it cost ier much filthy lucre. " I wish you would," she
added. " Mamma and I w 11 do our best to make the visit pleasant to you."
You are a good cou n," said Edward, tal ing her hand and pressing it.
This unexpected prais , uttered in such a moving tone of honest thanks,
brought a little flash  moisture into the girl's eyes. She was profoundly
gratified that her  nerosity of feeling had been understood and appreciated.
Light-headed   er as she was, there was a solid foundation of goodness and
blindness in her, discoverable to serious souls by dint of happy accident or se-
vere delving. Perhaps we may venture to aflirmn that every woman has as
many characters as a cat has lives.
Her utterance of friendship brought her a reward which she had not desired
and for which she was not thankful. Wetherel had intended to give her a lit-
tle season of lovely flirtation with Poloski; he had been mean enough and
hard enough to decide that she might fall a victim, if she chose, to the fellow's
fortune-hunting blandishments; but now his finer feelings and moralities re-
covered their power, and he decided to watch over her. Seating himself on a
bowlder, with his face toward the shining of the sea, he said, " Go on with your
talk about Newport, you two, and don't mind a dull fellow who wants to
mope.",
"Miss Alice, when you speak of courts, you speak of your own proper
sphere," put in the Count, who had at last discovered the compliment for
which he had been searching. "I should be most glad to see you in regal cir-
cles. I should take high pleasure in introducing you. It would give me the,
greatest satisfaction to behold your triumphs over all those ladies that we have
to pay our compliments to when we are at home." ,
"Oh, don't!" said Alice, who was still thinking of the Wetherel imbroglio,
and could not at once recover her frolicsomeness. " You are piling up the
agony a little too high, 'as the comic men in the newspapers express it.",
"Piling up the agony!" echoed the rejoiced Count., "That is another
slang, isn't it? How expressive it is, and diverting! Yes, Miss Dinneford, I
will pile up the agony ; I will pile it up as high as the clouds. My heart shall-
be crushed under it."
Alice could be grave no longer ; she shouted with laughter.

THE WETEREL AFFAIR.                         4
"You"mustn't do it," she said. " It would be too painful to contemplate.
There wouldn't be a dry eye on earth."
"But I must," persisted Poloski enthusiastically. "It is in my nature to
do it. And it is in yours to-to  "
"To grin and bear it," suggested Alice.
"Another slang!" fairly yelled the delighted nobleman and linguist.
What a language! It is so rich, so flashing, that it makes me wink.' This
English tongue is one vast orientalism. It is one tangled forest of metaphor.
I have written a work on the Migrations of Metaphor, which was published in
German by order of the Imperial Society of Vienna. I will give you a beau-
tiful copy of it, Miss Alice."
Donit fail," urged Alice, who did not understand a word of German, and
never read anything more solid than a book of travels.
After a short silence Poloski added, with a mazed and helpless expression
of countenance, " I have forgot what I was wanting to say."
You were talking about you great work," suggested the young lady.
No, no ; i~t was not that. Ah, I remember. . Your nature. You did not
let me conclude. I was going to say it was in your, nature to make men pile
up the agony. . And then comes the question, What shall they do? flow
shall they be relieved? "
" Why, let'them ,go up to the top of their respective agonies and jump off,"
laughed the girlish trifier.
Capital! ".roared the Count. "It is true; there is no other escape; and
now, see me, I shall jump off," he concluded, swinging his arms as if lie were
about to.leap into time harbor.
"Oh, do stop him," laughed Alice, almost in convulsions., "I 'shall have
hysterics in a minute. Count Poloski, you will certainly get a tumble if you
are not more careful, and then all the fashionable watering-places will cry
their eyes out."
At this moment Ed ward asked, " Who is that up the beach, Alice? "
Miss Dianeford uttered a little cry. " Dear me! And I have left her alone
all this time. . The darling little dove will fly back to Mount Ararat."
Is it Miss Bernard? " continued Wetherel, rising and facing toward the
dinly seen figure. "I wondered you should- be out without her. But I sup-
posed she was dutifully reading the ' Puritan Recorder' to the elder people.'"
"And you didn't like to ask about her because you wanted so much to hear.
I understand the timorous ways of young gentlemen. But how well you know
'her! She does read the ' Puritan Recorder' to the elder people. Isn't she a
good, dear little thing? I think her queer name just suits her. Nestoria-
isn't it odd-and pretty? "
" What is Nestoria?" put in the Count.
" A visitor and friend of mine," explained Alice. ." And, oh, such a per-
fect little angelic beauty!"
"Is she rich?," eagerly queried the noble foreigner.
" No," petulantly responded Miss Dinneford, turning cool at once. "What
a question to ask about a good, lovely girl!"
."It is a pity," persisted Poloski, firm in his own opinion, concerning the
desirableness of lucre. "Every beauty deserves to be rich.: A philosopher
desires to see completeness. It is a shame to fortune when 'a beauty cannot
dress beautifully. What did you say is her queer nameP"
"Nestoria."


44.                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"There is a people called Nestorians," commented the omniscient Count.
"I wrote an Inquiry into the Origin of the Nestorians. I will give it to you
some day."
"Where are you going?" called Alice to Wetherel, who was strolling
away.
"He is going to make an inquiry into the Nestorian future," simpered the
gallant Poloski, even more ready than a woman to suspect a courtship.
Edward could not resist the temptation of an interview with Nestoria. In-
deed, he never even thought of trying to resist it; fighting temptation wa~s not
his favorite spiritual warfare; if he could be said to fight at all it was. oh the
side of desire. A creature of impulse, he rarely asked himself whether a thing
were right or wrong, but simply whether it would be pleasant and easy to do;
and if it so seemed, he did it. It was lucky for him that his impulses were in
general not such as the world has agreed to consider inhuman, degraded, and
dishonorable. ,It was not moral principle and not self-control, it was merely
an innate kindliness and that species of moral culture which is called a sense
of honor, that had saved him from being a violator of laws and a criminal.
He had a sort of conscience, but its main strength lay in self-respect and in
respect for the name of Wetherel, and its boundaries of action were neither
large nor well defined. He had also profound possibilities of moral and sen-
timental energy; but those abysses had never yet been stirred into action by
either events or teachings.
We see what he was now doing, and how impulsively he set about it.
Neither his speaking to Nest ria nor his leaving Alice with the Count was
likely to conduce to good, and either might bring about trouble and evil. But
he did not reflect upon that; he simply followed his inclination.
"I am going to talk to Miss Bernard," he said over his shoulder. "You
two can come on at your leisure."
The flighty Alice fluttered a moment, seemed to be upon the point of fol-
lowing him, and at last, entangled by her love of flirtation and frolic, loitered.
" Tell her I will be with her in a minute," she called, and then turned a
coquettish smile upon the joyful face of the fortune-hunting Poloski.
Thus it happened that Edward Wetherel, striding hastily through the deep,
noiseless sand, came unseen and unheard upon Nestoria.
CHAPTER XII.
A DAUGIITEIt OF ZION AND A SON OF BELIAL.
WHEN Edward reached Nestoria she was gazing upon the moonlit sea,
lost in a dreamy admiration of its dimpling, sparkling glory, and scarcely con-
scious of the protracted absence of her friend.
Hearing footsteps close behind her, she took it for granted that Alice had
returned, and said, without looking around, "Ah, there you are. Isn't it beau-
tiful! "..
Wetherel, halting close by her shoulder, gazed down with enthusiastic
admiration upon her fair face and golden hair, to which the moonlight com-
municated such an unearthly radiance that she seemed more seraphic than
human, and responded, meaning her more than the landscape, " Yes, very
beautiful!"
" Oh!" was the very natural exclamation of the startled girl, a's she sprang

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         45
to her feet. Then recognizing him, she added. "Is it you, Mr. Wetherel?
You frightened me."
"I am sorry," he said, and so he was in a cheerful sort of fashion, his slight
regret being mingled with joy at seeing her and a tender yearning to put re-
assuring arms about her. " It was excessively awkward in me," he went on,
keenly enjoying his apology. "I was so anxious to reach you that I forgot
that I might alarm you."
Where is Alice?" she asked, doubting whether she ought'to be alone with
him, but doubting it, let us observe, through a purely instinctive shyness, and
not because she suspected him of being unfit company.
"She is there, with a friend of mine. She will be here in a moment."
le barely touched the girl's hand, and then dropped it, so fearful was he -of
still further disquieting her. Strange what an influence she already had over
him! she could transfigure him both in character and manner. In her pres
ence he seemed a different young fellow from the one whom we have heard
pouring out hisrecklessness and bitterness of spirit in the society of Wolver-
ton; and, for the moment at least, he was a very much better fellow than he
was capable of being amid unrestraining and evil surroundings. There was
something good left in his nature; he could perceive the charm of innocence,
if only it wore the guise of beauty; he could, for the sake of the beauty,
adore the innocence. He was as gentle and reverent with Nestoria now as if
he had never been ungentle and irreverent with other women. Not a senti-
ment that was unworthy, and not even a reminiscence. Not a thought of
other girls whom he had made weep bitter tears; who had wept at parting
with him when they ought to have wept only that they had ever met him;
who had wasted on his hitherto ungrateful spirit both affection and pardon. He
forgot all the evil of his life, and seemed to himself not merely to be good now,
but to have been good always. The prime cause of this transformation, it
will be easily guessed, was that he was somewhat in love.
" Did you come in that boat? " asked Nestoria. "It seems as if you must
have sailed out of the moon. Where did you come from? "
"I have been living opposite you for the last two days. Only two miles  4"-
from you, and in plain sight. Didn't you guess it?"
"How could I?" returned the girl, and the answer really pained him.
"Don't you find it very dull hereP" he continued, driven to make conver-
sation.
"Not a bit, I am happy and amused every moment.' I find your rela-
tives delightful-Mrs. Dinneford and Alice and the Judge-I like them all."
While he stumbled through some reply she fell into a meditation, not even
hearing what he said, her mind.was so occupied. The question which en-
gaged her spirit was, Should she allude to the family quarrel and try to end
it? It grieved her beyond expression that two such men as Edward Wetherel
and his uncle, two men who, in her eyes, were altogether noble and charming,
should disagree. She liked them both very much, and she wanted them to
like each other, not merely because their reconciliation would enable her to
see them both, but also, because it would increase their happiness. Besides,
they were relatives, and for relatives to live in enmity, how unnatural and
dreadful!
If any one has inferred from Nestoria's simple ways and innocent air that
she was deficient in moral courage and energy, he has done her injustice.
Duty was a mighty force in hersoul, and at its call she could face much. Was


46'                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR
it her duty to examine this agreeable young gentleman auocut his misunder-
standing with his, good uncle and to urge him to bring it to a-close? That
was the whole question, she said to herself; and her liking for him helped her
to decide it in the affirmative.
"Why haven't you been to visit Judge Wetherel?" she asked with a firm-
ness of voice and manner which surprised him.
"Don't you remember?" he replied, almost submissively. "We are not on
terms."
"But why are you not on terms?" she continued, still resolute, though
with a propitiatory, pleading smile. "Is it your fault-or his? "
"It is not my fault," he burst out. "Look here, Miss Bernard; I will talk
with you frankly about this matter. But first, has. lie told you anything against:
me? "
"No," said Nestoria. "Nor any one."
" Then I mustn't talk harshly," he went on more tranquilly. "But still I
will be as frank as I must. I want you to think charitably of me. The whole
thing, then, is this: Am I to be governed? I don't quarrel with him, but he
with me. Why? He wants to rule me, and I don't want to be ruled. He
wants to humiliate me, and I won't -be humiliated. We both have our ideas.
I leave him to enjoy his; why can't he leave me ii peace with mine? But lie
can't. I must do and think and talk precisely as lie learned to do and think
and talk three-quarters of a century ago. The older a man is, the more unfit
he is to hold absolute rule over the young, because his notions are necessarily
different from theirs, while not necessarily better. Suppose Adam were alive
now and wanted all his progeny to obey him. Can't you see that his ideas
might be unsuitable for the men of our day? What a time we should probably
have with the old gentleman, to be sure, and how grimly lie would glare at us
through his spectacles, and how he would wave us off his premises! Well, my
uncle is not so very unlike what Adam might be. He has fearfully old-fash-
ioned whims, and he is tremendously stiff in them. I have been driven, out of
mere honesty and self-respect, to rebel. I am carrying on my war of independ-
ence. You have heard of our revolutionary sires, and how they fought seven
years for an abstraction, as the great Daniel phrased it. I don't mean the
prophet, but the expounder.",
So he went on for some minutes. He had thought so much of this quarrel .
and argued its merits over to himself so often that his mind was brimming full
of it. ie could talk about it as abundantly as an enthusiast -can declaim about
his pet whimwham: a woman's -rights champion, for instance, about female
suffrage, or a communist about a new division of property. He was in earnest,
and indeed lie .was at heart very bitter, notwithstanding his jocosities about
Adam and our revolutionary fathers.. This tone of jesting was assumed partly
to keep down his painful irritability, and partly to hide it from Nestoria. He
wanted to convince the girl, not only that he was right in the quarrel, but also
that he was a good-tempered, pleasant fellow. Being very much taken with
her, and for the moment at least not a little in love with her (she looked so
unusually beautiful just then in the moonlight), he could not bear to have her
think ill of him in any fashion whatever.
Of course his defence of himself was mainly special pleading, and quite an
unfair representation of his uncle's case against him. Did he-know it?. 'We
must be so honestly severe with him,, we must so far expose the intellectual
weakness which had grown out of his moral one-sidedness, as 'to declare that

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         47
he was by no means fully aware of it. His dissipation did not seem to him
wickedness; it was merely, as he tenderly put it to himself, "sowing' his wild
oats "; it Was what one ought to expect of a young man, and rather admire in
him than otherwise. Even the exalting and purifying presence of Nestoria's
innocence could not so far lift him above his usual level as to enable him to
see that his life had been notably blameworthy. In short, very unluckily for,
his soul and 'his fortunes, he could neither condemn himself harshly, nor for-
give the Judge for condemning him.
Nestoria was much perplexed and a little troubled. She did not feel pleased
with some remarks that this admirable young man had dropped. Wihn the
reverent sensitiveness of a youthful soul which has received a purely religious
education, she did not like to hear even the great Daniel Webster linked
jocosely ,with that sacred Daniel who would not worship the gods of Babylon,
while the story of Adam seemed to her the story of a great moral tragedy, al-
together 'too solemn to be alluded to lighitl'. Furthermore, how could her
judicious and vencrable and pious friend, the Judge, be- altogether wrong in
this mrafter? It was extremely painful to her that Edward should speak of
that good man as he had, charging him with holding ideas that were current
before the flood, and hinting at his glaring at unconvinced people through his
spectacles, and waving them irrationally off his premises. What if beliefs were
antediluvian, so long as they were-sensible and holy and fruitful of good works?
Enoch no doubt held antiiluvian notions, and yet he was judged worthy of
translation.
hIowever, Nestoria did not feel able to, take up an argument with this won-
derful Edward Wetherel, as indeed it was not in her habits or disposition to
argue, not even with herself. Her usual mental process in matters open to
discussion *as to choose the right' with the lucid instinct of a pure, conscien-
tious- nature, and to simply say with the utmost gentleness, Why not do it?
It is a wonderfully effective mode of discussion, when one is gifted for it, and
frequently dulls the edge of the keenest hair-splitting.
i" He is much older than you," she sighed, after remaining some time in
thought. " Couldn't you put up with something on that account? "
"Perhaps so," mumbled Edward, feeling that his allocution had all been
for naught. Then, his eyes still settled with steadfast admiration on her beam-
ing face, he added, "I would much rather put up with something on your ac-
count."
"Will you come to the house soon and try to'see him?" she pleaded, so
eager in her work of reconciliation that she did not notice his flattery.
" Yes," he assented. "Yes, I will. Only, if you discover me coming, you
must ask him to see me."
"I will be on the lookout for you," she promised. " Oh, I am not a bit.
afraid to ask him. He is so good, and it will be such a right thing to do! Be
sureyou come."
"Yes, yes," he repeated eagerly. more delighted with the interest that-she
took in his affairs than with the prospect of reconciliation with his uncle, and -
so emboldened by that interest'that he seized her hand and tried to kiss it,
But the kiss went wild, for Nestoria snatched her fingers away, saying, " You
mustn't."
It was enough ; that gentle "mustn't " quelled him; it was mightier than a
box on the ear from some girls.
"It is an Oriental custom," she added, fearful that she had seemed un-


48                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
friendly. " But I don't like it. It is the salute of an inferior to a superior, and
it seems to me degrading to humanity."
He would have liked a kiss of a more equal and exalted order, but he knew
the girl too well and respected her too tenderly to ask it.
At this moment Alice reached them on a little rustling run, calling breath-
lessly, "Come, Nettie, we must go.  We shall miss prayers. Good-night,
Cousin Edward. Come again."
"Good-night, Mr. Wetherel," added Nestoria, and the two girls hurried
away.
"I will try it," muttered Edward to himself. "I'll see if the old gentleman
has a soft spot in him, confound him!"
It is sadly wonderful to observe how heartily relatives can dislike each  .
.other, if their characters and tastes are in distinct opposition, and especially if
they are a drag on each other's pleasures.
CHAPTER XIII.
WARNINGS WASTED.
IT OW do you like Edward? " asked Alice.Dinneford on the mon
after the adventure by moonlight
I like him very much," replied Nestoria, with her characteristic frank
nd simplicity, a childlike smile of pleasure r   to her lips at the. so
of the name, and her eyes lighting up with eagerness to heir more of
subject.
Alice looked at her friend in amazement; such straightforwardness
rt     young lady on such a topic surprised and puzzled'her; she could not ju
;   from it whether Nestoria liked Edward a great deal or only a little.
"What is the matter?" asked the missionary's daughter, whileablusl
gathering embarrassment mounted into her cheeks and burned away there
a conflagration, until her very ears tingled. "Have I said anything very
gular?"
I never saw such another girl," said Alice. "Do you really mean
you think very highly of Edward?"
Ile has been so kind and polite to- me!" apologized Nestoria, the hi
meanwhile blazing in a manner to put one in mind of invaders ravaging (
fair country with fire. "lHow can I help being grateful to him?"
Miss Dinneford became uneasy; it occurred to her that she had done wr
in leaving this artless child alone with her engaging but untoward relative
was much as if she had abandoned Parley the Porter to the wiles of that c
teous desperado, Mr. Flattery. In her own womanish, indirect way she
about neutralizing whatever mischief might have resulted from Edward's
cinations, by suggesting another admirer.
This youngster is pleasant enough," she observed quietly. "But I h
another cousin who would suit you a great deal better. It is Cousin Wal
Ile isn't wonderfully handsome, perhaps, but he is wonderfully good."
"And isn't Mr. Wetherel goodP" asked Nestoria, startled by such a cr
suspicion that she could not conceal her concern, nor even think of conc
ing it.
" Oh, Edward is well enough," hastily answered Alice, who had a natu
and generous repugnance to speaking ill of her relative, and in fact did

iing
ness
und
the
n a
dge
h of
like
sin-
that
lush
ome
ong
; it
our-
set
fas-
ave
ter.
ruel
eal-
iral
not


50                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
think at all harshly of him because of his wild ways. " He is as good, I dare
say, as young men average. What I mean is that he isn't of your sort."
" Alice, tell me the truth!" exclaimed Nestoria, losing her self-possession
in her anxiety. "Is Mr. Wetherel a bad man?"
"I didn't say so," cried Alice, thoroughly discomposed. "Why,(wvhat non-
sense! Didn't I tell you," she added, driven 'by erring good-nature into a fib,
" didn't I just tell you that he is well enough? Only this other once is iso aw-
fully good," she hurried on, seeking to slip away from the subject of the t some-
what dubious Edward. "lie, I mean Cousin Walter, is fit to be a mis iona-y.
I never hear him talk without thinking of St. Paul, or some such good little
man. We expect him here very soon, and you will be delighted with hin, or
I don't know your tastes. Another relative, a Cousin John, is coming with
him; and that is all the cousins there are of us; big box, little box, band-box,
and bundle; just-four cousins. Cousin John is the big box, for he is large and
lumbering and noisy. Walter is the little box; oh, he is too little for any-
thing; he is about your size. Edward is the band-box; and I must pass for
the bundle. All women are bundles, just good to be handed about and to be
in the way. And don't we make a fuss over each other when we get together !
You would suppose there were no other people in the world than Dinnefords
and Wetherels and their relatives. It is just like Noah's family coming out of
the ark, with everybody else drowned and got rid of and out of mind. I hope
you will put up with us. You must like Walter in spite of his littleness, and
John Bowlder, too, in spite of his bigness."
Alice could prattle like a running brook, and she did her talkative best on
this occasion, struggling to get away from that ugly topic of Edward's charac-
ter, and struggling with success.
The bell rang for prayers; they rustled down stairs in obedience to it; then
followed the quiet routine of a Sea Lodge day; the customary talk with the
Judge about Nestorian missions, and other such godly matters; the (rives after
old Sorrel, the readings and the walkings. Meantime Nestoria had Edward's
promise -constantly in mind, and kept an anxious lookout for his expected call.
Not, '1ivever, until the afternoon of the next day, as she wasreading the
"Puritan Recorder" or some similar edifying publication to the Judge in his
study, did she behold the young man entering the front gate of the grounds, a
desired and yet alarming visitant. Her heart gave a great leap of unexpected
terror; she looked at the Judge as a forlorn hope looks at the death-dealing
rampart which it must storm; and then, repeating to herself her watchword
of " duty," she set on gallantly. Laying down her journal she walked firmly
up to the old man, met his inquiring gaze with a pleading smile, and said,
"Your nephew is coming."
"Edward!" murmured the Judge, getting on his feet in his slow way,
much as a cautious man, fearful of falling, gets on a horse, and deliberately
bringing his spectacles to bear upon the astonishing apparition.
" Won't you see him?" begged Nestoria. "I think he wishes a reconcili-
ation. I want you to see him."
The Judge stared at her; then his glassy eyes settled on vacancy, as was
his manner when in earnest thought;. at last he said solemnly, "We are
taught out of the mouths of babes and sucklings. Yes, I will see him."
Nestoria had one of those impulses which sometimes perform moral mira-
cles. Putting "up her hands with spasmodic eagerness, she drew Mr. Wether-
el's hoary head down to her and kissed his wrinkled cheek. The old gentle-.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.'.51
man was helpless in her soft grasp; his caput was no more under his control
than if it had been in a charger, borne before the daughter of Herodias; his
venerable neck bent as easily as male necks generally do when lovely womar,
pulls at them. Perhaps it was the first kiss that he had received in many
years, for his austere deportment did not tempt to such familiarities, just as
his serious spirit did not crave them. But he was evidently gratified by this
touch of affectionate emotion; he looked very kindly after the girlas she hur-
ried out of the study. It is pretty certain, too, that he did not compreheiid all
the motives which had prompted the kiss; for after Nestoria had left him he
murmured with grave simplicity, "The intercession of the righteous availeth
much."
With this promise of peace on his thin, and one might almost say trenchant
lips, he hurried his heavy, squeaking boots to the front door of the house, and
opened it to the prodigal nephew.
"How do you do, uncle?" said the surprised young man; to which the
Judge answered with solemn though courteous brevity, "Come in."
When both were in the study, the senior closed the door, motioned his
nephew to a cimir, seated himself with his 'usual rheumatic deliberation, and
.observed, perhaps too much in the tone of a father confessor, or of a physician
who is called. to prescribe in a difficult case, " You wished to converse with
me?"
"I am very much obliged to you for granting me an interview," bowed
Edward. Then he paused, much perplexed and already a little indignant; for,
in the first place, he did not know how gracefully to begin his act of submis-
sion; in the second place, it seemed to him that his potent relative was cruelly
formal.
"If our meeting should bear any acceptable fruit," responded the Judge,
"I will express myself as under obligations to you."
It was not a cordial speech, and it was stifify uttered ; but the old man felt
that he had before him a great criminal.
" We parted on ill terms," said the youngster, making a violent effort to
descend into the valley of humiliation. " I am sorry for it."
"So am I," answered the Judge. "I am not willingly on ill terms with
any human being, and much less with my own flesh and blood. You are the
son of my dearest and brightest brother-the last brother that was spared to
me    "
He suddenly came to a pause. If the youngster could have believed his
eyes, if lie could have had faith in the tenderness and affection of an old man,
he might have been aware of a pathetic moisture behind those spectacles. The
aged, especially such as have been left nearly alone in the world, are some-
times piteously shaken by the remembrance of a bereavement.
"You are Henry's son," continued the Judge, mastering his always tremu-
lous voice. "I had accepted you in the place of all my own children whom
God took to himself long ago. You are the last Wetherel of our stock. I
do not think I am wrong in prizing the name of Wetherel. It represents to
my mind so many pious men and women who have led worthy, devout lives
on this favored New England soil, and have been translated from it to' Para-
dise! I must and do venerate and love the name. I desire to see it continued
in Prosperity if it can also be continued irn godliness.. And you are the last
Wetherel! How can I willingly be on ill terms with you?"
The young man bowed silently and with a seriousness which showed emo.-


52                    THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
Lion. He too, we know, was proud of the name, and his uncle's feeling on the
subject mcved him.
"But I cannot love 'sin nor abet sinners," continued the old man. "If I
am guided by any one motive in life, it is, I humbly trust, a sense. of duty.
That motive I must obey, whatever my natural desires may be, whatever my
earthly affections may urge. It will not let me hold fast to hands' which
are full of wickedness, nor rejoice in feet which run in the ways of the
scorner.'
"You put it very strongly, sir." said the nephew, his Wetherel temnper and
stubbornness rising. "I have lived the life of a young man. That is all."
How can you abuse language thus? " demanded the Ju lge.  'Have you
lived the life of that young man whom Jesus loved? Is the life of a young man
necessarily a scandal to all pure men and pure women ? I must be plain with
you, Edward, as I have always been. You have lived the life which leads to
eternal death. You have banded yourself with the impure and with mnockers.
Your chosen comrades have been the noisy sons of Belial. I will not speak,
for very shame and pity, of your own deeds and words. You know well what
they have been, and that they must fill me with horror."
Edward was by this time angry and disgusted; he could not see that hehad
neen such a wretch as his uncle painted him; and the portrait, as held up to
his eyes, seemed the work of irrational prejudice and hostility. He was
tempted to speak out in bitter wrath, and with difficulty controlled the unwise
Impulse.
"I came here to ask a reconciliation," he said. sullenly. "I see little pros-,
pect of obtaining it."
"You see it, then, in your own heart," declared the persuaded Judge, con-
scious of rectitude. 'In mine, if you had that sight which looks into hearts,
you would discover earnqt yearning for kindliness. I ask for bit one conces-
sion-repentance of evil."
"You want reformation, I suppose," muttered Edward,i
"Yes, repentance and its fruits. I would not believe in the soundness and
durability of reformation unless I could also see wise and devout sorrow for
the past. Where there is no root there can be no worthy fruit."
The young man hesitated, querying what he should say. le could not feel
that he repented of his life of gayety, which had been to him while his money
lasted a life of real pleasure, so strong were his physical powers of enjoyment
and so keen his social instincts. But should he not, rather than lose all chance
of succeeling to his uncle's estate, endeavor to counterfeit a penitential spirit?
For a little time the two men remained silent, the younger fluctuating be-
tween passion and the dictates of policy, and the elder praying in soul for that
other soul.
CHAPTER XIV.
AN hIEIR-AT-LAW DISINHERITED.
AFTER a minute' of meditation, which was as- terrible to bear as a night-
mare, Edward rose,.witli a sense of great physical labor, to his feet, uplifting,
indeed, a fearfully heavy load, the burden of his fate.          ~.
Proud, frank, and in a certain sense noble-hearted, his inmost soul rejected
the prostration of hypocrisy. Moreover, the hopefulness of youth, that joyous

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         53
confidence of springtime blood which so incessantly prophesies smooth things.
came like a proclamation of good auguries to his support, and heartened him
to face his destiny. Finally, he was stubborn and pugnacious; like a true
I etherel, he could not bear to be beaten.
"I will not be a humbug," he declared, looking his uncle steadily in the
face. "When I do repent of my life I will frankly tell you of it. But at
present I do not see that it has been a disgraceful one.. I will merely'promise.
this: I will take up a profession and study it hard; I will also reform my
expenses.".
The mere sound of his own voice was convincing to him, and by the time
he had finished his speech he thought that he had made a great concession
But the Judge could not thus look upon the matter ; he was aware of nothing
but a burst of pride, perverseness, and wickedness.
It is enough," lie answered, his voice even more tremulous with grief and
indignation than with age. "It only remains for me to tell you what I must
now do. I love my own name. I could wish to see the name of Wetherel
written on the gates of prosperity. But when that name is blazoned in the
haunts of sin Iwill not enrich it. The wealth of which God has made me
steward shall not pave the broad way which leads to death. My estate will be
parted among objects of benevolence and between my three worthy'relatives,
Mrs. Dinneford, Alice Dinneford, and Walter Lehming. You will owe me no
thanks, and you need offer me no service."
Brave as Edward was, and enduring as lie strove to be, he turned pale. He
had partially expected this threat and had tried to brace himself against it;
but no man can be fully prepared for the complete shock of ruin, and for ni
instant this perverse youngster tottered. low could lie ever study his pro-
posed profession without money? All at once, moreover, it struck him that
he had lost Nestoria; that even if -he were able to meet with her again, he
could not marry her. le looked at the old man with a feeble hope that he
might not be fully in earnest; but one moment's study of that confirmed counte-
nance and those settled eyes dispelled the misty doubt.
"These hands," he declared, throwing them'out violently, '' shall support
me."
"It will be well for you," replied the Judge, learning for the first time, but
without surprise, that the young man's property was gone. "In honest labor
you may find renovation."
Good morning, sir," added Edward, his voice almost choked with pas-
sion. But as lie walked away he remembered Nestoria, and thought that lie
might like to see her again, even under these wretched circumstances, and
perhaps all the more because of them.
"'Am I to understand that you turn me out of your house? " lie asked,
pausing at the door.
God forbid," replied the Judge. "' This house is open to every human
creature. , I would not assume to bar entrance to it to any one, not even though
no were my enemy. You are welcome at all times, for every decorous pur-
pose."
Edward already repented of his defiance, not because it had been wrong,
but because it had brought calamity. For an instant he was half disposed to
apologize for it and to try to bring about a .parting on kindlier terms. But hie
-did not give way to this impulse for the reason that, as he believed, the attempt
would degrade him, and would also be fruitless, li e cast an angry, sidelong


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
glance at his uncle, muttered to himself, "The stubborn, prejudiced old fool!"
bowed in silence, and departed.
At the gate he turned and looked the house all over in a state of mind tc
lay his malediction upon it; but suddenly the whole building became illumi-
nated with amiability to him;-he had caught a glimpse of Nestoria at her
window.
"The blessed damozel leaned out," he murmured. " )ear little golden-
haired innocent! Was she watching me? Had she interceded for me? Do I
owe her what little mercy was shown me by that old tyrant? I wish I could
have seen her while I was talking-I should have been more prudent, wiser.
Ah!" and he drew a deep sigh, "if religion were always like her! Ten thou-
sand uncle Jabezes could not convert me. But she might-and may."
Then he resolved anew that, as soon as the vacations ended, he would
commence the study of medicine, and that he would study it furiously. For
her sake, he declared in his exaltation, he would labor terribly ; he would en-
dure, lie would vanquish, he would make for himself name and fortune; and
then he would lay his heart and all that lie had at her feet. In his present
condition of penury and friendlessness she seemed almost too high a match
for him, and he began to long for her with fear, as men do for the difficult of
attainment. Indeed, before he reached his own side of the bay, he had nearly
.resolved to propose to her on the first opportunity,lest some other should step
in and secure the precious prize. . That he might be unworthy of her accept-
ance did not occur to him distinctly, if at all. He would make himselworthy;
to please her lhe would do what he would 'not to please his uncle; lie Would
rule his life for love as he would not rule it for fear.
Meantime Nestoria was most anxious to know the result of the interview ;
but although she got back to the Judge as soon as possible, she learned noth-
ing. She longed to catechise lhim, but could not muster courage to do it.
Duty had helped her to speak a word in favor of peace, but duty woull not
hack her up in inquiring whether peace had been made. Furthermore, com-
pared with this old gentleman she was a child, and taken in connection with
his nephew shewas a young lady; and both as a child and a young lady she
was under bonds to be fastidiously modest and to withhold herself from prying
into their secrets.
The Judge might have told her something of the matterhad it gone well;
but it had turned into such an ugly and seemingly permanent skeleton that he
did not wish to discourse of it to any one; and he had already acquired such
a high opinion of this devout daughter of the "great and good Doctor Ber-
nard" that he did not suspect her of being specially interested in his scape-
grace nephew. Once, indeed, happening to note that she was gazing at him
intently, he remembered how she had asked him to further a reconciliation;
but with a blindness as to the inner character and motives of young ladies for
which we can hardly forgive him, he only said to himself, " Benevolent nature!
She must be her father over again. No, it is not nature; it is grace."
Meantime the thought of the perverse Edward troubled his soul, and weighed
down his prominent, sharp chin into his high stock, and filled his glassy eyes
with stagnant speculation. It was observed by the family that he was much
occupied during the rest of the day with business papers,-and that, he seemed
to be drawing up some important document Next morning two gentlemen,
known to be a lawyer and a banker, arrived in a buggy from New Haven, and
were closeted with him for some minutes in his study. After their departure

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        55
he summoned Mrs. Dinneford into the same minute apartment and showed her
a long paper of a legal mien terminating in seals and signatures.
"Cousin. Dorothy," he said, addressing her exceptionally by her christened
name,, for usually he called her Mrs. Dinneford-" Cousin Dorothy, this is
my will."
Mrs. Dinneford flushed and trembled; could not help hoping that she or
Alice might get something; tried to feel ashamed of herself, and was deco-
rously silent.
"1 have parted my raiment of lucre into four portions," he continued tran-
quilly. " One will go to religious and charitable institutions; one will go to
yourself, my good and judicious cousin; one will go to Alice on her marriage,
or at her twenty-fifth year; one will go to Walter Lehming."
Mrs. Dinneford had quivered from head to foot with a sort of painful joy
when fortune began to pour its showers of gold 'in her direction; but as the
old gentleman continued his statement she gradually lost her expression of
pardonable satisfaction, and by the time he had finished her eyes were full
of trouble.
" And Edwcrd?" she asked with an unselfishness which was worshipful.
Edward," returned the Judge slowly, his vitreous gaze fixed sadly on
vacuity-" Edward will have nothing."
"Oh, Cousin Wetherel! " exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford, in honest, beautiful
distress.
"My conscience will not let me do otherwise," declared the old gentleman,
still staring straight before him into emptiness, as if determined not to see her
imploring face.
" Don't you love your nephew at all?" pleaded the excellent lady, with
tears in her voice.
"Money is the root of all evil," answered the Judge, so far disturbed that
he sought to evade the query.
" Yes, it is the root of all evil, but it may be a blessing in disguise," argued
Mrs. Dinneford, who sometimes had a quick-witted though half unconscious
cleverness of speech. " What harm has it done you, Cousin Wetherel, or done
through you? Providence has intrusted you with a great deal of it, and I am
sure you would be puzzled to say how you have been the worse for the gift, or
how your fellow creatures have suffered because of it."
'"I have been helped, I have been restrained, I have been guided," said the
old, man, looking upward in solemn gratitude. "Bat to those who cast oft
grace money is always a root of evil. Money, more perhaps than any other
thing else, has ruined Edward. Because lie came to his majority with fifty
thousand dollars in his hands, he has never worked, he has been a spendthrift,
and he has fallen into the pitfalls of vice."
: "I hope that Edward has not spent all his fortune," murmured Mrs. Dinne-
ford, ready to cry.
"I believe that he has, and I trust that he has," returned .the Judge.
"Nothing will save him from destruction but a life of enforced labor."
"Oh, Cousin Wetherel!" groaned the good woman'again. ," And heex.'
1iected to live so differently! Do give him-you know Alice and I have some-
thing .of our own-do give him my share."
"No!" said the millionaire, almost angrily. Unworldly as he was, or
sought to be, he 'did not like to have his estate despised; and forrlt-moment he
was inclined to take his kinswoman's generous proposition as a personal affront.


56                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
In the next breath he admitted to himself that this feeling was wrong, and
added in a gentle voice, " My dear Cousin Dorothy, you honor our family.
But you must not urge me to give your dues to one who dishonors it."
"This will make such trouble! " Mrs. Dinneford sighed. "I can't help
quoting what Tupper says, severe as you may think it: 'There is no greater
evil among men than a testament framed with injustice.'. And I agree  "
"I deny the injustice," interrupted the Judge with a quickness of speech
which was quite unusual with him, and which showed extreme irritation. "Is
there any justice in giving God's benefits to the perversely ungodly?"
"It will make such trouble! " repeated Mrs. Dinneford, falling back upon the
personal argument. "Edward will certainly feel that we-Alice and I-have
wronged him. He will suspect us of being selfish, mean, managing people."
"I have stated in the will," explained the inexorable testator, "I have
stated distinctly, that it was prepared without your knowledge or consent. I
have also stated, with as much consideration as possible, my reasons for disin-
heriting my nephew.- Now let me beg of you not to argue.with me further.
I am very tired and must lie down."
And, indeed, the old man looked not a little shaken, as if disinheriting his
nearest relative and the only other extant Wetherel had been a great hardship
to him, and had drawn largely upon the currents of life which still trickled in
his timeworn organism.S
CHAPTER XV.
A WOOING PROPHETIC OF TROUBLE.
Tim disinheritance 'of Edward and all those sorry doings of his which had
led to it were kept secret from Nestoria; even the communicative Alice being
erase to talking of the black sheep of the family, and of the tremendous pun-
ishment which had overtaken his swartness..
But while discretion is a virtue, it is not invariably a blessing to all whom
it concerns; and things would have gone more comfortably and prosperously
with the missionary's daughter had her friends been less reticent. Left in
ignorance of the young plan's real character, she continued to judge him
mainly by his courtesy and amiability to herself; to look upon his misunder-
standing with his uncle as his misfortune, rather than the result of his faults;
and to think of him all the more kindly because of that mysterious calamity.
Yes, the quarrel gave him an additional attraction in her eyes; it enlisted for
him the unworldly purity and unworn fervor of her sympathy; it drew on'
that passion of pity which in woman's heart is so- near the fountains of affec-
tion. She prayed by herself that this great trial might be made to end well
for him, leading him on to be better in this life and happy in the next.
And, naturally enough, the more she prayed for him, the purer and nobler he
seemed to her, and the worthier of her liking.
It was just after one of these entangling orisons in behalf of the young man
that she met him again. Edward could not long, stay away from the house in
which he had been arraigned, condemned, and sentenced. It seemed to have
some such sad and angry attraction for him as the scene of a murder is said
to have for the ghost of the murdered one. In his vindictive desperation he
3raved to revisit Sea Lodge, there to scowl defiance at his calamity and the
mian who'had inflicted it.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          57
" I will face my uncle down," he said to himself. "I will show him that
I care not one straw for his money; that I can bear all he can lay upon me
without iinching."
But another sentiment, even stronger perhaps than wrath, drew him to the
spot. lIe longed greatly to see. Nestoria; for since his outlawry by his own
blood, he had thought of her more than ever; he had set her up in this allur-
ing light, that she was the only friend he had left on earth; and lie looked
forward to an interview with her- as a support and consolation. Not that he
might make love to her, and much less ask for her in marriage. No, no; lie
was too poor now to offer himself even to a chambermaid; and he said.to him-
self over and over again that this dear little beauty deserved -all the tender-
nesses of fortune.
Such at least was his general feeling, the judgment of his moments of high-
est wisdom. But there were other times when the hopefulness of youth and
the stirring of the blood demanded, " Why not?" This simple, unworldly,
unselfish child would surely have the nobility to love him in spite of penury,
and the faith to wait for him until he could acquire the means to support her.
With a seraph to labor for, he would labor better than for himself alone, and
)scale the summit of success more quickly. " Perhaps," he murmured to him-
self in these euchanted moments, " perhaps it would be well for us both."
Only three days after the quarrel, this wild-headed and liot-lhearted youth
stalked haughtily into the castle of that grim enchanter, one vave of whose
wand had stripped him of his golden expectations and left him clothed in in-
solvency. Ile was ready to do instant battle, no doubt of someunwise and
calimitous sort, the iiioient he should meet his enemy. But he had scarcely
entered the plainly-furnished parlor ere the Luciferian wrath and defiance
faded from his brow. He beheld the innocent veet face and radiant golden
hair of Nestoria.
The girl smiled brightly; she had, by the way, a habit of welcoming her
friends by merely smiling; it was one of her unconscious fascinations,
You are a burst of sunshine," he said. " You light up the whole of this
'doleful house."
"I amil glad you have come," she replied, apparently accepting his com-
plinent as a mere expression of friendship, and perhaps so accepting it be-
cause she was accustomed to the superlatives of the East. " I saw your boat
in the harbor, dodging about like one of the sea-birds, and wondered if it
would stop here. Take this great chair," she added, dragging it toward him
in a helpful way which was common with her. "You will have nobody but
me to talk with. Mrs. Dinneford has gone to town to do the marketing, and
Alice is driving with the Judge."
"I am gi aid they are out," smiled Edward, pleased to be alone with-her,
and forgetti hg his enemy.
Nestoria glanced at him with a troubled air, innocently won ering why he
was glad, and whether she might ask why. Affectionately anxious about him,
and unable to suppose that a man would lightly express himself pleased to be
ril of his relations, she suspected that the quarrel between uncle and nephew
had fared from bad to worse. Her childlike face, hs iheapable of concealments.
as the physiognomy of perfect innocence always is, revealed the discomfort of
her thoughts.
" What makes you look so sad?'" he asked. "Because I don't care to
have my relations always 'in my lapP"


58                  THE WETHEREL: AFFAIR.
"It isn't that," she said. "Though that seems to me so-strange! I don't
know that.I ought to tell you what I was worrying about. I And yet-I will--
I must. You needn't answer my question if it is an improper one."I
"What is it?" he inquired, as she again hesitated. " Is it about the diffi-
culty with my uncle?"
"Yes," whispered Nestoria, so terrible was the subject to her, and so
breathless her interest in it.'                          .
" We are on speaking terms now, but I am to have none of his property,"
he stated dryly and plainly, feeling that such a tale of calamity and injustice
required no garnish of rhetoric or elocution.
"Oh!'" exclaimed Nestoria, looking entirely relieved and even happy, it
was so much better than she had feared.
"You seem pleased;" he commented with a sort of peevish surprise, closely
bordering on vexation.I
"I am pleased because you are on speaking terms," was hbr answer. "I
could not bear to have two such kind friends of mine hold apart from each
other."
You must not misunderstand me;" he went on with creditable frankness.
"We are not on genial speaking terms. Not much geniality in my uncle
when people don't agree with him. I think he is hard, and he means to be
hard."
"lDoes lie?" sighed Nestoria. "I don't see how it can be so, he seems
so just. But you know far more of this matter than I do. I know almost
nothing. At any rate, if you see each other often, perhaps the trouble will
wear away."
"Little chance of it," lie muttered. "And meanwhile I haven't a cent in
the world."
He made this confession in such a drooping, desperate tone, that the girl
could not but perceive that here was a great misfortune, at least in his
opinion.
"I am so sorry!" she said heartily, at the same time looking at him with
profound pity, though wondering how he could be thus depressed by mere pov-
erty. Then her face brightened, partly with her natural cheerfulness, and
partly with a desire to console him, and she added spilling, " Well, we have
the same destiny. We must both work for a living. I am going to teach
school and paint fans."
" And so will I work!" exclaimed Edward, thoroughly ashamed of his
cowardice and sense of helplessness. He sprang to his feet and walked the
room with a resolute step, repeating, "Yes, I will work. I'll work like a
Trojan."
Nestoria gazed at him with admiration, fully believing in his manliness
and feeling a humble awe of it. Of a sudden he became in her eyes some-
thing more than charming; he rose in one instant to be noble, heroic, and
worshipful; and in that instant she loved him. Gentleness is fascinating to a
woman, but strength is subduing. Nestoria had seen ,Edward courteous, and
she had given him her earnest friendship; now she saw him, as she thought,.
virile and mighty, and with a single throb she gave him her heart.
Hie did indeed look noble, for the loftiness of worthy resolve was in his air,
and the beautiful confidence of young and healthy manhood in his face, It
seemed to himu at the moment that- he would indeed labor terribly, that he
would deserve a success which should command the respect of his fellow

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          -59
creatures, and that he would (most bewitching thought of all) rise superior to
that enemy, his uncle.
Presently he glanced at Nestoria, and the instant his eyes met hers he was
fascinated, for in their sincere azure he beheld her heart. The undisguisable
sympathy and affection of that innocent gaze threw down all the battlements
of his prudence as easily as the sunlight eats up the minutest drop of dew.
The dandy, the practised beau, the worldling who supposed himself to be su-
perbly selfish, the man-about-town who trusted that he was hardened, became
in one breath 'i reckless lover.
"My dear little friend, how good you are! " he said, walking straight up to
her, and bending over her with brooding tenderness. " You do really care for
my welfare."
Nestoria co 1l not reply ; her heart was all at once full of terror; her voice
was suffocated hj pulsations. She rose to her feet with difficulty, feeling that
she ought to run away, but unable to go.
'-lMy dear, dear child, I must love.you,"lhe went on, impelled by that head-
long eagerness of his which made him always do what he wanted to do, re-
gardless of consequences. " Will you let me? I am unworthy of it. But do
let me. Do let mse hope that some day you will love me in return."
By this time he had taken her hand, and we are compelled to confess that
Nestoria was not wise enough .to withdraw it,. and indeed did not think of
withdrawing it. She had lost all control of her destiny, and although she was
crying a little, it was with happiness.
"Oh! what are you crying for P" be asked, prodigiously troubled by the
sight of a tear on. her cheek, for the tenderness of deep affection- possessed
him. " Am I vexing you-paining you P?"
She looked up in his face with such an expression of content and joy that
lhe could not possibly mistake her feelings.
"You surprise me so !" she whispered. "I didn't expect this. I didn't
know
" Then you will promise to wait for me P " he urged, eager for a complete
answer, an unmistakable word.
"But, Edward," she said, hesitating, "I want to ask you one question."
What is it, Nestoria P "
She put her mouth close to his ear and Whispered her query so low that he
could scarcely hear it. The shy, yet anxious and solemn interrogatory was,
whether he were a member of the church of Christ.
He stared at her. A grave look come over his face. At last he said, "I
am."
" Oh ! " she sighed, relieved from a great terror. " I will wait all my life
for you."
We will describe this interview no further ; indeed, it only lasted a minute
longer. Glancing accidentally out of a Wvindow, Edward saw Judge Wetherel
drive up to the gate, too late to prevent a scene which, as we can easily un-
derstand, might well be the first act in the drama of trouble,
I'here is my uncle," he said, releasing Nestoria's hand. "I must tell
him this at once."
In his heart lie added, with spine anxiety as well as with some triumph,
" How will he take it ?"


60             THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

CHAPTER XVI.
JUDGE WETHEREL, DISSENTS.
JUDGE W ETIEREL entered the parlor in his usual deliberate, fashion, walk'
ing with-some such sluggishness as if his boots were weightier than himself, of
as if he were one of those sufferers whom.Dante saw toiling'through the Infer
no in garments of lead.
So imperfect was his eyesight, that he did not at first recognize his nephew
and Nestoria as they stood up before him side by side, the girl tenderly pale
and swaying like a lily on its stalk, while the young man, though flushed even
to dizziness, was resolute and almost defiant. But the moment lie discerned
who they were, lie seemed to divine that something unusual had happened,
and coming to a halt lie gazed at them silently and fixedly. Behind him ap-
peared Alice, equally speechless and curious, a little disturbed, too, at the sight
of Edward, for she instantly remembered the will which enriched her to his
impoverishment. In the midst of this crisis of suspense, Mrs. Dinneford alsc
entered the room, cheerfully fresh and brisk from her errands in the city, but
struck suddenly dumb by the tableau before her.
Uncle, 1 have something to tell you," spoke out Edward, surely a young
man of some moral stamina, whether for good or evil. " I have offered my-
self to Miss Bernard, and she has accepted me."
Judge Wetherel seemed to be stunned; for many seconds he preserved a
perfect silence, staring glassily into vacancy; at last' he slowly enunciated, in
a voice more than usually thin and ghostly, " What-does-this-mean?"
Presently lie resumed, his sunken face blank with sorrowful amazement,
"Is the eye of innocence really so blind?"
After another pause he added, "I have neglected my duty. I must neglect
it no longer."
A wave of his sallow, shrivelled hand dismissed Mrs. Dinneford and Alice
from the parlor. They did not want to go; their womanly hearts were eager
to stay and help fight the battle of the two lovers; but that hand was as au-
thoritative as the flauing sword which guarded the gate of Eden. Consider-
ing the amiable though perhaps misjudging kindliiess of the feelings by which
they were moved, we must pardon them for lingering in-the neighboring hall
and tampering-with the fidelity of the keyhole.
The Judge turned his eyes upon the Adam and Eve whom lie was about to
expel from the paradise into which they had just stolen. Some men in his po-
sition would have faltered, out of mere unreasoning pity and sympathy; or
would have decided feebly that it was too late now to interfere, and that things
must take their course.' But this man had abundance of iron in his clay ; he
was braced up on the one hand by his solemn sense of duty, and on the other
oy his long experience in laying the penalties of the law upon his fellow crea-
tures; and between such an Aaron and such a Hur lie had no inclination and
even no power to falter. He did not see before him two loving souls who
would be wretched if they weredivided; he only saw a bewildered victim who
must be saved, and a godless tempter who must be exorcised.
"Edward, you. have abused iy hospitality," lie began in the impressive
tone of one who knows that he is pronouncing just sentence. "You have vio-
lated the sanctuary of my house. Because I have permitted you-to come hither
in the hope that it might somehow result in your own .ood, you have come to

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          61
work mischief for others. A mere worldling, a man who has no part nor lot
with the righteous, you are not worthy to be the companion of this innocent in-
fant. Instead of being a comfort and a guide to her, you would be a thorn and
a stimnlblingr-block.
We can imagine the amazement and horror with which Nestoria listened
to tliig speech. IHaving learned to believe in Judge.Wetherel, having accepted
his caracter as perfect and his motives as pure and'his opinions as wise, she
was disposed to receive all his words as infallible revelations; so that her first
impulse now, as she watched his persuaded face and listened to -his solemn
voice, was to credit every syllable of his accusation. She turned such a stare
upon Edward.as if she had heard him convicted of murder or of atheism. But
then came a revulsion ; this man, too, she had been brought to regard as alto-
i ether lovely and of good report; the illusions of a love which was all inno-
cence had clothed him in her eyes with innocence. Tn "an instant her confi-
dence leaped toward hin again, Atnd she deemed that he was judged harshly
if not wrongfully. These vacillations of belief and of feeling were too much
for her strength; and with a dizzy consciousness that she had turned very
white, she'sat down.
Edward, meanwhile, was in a state of simple fury, no doubt justifiable
enough in hisopinion, though lie did not stop to analyze it.
" 1 oppose it gives you pleasure to cause all this misery," he said, looking
straight in his uncle's face.
"it gives me unspeakable grief," replied the Judge, his eyes fixed upon Nes-
toria. "'Ihis is the very wretchieglest moment that you have ever caused me."
his Voice shook a good deal here, and he paused until he could reiistablish it.
E(lward," he resumed, " I cannot talk to you, nor in your presence. I
must beg you to leave."
The young man did not stir; he simply gazed at Nestoria.
"I must insist upon your leaving me," continued the old gentleman in a
louder tone. " This lady is my guest, and in a manner my ward. This is,
my house, sir. I know my legal, rights. Will you recognize them or not ?"
4 Yes," answered Edward, choking with rage. "I came here with your
permission, but I will go at your order. Understand this, however, that I am
betrothed to this lady, and that I have a right to meet her otherwheres. Nes-
toria, I must go now," he added; turning to the girl. "But I will see you
again. .I will write. Don't be my enemy. Can't you answer me?"
If we have given the impression hitherto that Nestoria was deficient in
moral and intellectual force, we have done her injustice. Little as she was,
and childlike in appearance, and ignorant of what people call the world, she
had, perhaps, more character than most girls of her age, and under the spur of
necessity could summon up notable self-possession and bravery. Notwith-
standing her present great fright aid unprecedented trouble, she found now
just the right word to impose upon these two exasperated men, and to bring
this woful scene to a close.
" All this must go before my father, Edward," she said with quiet firmness,
though she seemed to herself to be speaking out of some horrible, hopeless
abyss. " Of course, you knew all the while that he must decide."
"Yes, he must decide," conceded Judge Wetherel, always and instantly
subordmnate to authorities which the lawv recognizes.
"1 must ask you to wait, Edward," she continued. -" Can't you wait for
me? I. was willing and am willing to wait for you."

r


62                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
The young man took her hand and bowed over it with the humble worship
of a lover who has no present chance to boast great things of himself, and who
discovers in the object of his affection moral qualities which can make his hap-
piness. For the first time this charming child appeared to him not merely
beautiful, but also august. It was for her sake alone that he turned to his un-
cle before he left the room and uttered some civil words of farewell.
"Good-morning, sir," ceremoniously replied the old gentleman. le had
meant to say that for the present there must be no writing between them; but
in the worry and hurry of the ugly occasion he entirely forgot that bit of duty.,
His physical weakness asserted itself as soon as Edward had departed, and he
sat down suddenly with an air of utter exhaustion, tremulous decadence, and
pallid decay, so that a person of vivid fancy might almost have looked to see
him collapse and crumble into dust.
Nestoria brought him a glass-of water, and he swallowed with shaking ea-
gerness, as a drunkard would have gulped brandy..
"Olh, how I have troubled you!" whispered this unselfish child.
"My dear, what will your father say to this?" was his answer. "What
will Doctor Bernard think of me?2 " .    .
"Is not Edward a member of the church?" asked Nestoria.
The Jidge stared at her without responding; the question seemed to per-
plex and silence him.
"le told me so," she added, trembling with anxiety.
"I believe he is," at last answered the Judge, and fell back into speechless-
ness..
Let us inquire for ourselves what the young man had meant and how much
he had meant when he made this statement to the girl. le had told the sim-
ple truth; it was a fact that lie had passed through the ceremony of confirma-
tion at an early age; he could still remember with a smile.his sensations of
awe under the pressure of episcopal hands. But that was all, for the scene
had exercised no influence over his life, and lie had always considered it a
mere form.
At the same time he did not mean.to deceive Nestoria. Mach as he liked
her, and much as he had sought to divine her nature, he did not really under-
stand her. The urgency of her devotional sentiments was as far beyond his
perceptions as if he had been a monkey; and indeed he could not have
imagined, without assistance, that any girl would accept or decline marriage
because of religious scruples. In short, church rnemb/ership was to him a sim-
ple decorum,. a matter of etiquette and deportment aid breeding, which some
people thought urgent and others not. Ruled by these ideas, he had stared in
surprise at Nestoria's unexpected query, and had answered it with straightfor-
wvard, simple directness, confining himself to the bare fact of the case. We
must add in his favor that at the same time he felt an impulse, perhaps tran-
itory enough in its character, to become more worthy of his decorous profes-
ion than lie had been, and at all events more worthy of this angelic catechist.
Let us return now to the interview between the Judge and Nestoria. The
old man was singularly perplexed; as was natural, lie did not like to blacken
the name of one who was both a representative of his family, and even in some
outward manner of his faith; and between his conscientious tenderness and his
conscientious severity he vacillated long.
" Did you question him concerning this matterr" he finally asked.
"Yes," said Nestoria.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR..                        63
"It was well," bowed the Judge. "Did he tell you any more than the sim-
ple fact? Did lie claim to be worthy of his high title?"
"No," said Nestoria. "Are we any of us worthy?"
"None of 'us," answered the old man. "But there are some who seek to
be so, and others who seek not. I fear-yes, I will honestly say that I believe
that Edward is of these last."
Nestoria's eyes filled with tears, and she laid her head suddenly on a table
hiding her face .with her hands.
"Are you sure that he will not change?" she presently asked, without
looking up.
"The mercy of God is especially for the chief of sinners," responded the
Judge, his self-command giving way at last, and his voice breaking into a sob.
"My child, we will both of us pray and labor'for this man," he resumed after
a struggle. ".Peradventure Heaven will hear us. These chastisements, and
this new desire of his may work for his good. We will not despair of him. I
have despaired, but a vision seems to tell me now that I was wrong, and
that I must let, patience and hope have their perfect work. As for what con,.
-cerns you, we will leave all with your father. We must wait. It is every way
a necessity. Edward has no property and no profession. He must find some
means of existence before he can take one step forward."
"So he told me," said Nestoria, glad that she could show forth Edward's
veracity and frankness.
"Perhaps I have done him injustice," muttered the old man. He said it to
himself, but the-gentle doubt was not lost upon the girl, and she left the room
almost happy, so cheering and deluding is love.


CHAPTER XVII.
A COUNT'S PIIILOSOPHIZINGS.
- W   HO among us, that remembers distinctly his or her salad days, dare
affirm that yopth is wise enough for its needs?
The youthfulness of Edward Wetherel was certainly not ballasted with
sufficing wisdom. A patient escaped -from a lunatic asylum could iardlytdo
worse than waste all his money, spurn an easy chance of obtaining a gratui-
tous million, and then offer himself to a girl without a penny. So much, we
may monitorially add in passing, for indulging a headstrong will and a greedy
taste for pleasures. Excellent characteristics are the impulses, when intelli-
gently directed-capable of making a man nobly virile in himself and a bene-
factor of his fellows;- but, while praiseworthily useful as servants, ruinous as
masters.
Notwithstanding all his obvious blunders and the calamities which had so,
frankly .issued out of them, Edward still could not learn to put a bridle upon
his impetuous and obstinate disposition. He left his uncle's house as pugna-
cious, as determined to have his own will, and as eager to gratify his emotions,
as if he had always been the luckiest of mortals. As he put back across the
harbor to his lodging jlace, he kept all sail up indefiance of a stiff breeze and
heavy sea, taking a desperate satisfaction in running the risk of drowning. 'le
plunge of his light boat into the curling heads of foam gratified him; it seemed
to hin as if lie were striking opponents and enemies in the face. Landing in
a half-soaked condition, he joined his two fellow-lodgers in a smoke, and re"
fused to change his clothes.
"Byronic," scoffed Wolverton, with kindly intentions. "You will out-
grow that sort of thing some of these days."
"I believe that I am a real man enough, as far as I go," answered Ed-
ward.
"wThat is very true," admitted Wolverton, who liked the youngster, and
thought him on the whole a superior fellow. "I don't mean that you habitu-
ally exult in sorrow, and 'don't charge you at all with putting on a fancy-ball
melancholy. But, for all your sincerity, you had better dry yourself. Rheu-
matisn doesn't help matters."
" Oh, let me alone awhile,'*.sulked Edward.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          65
'We must not laugh at the world-sorrow," put in the Count, who had
Ibeard the above conversation with disapproval, both as a philosopher and as a
literary critic. " You practical Anglo-Saxons delight to laugh at it; you call
great Byron humbug because he felt it and sang it. But you are wrong. The
world-sorrow is a true and beautiful emotion. I cannot boast of it; but I re-
spect it. The illimitable .Shakespeare divined and described it. The inclan-
clioly of Hamlet comes not altogether from his troubles; it is partly world-
sorrow. When we behold that great drama from this one of its many sides,
we see thatHamlet was .in part a prophecy of Rousseau and Byron. There is
nothing great in the sentimental cosmos that the illimitable Shakespeare has
not-foretold or recounted. He knew the past and the future, the fact and the
possibility of the man-soul; and he, the all-enfolding, the highest known in-
tellect, speaks not contemptuously of the world-sorrow."
The Count was neither talking to show off his erudition, nor to hear the
sound of his own voice. He had'risen to his feet to make his remarks, and he
uttered them in a manner' of unmistakable earnestness, gesturing the while
with his lighted cigar, and glancing from face to face of his auditors. Mean-
lime the two A iericans stared at him with what they considered a suitable
mixture, of candid contempt and wonder.
"Poloski, you puzzle me," said Wolverton frankly. "You are a fdneur
like 1 yself, and yet you are a philosopher and a linguist. I don't see how
you iix such opposite fancies."
T ie Count's lip curled slightly, and, notwithstanding his habitual civility,
he hi d an air for one moment of despising his companions.
" Why should not afaneur be also a great man?" he asked. " Csar was
a dandy. You Americans are not many-si'ed enough. It is not that you
have not brains individually.  It is tle defect of your intellectual atmos-
phere. There is in it no variety of culture. It is not so in Europe. Look at
me-what you call a dandy--I know seven languages, and have written
brochures on them all, and now I am preparing a great work on the Origins
of Spechc"&amp;
"Honest?" asked Wetherel, looking up from his brooding, and thinking in
a practical way that if he knew as much as Poloski, he too would write a great
work and make money (as learned, men always do), and so have funds to mar-
ry on.y                                        n       e      t
"Honest!" repeated the Count in high dudgeon."Have you thought me
a humbug? I could show you all my brochures, only for ny misfortunes. A
robber of a hotel-keeper seized my baggage and sold it to pay his rascally lit-
tle bill. All my writings were lost!" he sighed with indisputable grief.ally
Origins of Speech is only begun, But I will show you soie day-I will show
you!"
Can ve 'believe the Count? Yes, we must in some measure credit his
statements; lie was really a linguist, and, to a certain extent, a scholar. A
native of Posen (it is supposed), Polish and German were mother tongues to
him, and lie ais acquired more or less knowledge of several other languages.
As to thle various queer essays of whIich lie bostdwehae ngortcon
cerning them but his own; and as to his havingreadwthen before royal and
imperial societies, respectful doubt is at least permissible. His work, ho w-
ever, on the Origins of Speech was not a myth; and fragments of it did event-
nally astonish and delude superficial pundits.
"Well, you are too deep for us," confessed Wolverton, with .lazy modesty~


66                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"I can't discuss philology with you. And here is Wetherel going uncom-
forted:."
Let him study the*'science .of language, and he will be comforted," de
cared the Count. " What is the matter with Wetberel?"
"I am the victim of rich relatives," said Edward, with a bitter attempt a:
defiant gayety. "My uncle has robbed me of his fortune."
"Is he rich, your'uncle?" asked Poloski, deeply interested, as he always-
was at the mention of wealth.
"Worth a million," sulkily responded Edward, remembering that he would
have none of it.
"What!" exclaimed the Count. "And lives in that' little house? He
should have a castle. Of course he is not imprudent enough to keep much
money in that coop."
"Rolls in a bin of it every night," asserted Edward. "Don't you wish he
played poker?"
"1Why have you not taken me there again? " asked Poloski. "I wanted
once more-with your permission-to see the charming Miss Alice."
"I have piloted you over twice, my Leander."
" True. I am under infinite obligations. But the second time we found
not the young ladies, and you would not introduce me to the house."
"6Never mind, Count. No disrespect intended. I have scarcely been al-
lowed to introduce myself."'
" And have you been really disinherited? "
"Yes," laughed Edward, with what joy in the merriment we can imagine.
"The monster!" said the Count. "It is a case far worse than world-sor-
brow."
After remaining for some time in meditation, he added, " Then you will
not go there more?"
"No," returned/Edward.h
That very day the noble Poloski took his departure, explaining that he had
urgent afitirs in New York.
" You won't play with him," suggested Edward to Wolverton; " and he
takes it for granted that I haven't much more to lose."
" I don't think that is the whole of it," returned Wolverton. " The dead-
beat was after your cousin Alice; but of course, if you are not going over
there, he has lost his chance of getting a footing in the family; and he isn't
the fellow to waste his time in sighing across a harbor. We shall hear of him
courting some other girl's bank account. I'm glad he's gone. Hadn't we
better go too?"
I will go on to New Haven with you," said Wetherel.
"Why not to Newport?" ,
" I can't afford it. I must save my money-or rather your money. Can't
make you understand that I am dished and must study a profession?" he
added irritably. " I'll go to New Haven and pick out my boarding-house
there and get used to it. I must be a sawbones. It is the only business that
I take the least fancy to. And I may as-well study in New Haven as any-
where else."
"Better," added-Wolverton. "You will be near your uncle, and huk may
bring the old man around, if he sees you now and then. New Havent i just
the place for you," he declared, viewing Wetherel's gloomy prospects cee
fully, as the kindest of us are apt to view the burdens of our fellows. "el

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        67
suppose we quit here on Saturday. I'll stop over with you a cay or two in
New Haven, and see you settled. Any money that you want, you know, just
call on me. I can't help thinking that this affair will come around all right
yet."
"yPerhaps so," grumbled Edward. "I can't feel so confident as you can.
Perhaps because the troubles are mine, instead of yours. However, I'm greatly
oblged to you. We will start when you say."
Thus it was that the young man came to be still in the neighborhood of
Sea Lodge when the bloody footstep of the " Wetherel Mystery ' appeared on
its threshold.
CHAPTER XVIII.
ANOTHER LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT.
THE Wetherel household, habitually in a state of 'twilight seriousness had
descended into a still lower and more darkling atmosphere, as if the shadow
of the oncoming tragedy were already stealing over it.
Every member of the family was occupied with sorrowful meditations and
exercises concerning the luckless drama of Nestoria and Edward. The girl
herself was of course in a state of worry about her lover; sometimes believing
that he was good, and even very good, and at all events too good for0her ;
sometimes fearing lest she should discover him to be one of those with whom
conscientious spirits must not hold companionship. She made no public moan,
indeed, being too modest to parade her griefs and too self-sustaining to lay
them on the shoulders of others; but her cheek had 'faded a little, and her eyes
had lost somewhat of their lucid brightness, so that her watchful friends knew
that she wept in secret. Mrs. Dinneford and" Alice sorrowed for her, though
not without hope, for they were women of the good old womanly sort, who held
in the main that a love affair must have a blessed ending. The Judge appeared
outwardly more shaken than anybody else; his habitual solemnity had degen-
erated into an absent-minded anxiety, his face unusually wan and his step for-
bodingly feeble.
"Uncle is more than half sick," observed Alice to her another. " And I
am glad of it. He is-.too hard to put up with."
" Hush, my child," returned Mrs. Dinneford. "Cousin Wetherel looks at
everything through his sense of duty. Edward has certainly been a wild boy;
and I dare say he might make a very bad use of the property, if he should get
it; and I sometimes must think of him in Tuppei's wonderful words, 'Behold
the simple did sow and hath reaped the right harvest of folly'; and as for
his marrying Nestoria, he might make her dreadfully unhappy, you know
though I'm sure I hope not; and finally, how in the world could he  ossibl
support her? Why, the poor child might have to go to teaching school and
painting her fans to keep him out of the poorhouse. Dear me, when I think
of it all I feel that we ought to be angry with Edward instead of with Cousin
Wetherel, though nature. inclines the other way. Young men are so attrac-
tive!"
" It is a horrid muddle," fretted Alice. "Why wasn't Nestoria warned?"
she added, quite forgetting her own responsibility in the matter. " Here you
kew you venerable people, that Edward was a flibbertigibbet, and never told


68                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"Who could have guessed how things were going?" groaned the elder
woman. "The ways of Providence are dreadfully mysterious; too much so
for' some of us poor mortals. I sometimes think they were laid out without
the least regard to us. We are left to look out for ourselves just as much as
if we were rats and puppies, with a lot of Chinamen going to and fro to make
pies of us. If we can keep out of the way, very good; and if we can't, we are
devoured, and that's the end of it."
" Don't bring Providence into the squabble," protested Alice. "The whole
fault of the present muss lies with Uncle Wetherel. He could clear 'up mat-
ters if he wanted to. He ought to settle a hundred thousand dollars on them,
and tie up the money so that Edward couldn't spend it, and let them be mar-
ried. They would get along as well as half the people. Somebody says that
reformed rakes make the best husbands."
" Perhaps so-if they ever do reform."
And Mrs. Dinneford shook her head seriously, for Alice was a little too,
much given to favoring rakes.
During two days the only complaint which Nestoria uttered concerning
her troubles was a confession that Sea Lodge had become a sad place to her.
"I cannot stay here much longer," she sighed. " I love you all, but I
must go."
"Oh, no!" implored Mrs. Dinneford. "Not yet awhile. Stay with us
till the vacations are over. There is no- sense in your going till you have got
a place."
And Alice added, with the headlong fervor of youthful friendship, ' There
is no sense in your going ever."
".Do help me then to find a place," was Nestoria's piteous answer.'
Let us inquire a little more, minutely than we have hitherto done into this
extravagant mystery of the affection of a pure and conscientious soul for one
whom Judge Wetherel numbered not unfairly among the sons of Belial. Se-
rious people will be ready to affirm that a thoroughly good girl cannot trust
and admire and love a bad man. In a general way this is true; the saintly
do not incline toward the openly corrupt; they instinctively dislike and avoid
them. But we must remember that when the wolves put on sheep's clothing,
they often enter the fold without difficulty and are well received among the
flock. Now, as far as Nestoria had seen or could perceive, Edward Wetherel
was vestured in the very purest and whitest of lambs' wool, such as might
have served for the covering of a prophet or high priest. As gentle and cour-
teous as any missionary, and in her hearing as becoming in conversation, she
classed him with the worthy souls among whom she had been educated, and
could not possibly think of him as on a par with the heathen. The 'mere fact
that he wore European clothing was a certificate of good character in the eyes
of a child who had rarely seen a wicked man without a turban, loose robes,
and a shawl full of firearms.
It might seem that she had received warnings and hints enough concern-
ing Edward to make her comprehend clearly that he was a scapegrace. But
innocence isvery dull in the matter of understanding insinuations as to evil.
It has sometimes occurred to me that the angels who abide permanently in
heaven must be exceedingly incredulous and hard to instruct concerning. the
wickedness, of our planet. Difficult as the thing is to accept, we must be con-
tented to receive it as a fact (and it seems to me a fact of great beauty and
pathos) that Nestoria had not comprehended much of what the Judge had said

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         69
to her against his nephew. The two men had disagreed, and that certainly
was a very lamentable business; but which was darkly to blame she could not
tell, and she charitably, sweetly hoped, neither..
Well, what must she' do? Of course she must eventually leave all with
her father, that entirely wise and good being, that representative to her of Deity.
But meantime was she to hear and see nothing of Edward? It was improba-
ble that he would come again to his uncle's house; and after bearing his ab-
sence for a day or two, she could not help writing to him.
" My dear, dear friend," she began, "what shall I say to you? We must
wait, and you must have patience; can't you? I hope and believe that you
trust me, notwithstanding that you cannot see me. You may confide in me
thoroughly. I have thought this matter all over, and, my dear, dear friend, I
have prayed over it, and it seems to me that I have received some light upon
it. When I remember how we were allowed to meet, and to learn to believe
in each other, until it was too late to disbelieve, it seems to me that we were
led by a mighty hand, a hand reaching from'the.other world. I think so with
frequent trembling, and yet with prevailing cheerfulness. And so I shall keep
my promise to.you, in spite of your good uncle's warning. My dear, dear
friend, the friend that has come nearest to my heart of any on earth, if you
have not been always a good man heretofore, you must be a good man hencefor-
ward for my sake, as well as for far greater motives. I wilLnot write any more,
for perhaps I ought not., But I could not help writing this. What I have to
ask you, then, is to have patience until we can hear from my father. Is it too
much?
"Yours always,
. ' "NESTOMA."
This letter she showed to Mrs. Dinneford, who read it with moist eyes
-and sent it.
"If the Lord," said the good lady to herself, "if the Lord doesn't take care
of that child, I don't know whom 4he will take care of. And if Edward doesn't
turn a sharp corner now and make a decent man of himself, lie ought to be-
hung! I wish I could lock him up. We put dumb creatures into yokes and
pokes when they are unruly. Edward is just as fit to. run about alone as a
truant goose or a hooking cow. And here I can't blow a warning trumpet
against him in this poor child's ear, for fear of worrying her. I never had
anybody take such, a hold of my feelings. . Well, there is one comfort in it,
she may have got the same hold of Edward."
I suspect that most of us ait like Mrs. Dinneford in finding it difficult to
deal faithfully with pretty and agreeable, persons. Indeed, it'strikes one as a
general reflection of much weight, that Providence has been kind to the human
race in making many plain women. If all the representatives of that exacting
sex were beautiful and captivating, men would hardly ever be masters of their
own minds and actions; they would be constantly on the go to please some
irresistible charmer, and ,they would have neither thought nor time for the
virile labors of life, so that politics, business, and possibly civilization alto-
gether, would march haltingly, if indeed we. did not remain in a state of fig-
leaves.
Judge Wetherel himself, that incarnate case of conscience, who was ac-
customed to denounce beauty as a (delusion and a snare, was spiritually be-
numbed to an amazinig extent by Nestorid's graces. It was mainly because
her sweet smile and golden hair reminded him of seraphs that lie could not


70                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
warn her frankly that she had thrown her pearls of affection 'before the un-
clean, and command her strenuously to withdraw the precious offering. At
last it was borne in upon him that, if his nephew was to be this child's detri-
ment, he ought to be her salvation, at least in a worldly sense; and thus he
came to conceive the idea of leaving her fifty thousand dollars or so, the said
legacy to be secured to her, by a trusteeship, so that her husband might not
waste it.
This generous plan he in fact decided upon. During the evening he com-
menced drawing up a new will. He was so eager about it that instead of
going to bed at nine o'clock, according to his prudent custom, he sat in his
study until. long afterward, slowly tracing out his good deed in his large, for-
mal, conscientious handwriting. At half past ten he was still busy, for both
mind and hand were somewhat stiffened by age, and he could only work
slowly. One by one the others retired, leaving him alone with his benevo-
lence.
" Cousin Wetherel, take care of your eyes," said Mrs. Dinneford, entering
the study to bid him good-night. "You can't labor as you could once."
"Do not interrupt me," replied the old man. "I must do with my might
what my hand findeth to do. The night cometh when no man can work."
"But the morning cometh also," observed Mrs. Dinneford, who was ac,
customed to talk with her relative in his town Biblical way.
"We know not the plans of Providence," said the Judge. "I have always
endeavored to labor as if each day were to be my last. Suffer me to go on.".
"You are altering your will! " exclaimed the good lady, her large blue
eyes. opening so wide with delight that her spectacles were a very close fit.
"Cousin Wetherel, I am rejoiced. I do hope poor Edward is to have some-
thing to keep him off the town."
"-A pretty reason for giving a man wealth because he is of the almshouse
sort!" grumbled the old gentleman, a shrewd economist and financier, be it
observed, and necessarily somewhat scornful of those who were not. "Cousin
Dinneford," he added, in a humorously pettish tone, "if you cannot sleep with-
out learning what I am doing, be it known to you that I am bequeathing a
support to this damsel who has found her sojourn under my roof such a pitfall
to her feet."
"Nestoria!" fairly laughed Mrs. Dinneford. " Cousin Wetherel, the Lord
speed you! I won't delay you another minute., Do finish it and sign it."
"There must be witnesses," answered the Judge. "And we have none
here of a proper status. To-morrow, if Providence permit, all shall be done
in order and with punctuality.",            -
"iWell, to-morrow," smiled' Mrs. Dinneford. " Good-night, Cousin Weth-
erel."
She nastened up stairs, looked in upon Alice to tell her the good news,
found the girl asleep, and went to her own room.
The house fell silent. Only in the Judge's study, situated, we must re-
member, upon the ground floor, was there a light burning. After a time this
too disappeared; the mystery of a night without moon or stars settled upon
the dwelling; there was a darkness such as they love whose deeds are evil.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.           71

CHAPTER XIX.
THE MURDER.
No sound had disturbed any sleeper in Sea Lodge with the revelation or
with so much as the suggestion of a tragedy.
And yet a stroke of deadly violence, as cruel and conclusive as the crunch
of a headsmau's axe, had fallen; and in one of the rooms of this summer pleas-
ure-house a corpse watched with wide-open, glassy eyes for the morning.
During all the latter hours of the night it stared into the darkness, utterly un-
known and unsuspected to the living who were so near it, so that it seemed to
be lying in wait to surprise and shock and terrify them, and this too although
it wore the guise of one who had loved them. From certain points of view
there is something vampire-like, something uncomfortably hostile and fero-
cious, in a dead body. To the living, so far at least as concerns their con-
tinuance in physical life, it is a menace and a prophet of evil.
The victim  was not Mrs. Dinneford; she had slept ,that slumber from
which we wake. But some oppressive thing in the air of the house, some sub,
tle influence which was unfriendly to prolonged repose, aroused her at an un-
usually early hour; and unable to close her eyes again, she got up and dressed
herself hastily, meaning to go out and breathe the refreshment of dawn,
First, however, she peeped into her daughter's room, as was her motherly
custom of mornings, to see if the girl .slept well. Next, the doors of the
sleeping apartments being all open on account of the summer heat, she went
Softly to take a like kindly glance at Nestoria.
To her astonishment she found the room of the guest empty and the bed
undisturbed. Alarmed at once (tender-hearted women are so easily anxious),
she hurried to a window, peered out in all directions, and called, first gently
and then louder, "Nestoria!"
No answer came from within or without; and Mrs. Dinneford, throbbing
with agitation, ran down stairs to continue her search; fearful goblins of sus-
picion meanwhile following her fast with such queries as,- Sickness? Insanity ?
Edward? Had the dear child been taken suddenly and dangerously ill ? Had
her perplexities unsettled her mind and sent, her out wandering? . Had the
headlong and ill-starred Edward so far abused her inexperience and innocence
as to draw her into an elopement? Mrs. Dinneford could think of no other
explanations for this extraordinary disappearance.
On reaching the lower floor of the still quiet and silent cottage, it occurred
to her that she would do well to awaken the Judge and inform him of what
had happened. But in passing through the parlor on the way to his bedroom
she chanced to look into the study, and there, to her amazement, she beheld
her venerable kinsman seated in his office chair. His back was toward her,
his body leaning forward, his arms and head resting upon his writing-table,
his silver hair hanging loosely about his face, and his whole attitude that of
'deep slumber,
" Why, Cousin Wetherel!" exclaimed, or rather screamed Mrs. Dinneford,
" Have you been here all night?"
The Judge did not stir; his sleep was awfully, alarmingly profound; and
of a sudden the wondering woman became tremulous with fright. Was it a
fainting fit, or was it apoplexy? Forgetting all about Nestoria, she advanced
hastily to the old man and laid her hand upon his shoulder. In the next in--
dtant she snatched it away and shrieked withm all her strength, " Murder! "


72                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
The terrible cry awakened or startled all tle members of the family,
and brought them one by one into the room, flurried, amazed, and staring.
The first living person of whom Mrs. Dinneford became aware was the
gardener, a quiet, silent, and somewhat stolid man, of the lowly-born Eng-
lish type.
"Oh, James, he has been killed! see the blood!" hurriedly and mechan-
ically gasped the horror-stricken woman.
James advanced to the unmoving body, surveyed with profound ,solemnity
a large crimson, clotted pool on the writing-table, passed an unflinching horny
hand over a white, cold face, and touched with one finger a gash in the hoary
crown. There wns no question about the remorseless completeness- of the
sanguinary work. The severe and somewhat sunless, but conscientious, benev-
olent, and on the whole beautiful life had ended; and the sincere spirit of the
old man, purified through worthy work and worthier aspirations, had risen by
mortal violence to divine mercy.
Having completed his rude diagnosis, James fell back with some brief and
simple remark, the exact phraseology of which Mrs. Dinneford did notnote at
the time, merely gathering that the Judge was quite dead.
Now caine the cook, the chambermaid, and lastly Alice. There were four,
frightened, weeping, and more or less hysterical women together, supported
by only one ignorant, lumpish, and every way inadequate man. Under the
spur of necessity Mrs. Dinneford suppressed her own faintings of spirit, and
gave such directions as were given. She sent the chambermaid to surnmon
the nearest neighbors, and the gardener to search the earth around the house
for strange foot-tracks. When the cook proposed to remove the Judge to his
bedroom, "and lay him out decently before he stiffened," she called to minda
in a vague way that there mnst be legal examinations, and ordered with ex.
cited sharpness, "Don't touch him, and don't touch anything.'.?
Meantime she was endeavoring to comfort and tranquillize her daughter.
Alice was almost irrational with fright and horror; her jaws.quivered so that
she could not articulate with distinctness,' yet she talked incessantly. She
asked a hundred questions, and asked them over and over again. "Oh,
mother, did he breathe? " she chattered. "Oh, didn't he breathe just once?
Was he all gone when you came in? Don't you suppose he knew you were
there when you touched him? Don't you suppose lie was just a little con-
scious? Oh, so sudden! it's worse than the blood, isn't it, mother? Do you
think he saw them when they struck him? Do you think he knew they were
going to kill him? I hope he .didn't know it and didn't see them-don't you,
mother? Oh, I would give worlds if he could have told you something about
it., Wasn't it dreadful for him to be alone so! Do you think he was conscious,
of it? If he died after they left him, do you think he knew lie was alone? Do
tell me something about it. Don't you think anything I"'
Terrible mystery of sudden death! The girl was wild to lift its .immov-
able curtain, and look upon every feature of the tremendous tragedy within.
Death in all its forms, every fashion and incident of death, had an awful fas-
cination for her. It was a characteristic of the Wetherel stock, derived per-
haps from centuries of serious ancestors who .had felt called to reflect much
upon matters beyond the grave, or possibly springing from some still more
remote spiritual source of feeling which had swept the breed into puritanism.
N~o Wetherel, however light-minded in youth, had ever come to middle age'
without gravely pondering the trial of death, andl preparing himself for it by

THE.WETHERFL AFFAIR.-73
one system of faith or another. And Alice, through her mother, belonged to
this-fundamentally earnest-minded race.
"'Where is Nestoria? " she presently asked.  "Why doesn't she come
here? I will go and tell her."
Mrs. Dinneford caught her daughter by the hand, and held her fast. For
the first time since she'had become aware of the murder she remembered Nes-
toria's disappearance; and she feared for Alice's reason, in case some second
tragedy should add its horrors to the one before her.
"What is the matter?" gibbered the shrinking girl, looking about her with
eager eyes. " Did you think you saw them?"
" I want you to stay with me,");said the mother. " We will tell Nestoria
by and by."
Neighbors soon arrived, men and women and children, all of course in a
buzz of wonder, curiosity, and horror. They were strangers to the family, for
the excellent old Judge had been somewhat patrician in his social ways, and
had not sought to consort with the plain farmers and fishermen of the vicinity.
But the presence of a mortal tragedy necessarily broke down reserve, and en-
abled human sympathy to speak its fitting word and do its helpful deed, so fai
is words or deeds could be fitting oi- helpful in such an hour of agitation. . A
tlorid, stoutly built man, in a cotton-velvet sack-coat and soiled trigusers of
brown linen, who proved to be the keeper of a small amid noisy " hotel " near
by, presently made himself prominent in the babbling confusion, assumed a
leadership over it, and reduced it to order. His first act of authority was to
turn the crowd out of the study and post a sentinel at the door.
'Next, turning to Mrs. Dinneford, lie asked, "Is there any property gone?
I see the old gentleman's safe is open. You'd better look about and see if
anything is missing, and make a note of it."
So there was a hasty, flurried examination. No money was found in the
safe, although the Judge always kept a few hundred dollars on hand.
4 Burglars," remarked the tavern-keeper, whose name, by the way, was
Mr. John Sweet. " Looks decidedly burglarish. Anything else gone?"
"I can't see his will," murmured Mrs. Dinneford, her hands fluttering
over the papers on the blood-stained table, without touching them. "He had
two wills here, an old one that was signed, and a new one that he was writing.
They are gone, they are both gone."
It was a fresh shock, but it would be hard to say whether she were fairly
conscious of it or iot, her feelings were in such a turmoil. That a rich legacy
might have been lost to her, and that the Wtherel estate might now fall en-
tire into the hands of Edward-so much she comprehended in a vague way,
without i distinct sense of calamity.
" Burglars-yes," repeated the taverner slowly and after sound reflection.
" And old uns and bold uns, that's used to takin' risks and knows what risks to
take. If I hadn't been a p'lece officer, I wouldn't 'a known what they did
that for. The parties concerned 'll have to buy that paper. They'll git let-
ters about it. Them fellers pocketed that paper so as to sell it to the heirs.
It's a mighty highflown trick, and I shouldn't wonder if it boosted 'em-
though law is uncertain, that's a fact. ' And I've known fellers git ofif-I've
known-gracious!"
.Mrs. Dinneford dimly understood, but made no comments.
" Who did the estate go to, by the way ?" was the next question of Mr.
Sweet, delivered in an easy, abstracted manner, as if it were of no conse-
quence.

k    0


74                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
In her confusion of mind the good lady promptly stated that the property
was to be divided between herself, her daughter, Walter Lehming, and cer-
tain benevolent institutions.
" And wasn't the nephew to have anything? " asked the taverner, so sur-
prised that he showed eagerness. "I seen his nephew t'other day, out on the
fishin' grounds," lie immediately added. " That's all. He don't owe me any-
thing."
"No, he was not an heir," sighed Mrs. Dinneford. She was about to add
that there had been family troubles, but of a sudden it occurred to her that
she was telling more than necessity required, and, still searching with her
eyes for the vanished documents, she fell silent.
The ancient hunter of criminals made no further remark for perhaps half a
minute. He was unquestionably meditating, though lie strove to conceal his
thoughtfulness'by looking intently at tie body of the murdered man, his hands
meanwhile clasped behind him in a reverent and funeral attitude. After a
time there came into his dull and slightly bloodshot brown eye a sparkle which
showed that his reflections had culminated in some definite and confident con.
delusion; and then he fell to studying Mrs. D iiinneford, searching her face all
over with unfaltering attention, and slightly working his mouth at her as if he
were trying to mould her' into the sort of person that lie desired. At last,
touching her on the arm in a way meant -to be respectful, he observed in a
whisper, "I say!"
What? " she started, turning sudclenly upon him, with a confused expec-
tation that lie was about to point to the murderer.
Don't say anything about that, you understand," he continued, almost in-
audibly. "I mean about the nephew not having anything. Don't tell any-
body but the authorities."
With'the consciousness of receiving a terrible inward shock, Mrs. Dinne-
ford divined that this man suspected Edward Wetherel of the murder.
CHAPTER XX.
A IIEEOINE VANISHED
THE supposition that Edward could have committed this horrible crime
Mrs. Dinneford instantaneously rejected with all the strength of her kindly na'
ture, not seeking to argue upon it in any manner, even to herself, and not re-
plying a word to Mr. Sweet, but simply shaking her head in strenuous nega-
tion.
"Oh, I dare say it was burglars," nodded the ex-policeman, preferring that
she should so believe and so persuade others, inasmuch as that would leave the
field clearer to his own researches, which, as he trusted, would be gainful in
lucre. "I only wanted.to warn you not to say anything that might make
trouble for decent folks. Anybody can see what burglars might expect to get
out of that paper. Ransom money; that's the idea."
At this moment Alice, who had gone up stairs to finish her dressing, came
rushing down with a cry of, "Mother, where is Nestoria? She didn't sleep in
her rooni."
"Girl missing?" eagerly demanded Mr. Sweet. "Servant girl? No!
What, not the young ]adyP Well, here's a start."
"She was a dear, sweet friend of ours," answered Mrs. Dinneford, hardly

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        75
able in her agitation to keep herself from screaming. . "Ican't imagine what
has become of her. We must look for her at once."
" That's so," was the positive and energetic opinion of Mr. Sweet. "Little
golden-haired young lady, ain't it? I'll set a gang a-going right away."
He was fully in his element now; here was an opportunity to use his by-
gone experience and show his special ability; and he began upon his task with
something like the gleeful eagerness of a hound starting out on a hunt; indeed,
he might be described as frisking and gambolling, at least in spirit. It was
not humanity which made him so alert, for the unsympathetic fact was that he
did not care a sixpence about the safety of the missing girl, his sole motive of
action being his acquired instinct for pointing and tracking. With harassing
and almost abominable cheerfulness he organized a searching party of men
and boys, formed it in an extended loose line after the fashion of skirmishers,
and caused it to beat through every wood and thicket in the vicinity. Mean-
time he himself trotted rapidly along the shore, looking behind every rock and
bush and tuft of reeds, examining the sand of the beach for footprints, and
scanning the surface of the harbor for floating objects. A careful search of an
hour or so only revealed the fact that Nestoria was not in the neighborhood.
But Mr. Sweet was not yet at his wit's end. Bouncing into a "sharpy,"
he skimmed across the bay to Lighthouse Point, landed near the house where
Edward and his friends had lodged, lurked about it until he discovered Mr.
Brown alone, and inquired whether young Wetherel wanted to go a-fishing.
Mr. Brown, who was a small, knurly, grizzled man of fifty, with wrinkles
of chronic discontent about his mouth and nose, replied in an aggrieved, dis-
obliging tone, "He don't live here."
" Why, yes he does," insisted Sweet. "You've got three boarders, hain't
you?"
"No, I hain't," was the unsocial, surly answer of Brown, meanwhile sur-
veying his visitor 'offensively.
" Well, I'll be blowed if you hain't had three," retorted Sweet, with some
excitement. "What's the matter? Have they quit without settlin'?"
Having aired his temper enough to sweeten it a little, Mr. Brown now
gave what information he had to give, tossing it surlily at Sweet over his
shoulder.
"Yes, they've quit. I expected 'em to stay a month, and they only stayed
a week."
"Oh, that's the row, is it?" observed the ex-policeman. "I don't call that
handsome."
" The foreigner went three days ago, and the others the next day," con-
tinued Brown. "Did they owe you anything?"
"Yes," said Sweet, which was a fib; but he was anxious to conceal the
true motives of his early voyage; and he actually put back to his own side of
the harbor without telling Brown the news.
On reaching Sea Lodge he drew the chambermaid on one side and whis-
pered to her in a confidential, manner, "So the young lady eloped with the rich
nephew, did she?"
" Deary me!" exclaimed the -amazed woman. " Did she? Well, they
was engaged, that's a fact. Well, if that isn't most awful! And his poor un
ele dead in the house!"
"Yes, shocking coincidence, wasn't it?" mumbled Sweet, and withdrew
himself from her to meditate. He saw it all now: the young man and young


76                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
woman had run away together; but first one or other of them had stolen. the
will and killed the old gentleman.
"But what bloody nonsense!" said Mr. Sweet to himself. " They've made
the whole thin' as plain as a pikestaff. I don't believe a million can git him
off. There'll be a big reward, sure, and I shall have a good chance for it," was
his concluding reflection.
Having formed his theory of the tragedy, the ex-policeman commenced
looking for evidence to support it. The facts were scanty: there was the man-
gled body of the victim, and that was pretty much all; so that Mr. Sweet once
remarked to himself, "If it wasn't for the corpse, I'd be ready to swear there
hadn't been any murder."
Not a strange footprint had been discovered around the house, and not an
article indicative of the assassin had been left in it. The fatal blow had been
dealt with a small hatchet, but this primitive weapon belonged on the prein-
ises, and had been 'seen the evening before in the Judge's study, he having,
made use of it, in his self-helpful way, to nail Up a bookshelf. The manner in
which the assault had been executed was necessarily a matter of loose and va-
riable guesswork. Mr. Sweet's prevailing opinion was that the old man had
fallen asleep in his chair; that the criminal had crept up behind him and at.
tempted to seize money or papers from off the table; that the slumberer had
awakened and instinctively seized the intruder, and that then the blow had
been delivered.
"And no regular hand would 'a hit such a lick-as that," reasoned Mr
Sweet. "A regular hand don't draw blood when he can help it. A regular
band would 'a choked the old man a little, or stunned him with the hammer
end of the hatchet, and taken the money and vanosed. It was a greenhorn
that did this job, and it was a greenhorn that the old man knew, so that he had
to kill or ne shown up. - Then there's the will gone; that's a note of the first
importance; that points, that does. I did think for a minute that -professionals
might 'a taken it to bleed the heirs; but, come to consider it, that game would
be too almighty risky; professionals wouldn't try it on. The business was
done by some man that wanted to destroy the will and keep the old gentleman
from making another. And who's the man? The nephew! That's the way I
see it."
It must be understood that we are- following up Mr. Sweet's cogitations
thus closely because he represents the current popular opinion of the moment.
While he supposed that he was alone in suspecting Edward Wetherel of the
crime, his opinion had already become public property. Nor was the suppo-
sition dispelled when the young man appeared at Sea Lodge during the day,,
and hurried at once to view the body. Grim eyes watched him with boding
curiosity, and noted with a terrible sort of satisfaction that he was singularly
pallid and tremulous, and that after one brief, speechless gaze at his mangled
relative, he recoiled with a shudder and hastily left the room. The only re-
sult of his appearance on the spot was that Mr. Sweet was obliged to abandon
one of his suppositions.
"Of course he wouldn't quit," argued that gentleman to himself. "I did
think for a while that he and the girl might 'a cut off together. But that would
'a made things altogether too plin and easy. He hangs around and plays the
innocent game. Of course he would. But it won't save him. He shows his
guilt in his face, and he's a goner, sure."
One incomprehensible circumstance, however, kept Mr. Sweet on the seo-
saw of perplexity.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          77
"Where's the girl? " he repeatedly queried. " That's what gits me. Did
she do it? She's from foreign parts, I understand, and probably didn't have
much of a bringing' up. Sposin' now the feller got the girl into the job, how
would that work? The old man is asleep, and the girl begins to fumble round
for the will. and the old man wakes up and grabs her, and she gits scared and
hits him. But then what was the use of startin' out to steal the will unless she
meant to finish him and stop his akin' another? And would a girl like that
be able to screw her courage up to such a bustin' old job? I guess not. It was
the feller that did it, I'll bet my pile on it."
But Mr. Sweet was destined to go through many changes in, his opinions
concerning the tragedy. During the day he learned from indisputable wit-
nesses that Edward Wetherel had passed the whole of the previous night in
New Haven, keeping up till near morning a farewell "spree" of a boisterous
nature with his friend Wolverton.
It was the girl that did it," declared the ex-policeman on learning these
facts. "She did it, but she did it in the nephew's interest, and verylikely at
his request. She did it, and she meant to do'it, and then she cut and run. We
never shall git to the bottom of this case till we find that girl."
Mr. Sweet, however, had scarcely installed himself comfortably in this con-
clusion, when he was ousted from it by a new discovery. He found a certain
Tom Higgs, the keeper of a little oyster shop on the New Haven road, who
was ready to swear that during the evening of the murder he had seen a man
of young Wetherel's. appearance pass his lair in the direction of Sea Lodge.
Flatly contradicted as this story was by the New Haven alibi, the ex-police-
man could not help hailing it with vague credence, and thus dropped back
once More into a suspicion of Edward. In this undecided state we must for'
the present leave him, merely adding that the public, mind was quite as much
bewildered as his, and that the coroner's jury found a verdict of murder by the
'hand of some person unknown, so that the Wetherel tragedy might be said to
have already taken on the shape of a mystery.
Let us now return to Edward Wethercl. After that brief glance of his at
the murdered Judge, he had hastened up stairs to visit Mrs. Dinneford and
Alice. They were in a room by themselves; the mother, prostrated by that
reaction which follows violent excitement, was in tears; the daughter, her face
swollen with crying, was talking garrulously, still putting piteous questions
about the death scene. At sight of the grief and agitation of the two wonen
the young fellow's nerves gave way, and, throwing himself upon a sofa and
hiding his face, he sobbed violently.
Isn't it horrible, Edward?" gasped Alice. "6Oh, wasn't it horrible for
him to die so!"
"Oh, horrible, horrible, horrible!" he repeated in a shuddering tone.
His emotion was so violent, and to Mrs. Dinneford its violence was so un-
expected, that she looked at him with surprise and alarm. Could it be that
the hotel-keeper was right, and that Edward was in some way guilty of his
uncle's blood, and that this perturbation was remorse? For a few seconds
the frightful suggestion was so mighty that she fought helplessly against it, as
a sleeper struggles with a nightmare. But the next utterance of the young fel-
low turned her kindly and charitable soul from suspicion to hope.
"I seemed to see it all at once," said he. " All at once I saw just what a
brute and fool I had been."
Mrs. Dinneford lifted her eyes to heaven; here was a little comfort amid
S'a trouble; perhaps Edward would be better than lie had been.


78                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"And poor Nestoria!" Alice babbled on. "Poor little Nestoria! What
has become of her? What do you think, Edward?"
" Why, what kas become of her ?" demanded the young man, springing to
his feet. "Nobody has told me anything. What has happened?"
Then came the story of the strange disappearance of the girl, and the fruit
less search for her..
" [ must go and look for her," said Edward, and hurried out of the room
with % facr almost too pale to belong to a living man.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.            79

CHAPTER XXI.
FRIENDS AND COMFORTERS.
SCARCELY had Edward left the Dinnefords when'there arrived two other
visitors, the relatives who had been for some time expected as guests-
Mr. John Bowider and Mr. Walter Lehming.
Mr. Bowlder was a man of headlong demeanor and plunging gait. He en-
tered the room crown foremost, and With great vehemence, somewhat as if he
were a ram or he-goat who had butted down the door, and was about to inflict
the same violence upon the window sash, and go flying into the garden. He
was big and heavily moulded, and a loose suit of ready-made clothing made
him appear even larger than he was, so that he had the roly-poly look of a fat
Newfouqdland puppy. His head was monstrous, or at least it seemed to be
monstrous, it was so magnified by a vast shock of hair and a bushy beard, both
as white as if he were eighty years old, although he could not have been above
fifty. His face was so pink and fresh that it put one in mind of a healthy in-
fant; and his large blue eyes had a benevolent, dreamy tenderness which was
very beautiful. le made a stamping, jolting rush at the ladies, shook them
both at once by the hand with exhilarating energy, and gushed a stream  of
friendly incoherence.
"I have just seen Edward," he opened abruptly, without any prelude of
salutations. "Cheer up about your little friend who has vanished into the un-
known. He has found a suggestion of her. Delicate omens traced in air.
There is a boat gone, and she must have taken it. Edward is off in search of
her. Thought will dissolve the universe and find her at the bottom of it. As
for the Judge, dear me, dear me! What.can I say to comfort you?, The red
slayer has been here. But then when he thinks he slays he errs. Our noble
old friend lives on in the heaven of the good. Well, here is Lehming. Leh-
ming, I got in your way, my good fellow. Come forward and speak your di-
vine consolations. The voice of the heart is the voice of the gods."
Walter Lehming was at least as peculiar in appearance as John Bowlder.
In age he might have been twenty-eight, but-he looked nearer forty. He was
very short, hardly more than five feet in height, and by many persons would
have been called a dwarf. Nor was this insignificant figure well proportioned,
:or his brevity of stature lay mainly in his legs, his body being of nearly the
natural size. His chest, indeed, was of unusual 'girth, and there was a more
than ordinary fulness between the shoulders, so that at first glance he gave
one an impression of rickets. As with.most men of inferior height, his head
was disproportionately large; and it seemed all the larger because of its lux-
uriant covering of straight, matted brown hair. His face was long, marked
by prominent cheek-bones and a heavy chin, and of a reddened, sallow com-
plexion, not unlike the tint of a Madeira nut. This plain countenance, at first
view so unprepossessing and almost repulsive, was' lighted up by a cheerful
and amiable expression, which in" the end rendered it agreeable. ' The large
gray eyes were patient, meditative, intelligent, and kind; the coarsely modelled
mouth had a smile of little less than divine sweetness. When he spoke, more-


80                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
over, his low voice at once charmed the ear and touched the soul, so musical
was it, so cultured, and so sympathetic.
" My dear aunt!" he said, gently taking Mrs. Dinneford's hand and looking
her in the face with a composed pity which told of a heart that had learned to
be tranquil under sorrows. "I wish that I could have been here to support you
under the first burst of this calamity. How much you must have suffered!"
Tears sprang into the impulsive, soft-hearted woman's eyes, and bending
down toward Lehming, as one bends to a child, she kissed his withered cheek.'
It was affecting to see the humble gratitude which lighted up the young man's
old face in response to this salutation. Since the death of his mother very few
tokens of affection had come his way, and even the embrace of an elderly rel-
ative was to him a great and unexpected compliment.
We must explain, in passing, that neither of these two men pertained in
any manner to the Wetherel stock. John Bowlder was a cousin of the de-
ceased Mr. Dinneford, and Walter Lehming was the son of that gentleman's
sister, so that he was only a nephew to Mrs. Dinneford by marriage.
"And here is Alice," said the shaken woman, fighting with sobs for her
voice, but smiling cordially at the same time, so irrepressible was her kindness
and cheerfulness. "You must kiss her too, Walter. We must cling together
now, like brethren in one-tent. Alice and I will want all the friendship you
can give, for our oldest and best friend is'gone from us, and has left us very
solitary. It seems to me sometimes as if the angel of mercy stoppeth not to
comfort, but passeth by on the other side. - These l ereavements and tragedies
do shake one's faith. We have had an awful revelation of the wickedness that
can exist in the world. To think that any human being should want to kill
our dear, good, beneficent old friend, whose life was one long labor of love for
his fellow creatures! He thought so much of you, Walter! He was set upon
leaving a portion of his property to you because, he said, you were his rela-
tive in the Lord if not in the flesh, and he knew you would be guided to dis-
pense it for good. But, oh dear, what am I talking about! I ought not, per-
haps, to have told you of that, for crime hbas spread its awful mystery and en-
tanglements over this whole matter, and we don't yet rightly know what shall
be.. It almost seems as if Providence had taken counsel this time to bring the-
plans {of the godly to naught. The will has disappeared,'and of course if it
isn't found you will have nothing, Walter."
"]Don't speak of it," replied Lehming with perfect composure and the
smile of a seraph. "But is the will really gone P" he quickly added, as if a
new thought had occurred to him which made the subject important. "And
you, then?"
"Oh, never mind that row," sighed Mrs. Dinneford. "Alice and I have
enough to make us comfortable. We will talk of that by and by, and I shall
want your advice about investments at a proper time. I didn't mean to men-
tion the will, but my mind does run on so when it gets started, and seeing you
quite upset me for a minute. Cousin Wetherel thought so much of you. And
now Edward will have the whole of it, and go no one knows whither. But
perhaps he will mend, now or later. You know Tupper says, 'Let a spend-
thrift grow to be old, he will set his heart on saving.' And if he had nothing
he might be tempted to more and greater follies, for poverty shall make a man
desperate and hurry him ruthless into crime. I don't mean to prophesy hard -
things of Edward, nor to bring him to the bar of my poor judgment. He camue
Lo see us just now, and behaved most beautifully."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

"It is a pleasure and a duty to hope for the best," said Lehming. " The
weight of great responsibility often makes young men suddenly wise. He is
intelligent, you know, and good-hearted."
"lie has just rushed off after that missing girl in the noblest manner," put
in John Bowlder, his great blue eyes twice as large as life with excitement.
He I1ent on his mission like a spiritual activity. 1 ought to have borne him
company. That girl must be found."
" Why ! did you know her? " asked Alice.
'Never saw her in my life," declared John Bowlder, "Never heard of
her till ten minutes ago. But what does that matter? The divine soul j1
promptly receptive to misfortune. Unhappiness always dazzles me. All men
and women who are clothed in it take to me a nobler form. Don't understand
me as getting on the housetops to boast. But, as Emerson says, why should
we make it a point to disparage with our false modesty that man we are? If
I am not helpful, I am heartful,"
"Cousin John, you run over with Emerson as I do with Tapper," said Mrs
Dinneford, laughing out of the midst'of her sorrows, for her humors were won-
derfully variable, chasing each other to and fro like kittens.
It is, perhaps, hardly necessary to explain that ruddy, headlong John Bowl-
der sought to be a philosopher, and that his favorite tap in philosophy was the
one commonly called transcendental. He worshipped Emerson, admired Tho-
reau, andl read much in Walt Whitman. Years before this, carried away by
the story of "Walden," asp many a boy has been by that of "Robinson Cru.
soe," lie rushed into the foidsts of Maine, built ,a hermitage there, and com-
muned obstinately with unsympathizing nature, until a party of surveyors.
found him bedridden with rheumatism and starving, and sent him back to the
degrading comforts of civilization.
"What is the next thing to be done? " gently inquired the unassuming Leh-
ming. '" I am ready to'take all your labors off your hands as far as possible."
"The next thing! " groaned Mrs. Dinneford. "It seems as if everything
came next. The whole future is such a struggling medley, or at least my poor
mind is! But here is a matter that needs counsel immediately. Here is a let-
ter to Nestoria; it came this noon, and it must be from her father; just see the
foreign postmarks. What shall be done with it? Shall I open it? "
" Under the circumstances we are justified in opening it," decided Lehming
after brief reflection. "There may be something in it which will indicate
whither she would be likely to go, My supposition of course is that she wite
nessed the tragedy, and was frightened away by it. This letter may mention
friends of hers with whom she might be led to take refuge. Yes, it is our duty
to open it."
Mrs. Dinneford broke the seal, skimmed hastily through the epistle, and
uttered a cry of poignant distress.
"Her father is dead," she cried. " This is from one of his brother mission-
aries. The poor thing hasn't a home in the whole world. Oh, why doesn't
she come back to us?"
" This is terrible," sighed Lehming, his sallow face beautiful with compas-
sion; while John Bowider suddenly thrust his hands into his white beard and
did violence to it.w                                      i
" We must labor now by day and, night to find her," sobbed  r. Dinne.
fohe.

81


82                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
this calamity like firemen into. a burning house. But cheer up, my human
friends. Labor done with a will is sure to conquer. The will is in itself a
guide. As Emerson says, ' A breath of will blows eternally through the uni-
verse in the direction of the right and necessary.' . I shall take a boat and go
over this whole harbor."
" Cousin'John, you may go under it," observed Mrs. Dinneford. " Can you
row?"n
" I can learn," declared John Bowlder.
"But the wind was strong last night, and if she got, into a boat it must have
blown her out into the Sound, and the Sound here is twenty miles wide."
"I shall remember that," said John Bowlder.
And take a boat he did; and upset himself three rods from high-water mark,
wading ashore through the shallows with undiminished spirit, but finding him-
self obliged to go to bed until his clothes could be dried; for as usual he had
lost his valise in his late journeyings, and neither the Judge's garnernts nor
Lehming's were big enough for him. Getting tired presently of retirement,
he wrapped a coverlet about him and sat by his window, discoursing to the cu-
rious idlers who wandered about the grounds, and exhorting them in mystical'
proverbial sentences to be helpful.
"Your goodness must have some edge to it, else it is none," he lectured to
a knot of boys who gathered to stare at him. "Go out and do your bidden
work, if you do it alone. Shun father and brother, if your good genius calls
you, and they hear it not. But be sure you know how to row before you leap
into your shallop. Columbus himself needed a planet to shape his course upon.
The brightest of all pole stars in our heaven is experience. At the same time
we must not follow the old wife's rule of refusing to go into the water until
we can swim. Indeed, courage is the especial duty of youth., The young are
apostles. To them the superhuman voice incessantly commands, Go ye forth.
I am not speaking now of stealing apples nor of robbing birds' nests, but of
conferring benefits and straining the hiher activities. The soul walks with
bended neck in cellars, but loftily and usefully above ground."
"Benny, come here," yelled one urchin to another, more distant, with
whom he was in friendly relations. "Here's a bully old crazy man, an' he's a
;oin' it like everything. I guesshe's the murderer. Come an' look at him."
Somewhat disconcerted by this misconception, Mr. Bowlder returnee. to his
bed until his flannel suit should be dried, leaving the disentanglement of the
Wetherel mystery to others, at least for the present.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE ACCUSED MAN.
EDWARD WETHEREL, an excellent boatman and not liable to do his navi-
gation keel uppermost, was no more successful than John Bowlder in discov-
ering the missing "sharpy," which, as some surmised, had carried Nestoria
away.
It was after nightfall when the young mni n returned to. Sea Lodge. He
was tired, gloomy, and dispirited, and, although he spent an hour or so with
his relatives, he said very little to them and hardly seemed to hear their con-
versation. Any one who had studied him under the suspicion that he might
be the murderer, would have been puzzldh bled -to find proofs of either innocence

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         83
or guilt in his brooding, sorrowful face and absent-minded demeanor. One
thing, however, seemed obvious and positive enough; and that was, that he
knew 'nothing of the whereabouts or fate of Nestoria. He spoke of her in a
tone of perplexity, anxiety, and distress, which could not be simulated.
"I must go back to the.city," he said at last. "I propose to engage a tng-
boat to take me out on another search at daybreak. When I pa  e will
you join me, Lehming? I want some one to keep me company."
".I will go with you," promised Lehming, looking gently into the wofu!
eyes which were asking this favor of him. 'Blow your steamwhistl eoppo
site the house, and I will put out to you in a small boat."
So, early the next morning, amid the tender redness of a summer dawn,
the two young men set off on their expedition, steaming out into the calm,
gleaming expanse of the Sound.     p    osemgutiothca,
"I hope you slept last night," said Lehming, 'studying with surprise and
pity his companion's pallid face.
"I~yent through a few nightmaresn replied Wetherel. "This is a horri-
ble; crushing affair. I wonder if I shall come out of it sane."
"I see that you are greatly oppressed by it," murmured Lehiming, turning
away his eyes from a desperation which pained him, it seem
to comfort it. " One thing is certain. Youminusm, it  seed so impossible
quickly as possible, and you must obtain sleep       st ayscost."
"The tragedy of my uncle's death would alone have shocked me enoust."
continued Edward. " We did not agree, and he hadv sc   m   ;  eah
rubs out so many things! When I heard of him as murdered, I forgot that
we had ever been hostile; no, I remembered it!" he added with a piteous
accent of remorse. " I would have given yars of life for one moment in
which to make my peace with him. That other world into which men i
so suddenly! It takes the color out of this one."
"4You are like your family," said Lelmingmeditatively. "All the  -
erels whom I have known have been impressionable totespc     o   eth
It is a desirable sensibility; it is fruitful of good."c
"Do you think so?" asked Edward, in the tone of a man who -udges evil
of himself, and has little hope of becoming worthier.  I don'tJ know. I ad-
mit the sensibility in my own case. But it only fills me with gloom."
"But I was about to tell you something horrible," he wrgesuom .
with a great effort. "Do you know that I am accused of t  urdesently,
lieve that I never shall smile again, and I don't know why I should live."
The cheering smile which Lehnling had struggled to wear hitherto disp-
peared; it fell under this tremendous announcement, as a man falls under the
blow of an assassin. The compassion which beamed in his large gray eyes
was still angelic, but it seemed the pity of a seraph: for a totally lost spirit
rather than for one whose sorrow is not without hope.  He must, however,
make some answer; and what should it heF A weaker man, overcome by the
sight of distress, might have counterfeited ignorance of the frightful suspicion
which Edward had mentioned, and denied that itcould be harbored' by any
ne But this dwarfish and nisshapen creature was an incarnation of con-
science and, intelligence; he had neither the hypocrisy north  olly ona-
such a situation as this otherwise than with sincriy nor the folly totrea
"Yours is a terribleposition," lie said firmly.   my
manhood, all the power to bear calamity that has bee grant callu Crimte
is not always discovered, but innocence always is. In the end the world ir


84                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
charitable and disposed to believe the best. Little by little this accusation, or
rather this sufspicion, will die."
" Do you believe me guilty? " gasped Edward, his face turning ashy, not-
withstanding the cheering words to which he had listened.
" I do not," answered Lehming solemnly. "This charge had already been
made in my hearing. I had considered it, and rejected it."
The tall, vigorous young man grasped the hand of the deformed one and
clung to it for minutes in silence.
" It is time to turn over a new leaf in my book," he said when he had suf
ficiently recovered his self-possession to speak. " I have had a commentary
on my life which I did not expect. I am face to face with the fact that men
consider my character bad enough to justify them in suspecting me of the
greatest of crimes. It is time to turn a new leaf, if I know how to turnit."
" The knowledge of such things springs from the desire to do them," ob-
served Lehming.
"You see, I have gained so much by this tragedy!" continued Edward,
his mind reverting to the' accusation against him. '"I was to have nothing;
and now, if that will is not recovered, I have everything."
"I know," gently murmured Lehming, without a tremor of disappoint-
ment in his voice. "You are the heir at law. Events have determined that
the inheritance shall take its natural course."
"You shall see what course the inheritance will take," exclaimed Wetherel
excitedly.
"Wait! " interposed Lehming promptly, and almost in a tone of command.
"You are feverish now. Make no resolutions until you have.recovered your
usual health and. mental vigor. Months hence, after the estate has been set-
tled, it will be time to -discuss this question. Meantime your first and most
pressing duty is to. discover this missing young lady. May I venture to tell
you what I think of her case?"
" Do you suspect her ?2" demanded Edward, with sudden anger. "Oh, I
beg your pardon," he added, in response to Lehniing's gesture of energetic
negation. " But that is another of the scoundrelly tales that these gossips are
spreading. They say that, because she was betrothed to me, she took the will
and struck the blow. It is the wickedest and maddest and most idiotic slander
that ever malice and stupidity inv ted. .A crime! She couldn't conceive
the thought of a crime. There never was such innocence. Oh,, I must clear
her, as well as myself. It must be my life's labor to open up this mystery and .
discover the real criminal. I shall have to keep a little of the money for that
purpose, Lehming."
" You must not talk any more now about the money," said Walter. " Put
that matter resolutely py until you have had time for cool reflection. Let us
now speak of Miss Berriard. I must tell you frankly that I have my fears for
her. I fear that she saw the tragedy; that the horror of the spectacle drove-
her half frantic; that she fled from the house and leaped into the missing
boat; and that then she was driven out to sea. The sad question is whether
accident enabled her to survive the stormy night."
Edward made no reply further than to lean upon the bulwark and hide his
face in his hands.
Except the above conversation, important as showing Wetherel's condi-
tion of spirit, nothing worthy of record occurred during this voyage. After
zigzagging the Sound in all directions, and making fruitless inquiries at var

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        85
ous points of the Long Island shore, the young men returned at evening to re-
port their failure to the mourners at Sea Lodge.
" What do you think of Edward ?" anxiously inquired Mrs. Dinneford of
Jehming, when she found herself alone with him.
" I think well of him," he replied. " There has been a wonderful change
in his modes of judging and feeling. lie seems as conscientious and unselfish
as an angel could demand of a mortal. The only question is whether the im-
pression will hold after the stamp is withdrawn; I mean the pressure of this
tragedy and this sorrow. Wealth and beauty are great' tempations. I can
imagine their power, although I have never been exposed to it."
" My poor, good Walter, you haven't had half a chance," replied Mrs. Din-
neford,.coloring with compassionate admiration.
"I never had but one compliment," he smiled. " When I was a little boy
I went to visit my grandmother. The scene is before me now. I sat in one
corner of the fireplace, reading 'Robinson Crusoe.' My grandmother, who was
talking with another venerable lady, surveyed me now and then over her
spectacles. At last the good old creature remarked, in her tremulous, sym-
pathetic voice, ' I don't think Walter is quite so humpbacked as he used to be.'
That," concluded Lehming, with a cheerful and yet most pathetic humor, "that
is the only compliment that I ever had concerning my personal appearance."
It was too bad! "laughed Mrs. Dinneford while the tears rushed into her
eyes. Then leaning suddenly toward the young man, she laid a motherly,
loving hand on his misshapen shoulder, and added, " Walter, you are as hand-
some as an angel. You have a beauty that all. tl)e rolling years of 'eternity
won't fade. There is your second compliment."
'" It is enough to ruin a St. Paul," smiled' Walter, shaking his big head.
" Well, let us talk of graver matters, if anything can be graver than I am.
It is understood, is it not,' that we acquit Edward of all suspicion of com-
plicity in this crime?"
"We do-all of us," declared Mrs. Dinneford.
"The world does not," said'Lehming. "And we must support him against
the world.,.- No man, oppressed by widespread suspicion and without friends
to uphold and cheer him, can easily come to good."
"The world is an ill-natured idiot," pronouncedMrs. Dinneford indignantly.
"As Tupper says, ' Rashly nor ofttinies truly doth man pass sentence on his
brother.' And, in another place, 'Then man's verdict cometh, murderer with
forethought malice; and his name is an execration, his guilt is too black for
devils; but to the righteous judge seemeth he the suffering victim. Tupper
is really wonderful; he is pat to every subject."
" Tupper is better than the critics have been willing to adi lt," concedea
vho charitable Lehming.    -
"But do you think Edward should have all this money?' queried the
ady, who, it must be remembered, had a daughter to care for.
" The law must take its course."
" But do you think he ought to keep it, under the circumstances, knowing
his uncle's wishes?"
" We can say nothing."
." No," sighed' Mrs. Dinneford. " Well, Alice and I are not poor; we can
do as we have done. But you-I do wish that you could have something."
" As long as there are schools to keep, I trust that I shall nut suffer," said
Lehming with his heavenly smile. " Let me revert to my subject,. For Ed-


86             '    THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
ward's sake, and for the sake of our own dignity and our purity of soul, we
must be his firm friends. Is it agreed? "
"Yes," affirmed the good lady. "We are all agreed on that point-you
and I and John Bowlder and Alice-the whole family. Of this thing Edward
is as innocent as.a lamb, and we will bear him our testimony and give him
our countenance."
But in the world outside of this unselfish and charitable circle opinion was
generally less favorable to the young man.- The large rewards which he of-
fered for the discovery of the assassin, the uncertain verdict of the coroner's
jury, and the complete bewilderment of the officers of justice, were all insuffi-
cient to .relieve hin of suspicion. Many persons believed that he personally
stole the will and struck the blow; others held that he had incited this miss-
ing and mysterious young woman from over sea to commit the double crime;
others suspended their decision, as they phrased it, and allowed him, not the
benefit, but the injury of the doubt.
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE TRAGEDY A MYSTERY.
LEHMING had a sweet tenacity of. kindliness which would not let him for-
get his resolution to stand by Edward Wetherel, nor neglect any opportunity
of putting his friendly purposes into practice.
"We must have that young man with us," he said to Mrs. Dinneford.
"His excitement is too great to permit him to bear continuous fatigue and
watching. All labor is wearing to a man who is unaccustomed to it, and
when the motive of labor is anxiety or grief, the candle is lighted at both ends.
I know that he does not sleep. After a day spent in searches and inquiries
and hopes deferred, he passes the night in struggling with nightmares of mur-
ders and kidnappings, or in feverish waiting for the dawn. He will drive
himself mad, unless he is stopped on the road by a fever, or unless we take
charge of him. The work that he is doing can all be done by others-by the
authorities and the police. There is, no need of his attending to it with such
wasting and wearing vehemence., I wish you would insist with him upon his
joining us."
"Certainly!!" answered Mrs. Dinneford with, energy. "Dear me, why
didn't I think of it? We can make room foi- him here easily enough; and it's
his own house, too, for that matter. What did I let him go back- to the city
for, as if he were not one of us? Well, I suppose I know why; and I may as
well make my confession. The wretched truth is, Walter, that I did harbor a
small wicked doubt about him, though the very idea is monstrous and a temp-
tation of Moloch. How fearfully we are given to uncharity and backbiting,
even in the secret depths of our souls! And I couldn't help saying to myself,
too, that, if he was in the least responsible for the dreadful things that have
come to pass among us, he would-be so uncomfortable here, with poor Cousin
Wetherel lying (lead and poor little Nestoria gone, and the shadow or their
calamity sitting in every room of the house. It is odd and foolish enough to
tell, but it was partly pity that moved .me to let him go. I should hate to
make Satan himself uncomfortablie, if I was acquainted with him and had to  =~
watch his countenance. But Edward is not guilty, and I must get all these
temptations of uncharitable doubt out of my heart; and, as you say, we must -

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         87
have him with us, and watch over him body and soul. And so, Walter, I do
wish you would drive up to New Haven and bring'hiin down to us bag and
baggage, as fast as old Sorrel can hobble."
Lehming went on his mission of mercy, and performed it with success. Ed-
ward joined his relatives, and remained with them during their brief further
stay at Sea Lodge, and accompanied them in their mortuary journey to the
Judge's final home. The funeral took place in Brooklyn, wherg the old man
had resided during rather more than the last half century, and where he had
quietly grown, with the rise of landed estate, from modest beginnings to great
opulence. We will not describe it further than to say that it was one of those
events which interest a city, and that as a spectacle it was notable for solem-
nity and multitudes.
The family union did not break up immediately, Mrs. Dinneford lived on
in the Brooklyn house, and the three men remained for a little time with her,
giving what blitheness they could to the bereaved abode. This was not much;
they were all more or less haunted and sobered by the tragedy; and it had
followed them from Sea Lodge like a ghost, or like the lingering of a fever.
If they could have ruled their souls, if they had been persons of hardened
sensibilities and lumpish or seared imaginations, they might have laid
the matter aside in confidence that it would give them no imminent trou-
ble, or none of practical import. The Wetherel Mystery had ,really fallen
into blind lethargy, and for some time to come was to have no life but that
of spreading in stagnant, inscrutable pools, or rather of creeping in torpid
cohcealient like, a river lost under "trembling prairies."  But it was very
natural that this fact should not seem possible to the people who were inti-
mately connected with the tragedy, and that they should still look from hour
to hour to see it emerge in startling fashion from its obscurities.
Edward Wetherel especially seemed to be in constant expectation of find-
ing some trace either of the murderer or of Nestoria. . He was apparently busy
from morning, till night in devising or setting in action some new method of
search. He haunted the police offices of Brooklyn and New York, and made
several journeys in search of intelligence to New Haven. In view of the pe-
culiar responsibility under which lie lay, it was probably well for him that his
character drove him into these labors. The horrors of any exceptional and
frightful situation, as, for instance, a battle, a shipwreck, or a conflagration, are
alleviated by a demand for activity. The troops who may and must charge,
or otherwise exert themselves, suffer less in mind than those who are obliged
to lie still under fire. This young man was too hard worked to drift into a
melancholy, or to hearken to those vices which allure sorrow with a promise
of cheer. In the physical fatigues of every day lie found an opiate which, to
his own amazement and almost indignation, brought him healthful sleep.
"He is able to bear his great'load," said the rejoiced Lehming to Mrs
Dinneford. "Not only is he bearing it, but he is drawing strength from it;
he is already a greater and better man than he was a month since. In order
to do him full justice, we must consider what temptations :he is resisting. A'
thoroughly hardened and worldly. spirit would find his situation quite endura-
ble, and would settle down under it into an egoistic tranquillity. Suspected
men, if they are able and prosperous, easily live down suspicion. All that Ed-
ward has to do, in order to win the world's respect and even its admiration,
is to keep his uncle's estate, heap it up into millions, and become a powerful
capitalist, able to help or hinder others. Hospitality and generosity would


88                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
give him popularity 'and surround him with sycophants. There, too, i pleas-
ure; he might enjoy it to the full, as of old; he might divert himself Nith in-
cessant gayeties. But we see nothing in him of either Midas or Sardanapalus.'
A new nature has appeared; a new soul has been born. Not a new one,
either; it is the grave, earnest soul of the Wetherels; it is the resurrection of
his Puritan ancestors. While he had nothing in his life to give him pause, he
rushed on in the natural ways of untrammelled youth, too exuberant and fortu-
nate for self-control. But a great spiritual paroxysm has brought the founda-
tion granite to the surface. The moment he was driven to feel and reflect, he
became the traditionary Wetherel. My hope is, yes, and my confident trust
also, that his future life will pe one of duty."
"I do fervently join with you in that hope and trust," replied Mrs. Dinne-
ford. "And I must quote Tupper. Don't you remember that passage about .
the, generous heart, lit by unhallowed fire? And then he goes on; 'Yet I
waited a little year, and the mercy thou hadst forgotten hath purged that
coble spirit, washing it in waters of repentance.' I can't help looking for
speech to Tupper. He says just what plain people think, better than they can
Say it for themselves."
"1We must reckon conscience a constitutional trait," put in oracular John
Bowlder, struck by Lehming's ethnological explanation of the change in Ed-
ward's character, and continuing the subject with a pleasing sense of origi-
nality. " The Germanic 'races, who discovered truth-telling, practise it as no
other breed does. I would not be sure that a Wetherel of ancient days, as
long ago perhaps as the reign of Odin, did not discover the sense of duty.
Edward retains that kind of pulse. He will be a good man."
"Cousin Bowlder, you are little better than one of the heathen," smiled
Mrs. Dinneford. "You might as well trace up godliness to the giants before
the flood, and not stop for it in the times of Balder bold, whom Gray tells us'.
about; and a very pretty poem it is, too, though not equal to his 'Elegy' by a
great deal."!
"Nature and grace combine to evolve character," observed Lehming.
" They are both forces under the command of the same great Creator of char-
acter."
" There is another thing which I reverence in Edward," continued the mys-
tical Bowlder, too indifferent to orthodox criticism to defend himself against
it. "It is his health. He is not one of those who have, cold feet and torpid
digestions. He ,can run and think all day. ' I consider myself burly, but he
canters me blind. Such a man, a man with sense of duty for a boiler and with
driving wheels that never burst, will achieve;results. We shall yet brag of Ed-
ward!"
In partial correction of these kindly judgments and vaticinations, we must
observe that Edward's spiritual spread of wing was not as yet a notably broad
one, nor such as promised to indifferent -beholders any wondrous loftiness of
flight. To the common eye he was simply a decent, serious, fairly able and
hard-working young man. He evidently had a purpose in life; but it was
directly and narrowly connected with the event which had roused him out of
his epicurean egotism; it was a simple determination 'to clear himself of the
suspicion which had fallen upon him, and to find the missing Nestoria. At
the same time he exhibited ordinary foresight with regard to the possibilities
of his own future. Remembering that the lost will might be recovered, and
that in such case he might be obliged, or feel obliged, to support himself, he

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR                          89
commenced the study of medicine and prosecuted it with energy. Further-
niore, lie labored daily at the complicated task of settling the estate, and thus
familiarized himself with the mystery of investments and the details of busi
ness. This job, by the way, supported. him; he paid all his expenses, per
sonal and extraordinary, out of his administrator's fees; not a dollar of th
principal would he as yet apply to his own purposes.
This estate, this million which had not been meant for him, weighed upon
his mind. As things stood, the whole of it was his; but under the circum-
stances he could not allow himself to claim his entire legal right; and there
was the perplexing question how the property should be divided. ' As time
went on, the matter became urgent, and at last he was driven tQ a decision.
One evening he called the family together-Mrs. Dinneford, and Alice, and
Lehminig, and John Bowlder-and with some embarrassment opened his
burden.
"I want to consult you about an affair which concerns four of us very seri-
ously," he said. "I wish it concerned you too, Mr. Bowlder. It is this estate.
You know of course that I have taken out letters of administration, and that I
have been acting under them. I thought it' the best way. I wanted the mat-
ter entirely in my own hands, so that I could settle it as might seem to me
right."
" Has the Judge come to life again ! " thought John Bowlder, while Edward
paused to consider his next words. "how the boy-shoulders his responsibility,
and stays himselfon his conscience! Business and duty are matters of inher-
itance, as much in the blood as certain diseases."
 "It has not. been an easy question to handle," resumed the young man.
"But I have reached a conclusion. You shall hear. I am not the intended,
heir. My conscience will not let me lay hands on this wealth-which the law
offers me.' You three-Mrs. Dinneford, Alice, and Lehmhng-you must take
it and keep it, at the sole charge of fulfilling the bequests."
"Not while I.live, Edward!" shouted John Bowlder, springing to his feet
and plunging about the room like a happy rhinoceros./ "I'll murder them all
three, if they do. We will have 'no such greediness and griping in this house,
so long as I can procure instruments of death. The gods have righted injus-
tice. Let it stay righted in the name of the gods. Keep your pelf or give it
out of your own hand to the needy or worthy, but don't whimper that it isn't
yours and drop it like a scared child. Mrs. Dinneford, what do you say to
this ascetic, sitting upon his pillar? He is a man, isnit he, with a heart too bir
for his head? What word have you for such a soul as that?"
" But it's out of the question, Edward," cried' Mrs. Dinneford, so moved by
the young fellow's proffer that she did not hear Bowlder's sentimental uproar,
or notice the whimsical generosity with which he refused money that had
been offered to other people. "'We can't accept your gift. None of us con-
sented 'to that will of Cousin Wetherel's. We "-and she faltered at the foot
of a great and difficult steep of heroism-" we claim nothing. It is all yours.
Do with it as seemeth to you good."
"Certainly," added Walter Lehming, with a composure which was more
decisive than any clamor could be.
" I expected as much," said Edward, drawing a sigh of relief. " And yet
I would have surrendered- all, if you had accepted. 'Well, now I must act.
Jon  owd ei' is ghite right in saying that I must give this pelf out of my own
-hand, and not wait for others to take it. I shall divide the estate according to


90                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
the will, with one exception. Mrs. Dinneford and Alice and Lehming will
each receive what my uncle allotted to them. If .I do not owe this to you
three, I owe it to him. The remainder-that portion which was devised to
charities-I shall' keep.  I have my own purposes of justice and benev-
olence."
"' This is aidistressing subject," observed Lehming. "I answer for myself
alone. I refuse."
"You will be powerless," said the inexorable Edward. "Your portion
will be trusteed to you. Why do you wish to embarrass me?"
" Another time," persisted Lehming, rising and walking to the door. "We
will discuss this again, when we are calmer. 1 am too much agitated now,
and so are you. . But let me tell you that, while I cannot-submit to you, I rev-
erence you."
"Edward," said Alice. taking her cousin's arm, " I would fall in love with
you if you wanted it. What else can a girl do?"
Meantime Mrs. Dinneford and John Bowlder had each seized a hand of
the young fellow.
Tears of gratitude and happiness stood in his eyes; these people, at least,
did not believe him a criminal.
But we must turn aside from- Edward Wetherel for a little while to see
what had been the fate of Nestoria Bernard.
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE FLIGHT OF NESTOiIA.
ON the:night in which Judge Wetherel, with murder stealthily watching
hin from outer darkness, sat up to rewrite his will for the benefit of Nestoria
Bernard, the girl herself sat up in her own room, unable to sleep.
She was thinking of Edward; of the warnings which she had received that
he was unworthy of her; of the vague, incomplete, and yet gladdening retrac-
tions which had followed on those warnings; of his beauty and graciousness
and irresistible tendernesses and lovable lovingness; of the decision which
must come to her concerning him from her father; of the undecipherable ob-
scurity of life beyond that; then again of Edward, always of Edward.
Amid so many meditations, of a character so sweetly or sorrowfully potent
for disturbance, how could she sleep, or even prepare herself for sleep? Fur-
thermore, there was something in the air of the night, a breath.of miasma per-
haps from the marshes that stretched away along the westering coast, which
filled her nerves with tremors of unrest. Still dressed, she kept vigil for an
hour or two (llow long she could not afterward remember) in a state of mind
which she tried to order into thought, but which persisted in remaining revery.
All manner of spiritual wanderings, a nomadic host of recollections, plans,
hopes, and fancies, came to her in confused succession, pushing one another
aside with eager impatience, like the hasty, transitory phantasms of dreams.
Things that belonged to the past and things that urgently claimed the future
plucked at her for a moment's consideration and vanished. It was one of those
hours in which the soul resembles a sea gf little waves, devoid of drift or pow-
er, tossing with wearisome monotony and breaking without result.
.Of a sudden she perceived that her purse, containing all her little wealth.
a hundred dollars or thereabouts, was not in her pocket. Poor as she was.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
and far away from the father who was her only source of supply, this disap-
pearance was a matter of rousing importance. Wondering at her own care-
lessness, she started up with a beating heart and commenced a search for the
lost valuable. It was nowhere in the room; but presently it occurred to her
that during the early evening she had bought a cheap little painted basket from
a wandering Indian, who had made her think of Sassacus and King Philip;
and then she remembered that she' had last seen her treasure in the parlor.
She trusted tremblingly that it was there yet, and, lighting a candle, she went
down stairs to look for it, treading softly so as not to disturb the slumbering
household. Under a cushion of the sofa, just where she had mechanically
placed it for temporary safety, she found the purse.
With a childlike sense of having escaped a great peril, and with a piteous
unconsciousness of the real and horrible jeopardy of life which lurked within
a few yards of her,'she joyfully thrust the treasure into the waist of her dress,
and turned to leave the room. But the quick movement extinguished her can-
die; she was obliged to halt where' she was until her eyes could become ac-
customed to the sudden imposition, of darkness; ,and now she made a discovery
which only this obscurity could have enabled her ,to make. A single frail
beam of light came to her tenderly, like some delicate angel warning her of
danger. In her surprise she nearly uttered an exclamation; and had she done
so, she might have arrested the step of imminent homicide, as also she might
have brought its alarmed violence upon herself. Being a brave girl, with the
steady nerves of health, she remained silent, and calmly studied the apparition,
discovering almost immediately that it came from the keyhole of the study
door. So unfamiliar was she with the thought of crime, that, notwithstanding
the lateness of the hour, not a suspicion of murder or burglarycrossed her.
She took it for granted that Judge Wetherel had been kept up, by pressure of
urgent business; and, saying to herself that she would surprise him with a see.
ond "good-night," she glided toward the. study. On reaching the 'door, how-
ever, the idea came to her that her venerable friend might not' like to be dis-
turbed in his work, and she paused.
11er hand was still upon the knob, when she heard within an indistinct ut-
tdrance in.a tone which she did not fully recognize; her first instantaneous
idea being that it could not be the voice of the Judge, and her next that he was
suffering with illness. We may suppose that the sound was the old man's in-
stinctive and inarticulate exclamation of surprise and alarm on awakening
from his nap in his chair to find an intruder at his elbow. Next, and almost
in the sadme breath, came the noise of a scuffle. Frightened at once, and yet
eager to know what was passing, Nestoria gently turned the knob, pushed the
door ajar, and looked into the room.
What she saw was a blow, a gray head sinking under it, and a murderer
bending over his victim. In the next instant all was darkness, at least to this
horrified spectator. Either the study lamp was at that moment extinguished,
or Nestoria temporarily lost the use eve4 of her physical sense,. She believed
that she had screamed with all her strength, but the probability is that she did
not give forth a sound, for it is certain that no one in the house heard a cry,
and that the assassin quietly finished his purloinings. Although the girl could
not afterward remember that she had fainted, there must have been) a brief
period of unconsciousness, or of stupor approaching to it. We know that un-
der overwhelming oppi-ession of fright or horror, conditions of spirit occur
-which may fairly be called waking nightmares. Men suddenly attacked by


92                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
wild beasts or by Indians have been seen to stand paralyzed, staring at the
approaching death without striving to repel it or even uttering an exclama-
,ion, as if in a state of catalepsy or bereft of reason.
But it was not merely the sight of a shocking crime and the proximity of a
mortal peril which had thus stunned Nestoria. 'Dreadful as these things were
to innocence and defencelessness, they were surpassed in outrage by a grisly
revelation. She had recognized, beyond the possibility.of questioning, the face
of the assassin; she had seen it as the countenance of the man who but a mo-
ment before had possessed her heart; she had not a doubt that the deathblow
had been dealt by the-hand of Edward Wetherel. No wonder that she stood,
or it may be lay, beside this tragedy, palsied, speechless, and taking no more
part in the scene than if she had been a ghost; no wonder that for a few see-
onds, or perhaps for several minutes, she was as powerless as the very spirit
of the murdered man, as inaudible and 'unprotesting.
But presently an instinct came to life in her. It was a sentiment of shud.
dering, of aversion, of recoil. She became aware that she was in darkness,
and that through that darkness the murderer was approaching. -It was not
fear of death which led her to retreat before him, but a sense that she could
not bear to be near him, and that it would kill her to have him speak to her,
in her stupefied horror, or, as we might fairly call it, her insanity, she was
only conscious of a desire to avoid recognition. This man, whom she bud
lately loved, and -whom she- had just seen performing the work of a demon,
how could she possibly address a word to him, or hear him call her by name?
Dazed, almost senseless, and conscious mainly of loathing, she' retreated me-
chanically before the steps which stealthily picked their way through the ob-
scurity, as Christiana, if left alone in the Dark Valley, might have shrunk
back before the audible oncoming of Apollyon.
Presently she -reached a door, and felt that it was open. She opened it
wider, passed noiselessly through it, and found herself in the outer air. A few
stars glimmered faintly between driving clouds, andl a wild,,sultry wind shook
all the ghostly branches of the trees. Of a sudden her physical strength re-
turned to her, and she fled. at full speed, without reflecting whither, her only
thought being to avoid the fallen angel who haunted her steps, and to escape
the task of saying to him, I know you for a devil! With just the intelligence
of a scared animal, she followed a path which she had often traversed both by
daylight and moonlight, descended a steep slope of the little bluff on which the
house stood, and reached the shore. The sombre, indistinct, limitless sea was
at her feet; its enormous mystery attracted her as it has attracted many other
wretched hearts; it'seemed to her as if it offered a refuge. - On the land she
had met shipwreck, and she looked for mercy to the waters. A boat was at
hand; she must wade knee-deep in order to reach it; but in another minute
she had climbed or fallen into it;. then the moorings were unlashed, and she
was adrift.
Nestoria had now evaded the awful interview, the fear of which had driven
her abroad; and, no longer upheld and impelled by the strength of terror, she.
lost her consciousness; this time, there can be no doubt, she really fainted.
No pursuer came; no one was at hand either to destroy or save; and in a few
minutes the senseless girl was far from shore. The gale, it must be said, did
not threaten her 'safety immediately, for it blew off the land, and where she
now was raised no sea. The hboat in which she lay was one of those large
skiffs which are known' in the neighborhood of New Haven as "sharpies," and

THZ WETHEREL AFFAIR.                           93
which are. navigated by means of one or two slender triangular sails, and
guided either by an oar in the stern or by a rddder. As the "sharpyI"is flat-
bottomed, and only draws a few inches of water, it is a fast craft in a light
breeze, but risky in a heavy one.
Nestoria's boat carried her out into the harbor and toward the menacing
expanse of Long Island Sound. It kept head on, for the single mast was set
well forward, and the imperfectly lashed sail, blowing out in a bellying pock-
et, afforded a sufficient hold to the wind. There was a false, transitory pros-
perity in the opening of this strange voyage, as there often is in the outset of
flights which seek destruction. With just such fatal smoothness are captives
in old poesy borne away by malignant magicians to imprisonment on undis-
coverable islands or in the caves of ocean. The home which murder had pol-
lute , the darkened room where a dear friend's reverend hair drooped into his
own blood, the clandestine face of that flying Cain from whom this unconscious
wanderer was escaping, the loved ones who would have sought to succor had
they known how.succor was needed, were easily and speedily left behind. The.
boat and its burden fluttered out afar from rescue upon a stormy sea.
At last there was an awakening. Life, which sometimes seems a monster
far'more pitiless than death, dragged the girl back to suffering. At .first she
did not know where she was, nor remember what had happened to her. She
was aware only of darkness, of solitude and abandonment, of an uneasy and
alarming movement, of a sense of utter helplessness. Of a sudden the past
struck her like a blow, and for a, few moments she covered her face from it
with her hands, unobservant or careless of the frightful present. Then the in-
creasing and rapidly recurring roar of the surges, and the jerking, plunging
action of the boat as it entered the wilder waters beyond ,the bar, called her to
a sense of her strange situation. The storm of shocking recollections in her
soul subsided a little as the storm of relentless nature around her became more
audible, agitating, and menacing. Still amazed, even in.the midst of her af-
fright, she sat up and looked about her.
She could see little. The rare and feeble stars, which seemed to swim like
wrecked sailors amid billowy clouds, had scant power'of revelation. Around
her was tempestuous blackness, stretching away on every hand into infinity.
Even the snowy crests of the waves were only visible in a dim, spectral way,
and for a brief distance. The boat she could perceive, and the white ghost
of the struggli ig sail flying.before her like a lost spirit, a guide ominous of a
grave. Holding by the handle of the leaping rudder, which had struck her
arm with a sort of spasmodic monition, as if urging her to seize it and exert
its spell, she turned and gazed, half-blinded, into the face of the gale. .On her
left, but far behind her, she distinguished the red gleam of the lighthouse, now
darkening 'and now brightening as if signalling her to return. She knew at
last where she was, and comprehended what had- befallen.
Inthis uttermost strait of sorrow and peril, flying from a paradise because
she had seen it changed into a hell, shrinking from sudden death and yet
.scarcely desiring rescue, Nestoria bowed her head to pray.
It was the prayer of the shipwrecked, a petition which the remorseless sea
has so often mocked, changing it into a shriek of despair. A tumult of fight..
ing waves reeled into the boat, and in another moment the girl was struggling
for life.


94      -      THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

CHAPTER XXV.
A SALVATION FROM THE SEA.
T HE love of life, that instinct which seems to strengthen just in proportion
as invading death cuts intelligence down to the bare root of sensation,
enabled and forced Nestoria to hold fast to the wreck of her scallop, and to
struggle to keep her head above the waters.
Whether dissolution were not more tolerable than existence, whether it
would not be well to drop out of a world which had suddenly been changed
for her into a place of torment, she did not for an instant consider. Amil
tossings, buffetings, whirlings, and suflocaions,. she labored with her whole
surviving strength to climb out of the abyss which howled and sucked beneath
her, slowly fighting her way to the uncertain asylum of the inverted hulk, and
clinging there with a sort of unintelligent tenacity, like a thing of inanimate
nature. The slit in the keel for the centre-board offered a hold to her fingers,
and by means of this she stayed herself against the pushings of the billows.
A long time she remained thus; far longer than she had thought possible.
After nature has done all it seemingly can, necessity endows it with force to
do more. The power of the dying to resist death exceeds every energy known
to ordinary life, and borders closely upon miracle.
Presently a light came over the sea; heir first wild impression was that
help must be at hand; but it was only the distant, alien rising- of the moon.
We can picture her now to our eyesight, as well as to our sensibilities. We
have a vision of one who, though beaten and worn and sorrowful and des-
perate, was rarely and ono might say shiningly beautiful. Her long golden
hair, flung loose by the wind and the waves, blew out in tremulous glistening
streatners, like quivering strands torn from the northern lights. Her face was
as white as marble, but its delicate finish of fekhture wits all ,the more obvious
because of this Pentelican coloring, and its mute resignation was more touch-
ing than the agitated despair of the daughters of Niobe. The moon took pity
on her, and lighted her up with exceeding tenderness, and showed her forth
as an unequalled sacrifice. In all the earth there was not perhaps at that mo-
ment another victim of disaster so fair to look upon and so fashioned to.com-
mand compassion. Both in beauty and in pathos she may have been for a tine
without a rival.
Her thoughts meanwhile were on far other things than her own merits and
admirableness. Half confounded as she was by the outrages of the sea and by
her weakness, she was striving to prepare herself for entrance into that other
world which seemed so near; she was groping in the dark gateway of illimit-
able mysteries for unearthly hands which should guide her out of all tempests
into the great peace of eternal mercy. The past had fallen away from her;
even the.calamity which.had driven her out vagrant appeared unsubstantial
and long since bygomie; she had almost forgotten that she had lived and loved
to her disappointment and her hurt.. The future only was real and urgent to
her. Her lips moved, not in reminiscence nor in complaint, -but in petition.
" 0 God of our salvation, who art the confidence of them  that are upon the

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         95
sea, receive me!" she pleaded, as only the shipwrecked-who are at their last
breath are gifted to plead. Other such words thronged mercifully to her;
they seemed to lift her like angels, in glorious, shining arms-; they bore her
lovingly through the waters which run between two worlds. The faith of
her whole innocent life, the faith which had been taught her from infancy by
the lips of her father, was now a mighty reality to her, and the only reality.
All the rest of existence had become as a vision from which one awakens.
But mortality had not yet lost its hold upon this waif of disaster. WA
have not ventured an absurdity in describing her as eye-witnesses, for human
vision did find her out and human help reached her. In her extremity, just
as her numbed fingers were losing their hold, and while the fantastic lights
and music and tintinnabulations of the strange city of the drowning were al-
ready bewildering her senses, Nestoria became aware of the approach of
some dark rolling bulk, out of which presently issued voices and a plashing
of oars, all ending in rescue. She was lifted up the side of a vessel, and car-
ried into a dimly-lighted cabin, and wrapped closely in blankets, and laid away.
Next some stinging and heating liquid, the taste of which struck her as strange
and disagreeable, was given her to drink, After that she lay quiet, though
with a troublous sense of oscillation among billows, while her mind sank
through shoals of reveries which grew more and more like dreams, until pres-
ently she was conscious of nothing.
It was not the insensibility of a swoon, but of hard, immovable, vice-like
sleep. She lay thus for hours, and when she awoke the sun was shining
through the. stern windows of the cabin, showing that the horrible night, a
night which seemed years in duration, had at last ended. She was still wet,
but she had no feeling of chillness, for the blankets and the summer heat
made a warmth all about her, and slumber had revived the currents of youth
in her veins. Raising herself with difliculty on one elbow, she looked about
her with a dreamy, torpid gaze, like that of an awakening infant.
A short and squarely built negro, slouchingly clad in garments much too
big for him, and exhibiting that lowly and undeveloped physiognomy which
almost surely indicates a southern black, rolled out of some unperceived lair
and shambled toward her.
" How is you, miss?"~he asked with a grin and chuckle which might have
been supposed to express unrestrainable hilarity, but which lie simply meant
to be reassuring.S-
I am well," replied Nestoria, with that languor and vacancy which we
sometimes see in persons who have been very ill.
" Sorry we could'n keer furyou no better,",-he continued, rolling his eyes
around the rudely furnished cabin in an apoloetical way. "Ain't fixed up
for ladies. Did'n have no. dry clos' fur you, 'cause the' ain't no women folks
aboard. Jes' done you up in them blankets, an' give you a horn o' whiskey,
an' sont you to sleep. Done theibes' we could fur you, miss."
All this was said with such spasmodic wriggling and luminous grinning as
if the peril and escape had been the broadest joke possible.
"Iam very much obliged to you," murmured Nestoria.     ,
"You's welkim, nriss. Got blown off sio', did'n youP Was the res'.of
'em drowned? "
'The girl shook her head. She c~uld not enter upon the story of the hideous
night. " Where are you taking me to?" she presently inquired, not without
a hope that it might be to distant eastern lands.


96                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"To New Yawk," said the negro. "We's done got thar now, I guess.
Don' ye hear 'em roundin' to? Capm is' gwine ter drop you.in New Yawk,
'cause this schooner is boun' souf, to-to some other place-don' know 'zactly
whar she's boun."
"Can I-pay you for saving meP" Nestoria timidly queried.
The man hesitated; he quaked and wriggled from head to foot; in his phys-
ical way he was resisting temptation.
"4No, I reckon not," he at last responded, chuckling with unusual vehe-
mence. "We may want savin' ourselves some stormy night. , You keep your
money to git back whar you b'longs."
" God reward you!" she whispered; and he reverently answered, " Amen!"
By this time the schooner had lain to; and in a few minutes more Nestoria
was placed in a small boat and landed on a gray, dingy, deserted dock; hav-
ing actually-seen but the steward and three sailors of the somewhat mysterious
craft to which she owed her life. One is tempted to suppose a smuggler; and
indeed there was a story current about that time of casks of mei'chandise be-
ing discovered in the Sound by traders who were singularly prepared for such
a speculation in salvage; but, remembering what a moderate and rational
tariff we are blessed with, the smuggling hypothesis is obviously untenable.
Let us abandon useless suppositions and return to Nestoria.
She remained for some minutes upon the dock, not knowing where in the
wide world to go. To her the great city which lay beside her was as
much a trackless wilderness as her native mountains of Kurdistan would have
been to a Neiv Yorker. Upon only one, thing had she come to a resolution,
and that was that she would never return to Sea Lodge. .Sitting down 'where
the sun could shine upon her still damp clothing, she buried her face in her
hands, and pondered long upon her horrible past and perplexing future. It
was still very early ; business had not awakened, and the wharves and streets
were silent; there was no one at hand to watch or disturb her.
Would her situation overwhelm her, or would her character master the
situation? The result proved that she had individuality enough to order
events, instead of weakly submitting to them. She meditated with that seem-
ingly unnatural calmness and that lucidity which fundamentally strong spirits
discover in themselves under the pressure of disaster and despair. With an
ease which at any other time would have surprised and alarmed her, she dis-
posed of some mighty moral questions and decided upon her future course.
When she at last rose to her feet and set forward alone into the unfamiliar'
mazes of New York, her steps might be uncertain, but not her mind. She had
resolved to find a hiding-place, and to remain concealed in it until she could
return to her father. She had said to herself that she would not bear witness
against Edward Wetherel; that it might be the duty of others so to do, but
that it could not be her duty; that she would never tell what she had seen,
never, never!
She wondered at herself for coming to such a determination, and once or
twice the thought struck her that she must be insane, but for all that she did
not waver. We will not pause to offer an apology for her which she did not
offer for herself, nor enter upon the difficult query as to whether her decision
were right or wrong. We propose simply to tell her story as it happened.
She could not bear witness against the man whom she had loved; she could
not aid in bringing him to death; she could not, and there was an end of it.
The resolution was little more than instinctive, or at the highest it sprang from

TIHE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

a root  pure emotion, but it was none the less inexorable. For once all her
education of conscience, all her innate and acquired sense of duty, fell pros-
trate before a sentiment.
Her life henceforward was to be a woful and perhaps a criminal problem,
She did not think of that, but, drawing her thickgreen-veil over her face
walked on in a quiet, business-like way, looking on every side for her desired
hiding-place. It is stupefying to ponder upon such single-mindedn ss and sim-
plicity. It is niuch as if one were asked in good earnest to watel the adven-
tures of Jack the Giant Killer, or some other miute defier of monstrous po-
tencies. Here was a child qf nineteen, ignorant of the world in almost every
nanner of ignorance, and so topographically uninformed as to be at this very
moment'losing her way in Fulton Market, who yet proposed to baffle the New
York police, the vast inquisition'of public sentiment, and the Nemesis of ideal
justice. . It would not be easy to imagine a greater disproportion in contend-
ing forces. One is reminded of a water insect setting out to tread the rush-
ings of Niagara. And yet it may be that water insects do skip over the thun-
derops cataract in safety.
Longbefore the girl found the asylum of which she was in search she be-
came languid with fatigue and hunger. She had no desire to eat, but she felt
that she must tale some food or drop in the streets, and.it seemed to her that
she could sip a dup of coffee. She looked timidly into the doors of various
eating shops, but the masculine stares which saluted her drove her onward.
Nowhere could she find a refectory frequented by her own sex; it was as if
the world had decided that women must not eat in public; as if even in Amer-
ica the idea of the harem were dominant. The terrible isolation of the wom-
an who has no home attended her feet and oppressed 'her soul. ' Lonely, sad,
and geary, she wandered for two hours, slipping on the damp and foul pave-
ments, winding- throug-h masses of merchandise which lmee h  ieak
and jostled by an ever-increasing crowd of hurrying men. All this time she
was endeavoring to get into sonie other quarter of the city. Wherever she
was, it appeared to her as if any place would be more friendly and more suit-.
able for her purposes than the one in which she happened to be.
'At last she came to a great, rambling, sombre, sloppy market, encuin-
bered with a monstrous traffic in edibles, and overrunning with purchasers
and wayfarers. To her utter dismay she presently discovered that this was
the same market which had perplexed her footsteps in the very beginning of
her pilgrimage. For two hours she had feebly toiled away from it, and here-
she was once more in its undesired medley and uproar. But at least it offered
her food; various stalls and shops sent forth an aroma of oysters and coffee; and
in some of them there were women satisfying their morning hunger. She.
stole into one of these homely lairs, seated herself on a wooden stool with
out a back, and leaned her aching head against the grimy wall.
A"Stew?" asked a sweaty.attendant in a foul apron and rumpled paper
cap.PP
Nestoria nodded, and added in a whisper, "Coffee."
The food came, and she was making an attempt to eat, when a showy,
Well-dressed young woman, bearing in her hand a copy of the " New York
Spasmodic," entered with a peculiarly brisk, and Assured air, and seateddler-
self at the same table with the salutation, "I am so glad to see you here!"
Fancying that she was recognized, Nestoria stared in terror at the intruder
ready to spring up and run away.er

97,

i       r,  iit
t',:         "    t
a


CHAPTER XXVI.
ROMANCE IN FACE OF REALITY.
ONE glance at the young woman who had so abruptly and cheerfully ad-
dressed her.convinced Nestoria that she was an entire stranger.
-The new arrival was stylish, and even rather boldly showy ; and yet she
was not unpleasing in either person or demeanor. She was slightly above the
middle height of her sex, and seemed all the taller because she was slender
almost to leanness; but she was noticeably easy and willowy in her movements.
and, one might concede, graceful. Her dark-red hair was abundant and taste-
fully arranged; her tawny-hazel eyes were bright, and her complexion daz-
zlingly fair; her features were regular enough, and her teeth were of spark-
ling whiteness. Notwithstanding her brusque, confident address, and a cer-
tain twinkle of affectation and sentimentality which perked about the corners
of her flexible mouth, her appearance was on the whole so much in her favor
that it would have been difficult to decide at first glance whether she were or
were not a person of good society and of culture. In age she might have been
anywhere from twenty to twenty-three.
" I never was here before," said Nestoria, after one startled glance at this
sociable apparition.
"You needn't be ashamed of being here," replied the other with a prompt
)tartness,which, slight, as it was, militated against her claims to high breeding.
She had noticed the girl's involuntary recoil as if to fly, and had attributed it
to mortified vanity at being caught- in a Fulton Market oyster-shop, and had
felt offended thereby. "I often take my morning refreshment in this place,"
she continued, in a curiously stilted tone which was intended to be dignified and
impressive. "The people who eat here are just as nobly-natured as the min-
ions of wealth who tread the high-piled velvety carpets of Delmonico's. Pat-
rick, bring me a stew and coffee."
"I am not ashamed to eat here," replied Nestoria, coloring under a re-
proof which seemed to her harshly hostile. Then, feeling keenly that she was
hopelessly wretched and doubting whether she were not darkly criminal, she
addedin a mournful whisper,- speaking to herself rather than to this stranger,
" Any place on earth is good enough for, me."-
The other had already opened her copy of ithe "Spasmodic " and settled
herself to read the harrowing tale of "Angela's Revenge; " but on hearing
this utterance of an undisguisable despair, she looked up in wonder and with
an expression of honest though sentimental interest.
"And have you seen better days?" she asked in her effected, melodrama-
tic monotone, whimsical enough surely, but not devoid of sincerity.
Nestoria made no answer, but she thought.of a lost home and a lost love,
and the tears brimmed her eyes.
"Poo-o-or cheild!" murmured the subscriber to the "Spasmodic."  "has
the da-a-ark hand of misfortune been so insupportably heavy on thee?"
She mouthed her words like an actress in a fourth-rate theatre. She was
little less than ludicrous, and yet she meant to be truly sympathetic, and was -
doing her best to console.
The homeless one still made no reply; her whole soul was busied in striv-
ing to quell her emotion; she was obliged to fight hard to repress sobs-and
convulsive twitchings.
" Poo-o-or, poo-o-er distressed spirit! " continued the stranger, stretching a .

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

98

hand across the table and laying it on a quivering shoulder. "Canst tnou
not tell me thy sorrow?'
"I have nothing to tell," replied Nestoria, crushing more emotions in one
breath than the other had known in her whole life.
" Let us swear to respect each other's secrets," exclaimed the sympathizer,
with an enthusiasm which was strongly tinctured with romantic joy. "You
have a secret of deep and dark misfortune, and you shall not divulge it even
to me, nor will I ask it. I also have my burden of woe. But let silence en-
fold it. Why don't you eat your stew? "
"I will," said Nestoria, and made a resolute' attempt so to do, not from
hunger, but to beat off faintness.
The stranger meanwhile devoured crackers, oysters, and chopped cabbage
with appetite, having no doubt found them by experience to be very support-
ing under burdens of woe.
"Shall I meet you here again?" she presently inquired.
"I don't know," replied Nestoria. " I don't know where I shall live."
"No home, no labor, no object in life, no anchor of duty, no star of hope
in the future? " sighingly queried the other.
,  "I want a home," said the friendless girl, looking up with a glimmer of
hope in her piteous eyes. "Can you show me a place where I can live and
work by myself? A cheap place ? "
"Let us be frank with each other," exclaimed the tawny-eyed one, throw-
ing out her hand in a manner which she conceived to be gracefully expressive
or noble and generous emotion. "My name is liogen Eleonore Jones. What
is yours? "
" I wish you would be satisfied with calling me Nettie," answered Nestoria,
after hunting through her mind for a false name, and deciding that she could
not assume one.
"I will," promised Miss Jones with delight. " Then you really, really
have a secret! How fascinating and. how pathetic! You shall never lack a
friend while I live, and never, never will I ask your family name, nor inter-
rogate you of your sorrow. You want to abide and labor alone. What can
you do? Can you teach school? Oh, no,. never! Then you would be seen
and known: you would be the cynosure of the insolent, prying public eye ;
you can't teach."
"I can paint fans," suggested Nestoria despairingly, for just then that in-
dustry seemed a feeble resource.
"Paint fans," repeated Miss Jones. "But can you sell them after you
have painted them?" she added with a practical sense which did not seem to
be foreign to her real character, notwithstanding her melodramatic tones and
phrases. "Well, if you can't, I can, or at least I will. I .will hawk them from
mart to mart, and bring you the proceeds of your rmsthetic travail. Come
with me, There is a chamber vacant nextto mine. You shall abide in it,
and I will beyour lone sentinel. Have you any money?"
" I have eighty dollars," replied the confiding Nestoria,
"It will last a while," said Miss Jones after a moment of business-like re-
flection, during which she cast up some small computation in her head. "And
meantime we will beat the airs of fortune with your exquisite painted fans.
What are you doing?"
" I am going to pay for my breakfast," explained Nestoria, fumbling for
her purse.

A

THE WETHEREL4 AFFAIR.

9g


100                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
".I thought perhaps you were drawing a poniard," observed Imogen Eleo-
nore Jones, with a slight air of disappointment. f I was about to hold your
hand, and exhort you to hope on, hope ever. But don't pay. Put up your lit-
tle treasure. Let me defray the expenses of this fortunate interview. I have
a salary of nine hundred dollars for teaching, and I have five hundred or so
in bank, the savings of three long years. I insist upon paying for both."
Nestoria submitted; a salary of nine hundred dollars seemed immense to
her; if she had possessed it, she would have undertaken to relieve the poor of
an entire city.
"Now let us buy some fruit," continued Miss Jones, when she had wiped
out the two modest accounts. '"This is my matutinal marketing, as well as,
my matutinal walk. I come hither to purchase peaches for my noon collation,
because they are cheaper here than on the stalls up town. I take a light
breakfast; then I take a light lunch of fruit and rolls; then I try every day to
afford one good meal, my dinner. One has to economize, you know, on the
salary of an instructor," she explained with a courage for which we must
honor her, so humiliating is that word " economy " to many people of narrow
incomes. "Now don't you buy anything for yourself," she insisted. " I will
market for two to-day. All I want is that you should carry your own paper
of peaches, like a true, high-minded woman, who is conscious of her own
dignity."
"I will carry both the parcels," offered Nestoria, putting out her little
hands.
" No, you shan't carry mine," declared Miss Jones. "And you shan't
carry yours either," she added, while the tears of sympathy sprang into her
eyes. " You look so pale and weak I won't let you. Have you any bag-
gage? "
" I have lost everything," replied Nestoria.-               -
"Lost everything! And :your dress is damp too!" exclaimed Imogen
Elconore. "Why, you are wet clean through!" Then in a really awe-stricken
whisper, "Did you try to drown yourself? "
Nestoria pressed her veil over her mouth with a shaking hand, and made
no reply.
"1 wish I could kiss you," whispered Miss Jones, imperfectly suppressing
a soh. " I wish all these people were not here staring. I want to kiss you."
After wavering to and fro a moment in her willowy way, she suddenly
bent forward and placed a kiss on the green barge which covered Nestoria's
forehead.  In response a low, suffocated murmur came through the veil,
" Thank you."
" Now let us go," said Imogen Eleonore, taking her protegee gently by
the arm. " We will take the street-cars. I generally walk up, for the exer-
cise; but we will ride to-day."
By the time they were seated in a car this odd young woman had recov-
ered her composure, and with it some of her stilted fashions of thought and
utterance.S
"Do you know why I thought you were drawing a poniard from your
bosom?" she asked in a sepulchral murmur. "See here. I was perusing it
as I came down to the market."
Unfolding~ber copy of the "Spasmodic," she took out of it another fe'ar-
fully and wonderfully illustrated production, a specimen half-sheet of the
" Weekly Turtle Dove," and read in her melodramatic fashion the following

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR..                        101
elegant extract: "'Allyne Castleton left the room, but returned again to look
upon the sleeping object of his dreams, who had been that night so strangely
restored to him, when he mourned her as sleeping beneath 1he fragrant roses
of a hillside burial-place in sunny Naples. The soft, rich, velvet-piled carpets
gave back no sound of his footsteps as he returned to his chamber-door, and
lie saw with horror his beautiful cousin Isabel, bending over his loved Angela,
draw a gleaming dagger of exquisite workmanship from her bosom and lift
her hand as if she would bury it to the hilt in the slumber-soothed bosom.
The rest of this story will be found in '- well,:that's all," said Imogen Eleonore.
lBut that was the passage which filled my mind when I started so at behold-
ing you put your hand into your neck. I expected as much as could be to see
you produce a two-edged dagger with a handle of wrought and jewelled
ivory."
Nestoria's only response to this talk was a slight recoil from the "Weekly
Turtle Dove."  The story of an attempt to "murder sleep" brought back to
her the horrible tragedy of the previous night. In spite of her efforts at self-
oitrol, she trembled as if she were in the chill fit of a fever.
Imogen Jones drew a sigh of mingled compassion and satisfaction.- She
had not a doubt that her companion carried hid in her bosom a " gleaming
dagger of exquisite workmanship," wherewith to cut short surcease of sorrow,
should it prove too burdensome. Such wretchedness enchanted her muelo-
dramatic imagination, and she actually envied Nestoria the distinction of pos-
sessing it.
Poo-o-or thing! " she whispered. " Thou art indeed heavy laden. But
fear not and fail not. .I will guard thy secret and companion thee. None
shall find thee out, nor harm thee. We will walk the ways of life unseen to-
gether. But, oh, what a light the works of genius cast ulpon this mystery of
existence! Had it not been for my familiarity with the ohefdoeevers of fiction,
I should not have been able to at once divine your woes and put forth toward;
them the tendrils of my sympathy. I read every story I can find. I have
piles and piles of the ' Spasmodic ' and the ' Turtle Dove.' They will help
you wfiile away the long, long hours of your mysterious seclusion."
After what seemed to Nestoria a prodigious journey through a labyrinth of
streets and turnings, Miss Jones imperiously shook her parasol at the con-
ductor, and stopped the car.
"We are now near my abode," she whispered mysteriously. "Let us
alight."
CHAPTER XXVII.
ANY PORT -N A STORM.
TIHE two young women alighted below Canal street, in one of those quiet
quarters of the east side of the city which have been forsaken by whiatevei- gran-
dleur they once possessed, where dingy and dirty and unlovely tenement houses
mingle with sombre and unpleasantly odorous storehouses, where fashionable
ladies never go, and suppose that no one else lives.
Turning into a narrow street, bordered by sloppy gutters and piles of, gar-
bage, and walking for some distance under the mildewing shadow of tall, un-
shapely, hard-visaged, discolored edifices, they halted before a plain, dolefully
plain doorway, a mere rectangular opening in am ungarnished front of cold
gi-ay stone.


102                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"I have lodgings here," said Miss Imogen, with an air which seemed to
explain that it was only a temporary arrangement, and she should soon move
into a castle. -"I am sorry, on your account, that they are in the fourth story.
But the air and light are so much better up there! Hold on to my arm as hard
as you want to."
Up they went, clinging to dirty banisters, avoiding the flaky whitewash of
neglected walls, and creaking along the bare floors of musty, not to say rancid
passages. At last, breathless and tottering, Nestoria was ushered into a small
furnished room, the combined parlor and bedchamber of Imogen Eleonore. It
was not sumptuous, but it was less comfortless and forbidding than the ap-
proach to it had promised, for there was a carpet, a fresh and clean bed, and a
small array of other decent chattels.
"Now, the first chore is to dry you," said Miss Jones, who was as simple
and practical in some moments as she was stilted and .sentimental in others..
' You'll have to go to bed till your clothes are dried, for in mine you'd look
like a baby in a long gown. You iix yourself the best you can for repose while
I light my gas-stove and make a dish of tea for you. I feel as thoughI was
ministering to some survivor of a shipwreck. There is a beautiful passage in
a story that I want you to read: something about how he lifted in his arms
a white, white form, with a beautiful dead face and sweeping yellow hair, drip-
ping, dripping ever, with the green seaweed tangled in its golden depths- '
Well, I won't tell any more," she added, seeing that Nestoria was stopping her
ears. " I mustn't spoil it for you."
There was a busy silence of a few minutes, during which the one girl pre-
pared her "dish of tea," while the other nestled into her resting-place.
"So you have retired, have you?" resumed Imogen Eleonore, turning to
survey her guest. "What lovely hair you have-sweeping yellow hair-golden
depths!" she went on, staring with admiration at Nestoria's abundant sunny
tresses. "Truly the stranger within my gates is worthy of the hospitality of
a castle. I wish I could treat you in a castle-like fashion, and wave my hand
toward some vast hall full of servitors, and say, What ho, without there! more
wine, page! But it must be tea or nothing to-day. Here it is on this little ta-
ble, and here's your lunch, and there are the periodicals-the ' Weekly Turtle
Dove' and ' Spasmodic '-all the back numbers for six months. I'll he back at
three, and then we'll consider about dinner, and lay our plans for the future-
You'll have to lock the door after me, and you must only open when I tap
three times, twice quickly, and then once. Fear naught; your secret is safe.
Adeu and o revore."
And with a wave of her hand, which she had caught from a sensational
woodcut, the kindly, eccentric Imogen Eleonore departed. She went forth
into a world of temptation, and she overcame it. She met people who would
have beencharmed to hear the story of her problematic guest, and she told
them nothing. The mystery was to her a fountain of exquisite happiness and
glory, too precious to be shared with such commonplace souls as all her friends
now seemed to her. During the hundrum hours of her school-teaching, she
had this nectar served in the most gorgeous halls of her imagination, and held
incessant revelry over it. It was refreshment for . the immortals, ennobling
and aggrandizing her entire nature, and enabling her to look down upon her
fellow "instructors," and even upon the principal. At last she had a mnger
in a romance, a real and thrilling and abysmal romance, an adventure which
was not one bit like common life, an enigma as sombre and ghostly as any of
the gooseflesh marvels of the " Spasmodic "

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR,          .o10
The matter gave her much thought as well as much gladness. What could
be the spring, the awful motive force, the dark and deep first cause of this
mystery? A false lover? A flinty-hearted father?  An unintended crime f
Aspirations too great for humanity? This strange, plaintive girl, who had
Made her apparition in Fulton Market as damp and as long-haired as a mer-
maid, had she escaped from the pirates who, as is well known to readers of
weekly literature, haunt the waters of New York bay, or had she simply come
forth froil an .unavailing attempt at:suicide? Well, whateve' the precise real-
istic bottom of the business might be, it was on the surface a solemn, tremen-
dous, fascinating, luxurious mystery. As Imogen Eleonore went about hers
aritiluetical and geographical tuitions that morning, she constantly murmured
in the recesses of her soul, " Oh, enigma! enigma! "  Keep the secret? Yes, by
all that was romantic and sentimental; by all those tender heroines who ha
pined away in the pages of the "Turtle Dove," and. those queenly ones wh
had died at the feet of the ensanguined columns of the "Spasmodic;" by all
the tears and pantings and long-drawn screams that she had read of as "to be
continued in our next."  The very extravagances of this fantastic schoolma'am
made her one of the securest confidantes and most zealous protectors which all
our motley humanity could have furnished for Nestoria.
Her educational duties performed, Miss Jones hurried homeward with
breathless speed, and found her protege dressed.
"I am so relieved!" she gasped. "I had a fearful presentiment that you
had flown. Are your garments dry? Well, now, let us discourse the thrilling
future. An idea struck me as I wended my way homeward, by which we can
save filthy lucre. Instead of taking a room for yourself, why not share mine?"
-- Oh, thank you," answered Nestoria. "I could not bear, not yet a while,
to live alone."
" Poo-r, poor cheild!" murmured Imogen Eleonore. "Solitude and dark-
ness would addto tie/horror of thy obscure, unshared. sorrow."
"Do not speak of it, I beg of you," implored Nestoria, her face quite pale.
"Never, nevermore!" promised Miss Jones in her most exalted manner.
"Never again shall that drear topic pass the sealed portal of my lips. The
past no more! Henceforward we will live for the future. Well, now about
dinner ?'" she continued, relapsing into her earthly tone.
Dinner they obtained in a cheap little restaurant, one of many in New York
which are unknown to fame, and which deserve to remain so. It was a shop
or "saloon " of moderate dimensions, the front crowded with tables and chairs
which in diminutiveness and fragility resembled insects, and the rear cut up
into narrow alcoves, where the very atmosphere seemed Qleaginous and nour-
ishing. On -their arrival they found most of the tables already occupied by
people who were evidently of the class which must glance at the cost of a dish
before ordering it. There were gentlemen, for instance, who were clerks or
mechanics, and ladies who were school-teachers,-or milliners, or otherwise in-
dustrial. They 'talked little, as is the time-saving fashion of Americans in
feeding, and appeal ed to find their chief social enjoyment in looking at each
other in a dumb, unobtrusive way, like so many sheep or other ruminating an-
imals at pasture. Through these tranquil revellers, as silent as the'old fellows
whom Rip Van Winkle encountered among the Catskills, Miss Jones made her
way withl all air of secrecy which was equivalent to wearing an iron mask,
pursing her thin lips witil lofty firmness, and glancing neither to right nor left.
Nestoria, heCr face hidden by a green veil, and every nerve trembling with fear


1O4                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
:f discovery, followed close. They dined in one of the nutritive alcoves, keep.
ing the ragged curtains drawn upon the world. The waiter suspected nothing
illegal; at least he brought no policeman. The prandial problem was solved
for that day, and for many days succeeding.
On the way homeward they bought a few fans, colors, and brushes, such as
Nestoria needed to commence her small industry; and all the evening she
painted, while Imogen Eleonore watched her in admiration, or read tremen-
dous serials to her out of the "Spasmodic."
" Why, it's beyu-ti-ful!" exclaimed this easily-moved young woman,
when a partially finished fan was spread before her, splendid with a bordering
of roses and lilies. "What a lovely pattern of gorgeous hues and labyrinthine'
verdure! It reminds me of enchanted gardens of delights, too fair--far too fair
-for earth. You must teach me how to do this sort of work."
"I will show you all I know," said Nestoria.
" Not so!" resolutely answered Miss Jones, after a moment of severe re-
flection. " I have my own sphere, and I will not intrude upon. yours."
It had occurred to her that if she once began to paint fans, her genius
would impel her to paint them as no other woman ever did or could,
and so she should drive her little guest out of the market. That, of course,
she might never, never do; and she must resist the very beginnings of
temptation.S
"Farewell, art!" she continued, waving her magnanimous right hand.,
Farewell the bright sunlights and rich clouds of the aesthetic! Hail, geogra-
phy and arithmetic! To your austere mysteries I dedicate my powers."
What did Nestoria, what euld the entirely artless, sincere Nestoria
think of this whimsical companionP She marvelled at her; she was as much
perplexed by Miss Imogen Eleonore as a lamb might be by a monkey or a
chicken by a parrot; but, while she found her passing strange, she did not find
her ridiculous. It was not in the child's serious and kind nature to discover
absurdity in that mysterious medley which she had been taught to call "poor
humanity," nor to make of any fellow in the solemn pilgrimage of life an ob-
ject of lightminded mirth. Furthermore, she was profoundly grateful to this.
good Samaritan in calico who had given her shelter  sympathy; and had
she been capable of detecting aught ludicrous in her wa , she would not have
laughed at it; she would as soon have made sport of the bald head of Elijah.
No such thoughtless or disrespectful young person was she as were those two
and forty who were torn by.the bears.
The two girls were now fairly launched on a hermit-like existence, such as
Nestoria's position demanded. Amid the busy and incurious million of New
York they led the life of the proverbial needle in the haymow. , Early every
morning they took a long walk in the unfrequented down-town streets, break-
fasting in Fulton Market or some similar resort of slender purses, and bring-
ing home their modest lunches. Then Imogen went off to "instruct," and
Nestoria sat down to her painting. Afterward came a dinner in some roman-
tic alcove; then another promenade in the friendly gloom of twilight; then
what Miss Jones styled "a soiree of art and literature." It was a monotonous
life, but it was mysterious, and, in the schoolma'am's opinion, delightful.
There was no danger of disturbance and discovery because of visitors.. Imo-
gen Eleonore, like many assiduous readers of ficion, was disposed to seclu-
sion; she had not been in the habit, as she frequently said, of mingling with
the common herd of mankind; she had found the elevating society of heroes

THE. WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         105
and heroines abundantly sufficient for her; she had loved to walk alone in the
halls of fancy and the enchanted gardens of revery.
Fans, a flowery half-dozen of them, were painted in a week or so, and Miss
Jones put them under her waterprbof and "hawked them from mart to mart,"
as she had valiantly promised. It was new business to her, and she might
have scorned it as very low business, only that it was ennobled to her mind by
a mystery. Was she not befriending the heroine of some dark and doubtless
thrilling tragedy? Uplifted by this thought, she entered a "fancy store" with
the air of a duchess in disguise, and fairly cowed the dealer into giving her
merchandise a respectful consideration. Still, he did not want to buy; it was
a "line of goods," he said, that he had never seen before; nor -did he believe
such an article would be called for. But just'then two customers, a dark-eyed
and showy young lady of twenty, and a tall, handsome, blonde dandy of nearer
thirty, entered the shop. They were talking earnestly, and otherwise had an-
air of being interested in each other, so that Imogen Eleonore immediately
speculated in her mind as to'whether they were lovers. I believe it may be
state(l, by the way, that a woman scarcely ever sees two young people together
without trying to forum sone idea as to their heart affairs.
" What beautiful fans! " exclaimed the lady. "Oh, Count Poloski, just
look at them. ~Are those for sale? "
"I was just taking the lot, Miss Dinneford," bowed and smiled the dealer.
"Finish your bargain and then let me have one," said Alice, little guessing
whose handiwork it was that she coveted.
So, the Count and Alice withdrawing a little, the fans were bought at a dol-
lar and a half apiece, to be resold at three dollars.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
IN THE DEPTHS.
Miss IMOGEN ELEONORE JONES;) rried back joyfully and vaingloriously to
Nestoria with the proceeds of her traffic.
" Behold the dawn f fortune! " he exclaimed, holding the bank-bills ex-
ultingly aloft, and othi'wise making an impressive tableau'of herself, such as
one heroine should present in addressing another, especially when the first
heroine is the protector of the second.
Nestoria counted the money -in amazement, and was thankful and for a
nonment happy over it, seeing in her earnings a promise of other prosperities,
and, above all, of escape. " Oh, I will work night and day, night and day,"
she murmured, meanwhile trying to compute in her excited brain how long it
would be before she would have enough to take her to her distant home.
" How well you have, done my errand!" was her next thought. " I am 'so
(dply obliged to you!
4Not so," protested Miss Jones, striving, though in vain, to bear her mer-
cantile honors meekly. " It was the beauty of your fans which gave me suc-
ces3. A young lady who was in the shop pronounced them exquisite, and
purchased one immediately. I think the name of your first patron is worthy
of being entered upon the tablets of your memory. It was a Miss Dinneford,
and her first name is Alisce, for I heard a gentleman call her so who was with
her, and I think he xvas an admirer."
A haunting ghost, thie terror of discovery, suddenly slid close up to Nes-


106                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
toria, followed cy all those other menacing phantoms which belonged in its
train. She heard the feet of pursuers, and saw herself haled into halls of justice,
and there either denounced. as a bloodstained criminal, or forced to bear deadly
evidence against Edward Wetherel.
)id you tell her anything about me?," she asked in a faint, eager voice.
You do not yet know me," replied Miss Jones, almost offended. "Never
for one instant have I forgotten my vow to hide your solemn secret. Some
day you will do me justice."
"I hope I have not pained you," pleaded Nestoria, fearful of losing her
only friend. " I am too much occupied with myself. And yet, if you knew--"
She stopped. Her calamity was of such a nature that she could not ask for
sympathy under it. She must hide her face from all human beings but one,
and from that one she must hide her soul. Oppressed with a sense of utter
isolation and abandonment, it seemed to her as if she were an ordained and
sealed outcast, a second Cain.  An actual assassin could hardly have felt
keener terror and remorse than did this innocent girl who had never even,
wished harm to one of her fellow creatures. Of all the ugly features of sin,
perhaps the ugliest is this, that it often causes the guiltless to'suffer with the
guilty, and sometimes in place of the guilty. Every evil act has its possible
rebounds which may strike down those who least deserve punishment.
For a few moments it seemed to Nestoria that she could not endure this un-
shared torment; and she was nearly driven to making a confidante of her
chance inim :ate, and telling the whole story of the Wetherel tragedy. But
the thought of exposing Edward, the thought of bringing the man whom she
had loved to a shameful death, the thought of being obliged to look upon him
while she should utter her dandling testimony-these frightful possibilities
struck her dumb. In no manner, neither through confession nor complaint,
must she relieve herself ever so little of the burden which had been laid upon
her by one who owed her all the happiness in his gift. Under this burden she
had tottered a little; but in a minute or so she was steady again; she turned
quietly and silently to her painting. It was a prodigious exhibition of tena-
city, of magnaniiity, and, perhaps we may venture to add, of heroism. A few
days earlier in her life she would not have believed herself possessed of such
endurance. 11er character was one of those which ar&amp;"capable of almost in-
definite development under adversity, suffering, and combat.
It is a proof of her practical ability, as well perhaps as of her ignorance of
the great, perplexing world in which she had lost herself, that she had one
simple plan of action and never swerved from it. To keep concealed until
she could earn money enough to take her back to her father, had been her
first purpose, and she conceived no other. . She had the singleness of intent
which marks a child, or a dog, or a cat, who, having got into trouble abroad,
thinks only of making homeward. There were no wild hopes that some wan-
dering fairy of a chance would favor her; there were no dreamings that she
would some day find an unexpected friend able and willing to rescue. She
had her single, fixed scheme of escape, to be carried out by herself;- and she
elun g to it as firmly as in her shipwreck she had clung to the tossing boat.
As soon as she had sold a second batch of fans she took a-room by herself.
S oney.was indescribably precious, but the chance of thickening her conceal-
ment- was more so, and she hind recovered from her first terror of solitude-.
-    Indeed, one cogent reason why she wished to live alone was her need of se
elusion for meditation and devotion. She had a conflict to maintain, not only

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          107
with fears of discovery and with a sense of outlawry, but also with her sleep
less, scrupulous, and hostile. conscience. An unappeasable and menacing
voice continually charged her with' guiltiness for hiding the guilty from jus7
tice. She had not obeyed her sense of duty, but had hearkened to the plead-
ings of her natural heart, a counsellor which she knew to be deceitful and
desperately wicked. In this matter she had done evilly from the beginning;
and, what was far more dreadful, she persisted in her unrighteousness. That
imperious inward voice, a monitor which was the more dreadful because hith-
erto she had always striven to obey it, called upon her to repent of her iniquity
of silence, and to turn from it.or perish. But such a turning, to be honest and
thorough and salvatory, signified nothing less than the denouncing of Edward
Wetherel.
This was a cross of such exceptional weight, and sharp with such a pro-
mise of lifelong wretchedness, that she could not take it up. Scourged by her
conscience, she approached it again and again, only to reject it passionately or
to seek some way of evading it. Then a new proclamation of guilt resounded,
and she heard herself judged as one of the hardened impenitent. All the
sources in which she had hitherto found comfortable guidance and hope were
now turned into springs of condemnation and threatening. One of her first
purchases after reaching her asylum had been a Bible; and hour by hour she
turned over its leaves in search of some word which Would justify her in her
resolution of secrecy; but she found no text to which she could cling for more
than a minute at a time. Shining promises came toward her in garments of
peace, but once close at hand changed into accusing angels. She was like a
person who.attempts to cross a river on an ice-float, and who must continually
leap from one sinking, shivering fragment to another. At one time she sought
to uphold herself by persistently repeating that broadest of forgiving utter-
anees--that pardon which demands not even repentance for the past, but only
reformation for the future: "Neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more."
But this refuge, like all the others, grew thin, crackled under her feet, and
vanished, leaving her in deep waters.
The past-that brief, happy past of loving-became as dreadful as the pres-
ent, and only less dreadful than the future. It seemed to be shown to her
that her calamity was a retribution for giving her heart to a man who had not
given his heart to righteousness.  le had been taught to believe in a spec..-
providence; to' believe that the Ceator watches over every act of every one
of his creatures; to believe that he incessantly chastens the good and punishes
the wicked. It was clear enough to her that her ways had been followed up
by Omniscience, and that she was suffering a castigation either of mercy or
of judgment. Which? How could it be mercy while she continued in her
sin? She must altogether give up that unholy affection, and she must repent of
having ever indulged in it. Here, as it seemed to her, she found duty somewhat
easier, at least for a time. She affirmed that she did not love Edward Wetherel
now; that she could not possibly love a man who was a murderer; that the
mere thought of such a love filled her with horror. As to the past, too, she pro-
fessed repentance, prostrating herself in humiliation because of it, and con-
fessing that her chastisement had been merited. For a day or two she had a
comforting sense that on this point she had cleared her conscience. But then,
like a spectre rising out of a grave, appeared this horrible accusation: " lle-
cause you hide this man's guilt and shiel4l him from justice, therefore it must
be that you still love him; in some secret and evil recess of your heart there
is still an unholy remnant of affection."


108                  'HE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"No, no, no! " she protested in agony; and thereupon a pitiless voice an-
swered: " Expose him; surrender him to the gallows."  Nothing would an-
swer except that she should come out before the world and denounce Edward
Wetherel as a murderer. Her conscience demanded it; her innate sense of
the claims of human justice demanded it; every near or distant sound of the
great city around her seemed to require it;, the ghost of Judge Wetherel arose
before her mind and added its grisly urgency.
There were times when every passer-by who glanced at the house had in
her eyes the air of saying to himself "Here is a place where blood is hidden."
There were other times when she saw before her the awfal bar of the Final
Judgment, and heard an unearthly voice inquire: " When thou art come
hither, wilt thou still be silent?"  There was no end to this beating of remorse-
less behests; it was a fiery tempest which never ceased and seldoni lulled.
She was almost continually blown up and down gloomy abysses, like the un-
resting spirits whom Dante saw in the second circle of the Inferno, among
whom was that Francesca who gave all fir -love. If any passage of those
Scriptures, to which she vainly looked for comfort, came to her oftener than
any other, it was the declaration, 'There is no peace for the wicked."
At times it appeared to her that she could not possibly bear' her burden
longer unassisted; that, since it would not cot-ie off at the foot of the cross,
she must absolutely appeal to human help.~She wrote to her father, not
knowing that he was dead, not knowing that this last refuge had been closed
to her. She wrote out the whole story of that tragedy which had murdered her
venerable friend and her own girlish peace. She filled pages on pages with the
hideous narrative, and then readt them to herself as well as she could for weep-,
ing. No other eye ever beheld the letter; she could not bring herself to mail
it. Nor did she dare keep it long, for the thought came to her that justice.
might discover it, and she burnt it to the last shred.
Then she wrote another letter saying nothing of her gloomy situation,
nothing of her whereabouts. What a struggle it was to chat of comumonplaces
when her whole mind was full of calamity and horror! She merely intimated
that she did not find America agreeable, and that she might yet be led to ask
leave to return home. She added that she was with a friend; and with that
vague statement she closed. This wretched epistle she sent, praying to be
forgiven for its prevarication-, or rather its suppressions of the truth, but find-
ing no justification for them even in necessity, so scrupulous was her sore con-
science.
. Meantime she. labored without ceasing, for her trouble of mind made her
all the more eager to earn money enough to fly with, and furthermore her
work was enough of a distraction to be somewhat of a consolation. In the
artistic anxiety of touching a rose with its healthfullest flush or a lily with its
saintliest purity, she could forget by moments that her soul was sick wit sor-
row and stained with sin. Oh, the comfort that innumerable hosts of fearing
and mourning ones have found in enforced industry! If the fallen inhabitant
of Eden had not been condemned to live by the sweat of his brow, his chastise-
ment would not have been diminished, but exaggerated.
It was also a blessing to Nestoria, a blessing in the guise of a cruelty, that
she was forced to hide her griefs. There is less good in confession, and more
good in silent self-control, than is generally supposed. The first is often a
weakening habit. atnd the second an invigorating effort. The girl's heart
almost burst in her struggle to appear tranquil under the eyes of her fellow

I

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.-                        109
lodger; but through this solitary and - painful wrestle she was slowly forming
the solid moral fibre which constitutes character.
She had been rather more than a fortnight in her seclusion, her hands busy
with their graceful industry and her soul with its terrible combats, when an
incident occurred which was of far more moment than she could then suspect.
Closely veiled, she was returning froip a walk in search of painting materials,
when she met in the passage which led to her room a stranger of peculiar ap-
pearance, a man of little-more than dwarfish stature, with a reniarkably large
head and plain features. Fearful of every one, her first impulse was to avoid
him and take refuge in her own apartment.
But in this homely face and even in the carriage of this insignificant figure
there was an influence which would not let her turn her back curtly. The
stranger's expression was one of touching humility and resignation, and also
of that benevolence which noble natures evolve out of suffering.' The smile
which lighted up the coarse mouth had such a sweetness as one might attrib-
ute to the smile of a pitying seraph. With the quick insight of a sensibility
which has pondered over calamities, Nestoria divined the man of sorrowVs who
has learned to pity the griefs of others. Eager for sympathy and help, she
felt an instantaneous impulse to trust this man, and to wish that she knew
him. Thus when he took off his hat and approached her, she did not seek to
avoid him.
I .beg your pardon, miss," he said in a voice as tender and appealing as
his smile. "But may I presume to inquire of you as to an old acquaintance
of mine ? Does Miss Imogen Jones still live here?"
She does," replied Nestoria. "But-she will not be in for some hours. Can
I deliver a message to her for you?"
"I thank you," bowed the visitor. "Be pleased to say that Mr. Walter
Lehiming called on her, and that he proposes to take his old rooms in the
building. I regret that I have no card, and must trouble you to remember
the name. If you should forget it, you can describe my appearance to her,
and she will know who came."
This allusion to the oddity, and in plain terms the deformity of his figure
was so simple and humble and uncomplaining that it completely captivated
Nestoria's sympathy.
"I shall not forget the name,'" she said in a tone of respect; and here we
must call distinctly to mind the fact that she had never heard it before: for
Alice Dinneford had only mentioned Lehming as " Cousin Walter."
He bowed his thanks and departed, moving away in .an unobtrusive and
and noiseless fashion, such as one may remark in the deformed who are
meekly conscious of their deformity.

1


CHAPTER XXIX.
PERILOUS ACQUAINTANCES.
W HEN Imogen Eleonore returned home and was informed of the visit
which had been paid her, her vanity was so much gratified thereby
that she made an upright grand piano of herself and executed one of her most
thrilling solos.
"My soul is rejoiced to hear that he purposes to come here," she discourseL
standing up loftily and elocutionizing in a way that was really dreadful.
"Walter Lehming is a dwarf in stature, but he is a towering giant im genius,
and a sweet cherub in heart. Only he of all tle millions of earth have I
found gifted and empowered to soothe the keen blackness of ny soul in its
hours of solitary sorrow, and to teach me the sublime lesson of iuproving my
mind and elevating my morale by practice in English composition. To him
I owe it that days which would otherwise have been dour and drear were
transformned'into glowings of beatifie sunshine. To iim, much movie than to my
own diffident merits, do I owe my station as an instructor. I rejoice that he
is to be of us."
" Can I see him sometimesP" asked Nestoria with a timorous and piteous
wistfulness. "I thought he seemed very good, and I thought I should like to
hear him talk."
"Intercourse with him would cheer, entrance, and elevate you,' affirmed
Imogen Eleonore, conscious that she herself had acquired eminence of feeling
and intellect. " My poor, lonely little Nettie, thou shalt know this noble man,
and he shall be thy friend."
"Will it be safe?" queried Nestoria, pondering over her terrible secret.
Walter Lehning may be trusted," replied the schoohnistress. " If he
knew all, 1he would tell naught. The mysteries of angels and demons might
be confided to his great heart, and there they would eternally remain, wrapt
in pity and silence."
From all this grandiose babble, the oddity and absurdity of which she did
not very plainly note, Nestoria gathered that it would' be safe fbr her to meet
her friend's friend, and that she might find in him a comfortable companion.
It was very depressing to be so much alone as she was, and to have no more
uplifting converse than that of a " constant reader" of the " Spasmodic."
While she did not scorn her fellow-lodger, and had begun to regard her with
the affection which in meek spirits springs from, a sense of obligation, she did
find her somewhat limited in mind an('vapid in discourse. They two stood to
each other in the relation of a superior and an inferior, the former unconscious
.of her superiority, and the latter of her inferiority. Thus there was content,
but not the highest content; and Nestoria craved betterment, provided it could
be had without peril.
In a few days Lehming moved ihto the tenement-house, bringing with him
the transcendental John Bowider. It must be understood that the Wetherel
estate was still far from being settled, and that Lehming had as yet positively
refused to receive any advances from it. The Dinneford ladies, oppressed

;,
x.

by the sombreness of the Judge's old house in Brooklyn,. and incessantly
haunted there by its associations with their murdered kinsman, had abandoned
it and rented a modest dwelling in New York. Bowlder and Lelhming had
not accompanied them: it did not seem best to them that two men should
abide with two women,. though invited; and thus they had been led to estab-
lish themselves in lodgings. They took three rooms on the same floor with
Iiogen and Nestoria, thus completing the occupation of the passage. These
plain and even mean apartments they fitted up in plain fashion, as became
men of small incomes. One was Lehming's bedroom, another was devoted to
the transcendental dreanmings of John Bowlder, and the third was a parlor and
study.
"This door must be always open," said Lehming after he had put the
study in order, lined its dingy walls with his coarse book-shelves and strewn
the green baize of its centre-table with periodicals. "This must be the read-
ing-room of all our fellow-lodgers."
You are right, Walter," agreed John Bowlder in his hearty, sonorous
way. "There must be no nionopoly of culture. What store of knowledge
we have is not ours only, but our friends' also. I think little of books. Man is
a god; he is greater than his works; he is worthier of my study. But the
written volume ballasts and impels the mind which has not yet learned to
steer its own course. Your thought is an inspiration of beneficence."
".The room is admirably fitted for the purpose," continued Lehming, ris-
ing on the toes of his pygmy shoes and looking about .hini with satisfaction.
It could not have been better planned for it. If it opened into my bedroom,
it would have an air of privacy, and could hardly be made hospitable. But
its only entrance is from the public passage, by which all the world may
,come. We will make all the world welcome."
"I could wish you would accept of opulence, Walter," said John Bowlder,
honestly admiring his deformed friend. "The world would profit by it.
Each man has his vocation, and the talent is the call to it. Yours is philan-
thropy, as mine is insight."
Lehming took no notice of the allusion to the fortune which awaited his
beck.
"I want the aid of your insight," he smiled. "There are two young ladies
on this floor who must, be tamed to enter.this room and use whatever they find in
it. I want you to help me bait them with hospitality."
" We will call on them and entreat them," declared Bowlder. "We will
bring them in hither by the. hand, as you lead, homeless children into your
Sunday-school. Let us go to them at once. The man is no man'who waits
to do anything, though it be no more than the boiling of an egg, a single min-
utle after it can be (lone. The punctual, prompt soul is tihe able soul-what
foolish people call the man of talent. But the wise' know him merely as one
Who dawdles not,"
Then he began to improvise, in a queeor singing way that he had, not spe-
cially wonderful for melody, chanting the following wondrous rune:
Dawdler, dawdler, dawdle not;
Hear the bubbling of thme pot;
Stir it while the fire is good;
So your mess shall turn to food."
John Bowlder had made bales and bales of such verses, which in his mo-.
mnents of presumption he tried to hope'were equal to those of Emerson, or at

ii'

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.


112                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
least conceived in their spirit. Like many men who long to be original, he
was instinctively and even to. a certain extent consciously an imitator, and
was generally doing his whimsical best to reflect the peculiarities of some ad-
mired model, with such fantastic and farcical results as you mpy behold in a
"crazy " looking-glass.
As his unbroken bass voice gambolled through his "rune," so his clumsy
bulk rolled and rumbled along the. passage. Ahead of it glided the little fig-
ure of Lehming, like a stunted pony drawing a large wagon. It was very
much thus that they went through life: the dwarf guided, while the giant did
the bellowing.
It must be understood that Miss Jones had so arranged her own room as
to be able on a pinch to receive visitors in it. She had divided it into two
compartments by means of a lofty though fragile rampart of paper screen,
which completely environed her bed and washstand with its gaudy represen-
tation of scarlet ships on a blue-vitriol ocean, so that nothing could well be
more seemly and genteel at the price. Thus she was in a state of decorous
preparation for the two gentlemen, and could admit them without going
through any preliminary housewifery. Indeed, she was waiting for then, and
opened at the first tap of Lehming's knuckles, so that John Bowlder, who was
just about applying his battering-ram of a fist to the door, missed his mark
and nearly gave the schoolpa'am a facer, immediately stumbling into the room
in his usual headlong fashion. However, he lurched to before he had run
down the ships on the paper screen, and was tugged without accident into a
proper state of introduction to his hostess.
"Miss Jones, this is-Mr. John Bowlder," said Lehming in his simple, well-
bred way. "lHe is an old friend of mine, and wishes to be a friend of yours."
"I welcome you, Mr. Bowlder, to my humble cot," responded Imogen
Eleonore in her most unhuman, grand-piano manner. " In the inane wjlder-
ess of brick and mortar which billows and throbs around us there are many,
many abodes far more palatial thap this, but none, surely none, in which you
would be received with a simpler, more earnest, more heartfelt cordiality."
The effect of this speech whs somewhat like that of the opening of the
seventh seal; there was a silence of perplexity.and amazement, though not
for the space of half an hour. Imogen Eleonore had keyed herself up to such
a lofty pitch, and had uttered her greeting in such an unnatural and absolutely
untenable tone, that for a moment she could not say a word further, and mere-
ly stood panting. John Bowlder, reduced to stark plainness and lucidity by
an affectation which overtopped his own, simply mumbled, "Miss Jones, I
thank yoi."  He was much in the condition of a rooster who should find him-
self outcrowed by a hen. He could not transcendentalize in the presence of
such a transcendent young woman. Meekly accepting a hard-bottomed chair,
he stared with the utmost circumference of his great blue. eyes at Imogen,
postponing 'discourse until he could make up his mind how to take her. Never
before, since he becanle a philosopher, had he found so little good in "in-
sight."  For a short period it seemed to him as if neither he nor any one else
would ever speak.again.'
The sensible and kindly little Lehming came to the rescue of these two
great spirits, He saw the need of pouring the oil of mediocrity upon the bil-
lows of sublimity, and reducing the conversation to a navigable level for hu.-
man possibilities. -In his silvery, placid way he remarked, " What a cosy old
rocking-chair this is! It reminds me of my grandmother's."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         113
But Imogen Eleonore's surging nature was not to be calmed at once., She
was laboring under a sense of duty to herself,- and to the sacred rites of hos-
pitality. It was necessary to present her young lady friend to the two gentle-
men in a manner suitable to the heroine of a mystery. Walking to the door
of Nestoria's room with a gait like that of a stage duchess retiring through an
upper entrance," she tapped, opened, and said in what she supposed to be a
thrilling murmur, " Nettie, my dear, come forth."
The answer to this ridiculous.summons was a piteous apparition. After
something like a burial, of weeks in duration, Nestoria came 'forth, unveiled
and pallid, to meet her fellow mortals. At sight of her Lehming and Bowlder
rose to their feet and bowed, with some such feeling as if they were saluting
an infant who lidnot belong to this world-an infa nt who had already become
a seraph. She was quite small, it will be remembered, and the stress of
grinding trouble and anxiety had worn her thin, so that she looked even more
tiny and childlike than her wont. Her bright natural color had faded under
the shadows of sorrow and confinement; and the terror of discovery which
crisped hr heart at this moment gave her a whiteness like marble. In con-
trast to this pallor her lucid blue eyes were startling, and her luxuriant golden
hair seemed twisted of living sunlight.
As for her exp:ession, it was simply wonderful and indescribable. There
could not easily be a more touching sadness, a more plaintive demand for
sympathy, on the human countenance. In spite of struggles for resignation,
in spite of a present effort to put on a mask of unconcern, and perhaps all the
more because of the pinching constraint of that effort, she had a look which
rivalled the calm despair of the Cenci. * To Lehming and Bowlder, both sen-
sitive and sincerely Compassionate spirits, she appeared to advance under a
cross and wearing a crown of thorns.
Even Miss Jones was impressed by this spectacle of timidity and suffering.
For a few seconds she gazed at it in, silence, forgetful of her mouthing elocu-
tion and fustian rhetoric, and honestly fearful lest the girl should faint away.
But she had a difficult duty to perform: it was nothing less than to present in
fitting terms a young lady whose full name she did not know; and, making
one of those efforts under which both feelings and circumstances must bend,
she addressed herself to the unparalleled ceremony. With a prompt ingenu-
ity for which she ever after admired herself, she called to mind the spot where
she had' first met her mysterious fellow-lodger, and evolved therefrom a pa-
tronym ic for her.
"Miss Nettie Fulton,' she bowed in her greatest manner. "Nettie, my
dear, let me introduce you to my old friend, Mr. Lehming, and my new friend,
Mr. Bo wldler."
For an instant she could say no more. The highest triumphs of genius are
not gained without an exhaustive struggle. Once more we behold Miss
Jones beaten by herself, and reduced to an agreeable silence.
There was such a din of shy, timorous blood in Nestoria's ears that she
did not notice the new name which had been given her, and so was not dis-
composed by it.. She heard only a jumble of words which she knew to be a
form of introduction, and in obedience to it she bowed mechanically, but with-
out speaking. She was in a strange confusion of spirit. So powvrfully had
her~ late seclusion impressed her, that it seemed to .her as if she were now for
the first time entering human society. Moreover, there was tme terrible pos-
sibility that these men might guess her identity and surrender her to justice.


Nevertheless, she could not help seeking their companionship, as a shipwrecked
pirate might draw toward navigators who should land upon his islet, though
fearful that they had come for his capture and punishment.
Lehiming and Bowlder were also unusually bewildered. They were daz-
zled by the girl's beauty, and touched by her plaintive expression of sorrow,
and attracted by her air of infantile helplessness. They had a longing to
gather her into protecting and comforting arms, as one picks up and pets ant
unknown chipd who has fallen into trouble. Thus for a few seconds there
was silence, all three gazing at Nestoria.
This dumb inspection frightened the girl: of a sudden it seemed to her,
that these men had seen her before; and she quivered with a mad impulse to
rush back into her room and lock the door.
CHAPTER XXX.
FINE TALK AND UGLY 'NEWS.
NESTORIA was saved from a flight which might have led Lehming, and even
the transcendentally unpractical Bowlder, to suspect something strange in her
history.
Miss Jones saved her ; not-that she meant salvation; not that she perceived
the advent of a crisis which required interference; on the contrary, she was
thinking solely of herself, what she must do and how she must appear; her
soul, as was too often the case with it, was intent upon her own aggrandize-
ment in the eyes of her fellow creatures.
" Have the kindness to be seated, Nettie, and you also, gentlemen," she
said, waving her hand majestically toward chairs, and talking with her front
teeth, as we must do when we wish to inspire respect. "I regret,'fot your
sakes, that my accoimodations- are not more palatial. But such as I have
that I give, and most freely."_
" Monarchs could demand no more," answered John Bowlder, who had by
this time recovered from his trance, and saw an opening for philosophy. "A'
true monarch, a: natural kingly soul, would desire no more. The angels who
visited Abraham found no fault with his tent. Damask curtains and velvet
sofas are merely adventitious circumstances, which may or may not attend hos-
pitality. We think too lowly of our impulses and too highly of our material
surroundings. Man is the oak and wealth the vine; and it is well if the vine'
do not strangle the oak; it is well if we cultivate the tree rather than the par-
asite. And when I say man, Miss Jones, I mean woman as well."
This sort of talk was rather deep water for Inmogen Eleonore. She was at
home in the spasmodic tempests of romance, but her first glimpse of the ob-
scure ocean of transcendentalism daunted her. Her vanity and pluck, how-
ever, rebelled against the idea of being silenced. As the reader may already
have suspected, she prided herself on being what-she called a "conversation-
ist," and held it a shame to let dumbness prevail in her society. She was al-
ways looking for opportunities to shine, and, although her shining was 's the
shining of a nipnkey who has daubed himself with molasses, being rather lu-
dicrous and inconvenient than illuminating, nevertheless she was not in the
least aware of this discouraging fact, and so did her best to scintillate on all oc-
cAl11as, how little we understand the opacities of life!" she said with a

THE WE IEREI. AFFAIR.

114

-y,,
u
1
 ,
-
J.
L
yy
t3fi
yFn
S
'fit
k
i .f
SEA
;X
1
nt .
:
} i
F
v'
;r
t
f'}
:ti
}
.
1
1
{
t
S

I

THE WETIEREL AFFAIR.

115

tragic stare, which ought to have let daylight through an opaque. world.
"How much we are captivated by the palatial brown-stone fronts, nor divine
the meanness of the ignoble souls which they shelter, and which perchance are
more miserable on Turkish carpets than they would be on sanded floors!"
Like many people of small means, who would dearly love to wallow in lux-
ury, Miss Jones was much given to imputing unrighteousness to the rich, and
t'usting that they have atsbottom a hard time of it.
"The finest linen, the soft frills of lace embroidery, and the costliest Majo-
lica needlework, are often naught but veils for vice and misery," she went-on
cheerfully and magnanimously. "As you observe, Mr. Bowlder, we must not
prize surroundings nor judge  pe  by them. Ofenadeoftenmast hav
passed unnoticed and unknown, garmented only in nmy proud poverty and iso-
latin, before the abodes of uptown-mnagnificence, I have said to myself, s o
here ?_No, surely not, was the drear response; at least not necessarily. What
(10 you  think, Mr. LehininoDntlt  sb  o  ad ont erc ,  mld  h  i dy1  gm  h yuf ru ae  - h i  ic msa cs  ti  r e. B t  sy uwe",   ees
" Don t let us be too hard on the rich," smiled thle kindly pygmy "The
are unfort11mte in their circunistances, it is true. But, as you were aigjs
now, ought we to blame people for their surrioundiing's? Let us judge the me
themselves. Considering how little harmutew   h     relly d he n e
have the power to do so much, I ami disposed to pardon them their shortcom-
ing s, and even to grant them some admiration."
"bCertainly," bowed imogen Eleonore, disposed to assent to these opinions
because they had been imputed to her.
And now let us make a little journey," continued Lehming, rising. "I
want to show you sometling which I think will give you a pleasure. Miss
adrttie," he dded, turning; to Nestoria, and addressing her as le would have
addressed a child, so youthful was her appearance-" Miss Nettie, will you
walk with nie? You and I are so nearly of a size that we shall not overshad-
each other.Wwil-let-those-two loftier people follow us. The brownies
and fairies preceded the human beings in the procession of existence. Poor
little extinct fairies and brownies! You and I are almost the last of those
races."tos
sThey marched two and two through the passage to the door of Lehming's
study.
"Enter my palace," he said. " This is my hall of glamour and enchant-
ment. here are treasures of gladness, my dear Miss Jones, whicb brown-
stone palaces cannot surpass. This is our common reading-room, and the
reading-room of all in this house. You two ladies must come here whenever
you wish, and carry away whatever you like. A daily paper and two literary
weeklies and half a dozen magazines and four hundred books will keep us all
in luxury."
Oh,  1 am so grateful to you, sir!" exclaimed Nestoria. Her pale cheeks
flushed with pleasure, and the flushin caused a sudden, surprising increase in
her beauty, not unlike what we see in the light of certain stars, which one mo-
ment are dim and the next luminous.
"You are fond of reading," said Lehming, delighted with her satisfaction.
"Very," replied the girl, her eyes wandering greedily along the book-
seves.
"You surprise me, Nettie," observed Miss Jones, "You hardly ever look
at the Stacks and stacks of literature in my room."
"Te 'Spasmodic ' and the ' Turtle Dove!' " smiled Lehming. "I decline


116

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

to blame her. My dear Miss Jones, there are better things than the ' Spas-
modic ' and the 'Turtle Dove,' and it is time that we give our attention to
them."
"I thought you approved of fiction," stammered Imogen Eleonore, a sensi
tive plant by reason of much vanity, and disposed to accept exhortation as re-
proof.
'-Here are Dickens and Hawthorne and Trollope and Charles Reade," con-
tinued Lehming. "They tell better stories than you will find in our New
York weeklies."
" I have read 'Foul Play,'" said Miss Jones, glancing at the title of that
work. "It was in a ten-cent pamphlet, the same as a 'lDime Novel.' That is
by Charles Reade, I see. Did he ever write anything else?"
Even Lehming, accustomed as he was to the humbler society of New York,
marvelled at such amazing ignorance in a veteran devourer of romance. Here
was a young woman wvho read almost nothing but novels, and who yet scarce-
ly knew the name of Charles Reade, while IIawthorne and Trollope were evi-
(lently as strange to her as Berosus and Sanchoniathon. To a person of re-
fined taste the lack of literary culture among the great mass, the overwhelm-
ing majority, of the so-called reading public is all but incredible. The million,
or perhaps one might truthfully say the millions, who find their sentimental
recreation in such papers a  the'sanguinary "spasmodic" or the amatory
Turtle Dove," are as unaware of the real masters of dramatic and literary
prt as they are of the celebrities of metaphysics or philology. They do not
now their works at all, and if they knew them they would not like them.. A
sensational weekly which should attempt to entertain its subscribers with the
hovels of Ilawthorne or George Eliot, would probably come to an early de-
cease. The true secret of gaining the favor of this immensely numerous class
of readers is to furnish theni with, matter just a little better than they could
Write themselves.
You may trust Reade," said Lehming, who was anxious to raise Miss
Jones's standard of taste. ;  lHe will always give you a well-ordered plot and an
interesting sequence of incidents. Some of his characters, too, aire sketched
vigorously, and have the broad traits of human nature recognizable every-
where. 1 should think a Chinaman might be interested in Reade. Try him
by all means ; then we will go higher."
Imogen Eleonore, meanwhile, was reconnoitring the pages of " Griffith
Gaunt" with a questioning and skittish eye, ready td start back if she should
discover anything grave or tedious..
"Here is what seems to speak to my soul," she at last said, though with
some hesitation, as though the speech were indistinct or the soul.hard of hear-
ing. "There is a tremulous strain of woe in this tale which I think will suit
me, she added, putting the book under her arm, and turning to the more al-
luring matter of a pictorial weekly.,
Meantime Nestoria had taken a small, plain volume from the shelves, and
had plunged her face into it with the eager air of one violently athirst, who sa-
tiates himself from a fountain.
"May I ask what you have there, Miss Nettie?" inquired Lehming, ap-
* - roaching her in his'gentle, gliding, nurselike way.   -
She held up that eloquent confession of a devout soul, written in the sim-
\ plest, purest, most iiomatic English-a hook which great literary ability could
* not imitate either in feeling or style-John Bunyan's " Grace 'Abounding."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.,                        117
"It is a masterpiece," he said reverently, after glancing at her with sur-
prise. " It equals Herodotus in childlike grace, and it surpasses him in sub-
limity and pathos. There are passages in it which have made me turn to the
epistles of Paul, to see which is the greater saint and the greater writer. Will
you allow me to give it to you?"
"I thank you," replied the girl, while a flush of gratitude .colored her ei-
tire face, there was such abundance and fervor in it.
"She feels the need of abounding grace and mercy," thought Lehming to
himself. "I am'in the solemn and awful presence of a profoundly troubled
soul."
They looked at each other in serious silence, regardless of John Bowlder
and Imogen-Eleonore, who were holding some nondescript babble at the other
end of the room.
" You are more kind than I know how to tell-you,"i continued Nestoria.
"If I could tell you how much your kindness touches me, you would be aston-
ished.
"My dear child, you alarmi me-" sighed Lehming. "I fear that I am not
so worthy and wise a friend as you need."
Nestoria was on the point of answering, "You are no doubt far better than
I deserve; " but she did not dare come so near to a confession of her haunting
horror; she remained silent.
"Ilave you ino relatives, no intimates? " Lehming presently inquired.
I am quite alone," she responded, after a moment of natural hesitation.
Could you trust me to find you some acquaintances, such as I should judge
suitable? "
She shook her head. "No, no. I have no time for society. I must work
all the while. It will be all I need if I see you and your cheerful, pleasant
friend. I like him, he has such kind eyes."
It shall be as you wish," bowed Lehming. " You shall see us every day,
andl no one else. I trust that you will comie to this room freely and iake use
of everything in it precisely as if it were your own."
"I thank you," said Nestoria. "I will come now and then-perhaps every
day."
And with this understanding the interview ended, the two young women
returning to their own rooms.
'Those men seem very, very good," observed: Nestoria to Imogen, when
they were alone. " I don't believe that either of thein could commit a crime."
What stra-nge speeches you do make! " stared Miss Jones, absolutely
envious of an .eccentricity of thought or sentiment wvhich she felt herself inea-
pable of rivalling. " Who that one really knows, who of all the feeble beings
tlhiat one is daily obliged to herd with, is capable of the sublimity of crime?
If I knew a man who dared be a wretch," she continued, rolling nimoc k-heroic'
eyes, "I could wor-ship him. Grandeur of soul, whether for good or evil, is
what I seek through the feeble-oh how feeble !-inanities of corxmnonplace
life."
One is tempted to make along pause over the contrast presented by these
twp young women; the one forever strutting in simulated gloom andl 'real sat-
isfaction through some sham tragedy of thme fancy; the other speechles's and al-
most crushed under that panth erishm thing Which a real romance almost always
is. But there is no need of philosophizing;r the situation is visible at the first
glance.


118                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
",You must not speak in that way," replied Nestoria quietly, though with
an inward shudder. " God may some day take you at your word and grant
your desire. You would be very wretched."
Secretly awed by the solemnity of this warning, Imogen Eleonore gave one
stare at her unfathomable companion, and then turned for cheering diversion
to the evening newspaper. As usual she read first the marriages and then the
obituaries.
"Nobody is dead that I know," she sighed. " And only one person who
seems to be of any note. The paper calls'him the celebrated missionary, Doc-
tor Bernard. Died at Erzeroum, August 5th. What a dolefully dull sheet!
Do you want to look at it?"
Nestoria mechanically took the journal, rose from her chair with a great ef-
fort, walked unsteadily into her own room, and closed the door behind her.
"What a queer piece!" thought Miss Jones. "She has such starts and
ways that sometimes she puts me out of all patience. Let her go and freak it
out alone."
But half an hour later she thought she heard sobbing in Nestoria's room,
and, forgetting her petulance, she went to see about it. The orphaned girl lay
on her bed, tossing and twitching spasmodically, her eyes dry and feverish and
her face flushed.
"You are ill, Nettie," said Imogen. "Why didn't you call me? I must
go and get it doctor."
"No, no! " gasped Nestoria, starting up on her elbow and putting out one
hand in earnest protest.
"But you need one," urged Miss Jones. "I am afraid you are going to be
real sick."  _-
"Oh, let me be sick!" pleaded Nestoria, tired of life and longing to die.
"I beg of you not to call any one."
Daunted by such despair, and overcome by its imperious tone of urgency,
Imogen Eleonore sat down.
But an hour later she slyly slipped out, hurried to the reading-room, found
Lehming there writing, and whispered, " My lttle friend is dreadfully ill."
CHAPTER XXXI.
WHITHER, 0 WHITHER?
" AND she won't have a doctor!" continued Imogen Eleonore with mingled'
pity and horror, as if here were a piece of either madness or blasphemy.
The sympathetic Lelining sprang to his feet, ready to scour the entire city
for help. But he was not one of those headlong good souls who trample
blindly into a case of distress and save looking-glasses by pitching them out
of a window. Even while he threw down his pen and rose from his table he
had a gleam of that meditative, considerate wisdom which was one of his fin-
est intellectual traits, and which frequently enabled him to make his deeds as
gracious as his purposes. Little as he had consorted with women in society,
he had noted the impulsive promptness with which they turn in trouble to a
healer or consoler, whether in the guise of physician, or clergyman, or confi-
dant. The fact that this girl should in her illness refuse to see a doctor struck
hiim as very singular and very significant. Either she was a person of rare
courage, or she was in strange circumstances.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.          '             119
. WW will not call any one, unless it proves necessary," he said. "Perhaps
this is duly a sickness of the mind," he added, remembering the plaintive mys-
tery which he had detected in Nestoria's face and demeanor. " Will' you
please ask if I may come in with you and see her for just one moment?
Imogen Eleonore hurried away much comforted; she had laid her burden
of responsibility and alarm on the 'shoulders of 'another; and, like most of her
sex, or, perhaps I should say, like most of both sexes, she found the act cheer-
ing. But she did not return for many minutes, and Lehning said to himself,
"I shall not be received."
So it proved. Nestoria would see no one, neither physician nor confessor.
She bore this new and terrible affliction as she had borne all those other terri-
ble ones which preceded it-alone. And she did really bear it; that is, she
did not sink under it. Already she was like an otter, or other hunted beast,
torn at by many hounds; one more snarling and mangling enemy made no
difference, or seemed to make none. Indeed, the multitude of tormentors
rather helped her to endure the suffering which each one inflicted; they'
crowded each other away from their victim, and the poison of one bite neu-
tralized that of another. It is marvellous, but it is nevertheless a fact, that
brave souls can withstand a host of afflictions, almost as easily as one. It is
brooding over a single calamity which brings on prostration and stupor, and
which kills. Many blows at 'once, falling from all sides, keep the mind in ac-
tivity. We are roused by a sense of injustice; we are exhilarated as by a
physical conflict; and from the passion of battle we gather life.
It is true that most persons might have been crushed by what Nestoria en-
dared at this time. But she had a vigor of constitution, 'both physical and
anoral, which.kept her out of sickness and out of despair. There could hardly
be a more healthy creature than this small and seemingly delicate young
woman. And health, the mere well-being of the body, is the spring of almost
all human strength. With few exceptions the' men who have (lone great
things in this world have been distinguished by enormous vitality, while many
of 'them have been remarkable for muscular power. Plato was a boxer; By-
rou was an athlete and could swim eight miles; Washington, Scott, and
Wordsworth had muscles of iron; Lincoln could lift a thousand pounds. We
do not mean to insinuate that Nestoria xyah intellectually great like these men,
but only that she had somewhat of their moral vigor, and that it sprang from
the same cause, health.
We must pass over a (lay or two in the girl's history. It is impossible to
describe adequately the.suflerings of a bereaved soul while its loss is fresh
upon it; you might as well try to paint in mere words the agonies of victims
in Dominican chambers of torture. Showy the rack and the. thumbscrews and
the lacerating knives of the deadly " virgin," and leave the conception of
what these-things can inflict to the imagination of the spectator.
A day passed like a car of Juggernaut over Nestoria; a day which to her
fellow lodgers seemed; sickness, but which was merely anguish; a drama in
which the mightiest and cruellest feelings that can 'find room in the human
heart were the actors; a battle worthy of having angels and demons for com-
batants, if indeed such were not actually present. At the .end of that twenty-
four hours she still retaied life, reason, and even physical strength.  She
camne out upon her little world of three persons, much the same that they had.
previouslyT known her. Imogen Eleonore, returning- from a hasty twilight
shopping excursion, peeped into the sick-room to see how her patient fared,
and found her painting.


120                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"I am so glad you have got well!" she exclaimed, moved by such honest
feeling that she spoke siipply..
"I have not been sick," replied Nestoria, looking up with the patient smile
of one who has truly learned to endure.'
"Not been sick! " stared Miss Jones. "Why, you've been looking dreaid-
fully-just like a ghost."
"Yes, I have had a bad play, it is true. What I meant was that I have had
no serious illness. I am not accustomed to call myself sick so long as I can
get up when I wish to."S
" Well, you are a strange piece'!" continued Imogen, still marvelling at
this sudden recovery, which struckher as something like a resuscitation. "I
wonder if you are made like other people. Do let me feel of you. Why, your
cheek is as hard as marble. I never felt such solid flesh. How strong you
must be! Are you as hard as that all over?"
"My father has often remarked how firm my flesh was," replied Nestoria.
She stopped; she had inadvertently mentioned her father; at times his
death seized unreal to her. But the moment she recalled the fact, speech on
any subject became an impossibility, at least for a time.
"have you a father? " asked Imogen Eleonore, in that melodramatic voice
which she put on as a garment whenever she made her entry upon what seemed
to her a great subject,
Nestoria shook her head and tried to go on painting; but the blundering
shock of this inquiry was too much for her; she dropped her brush, covered
her face with her hands, and burst into tears. They vere the first tears which
she had shed upon her bereavement, ahd they came rather as a rain of mercy
than as a storm of castigation.  . ,                    .
Long dead?" queried Miss Jones, trusting that curiosity might seem to be
sympathy, and indeed conscious of a cordial sympathy beneath an equally fer-
vid curiosity. But Nestoria, deafened by the tempest of her own sobbing, was
spared from hearing the loutish question.'
Imogen Eleanore, who, in spite of her relish for ghoulish literature, was
really a human being, presently'became ashamed of herself and then piti-
ful. She was not accustomed to witness strong emotions, except through the
dingy veil of letter-press and woodcuts; and she recoiled from this violent
paroxysm of grief as she would have flinched from the actual presence of
wounds and blood.
"I am'awfully sorry!" she apologized. "I was not aware of the plaintive
abyss of the unknown from which my careless foot extorted this cry of soul
agony. It was not that my heart was lacking in the tendrils of tenderness,
but only that I have had no such sad, sorrowful, solemn experience. I never
lost a payrent."
To this simple and egotistic girl it seemed as if no grief could resist such
soothing, or. fail to be charmed by such excases. But the soul before her was
in truly deep waters; and, dim as 1mogen'u spiritual eyesight was, she pres-
ently became troublously aware of the fact; she seemed to discern a spirit
tottering, and sinking amid raging, obscure billows. Nestoria's spasm of sob-
bing was so fierce and persistent that it fairly teiiied the inadequate com-
forter.                                    -     -    -.
."For pity's sake don't cry that wany," she implored. "You'll strain your--
self and burst a blood-vessel. Why, your face is all crimson. .Oh, doit be so
unhappy! You make me cry, and scare me."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

Slender as was this stream of consolation, and turbid too with the common
clay of the nature . rhich yielded it, nevertheless .it had force and subtlety
enough to reach the bereaved heart.' It was received there with gratitude:
extreme anguish is not exacting nor fastidious: Dives in his torments asked
for but a single drop of water.
Nestoria withdrew one hand from her face, let it glide slowly down Imo-
gen's extended arm, and took an infantile hold on the skirt of her dress. The
gesture, as we remember, was characteristic of her; it was her favorite man-
ner of claiming sympathy and support. Imogen thought very strange of it,
and said to herself that this was surely the oddest girl that she had ever met;
but within the. last minute or so she had caught a grace of delicacy which
enabled her to resist all blundering temptations to speech; the one wise, gen-
tle thing which she did was to lay her hand upon the tremulous hand which
clung to her. The two girls sat thus, fingers intertwined with fingers, while
the tempest of sobs slowly died away, like waves lapsing to rest.
"It is over," said Nestoria at last, forcing such a plaintive smile as a re-
signed ghost might wear on returning to its grave. -"How patient and kind
you are! I shall always love you."
It was the last violent throe of grief which Imogen ever witnessed in her
friend. Ienceforwaid Nestoria was able to draw a veil of obscuring tran-
quillity over her filial sorrow, as well as over her perplexities and terrors.
Secrecy at every point was an absolute necessity; she must not even mourn
visibly and audibly for her father. If ever the tears came into her eyes at the
thought of his burial afar off in a spot unknown to her, she drove the piteous,
pleading drops back to their lair, as ene.nies who might betray and ruin her.
If a sob burst up from her deserted heart, she made cruel haste to smother it
before some accusing voice should respond, " Are you not she whom justice
seeks? "
Hardly dared she go deeply veiled to purchase such religious periodicals as
she supposed might contain notices of her father's life and the manner of his
death; and when she had obtained them, she read them in watchful solitude
and then hid them under her mattress, as if they were proofs of crime. The
four or five obituaries and eulogies which came to her hand were of course in-
finitely precious to her ; and she longed to cut them out and keep them always
near her heart and ready for her eye. But that would not do, for, if they were
discovered in her possession, they might suggest her identity. Her grief was
held in check by her constant dread of discovery and of the results which dis-
covery would surely bring in its train. She was like a child shut up in a dark
room, who dares not sob for fear of being overheard by sonicmonster.
Meantime what should she do? The angel of death had changed the'face
of the world to her; he had swept clean out of life her only imaginable refuge.
Her situation was that of a wanderer in deserts who hears that the oasis to-
wards which he was faintly struggling has been overwhelmed by sandstorms,
its sheltering palhs uprooted and its wells choked.  During weeks, which
flowed with the scorching. slowness of melted lead, Nestoria had been sup-
ported by the hope of reaching her father, and casting at his feet that horrible
secret, so like to a mangled and blood-dripping corpse which a demoniacal
destiny'had fastened upon her. Now there was no one in all the earth to re-
lieve her of her grisly load,; she must bear it alone until she should be able to
lay it beside her* in her grave. There were times when the whole of this wea-
ryinig pilgrimage seemed to open before her, the vastness of the inhospitable

121


122

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

outlook drinking up all her strength and courage, as the Sahara absorbs a riv-
ulet at the beginning of its course.
But she must not faint; she must struggle to shape her future so that it
should be bearable; especially must she discover and attain to some place of
hiding. With a travail of spirit which was so imn ease and various that we
may speak'of it as her labors of Hercules, she ransacked the whole world for
an asylumi. Where was the spot which could give security to a- friendless
girl, whose terrible treasure, eagerly sought for by whole communities, was
the secret of a murder ?
Little by little she settled upon the resolution that as soon as she had money
enough for the vojage, she would fly to some barbarous island of the Pacific
ocean, there to end in obscurity her outcast life.
CHAPTER XXXII.

A SAD FAIRY AND A COMFORTING BROWNIE.

THIS thought of a flight to the unknown and almost unknaginable coral
solitudes of the Pacific took a strong hold on Nestoria's imagination.
It helped her bear onward her heavy days, and at night it sometimes lulled
her to sleep. As she bent over her painting she had reveries of floating over
long, smooth billows, under the white, tranquil wings Of sailing seabirds, to-
ward inlets alive with canoes and shores waving with palms. The same pic-
tures came to her in dreams; she was among wild peoples, but free from per-
plexities and terrors; she lived the life -of a savage, but she was at peace. So
happy was she in these visions that more than once she shed a few tears on
awaking. As is often the case with the quietly wretched, the sorrowful who
see .no immediate escape in effort, she slept much. In sleep she forgot her
alarms, griefs, remorse; in sleep there was a temporary trace to her warfare;
she could lay down her arms when she lost her senses. , We see a spirit which,
though able to bear much, felt great weariness. Her reveries, and the eager-
ness with which she hailed them, proved how enfeebled was her mind. or rather
how tired. The soul which is faint with hard and long rowing, lands willing-
ly on this Lotos island of revery.                                )
Much, however, as the girl's thoughts partook of the nature of day-dreams,
she was serious in her purpose of seeking refuge in the Pacific. She really
meant to get to the Marquesas, or some other more unfrequented archipelago,
and bury all her future years in its rank savagery. Perhaps she would be a
missionary; perhaps spend her life in proclaiming the true God to heathens;
it would be a fitting work for one who had been such a criminal; itvould be
a Pauline repentance. For she still believed that she acted very wickedly in.
refusing to expose the guilt of Edward Wetherel,. and longed to do some wor-
thy work and bear some self-inflicted penalty, which might make partial
amends for her sin, even though justification and 'forgiveness were unattaina-
ble. Yes, a missionary life in the Pacific, suflring enormous hardships, in-,
curring daily peril of death, and perhaps putting on the crown of martyrdom,
was the career toward which she must strive. ' But before she could take flight
she must have wings; an'd she labored incessantly to fabricate them, adding
dollar to dollar. .
Meantime she could not dispense entirely with human fellowship. A trou-
bled woman instinctively looks for help to a man; and now that Nettie no

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

I

longer saw her father walking the stormy sea of life, she felt a need of some
other virile saviour; before she was well aware of it she was stretching out the
arms of her soul toward Lehming. It was very natural. There was as it
were an-aureole of sweetness and light-the sweetness of rich sympathy and
the light of a clear intelligence-around the niisshapen head of this good pyg-
my, easily visible to eyes seeking a deliverer. She had sagacity enough to feel
(rather than to formally argue out) his superiority.in real moral muscle over
John Bowlder, burly as this last might seem to a superficial glance. Every
day she sought more and more the society of Lehming, and found more sup-
port and pleasure in it.
As for him, he was eager to give her all the aid and counsel and pity that
she would ask, for,-or could be brought to accept. No other human being, not
even Edward Wetherel, under the blight of an imputed crime, had ever inter-
ested him so deeply as did this lonely, patient-eyed girl. When a man's heart
is naturally sweet, every intellectual force that he possesses tends to increase
its sweetness. Lehining was all the more benevolent because he had a strong
imagination and unusual powers; of reflection. It seemed to him that he had.
found a soul shipwrecked on the reefs of some unknown sorrow, and he longed,
incessantly to nurse it to health and give it deliverance. He was too delicate
to intrude into Nettie's mystery by questions; but he accorded to her such
watching and attentions as affection grants to an invalid. There was an inex-
haustible willingness to listen to her in the rare hours when she chose to talk;
there was a copious outpouring of instruction and amusement from his stores
of knowledge; there were daily offerings of flowers and fruit. He knew the
preciousness of little marks of regard, because he had rarely received them and
had suffered from the lack of them.
His demeanor toward her had somewhat of the subtle perfume of court-
ship. He was far indeed from meaning it as such, for he had not the slightest
hope of winning the girl's heart,"and desired only to give forth his own wealth
of emotion. Never forgetting his deformity of body and feature, and alto-
gether unconscious of his attractive beauty of soul, he was humility itself.
The idea of wooing and winning a handsome young woman would have seemed
to him nothing better than frenzy. Nevertheless, as time went on, he swung
insensibly nearer to this frenzy, approaching it by unconscious circlings, as a
boat nears.the Maelstrom. There was to come a period in his life when he'
would like a woman precisely as other men like women. He was destined to
fall in love with Nestoria, and toward that fate he was even now drifting.
Not a day passed without a meeting between them. As we have said, the
door of Lehming's library was always open to all the inhabitants of the tene-
mieit-house. But the lodgers in the lower floors did not care to enter it; they
were of that hurried class who write upon the doors of their offices, " Gone to
dinner-back in ten minutes "; they were so dragged about by the almighty
dollar that they had no time or no taste for reading. Nestoria soon discovered
that she vas not liable to meet any one in the library besides its owner and
John Bo Ider and Imogen Eleonore; and thus she fell into a habit of visiting
it every evening, when darkness forbade her to walk and her hand was
cramped with painting. Lehming was almost always there, sometimes ab-
sorbed in a book, but more often writing. There was an exchange of smiles
-two of the sweetest and most pathetic smiles ever seen; then Nestoria se-
lectecl her volume or magazine, and seated herself by the long centre-table;
after that there might be half an hour without a sound except. the turning of
leaves or the scratching of a pen.

128


YIi

124

'THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

The very silence of Lehming was an aroma from his exquisite delicacy.
He feared that if he talked much to his guest he would have an air of demand-
ing amusement from her, and so render his hospitality less free. Moreover,
he found it necessaryto resist the first encroachments of a compassionate cu-
riosity which perpetually tempted him to put such questions to her concerning
her history as she might perhaps not desire to answer. Consequently .he laid
down for himself the rule that he must never put aside his pen until she had
first put aside her book. Is it not touching and'indeed downright piteous to
find such considerateness and self-control in one at whose feet life had laid so
few favors and pleasures? But it is in just such humble vessels that we might
expect to-discover these rare graces. We must stoop to'figures weighed down
by crosses, and look under-the acute shadows of crowns of thorns, if we would
behold the brows which wear the brightest halos.
Sometimes, however, there were long conimunings between these two chil-
dren of sorrow. Their talk frequently concerned literature, for Lehming was
a contributor to various periodicals, and furthermore he had the project of a-
book on his mind, and he loved to discuss the art in which lie was a student.
One of these dialogues we may find it 'worth while to listen to, because, al-
though it began upon the most commonplace circumstances of a life of author-
ship, it eventually wound and crept on until it touched the borders of Nesto-
ria's woful secret.
"Is making stories very profitable? " inquired the girl, wondering whether
she could write and thus earn money wherewith to fly to undiscoverable
islands.
"It brings in something," replied Lehming, entering eagerly upon a sub-
ject which profoundly interested him. "In the monthlies, weeklies, and dai-
lies there is a fair market for tales and articles. A mugazinist with talent,
who works hard and gives all his time to his work, can average twelve or per-
haps fifteen hundred dollars a year. In other words, he can earn something
more than a common carpenter, and a good deal less than an expert machin-
ist. But whea you have made that modest statement, you have summed up
nearly the whole of a writer's chance for income.  The profit on a book,
speaking in a general way, would not suppd.i-tlu infant. People say that the
periodical has killed the volume; but while this is true in a measure, it is not
all the trouble; it is mainly the foreign reprint which kills the American work.
Are you aware that any one of our publishers can seize upon any European
book without paying the author a penny? Such is the dishonest fact; now
look at the discouraging result. The American volume (let us suppose it is
Leimning's) is necessarily loaded with a royalty payable to the writer ; this roy-
alty is only the pittance of ten per cent. in most cases, but it raises the price
of the work by that amount; if without it the price would be ninety cents, for
instance, it must now be sold at a dollar. Well, what sort of competition is
this dollar book exposed to? The competition of Dickens, Reade, Thackeray,
and all the athletes of foreign literature-all selling ten per cent. cheaper. Ten
per cent.? I should conic nearer the mark in saying twenty-five per cent., fifty
per cent. Our 'publisher only selects for reprints the best of European works,
such as have already succeeded in their own country-such as are sure to suc-
ceed here. He is so certain of purchasers that he can afford to be cheap, and
also to advertise liberally. ie is so certain of competition if he demands a
high price, that he must be cheap. You will find Dickens and Reade and many
others on our book counters at fifty and thirty cents a volume. Now, what does
the purchaser do? Do you imagine that he will buy Lehming at a dollar when

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

125

lie can get Lehming's master at half a dollar? He makes the bargain that will
give hin the most for his money, and in so doing he helps to kill American
literature. It is the only business in our country in which the producer is
completely sacrificed- to the consumer. The result is that we have no litera-
ture; we have only a dozen or so of professed authors; and that dozen write
mainly for the monthlies and weeklies, The American book is growing rarer
year by year, and will soon be as extinct as the dodo. Men will not continue
a labor which brings them only neglect and starvation"
"But a few write," said Nestoria. "You write."
"A few will always write," answered Lehming. " Every year five or six
tyros step forward and awkwardly renew a useless struggle. But the circum-
stances of the case are inexorable; they wear out the most hopeful and the
ablest spirits. We shall never have practised and skilful authors until we- es-
tablish such an international copyright as will enable the native work to enter
th0 market on equal terms with the foreign reprint. This competition of theft,
moreover, is not the only trouble. Literature in our country is shackled with
imposts and with customs duties. Paper, types, type metal, the materials for
binding, everything which goes to the making of a book, bears a load of taxa-
tion for the benefit of some manufacturer. Our publishers themselves are so
burdened th at they are unable to hold our own market, and are steadily be-
coming nere distributors for English publications. It seems as if our legisla-
tors had sworn that, whatever else they left undone. they would root out Amer-
ican literature."
"I don't fully understand, but it seems very discouraging," sighed Nesto-
ria. " I was wondering whether I could write; but I will make you a present
of ny subject."  Then, after a moment of pondering, she went on hastily, as
if imj elled to speak, " I had a strange idea in my mind. It was that a girl
should like some one, and like him very,overy much, only to find that he was
utterly wicked. Then what? ' Should she merely abandon him? . Or should
she denounce him to punishment? I don't know. I can't see how it should
end."
"She should both abandon and denounce him," answered Lehminig with the
facile promptness of poetical justice.
Nestoria recoiled from him a little, pressed her hands together, and turned
slightly pale.
"Stop," added the young man meditatively. "You have proposed a diffi-
cult problem. We must not judge even fictitious personages with haste ajid
indifference. -If we do not owe a duty to their shadowy existences, we owe
one to our own mental and moral nature. I must have tinie to consider your
riddle."
Nothing more was said on the subject; indeed, Nestoria -was frightened at
'having said so much; but Lehming. brooded over her suggestion frequently.
Of course he asked himself whether the girl had alludpd to the sorrow which
looked out of 'her plaintive eyes; and of course the query, although unanswer-
able, made her all the more attractive to his sensitive and compassionate spirit.
Other conversations, and other vague, timid hints of suffering, quickened his
sympathy. Even if there wvere no mystery of great trouble iii this child's life,
he felt certain that she wasilonely and almost friendless, and he longed to sur-
round her with consolation. Not yet, not even in the rare vagaries which he
permitted to his imagination, did he purpose to offer her a heart in lal..ce of
the one which, as he sometimes suspected, she had found cori'upt and cast
away with noble loathing. liHe was too meek to believe that his affection could

.       '

11

i


126                  THE WETIIEREL AFFAIR.
be worthy of complete acceptance, even at hands which pleaded for affection
as a charity; and to ask any woman whatever to receive him as a husband
would, it seemed to him, be altogether unnatural and monstrous, and shame-
fully absurd.
But he was slipping toward Nestoria; he was becoming every day less and
less the ruler of his thoughts and feelings; there was no telling how his moth-
like circlings might end. Eyes which in this matter were keener than his,
though duller by far in almost all things else, watched him' with a pet-lanit
disapproval, judging him to be very near the flame of love.
"It will be real shabby if Mr. Lehming tries to marry that poor little chit,"
said Imogen Eleonore to herself more than once. "Mr. Lehming ought to
know that he isn't a proper person ,to have a pretty girl. He may be very
good and have a first-rate education, but he's a little jolter-headed hunchback,
and not a fit match at all for my Nettie.- If he wasn't a prominent instructor,
I'd give him a piece of my mind about it."
Miss Jones, we perceive, put the matter in order before her mind in plain,
straightforward terms, not encumbering it with the retinue of bombastic
phrases which she favored when in society. We may infer that she really and
honestly feared lest the incongruous wooing of which she discoursed might
come about.

CHAPTER XXXIII.
REMINISCENCES AND SUSPICIONS.
IG, burly, and boisterous John Bowlder was scarcely less bewitched
about Nestoria than the little and gentle Lehming.
This transcendent sogl, this comet of the subjective universe, actually be-
came somewhat realistle and business-like in his desire to befriend the lonely
child. Divining by a prodigious effort of "insight" that she needed money
as well as sympathy, he used up what he picturesquely called " the slack of
his income " in buying her fans, as presents for his other pets; the said other
pets, by the way, being not young ladies, but little ragged girls who went to
Lehmning's Sunday-school, and who had no spare funds to expend on gew-
gaws: "humble butterflies," as the philosopher phrased it, "who need some
glorifying to fit them for life's sunshine."
When Bo wider could no longer purchase, he appointed himself the artist's
drmnmer or commercial traveller, and hawked her delicate merchandise from
shop to shop with a pride which ennobled peddling. Such an outlandish pil-
grim has seldom been seen in the marts of our American Vanity Fair. The
shopmnen of Broadway and Canal street were dumbfounded by his other-world
countenance, manners, and dialect.
"Fans, my worthy friend, fans!" he would say, patting a dealer conde-
scendingly on the shoulder. "Look at them! Not merely instruments to stir
the lazy wind and cool the languid brow, but visions to steal through the win-
dows of the .eye and transport the longing soul. In judging the market value
of such a thing, you must look 'beneath the use and penetrate to the grace.
Beauty has an aureole which decorates related objects. See here," spreading
a fan, and fluttering it about his great rosy face and bushy, grizzly beard, "I
am a finer creature than I was a moment ago. This little painting of birds
and flowers lends me somewhat of its own aesthetic nature. I am a hand-
somuer man because I have a handsome fan. There is loveliness,. purchasable
at twenty dimes! What woman who should come to your counter could re-
sist such a bargain? With glory like that to sell,-people will not only buy of
you, but go away feeling enriched, and so return to buy again.' Take them,
iny human friend take the lot and prosper. You can have the six infinite
wonders for nine poor, finite 'dollars."
The bargain consummated, he would eagerly butt his way homeward
through the crowded streets, rush into Nestoria's presence with such vehe&amp;
mence as to make. little breezes all around him, toss the results of his peddling
into her lap, and wave his big red hand in deprecation of thanks.  .
Thus these three persons met and communed daily with tranquil counte-
nances, when recognition would have made them stare at each other like
startled ghosts. Bowlder and Lehming, both anxious to discover Nestoria
Bernard and to unveil the Wetherel mystery, helped her in earning means to
fly with it to the ends of the earth. It may seem incredible that they should
be her companions for weeks without causing her to suspect their intimate ac-,
quaintance with the tragedy which had driven her into hiding. But they were
strange men, living mainly in a condition of isolation, and little, addicted to
the gossip which forms so large a part of ordinary human converse.

0


128                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
" Relatives are less to me than my own shadow," John Bowlder was accus-
tomed to boast, with some exaggeration. "My shadow is in a measure the
image of myself; but my cousin or brother may be discordant or antagonis-.
wic. My true blood-connections are the people who share my thoughts and
heart-beats, though they abide at the antipodes and catch rats and puppies for
pies. Buddha is perhaps my father, and Confucius my uncle, and Ah Sin my
brother."
Acting in accordance with these whimwhams, as far as his really strong
natural affections would let him, the ideological Bowlder prided himself on
treating the every-day, essential afihirs of his life, with sovereign contempt,
eschewing discourse concerning the people whom he knew and the things
which he did, and talking mainly of matters that he was not acquainted with.
Up to a certain point Lehming was very like him in this peculiarity of imper-
sonal conversation. Their speech with each other was usually subjective,
rather than objective. The one brimmed' over with literature, and the other
spurted hogsheads of philosophy, but neither gave out much chitchat. Thus
it happened that they never mentioned in Nestoria's presence the names of
Dinneford and Wetherel. The murder they were the less likely to speak of,
because it had already taken on the character of a mystery, fatiguingly incom-
prehensible even to policemen. Edward Wetherel, too, we may as well state
here, was the less present to their minds. for the reason that he was absent in
body. In search of some reported trace of bloodstained feet, flying from the
scene of his uncle's assassination, the young man had undertaken a detective
journey to New Orleans, much to the disgust of such persons as held him to
be the homicide.
But the complications of this plot presently thickened into peril of revela-
tions. Long before Nestoria had saved money enough to set out for the Canni-
bal Islands, Edward Wetherel returned to New York. Lehming heard of it,
and, mindful of his promise to stand by the suspected youth, resolved to go at
once and see him. Not finding him at his lodgings, he pushed on to the Din-
neford dwelling, and made a call there. Mrs. Dinneford, sitting spectacled
over Headley's " Women of the Bible," beamed forth delight at sight of his
trivial figure, and bustled forward to greet him with capstrings a-flying.
"Why, Walter, ho Tv long you have been from us!" she cried in her hearty
and little less than boisterous way. "I began to believe that you had fled to
the desert and turned anchorite, like poor St. Simeon Stylites on his pillar, or
like the old person in the *'Book of Nonsense,' who ran up a palm when the
weather was calm, and surveyed all the ruins of Phite. It is more than a
fortnight since you have visited our tabernacle. And we expected that you
would give us the light of your countenance every evening! "
"I ought to be ashamed of myself, and am," said Lehming. "But I have been
amused, and been at work. Ah, what a blessing work is! It is the real sugar-
coating of the pill of life. I have just finished a story which would not let me
go until I had done my best by it. Moreover, I have some interesting fellow-
lodgers, two young people who are developing under my eye, like buds turn-
ing to flowers. It is fascinating business to watch the growth of souls. It is,
you know, my business. I am a school-teacher by nature and habit. It is my
daily occupation, and I love it. I am really more delighted with the toddling
of a youthful spirit from weakness toward strength than with the sublime
march of a mind which has reached its full powei'. I humbly venture to be-.
lieve that I can understand a little the pleasure which Deity takes in survey..
ing the evolution and glorious unfolding of his creation."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         129
" Ah, Walter, you should have beena preacher instead of a schoolmaster,"
replied Mrs. Dinneford. "I don't know how you kept out of the ministry.
If ever a man that I know was called to wear the ephod and attend on the
tabernacle, you are the man."
"I did think of it and desire it," said Walter gravely. "You remember
that I went so far as to take orders." Then he added with a smile, "But how
awkward it would have been to be obliged to carry about a cricket to stand
one Do you recollect a story about a little minister who made his audience
giggle by just lifting his nose over the pulpit cushion and saying in a piping
voice, 'It is I, be not afraid '? That story, more than anything else perhaps,
rooted up my vain ambition to be a clergyman."
Mrs. Dinneford laughed heartily: The anecdote bore hard upon her pygmy
favorite, but she knew that he would not be hurt by her merriment. More-
over, she was one of those excitably jovial persons who do not find it easy to
rule their sense of humor. She was a zealous church-goer; when she heard
the bells ring, she rushed out like a fireman at t e sound of the fire-alarm;
and on reaching the scene of combustion, she did) her duty as a hearer with
heartfelt fervor; yet she had more than, once "laughed in meeting."
"But I must tell you of my fellow-lodgers," continued Lehming. " There
are two of them who honor me daily with their society, both young ladies, if
I may apply the term to poor people-and to one of them I must apply it.
She is interesting; she is fascinating. The other is a schoolmistress, an old
acquaintance of mine, an untaught, uncultured soul, and rather a barren one.
But the little lady is very different. I don't yet know what to make of her.
She is a mystery and a waif. I wish you could see her."
"I wish I could," said Mrs. Dinneford sympathetically. Then her mind
was caught by that word "mystery," and she flew away on the weird wings
of it. . She was a butterfly in discourse, driven about by the chance breezes of
association, and capable of fluttering over a dozen topics in a minute.
" And what a mystery that tragedy of poor dear Cousin, Wetherel has' be-
come !," she copinued. " Was there ever anything so huge and hideous of
mien which so swiftly and completely descended into the shadows! It seems
as if the Adversary himself, the great dragon of the Apocalypse, had come out
before us in 'all his most monstrous ugliness, so big and vast as to straddle
quite across the way of our lives, onlyto disappear in the twinkling of an eye.
One is tempted to imagine that he was permitted to show us his miraculous
power in revealings and vanishings. There we were in our little nest at Sea
Lodge, as unsuspecting of harm as children at play, when suddenly the awful
talons were in the midst of us, and one of our cii'cle was stricken and lacer-
ated unto death, and we neither heard the flutter of the wings nor saw the
blow. - Moloch, the bloody king, was gone as quickly as he had come. One
would say that he had authority over nature, and could march with a cloud.
behind him, 'and cause earth to open under his feet. I never had anything so
tax and terrify my imagination. I am ready to believe in the physical influ-
ences of the Lords of Hell, as Tennyson calls them, and a noble sounding name
it is, to be sure, and shows him to be a great poet. Do you remeniber how
the magicians of Egypt wrought with their enchantments, and how Elymas the
sorcerer was full of all malice and subtlety of the devil, and how Satan con-
tended with Michael for the body of Moses? It seems to me- sometimes that
We had cause for thankfulness in that the remain of our dear old friend and
relative were spared us for sepulture. But Sin and Death left their victim;

i


10'      .           THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
.yeonly took away their instrument. The iniquity of the righteous cannot
hid; but the iniquity of the wicked is covered. I cannot get over it.. My
1 is in a perpetual astonishment. I have had to fly of late to the Bible for
utterances big enough to relieve my spirit. My favorite Tupper has~lost his
power of charming. I find him as finite as myself."
Lehming looked at Mrs. Dinneford with surprise and almost with rever-
ence. The under-abyss of sentiment and imagination in this variable, this.
sometimes commonplace woman, had flamed up as it were through her incon-
sequences of thought and oddities of diction, rendering her for the moment lit-
tle less than sublime.
"Happy is the soul which knows the Scriptures'!" he said. "It can always
find fitting words for its mightiest impressions. There are occasional events
in' life which make  even Shakespeare seem as limited as Tupper. But the
School of the Prophets had an inspiration lofty enough to mate the highest spir-
itual needs of man."
"Ah, yes,"' murmured Mrs. Dinneford, with an intonation of gratitude.
Then a sudden gleam of humor danced out upon 'her puritanie face, much
as if a Greek faun should appear capering upon Plymouth Rock.
"A poor, bewildered policeman came to me yesterday," she resumed, to
ask some further questions about the Wetherel affair, as he called it. The
helpless man looked utterly disconsolate over his lack of success in discover-
ing even a trail of the serpent. He said he had been working at this mill-
stone for a month without finding a hole in it. I did want to take up my Bi-
ble and read him a chapter to comfort him. But a false shame caught hold of"
my garments of worldliness and held me back. All I could -muster the spirit
to do was to quote a text or so."
"I dare say you confounded him," smiled Lehming. " I doubt whether
many New York policemen understand the speech of Zion."
Ah, the speech of Zion!" repeated Mrs. Dinneford with a sort of spiritual
smacking of the lips. "What a power and two-edged sharpness there is in
that language, meaning thereby the plain words of the Scriptures without note
or comment. Did you ever hear how' poor Cousin Wetherel hewed a Perfec-
tionist in pieces before the Lord with a single text? It was at a prayer-meet-
ing in West Haven last summer. This Perfectionist got the floor, and ex-
horted with wonderful glibness and zea~l, and fairly seemed to have the uni-
verse his own way for a while, so that one almost looked for the host of heaven to
bow down and reverence him. The poor deluded creature had not committed
sin for a week, he said, and he was hot with us all to go and do likewise.
When he sat down Cousin Wetherel arose-and a grand, kingly, saintly spec-
tacle he was, to be sure, with his white hair and persuaded countenance, and,
his settled eyes piercing through all the nonsense of earth unto the heavenly
realities. It was an apparition. The West Haven brethren stared as if they
expected a revelation. I thought of that regicide judge who used to appear to
our Now England fathers now and then, when they were in great straits, and
work out some deliverance, or impart some counsel. He uttered just this one
sentence: 'If we say that' we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and
trtith is not in us;' then he sat down. It was awful. It seemed as ith
longest-lived of the apostles had himself revisited earth to remind us of his
own text. There was an end of perfectionism for that evening.".   fu-
Mrs. Dinneford had related this anecdote with as much gusto and cheerfii
ness as if Cousin Wetherel were still in the land of the livig. Although he

REAPPEARANCE OF THE FLIRTING PHILOLOGIST.

FOR a moment Lehming was on the verge of saying to Mrs. Dinneford
that he thought he had found Nestoria Bernard.
But just then Alice Dinneford entered, fluttering and rustling and babbling
in her usual lively way, like all the breezes and brooks of springtime. This
young lady, as we perhaps remember, was sufficiently clever, and mere than
sufficiently talkative, to be quite diverting, or at least occupying; no matter
how fallen and withered conversation ,might be, she could arouse it and.send
it flying and fill the air with it, like a gamesome urchin kicking up a bed of
autumn leaves.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

1g1

.  

was murdered, and although she sincerely reverenced and lamented him, his
eccentricities had not lost their power of amusing her, and she could laugh as
well as weep over his tombstone.
" But .didn't I interrupt you a while ago, Walter?" she inquired, after
catching her breath. "It seems to me that you were saying something  hic
I broke into like a wolf into a fold. I am always blowing out other people's
luminaries. Alice says I am as troublesome in a general conversation as a
hornbug among lighted candles, flying now into this one and now into that,
and extinguishing the whole batch."
"I think I was speaking of my fellow-lodgers," replied Walter. "But I
had pretty much finished with them."
"One of them was a young lady, wasn't sheP" pursued Mrs. Dinneford
"And she interested you? I don't wonder. Young ladies are such pretty
things! Woman as I am, I can feel their charm. Every now and then I meet
a girl inthe street whom'I want to take home and adopt. And when they are
alone in. life, as I think you said this poor thing is, they pull at one's ery
heartstrings.  They are so utterly helpless amidst the great rushing and
strivings of this tumultuous, selfish world! A pretty girl without home er
parents is scarcely better off than a bnby left on a doorstep. If she does#
meet with charity, she meets with death. Oh dear! the subject is a sad one;
'it cuts me like a knife. There is our poor little friend who vanished from
among us as if Satan had put up his hand through the solid crust of the earth
and drawn her into his abysmal darknesses. If she is alive, she is alone.
and where? She hadn't a relative, nor "scarcely an acquaintanceson this
broad continent. I do wish, Walter, that you could have seen her. Such a
beautiful, sweet, touching little thing! She fairly bewitched me. As Tupper
says, ' There is none enchantment against beauty, magician for all time.' .And
her loveliness had such an innocence, such an other-world purity! She was
like a beam of heavenly starlight visiting and cheering a lost planet. I never
saw such sunny hair and such sky-like eyes and such a lily of a faee Sh
was a vision, and vanished like one. What is the matter with you, Walter
You seem to be absent-minded this evening."
Lehining's eyes were bent upon the floor with an expression of profound
msng    Mrs. Dinneford's enthusiastic description of Nestoria had struck him
with the force of a revelation. For the first time, and with a vividness which
made him wonder at his blindness hitherto, the suspicion reached him that
the fugitive from Sea Lodge and Nettie Fulton might be the same person.
CHAPTER XXXIV.


132                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"1s it you, Cousin Walter?". she prattled, while her willowy figure so
swayed and her feathery head so tossed that she reminded him of a cypress in
a ,high wind. ~" Where have you been these three weeks? I thought you
must be dead. I have expected every day to find you decapitated, with your
body flopping about like a chicken's, and your head under some policeman's
arm, smiling benignantly, as much as to say it was all right and you bore, no-
body any grudge. Now, mamma, don't go to making a gravestone of your
face, and setting it up over me. I won't be buried alive while I can catch my
breath. You talked a great deal more at my age, and you say everything you
can think of yet. Cousin Walter, I know why you are always so cheerful and
never have the doldrums. You are not a young lady. Young ladies must be
proper, and propriety always gives the doldrums, just as measles bring weak
eyes. Such hencoops of old patched-up decorums as we women live in! And if
you stick your head out for a grain of corn, somebody is ready to grab you and
pull off your feathers and eat you up and pick your bones. Here is mother in
a clucking state because I sit up, as they say.in the comitry, with a count. I
told her I should leave it to you, the very first time you came in. Now do
you think counts and foreigners are necessarily horrid? Are' we Yankees
commissioned and chosen to abhor'them as the Jews abhorred the Canaanites?
Do speak, Walter. Don't stop to meditate. I hate a sober second thought.
It's a doleful, preachy phrase, as wizened and mean as a string of dried apples.
Now tell me whether there is any sense to this prejudice against foreigners."
"I share the prejudice," said Lehming gently.
"'Walter, I am ashamed of you," answered Alice, beginning to color with
a real excitement. "Oh, Walter, to have a prejudice! How unphilosophical
and uncharitable!" /
"Not because a stranger is not an American do I mistrust him," continued
Lehming; "but because he is not at home; because he is surrounded by no
public opinion to which he feels responsible; because he is too free from re-
straint for; the good of human nature. We mortals are just so weak that we
need all the social bonds to keep us from being wicked. Let us suppose a
Turk in New York. He is far away from the judgment of his brother Otto-
mans, and he has not yet learned to care for the judgment of Yankees. Don't
you see that he has fewer guards against temptation than I have, or than he
himself would have at home? It seems to me that he runs great risk of be-
coming a naughty Turk."
"But are we so very good?" broke in Alice eagerly. "What do you think
of our city government? What do you think of the Ring?"
" Take away the foreign vote of New York, and no ring could live long,"
replied Lehming.
"So you think," said Alice, beginning to pout, for the argument seemed to
be against her. "But I hate politics, and don't want to talk about it. What
I can't bear is that mother has a special dislike to this man because he' is a
count. As if he would be any better if he were a butcher and the- son of a ba-
ker and the nephew of a candlestick-maker!"
"I don't want to be bewildered with words that I am not used to," de-
clared Mrs. Dinneford. " When a man tells me that he is a count, I don't
know what to expect of him. It's as perplexing as if he should tell me that
he was a jabberwok. And especially when he has no county! A count in a
republic, getting his living nobody knows how, seems to ine what our market-
man calls a dubersome character, and I am always wondering what he was

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        133
disinherited and banished for, and feel like addressing him in the words of
Tupper, '0 degenerate scion of a stock so excellent and noble,' which I dare
say would bother the head of our poor man tremendously, for his brains are
no thicker than batter, in my opinion."
"Wait and see, wait and see," retorted Alice. "I dare say he may be here
this evening," she added, coloring with the consciousness that she knew very
well that he would be there. ' "He is odd, but he is no fool. I used to think
him one, and used to delight in making fun of him; but I have learned to
know him better, and so will mamma some day; you see if she doesn't. I
want you to talk to him, Walter; you will find that he has plenty of sense;
that is, after you have got used to his ways. , Why, I suppose the cats and
dogs don't think that we know anything till they learn how to take us. And
now don't go to imagining that I am smitten. No such thing; I am not. I
just defend the poor man because mother is unjust to him."
"I hope that justice wouldn't be worse for him than injustice," replied Mrs.
Iinneford, with an earnestness which had a taint of irritation. Apparently
this matter of the Count had been discussed between mother and daughter un-
til it had become a sore-subject to both of them.
Just thenithe street bell rang, causing Alice to say, " There he is! " with a
slightly hysterical giggle, and to sway and flutter in a way that was character-
istic of her in moments of excitement. Presently the door opened, and a tall,
blond gentleman, glorious with jewels and with glossy expanses of fine linen
and with elaborate tailoring, entered the parlor, bowing and smirking in a
style to strike most Anglo-Saxons dumb with astonishment. It was the first
time that Lehming had beheld our old acquaintance, Count Poloski. The in-
telligent, natural, and quiet pygmy -himself, as we believe, one ot nature's
grandees-looked on the pretentious apparition with amazement and instanta-
neous distrust. It did not seem possible to him that a -man who wore such
millinery and went through such posturings could be a'born patrician. How-
ever, he had seen the " Grande Duchesse "; he remembered that grotesque
specimen of nobility, Prince Paul; and, conceding the resemblance between
the two men, he suspended his judgment.
Bowing and "tetering" across the room, the Count advanced to Mrs. bin.
neford, took her hand, bent himself double over it, and said, "Madam, I once
more do myself the honor of calling upon you."
"I hope you have been well, sir?" replied the good lady, with a brevity
which we know was not natural to her, and which sprang from embarrass-
ment.
S"Madam, it is impossible for me to thank you sufficiently for your good
wishes," 'the Count bowed again. "Never better. All the better for seeing
you, as the song says. I need not inquii'o after your health. Your glowing
countenance " (Mrs. Dinneford was fairly blushing for him) " reassures me.
Miss Alice," and here he doubled up over the hand of the daughter, "your
mother is a favorable augury for you. I trust that you will be-to use your
vigorous American idiom-a chip of the old hickory."
We have never heretofore seen in Poloski so much "manner " as he had on
this occasion. An avowed suitor now of the "dashing Miss Alice," and anx-
ious to make an impression upon the parent as well as upon the young lady,
h- had put on the airs of a continental Tarveydrop. No turkeycock, gobbling
and strutting and ruffing his feathers among female turkeys, was ever a more
wonderful "model of deportment." Lebminug was unable to understand how


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

Alice could accord anysrespect or interest to such a grinning, polking, hyper-,
bolical harlequin. He did not know how far the excitement of a debated con-
quest may carry a young lady. The noble foreigner had made great inroads
into Miss Dinneford's esteem, because she had found him a favored guest
among the fashionables of Fifth -Avenue, and because plenty of other girls
were setting their caps at him.
"Count Poloski, this is my cousin," she said, fluttering through an incom-
plete introduction. "My cousin, Mr. Lehming," she added hastily.
Poloski bowed and smiled as if he were being presented to a peer of the
British realm or a luminary of the French Academy.
"My cousin is an author," continued Alice. anxious to impress the patrician
favorably in regard to her family.
"And a schoolmaster," added Lehming, which was the most malicious
speech that he ever made in his life.
"Professor, I am honored in making your acquaintance," salaamed the im-
perturbable Poloski.,
Alice triumphed over her cousin, and nearly laughed at him outright.
"I am in the condition of a boy who gets a man's hat slipped over his little
head," smiled Lehming. "The title of professor is too big for me."
"But you teach," cajoled the Count, determined to make things pleasant.
" What branch, may I inquire? Latin? Your cor~imon schools, as you wrong
ly call them, are wonderful. They deserve a higher name. I am sincerely
delighted to meet one who holds such a post in such a distinguished arena. I
have some inquiries to make of you, if you permit them, and if these ladies
permit."
And here he commenced a catechism concerning the origins of the Latin
speech; inquiring particularly whether it were purely Oscan, or whether the
long domination of the Tarquins had introduced Etruscan elements; and
showinga knowledge of the subject which argued at least some intimacy with
encyclopedias.
"You are too much for me," confessed Lehming. "I have no such learn-
ing as will solve those problems."
He looked at the fluent Poloski in surprise, wondering whether he were in-
deed a scholar and a gentleman.
"I have beaten him," triumphed the Count to himself. " He was doubting'
me, but now he holds me in respect."
"I wrote an essay on this topic," he said aloud. "I will show it to you
some day."
"But not to me," put in Alice, with the excusable petulance of a young lady
who has been kept over-long out Qf the conversation.
"Miss Dinneford, I humbly beg your pardon!" exclaimed Poloski, spread-
ing out deprecating hands. "I am the most degraded of imbeciles. How
can a man pass his time in talking of dead tongues when he might learn from
the loveliest of teachers the noblest of living tongues!"
" With all its beautiful slangs, Count," added Alice, laughing. But she
did not banter him as freely as of old. He was no longer in her eyes the pure-
ly comical personage which he had been in the days of their earlier acquaint-
ance. In spite of her frolicsomeness and her affectation of flippant donina-
tion, it was obvious that she was very anxious to please him, and even consid-
erably in awe of him. Lehming perceived all this, and was sorry to perceive
it. He feared nothing worse for Alice than a marriage withl a maan who night

184

THE WETJERE      AFFAIR.                   185
be a mere adventurer, without a penny and without a character; h. t that was
a sufficiently ugly outlook to make the smallest glimpse of it a worry to this
sympathetic and kindly spirit; and before he left the house he had resolved to
keep an eye on. the noble foreigner. As he walked homeward he thought the
little drama over, and became more interested in it with every hear t-beat.
Here was a piece of home philanthropy to be attended to, and it might be that
it needed instant and earnest vigilance.
"We are always saving the heathen," hie said to himself. "I rust save
my relative."
To whom could he go to inquire about the antecedents and actualities and
probabilities of this Poloski' Of fashionable people Lehining only knew Wol-
verton, whom he had met but twice, and Edward Wetherel. As it was still
far from late, he decided to make one more attempt to find Edward, and he set
off at the longest stretch of his brief legs toward the young man's lodgings.
Unsuccessful again, he turned toward his own sombre quarter of the city, and
walked on with a still quicker step than before, anxious not to miss his cus-
tomary "good-night " from Nettie Fulton. He had fallen to thinking of her,
and was querying whether she could possibly be -Nestoria Bernard, when a
voice behind him called him by name. He turned and waited; it was Edward
Wetherel.
"How lucky. I am to meet you! " said Lehming. "I have been twice te
your lodgings."
"And I was just searching for yours," replied Edward. "Is it too late to
make you a callP"
"Come along," urged -Lehming. "I want very much to see you about
something which concerns us nearly."
Presently it occurred to him that Wetherel might stumble upon Nettie Ful-
ton in the reading-room, and that there might be a recognition. If so,- then
what? Would the scene be joyful or horrible? He could not tell; but it
seemed to him that it would be best to risk it; that the sooner this mystery was
cleared up the better.
CHAPTER XXXV.
DQLQROU   EAVESDROPPING.
As Lehming was mounting the first stair of the tenement-house he came to
a sudden halt and clung to, the' banister, panting.
" What is the matter? " asked Wetherel seizing his little friend's arm, ard
marvelling to find it tremulous and palpitating. " I have walked too fast for
you. You should have remonstrated."
"I am driven to confession," gasped Lehming, who could not, however,
tell all the causes of his agitation. "I have-so my doctor tells me-a heart
disease. Don't mind it-and don't apologize. I am fairly punished for not
being willing, to avowmy infirmities. I have so many of them!"
"A heart disease!" repeated ,Wetherel, surveying the sufferer with that
superficial pity which a strong man may accord to an invalid, but at the same
time able to admire him for not complaining. "You are an example to me.
Do you smile at all your troublesP"
" I have learned to do it," replied. Lehming. " Do you remember that
comic martyr, that model of patient endurance, in the '-Book of' Nonsense 'P


130  .THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
There was an old man who said, How
Shall I nee from this horrible cow?
I will sit on this stile
And continue to smile,
Which may soften the heart of the cow.'
That whimsical verse has been a prodigious support to me in my various
little worries. The cow has bellowed and pushed a good deal, but I have gen.
erally been able to smile, and it has helped. Well, let us get on. I can storm
a few more stairs now. How I should like to make one of a scaling-party!"
Reaching the foot of the last stairway, he looked up with some anxiety.
He remembered that, whenever any one mounted to that floor, 'Nettie Fulton
was apt to step out of the study and. glance over the banister, as if to spy into
the nature of the visitor. Would she now make this little sally of inspectionP
Yes; there was her shadow against the wall; then it disappeared with a hurried
rustle of female vesture. At once it seemed certain to Lehming that Nettie-
Fulton was Nestoria Bernard, and his heart fell to beating again with such
violence that he had to pause .for another rest.
"We seem to have disturbed some one," tranquilly observed Wetherel,
whose unconsciousness of the real nature of this scene is surely a striking fea-
ture of it.
"One of my fellow-lodgers, probably," panted Lehming, as he slowly re-
sumed his ascent. When he entered the reading-room his usually dark and
sallow face was so ashy that his companion was alarmed by it.
"Lie down on your sofa," said Wetherel with a sort of dictatorial kindness,
quite natural to him. "These piles of stairways are too much for you. You
must positively give up this nonsense of refusing advances out of the estate,
and take enough to put you in comfortable lodgings. A man with a heart
disease mustn't have his bedroom on the top of St. Simeon's pillar."
Lehming thought to himself that, if Edward knew who was near, he also
might turn pale. Then his mind glanced to Nestoria, hidden away  in her own
room, doubtless in extreme terror,- perhaps fainting. But he kept his lips
sealed upon the mystery; the time had not come for revelations.
"Don't disturb yourself about me," he muttered. "Take a seat and tell
me the news."
Wetherel related the story of his southern expedition: how he had searched
New Orleans for the murderer of his uncle; how he had searched, and found
not. Lehming listened, to him as one listens to a hum of conversation in an-
other apartment, the sound of which is audible, but the words indistingtiish-
able. His mind was filled, to the almost complete exclusion of other ideas,
by a constant reiteration of two tremendous queries. Was this girl, who had
just'fied from Edward's presence, Nestoria Bernard? And, if so, what unen-
durable emotion, what terrible secret, had driven her to evade her betrothed
lover? She might be the murderer; but no, that was impossible. She might
know that Wetherel was the murderer; but no, that also could not be accepted.
Tossed and whirled by these scaring suspicions and desperate denials, no'won-
der that Lehming listened without hearing.
But there was another auditor, who was even far more agitated than he,
.and who could scarcely be said to draw the breath of the living. - It must be
explained that, when Nestoria looked over the stairway rail and saw her
former lover, she lost her self-possession and fled, as thoroughly frightened and
,bewildered people do, without considering whither. Instead of rushing to
her own room, she had leaped back through the open door of the study, and

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                       '137
then, driven on by the noise of advancing feet, had taken refuge ,in a closet.
The closet was large and nearly 'empty; it contained nothing but a timeworn
chair which had been set aside by some bygone lodger; but this chair saved
the girl from falling, and so from discovery.
Dropping into it, she at first leaned back against the wall; but presently it
seemed to her that the wild. beating of her heart would surely be audible
through the partition; and bending forward, she rested her arms upon her
knees, with her head drooping. In this posture, and absolutely without stir-
ring a muscle, she sat through the whole interview. Is it not easy to imagine
the whirling tumult of struggling thoughts and emotions which filled the girl's
brain and heart while she listened to Edward's voice and, heard his storyP
Was it true that he had been seeking for the murderer? What could it inean?
Was he innocent? Or was this search only a piece'of monstrous and desper-
ate hypocrisy ? How could she disbelieve in his guilt? With her own eyes
she had seen him strike the .blow. And yet he had the assured tone of one
Whose soul is laden by no crime, There were moments when she was upon
the point of rushing into the room and throwing her arms around his neck, or
rather falling at his feet. Then the bloody scene in Judge Wetherel's study
rose before her, and she shrank within herself at the thought of touching such
a criminal.
Still, she could not denounce him;.somehow he was yet too sweet and.
beautiful to be brought to public scorn and to punishment; she felt that, even
if she should face him with that intent, her tongue would be palsied. So she
sat quiet, and listened; she answered and disputed him without being heard;
she took such part in the dialogue as a ghost might. 'Indeed,.it seemed to her
at times as if she were really dead, and only present there as a helpless,
speechless, and utterly wretched spirit. Thep there was an impression of an-
other ghost, the spectre of the murdered Judge Wetherel, crouching in the
darkness beside her and hearkening to the discourse without. She almost felt
this terrible visitant, and yet she did not stir a finger's breadth. She was
tempted to scream aloud, and she withstood the scared urgency. Only an im-
agination made potent by lifelong familiarity with spiritualized beliefs could
have inflicted such suffering. Only a character of singular firmness and self-
eommand could have endured-such an ordeal.
But we must return to the audible and visible participants in this extra-
oidinary scene. By the time.that Wetherel had finished the narrative of his
adventures in New Orleans Lehming had recovered his power of attention.'
"And so you learned nothing," he said. "The supposed trace was a de-
lusion of the police."
"I merely wasted my time," replied Edward. "Of course that is no mat-
ter. It is my duty to give my life to this mystery so long as thei'e is a gTeam
of hope that it can be cleared up. To sit down quietly would be to confess
myself a villain and to be one. How can I draw an easy breath until I have
taken this noose of guilt and peril from around my own neck and put it where
it belongs? You don't know how horrible I find it to be pointed at in the
streets. The other day a boy called out, ' There he is.' He meant some one
else, but I thought he referred to me, and I stopped as if a policeman had col-
lared me. I am sometimes weak enough and babyish enough to declare that
there ne ver~ was any torture like mines"
" How many innocent ones, since the foundation of the world, have suffered
likewise!" sighed Lehming. "It perplexes and pains one's spirit to think of


A

188                 TE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
the mass of calumniation and undeserved sorrow that has been borne in all,
the ages. We suffer for each other's misdeeds as often as for our own."
"There was one Innocent who suffered for all the guilty," said Wetherel.
"But for the remembrance of that, I think that I might have been driven to
suicide."
At hearing these words Nestoria scarcely restrained herself from coming
out of her hiding-place and laying her hand on his shoulder.
",I deserve it all," continued Edward. "My life has been such that men
might well suspect me of crime."'
To Nestoria this sounded like a confession of blood-guiltiness,'and of course
like a very incomplete and inadequate confession, showing no profound and
salvatory repentance. To Lehming, on the contrary, it seemed the exagger-
ation of a. scrupulous soul, looking upon the ordinary excesses of youth as
enormo s misdeeds. Thus variously do we judge our fellow creatures, acord-
ing to our differing lights and points of view.
" We must not deal over-harshly with ourselves," said Lehming. "Do
you remember how John Bunyan looked back upon his Christmas bell-ring-
ings as deadly sins, and marvelled that Heaven had not visited him with in-
stant judgment in the midst of them? It was undoubtedly an extravagance
of self-condemnation. You should be careful to avoid such excesses of aus-
terity. The Divine Reason is perfectly reasonable."
"I shall keep watch of myself," observed Wetherel, after a pause.
" Thanks to my good health, my mind is mainly even in its pulse. I believe
that I do not habitually overestimate my responsibilities and culpabilities.
Repentance is just, but remorse is folly. I trust that I perceive the distinc-
lion between the two."
Notwithstanding the gravity of Leming's own spirit, he could not help mar-
velling at the gravity of his comrade. Here was a young man, who two
months before had seemed destined to be a worldling for life, but whose char-
acter had now become solemnized, and, if we may use the timeworn phrase,
spiritualized. He was still the same in person and face, tall and strong and
upright, with fresh blonde cheeks and brave blue eyes and an air of hardy
virility. But, in soul he was another; he was the historical Wetherel; he was
the Puritan.
"You had to break off your medical studies," resumed Lehming, anxious
to render the conversation more lightsome and to brighten his young friend's
mood.
'I shall go on with the course," replied Edward. ".I am resolved to be a
physician. It seems to me the profession in which I can make myself most
useful to my kind. A doctor can be a philanthropist without impertinence
and as a natural part of his vocation. If he can do nothing better, he can
gripe and nauseate poor people gratis," he added, with a faint flash of that hu-
mor which belonged to him as a Wetherel, though in him it had of late been,
much in abeyance.
Once more Nestoria was almost uplifted and borne into his presence by a-
throb of sympathy, of forgiveness, and of love. The mere word doctor was a
claim upon her affection because it had been the title of her father.
At this mpment there were steps in the passage, and Miss Jones appeared
at the door of the study. .
" I quite beg your pardon, Mr. Lehming," she said in that stilted tone
which she was apt to use before strangers. "But I intrude~ upon you to ask
if you have seen anything of my little friend."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.           ,            139
"Is she out?" asked Lehming with a start of alarm. "How could she go
out alone at this hour?"
"It is even so," mouthed Imogen Eleonore. "I have searched for her in
rain. She must have fled into the dark, dark night."
All at once it occurred to Lehming that Nettie Fulton might have taken
refuge in his closet; and with equal rapidity it flashed across him that in such
case she must be Nestoria Bernard. No other supposition could account for
the confusion and fright which must have been necessary to precipitate hez
into such a hiding-place.
What should he do? Should he open the door, drag the girl into the pres-
ence of Wetherel, and force a solution of this fearful riddle ? -
CHAPTER XXXVI.
WILL SHE FLY?
"I CANNOT repress the anxiety which fills me soul," murmured Imogen
Eleonore, who was obviously elocutioneering at the soul of Edward Wetherel.
Lehming felt that this young lady was oppressive; .it certainly would not
do to open the closet door in her presence; he was nervously anxious to get
rid of her.
"Is it not possible.that y ur friend has taken a walk with Mr. Bowlder?"
he suggested.
Imogen had advanced into the room with the deep and dark intent of
getting herself introduced to the handsome and -handsomely attired young vis-
itor; but as Lehming did not present her, she was obliged in decency to come
to a halt and to devise some "thrilling " speech, under cover of which she
might ,beat a retreat.
"Your weird supposition is worthy of hopeful consideration," she said with
the even utterance of an automaton, and thereupon swept-as she would have
described it-out of the room, considerably irritated against Mr. Lehming.
" You have annoyed your friend, I am afraid, on my account," gently re-
marked Wetherel-a changed and bettered young man certainly, for time was
when lie would have been hardheartedly amused at the discomfiture of this
intrusive young lady, and would have made satirical remarks on hel obvious
craving after male company.
"She is a good-hearted, well-meaning girl," replied Lehming. "I must
say in excuse for her that I have made her welcome to this room and what
there is in it. But she ought to have seen that we wished to be in private."
He was a little less considerate than usual, because the mystery of the
closet perplexed and agitated him almost unendurably. What would be the
result if he should fling open that door and bring these two people face to face?
Was one of them the murderer,j/and did the other know it? If he should re-
veal Nestoria to Wetherel, it might give her an unsupportable shock; it seemed
to him in his excitement that it might drive her mad, or kill her on the spot.
In vain did he argue with himself that the mystery ought to be solved, and
try to feel that it was his duty as a man and a Christian to hurry it to a solu-
tion. le made such progress as travellers toward the polar sea have made
when the ice-fields under their feet 'slipped southward faster .than they could
toll northward. At th a end of a minute of tumultuous reflection his senti-
ments had drifted him far back from the deed to which his conscience suni-


140                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
moned him. It seemed to him as if untraversable spaces'had intruded be
tween him and that closet door; as if he could not reach it though he should
journey toward it all night.; as if it were in another planet.
At last this sensitive and compassionate soul gave up the struggle to take
hold upon a duty which a puissant imagination filled as full of perils and cruel-
ties as the em brace of the deadly-" Virgin" of the Inquisition was full of knives.
He resolved that he would not precipitate a revelation; that he would suffer
the girl to escape from her doubtless agonizing concealment; that he would
see her alone the next day, and plead with her for an explanation; that he
must eveni run the risk of her flying during the night.
"If you don't mind a little chilliness, we will go into my bedroom," he
said to Wetherel. '"It will give my disappointed fellow-lodger a chance to
come back here and get a book, if she wants one."
"Certainly," replied Edward. "We can wear our overcoats. Besides, I
shall not stay long. I must take a look at my text-books before I go to bed."
The two young men quitted the study, and were soon closeted in the bed-
room.
"I wanted to speak to you about our cousin," continued Lehming, revert-
ing to the subject which he had had in mind half an hour before. Then he told
of the foreigner whom he had met at Mrs. Dinneford's, and hinted his fears that
the man was wooing Alice with some chance of success. Wetherel had little
to communicate concerning Poloski except that he was a gambler and was
supposed to be-a fortune-hunter, and that he might or might not be a count.
I am astonished that Alice should seem to care for hiM," he frowned in a
rather imperial way, very natural to male Wetherels. "She has always
known that I had 'no opinion of the fellow."
"'Our girls are so easily carried away by a title!" said Lehming. "It is
natural; a title is a general letter of introduction; it opens .the way to good
society everywhere. And yet such a marriage as this would probably be a
sad affair. American women are'hardly ever happy with foreign husbands;
they get too little consideration and have to concede too much obedience.
Moreover, this man may not be a noble; may be a vulgar and rascally im-
postor."
"I must see to this!" observed Edward with the air of one who could not
help feeling himself to be the head of the faniily, however much he might
strive after the grace of meekness. "I am somewhat responsible for the ac-
quaintance."'
"If we do nothing else all our lives, we shall have work enough in un-
doing our mistakes and mischiefs," said Lehming, a man whose almost stain-
less purity of conduct did not save him from the inquisitions of conscience'.
Next there was some talk about Wetherel's plans for the future. It ap-
peared that he intended to devote himself to the betterment of the industrial
classes.
",I shall practise, gratuitously in the main," he said. "I shall look up
such patients as other physicians cannot afford to have. But that'is not all.
Do you know that our artisans and workingien generally are running to
their ruin, through ignorance of the elements of political economy' . Look at
these strikes. The strikers don't know that the raising of wages involves the
raising of expenses. ,What they need is not higher pay, but cheaper living.
Our present system of taxation is a plundering of the poor. Our tariff seems
to be specially designed to enhance the cost of the materials of labor and of

I

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        141
the necessaries of life. It works ahiost exclusively for the benefit of a few
hundred capitalists and monopolists, who are rich enough to overawe and per.
naps to bribe our politicians. But you know all this; I won't tire you with it.
What I propose is a course of lectures to workingmen on political economy
and on household econoniy also. The laboring classes needall sorts of practi-
cal instruction. They are absurdly and ruinously extravagant; their wives
have silk dresses, and their babies velvet jackets. I find young fellows who earn
twenty-five dollars a week and spend half of .in cigars, drinks, frolicking,
militia displays, and other follies. They growl a capital-without seeing that
they are ^themselves to blame for the fact that t ey are not capitalists. But
the subject is too attractive; it is irritatingly inexhaustible. I become tire-
some when I commence on it."
"Will democracy destroy us?" sighed Lehming. "In- a democracy every
citizen is tempted to want to be as fine and as much at leisure as any other
citizen. And the women are madder than the men; their one demand is for
idle elegance."
"Our cultivated classes must put their shoulders to this loads" declared
Wetherel, with the enthusiasm of youth. " Can't you give a lift? You know
that abundant pecuniary means are at your command. By the way, when
will you take your share of that estate? P
" How long can the settlement be put off?" inquired Lehming.
"A year from the decease."
" Give me that time," smiled Walter, a pygmy who was fit to have the
power of a giant, so little was he likely to abuse it. "I' know perfectly well
that I am not an heir, and I don't want to be hustled into heirship. Of course
you give the Dinnefords whatever you like, and they will probably submit,
and ought to. They are women, and are used to being supported by others,
and to have others decide for them/J But a man is responsible for his own
moral code in matters of property. I must have time to consider this business
of talking your money. Let us talk of it toward the end of the year.",
"Very well," nodded Edward with a fine tranquillity, and took his departure.
Lehming now returned to his study, looked with a beating heart into the
closet, and found it empty. On the floor of it, however, he discovered a little
silk neckerchief which he recognized as belonging to Nettie Fulton. There
was of course no longer much doubt in his mind that the girl had been hiding
there, and almost as little doubt that she was the refugee from the horror and
mystery of Sea Lodge. After gazing at the neckerchief for a -moment, he
wrapped it carefully and one might say reverentially in a piece of white paper,
and put it in the breast pocket of his coat, very near his beating heart. Then
he went softly to the door of Miss Jones's room, tapped gently, and, when the
schoolma'am made her appearance, asked if Miss Fulton had returned.
"Yes," answered Imogen Eleonore. "I went to inquire for her in the
apartment below, and came back as quick as ever I could, and here she was.
I should like you to tell me, sir, what I am to think of it," she added, with an
air of laying all the responsibility on Lehming.
But the young man had Ino desire to talk over the matter, and so he said'he
was glad that Miss.Fulton had been found, and began to smile himself away.
"I can't stand this much longer," Continued Miss Jones in a hissing whisper,
much like the voice of a blown football suffering from a~ puncture. "I think
you .ought to speak with her about her mysterious ways," r-ged this young
Woman who was bursting with a long-endured colic of curiosity. "She's as

I

L


THE WETIIEREL AFFAIR.

pale as a spectre of the gloomsome night, and she won't tell me where she has
been."
Lehming halted. "'Uall me, if she seems to be ill," he said energetically.
Then, without further hearkening, he glided hastily away, whereupon Imogen
slammed her door in a pet.
The burdened Lehming returned to his study, and seated himself before his
sniouldering fire. He was sorry that Miss Jones should be offended; but in a
minute or so he had entirely forgotten her. He could think only of Nestoria-
how to prevent her from taking flight, perhaps before morning, and how to
draw her out of her doubtless wretched and possibly wrongful seclusion. le
felt sure that never during her whole life could she have any real happiness,
unless she revealed all that she knew (and she must know something) of the
murder of Judge Wetherel.' He was persuaded that it was her duty to make
such a revelation, even though it should fill her heart and other hearts with
incurable sorrow. The supposition that she might herself be the assassin he
rejected absolutely, notwithstanding that it was held by many people, and a
reward had been offered for her apprehension. Then he had to grapple with
the terrible hypothesis that, if she accused any person of blood-guiltiness, that
person would probably be Edward Wetherel.
"Well, so be it," he whispered, drooping his head to his knees and burying
his face in his hand. "It is her duty to bring the wrong-doer to punishment,
though she and all of us suffer grief and shame beyond estimate.. If blood be
upon his soul, she must give him up, and we must all give him up. 0,
Heaven! with this thought upon my mind, how could I face him as calmly as I
did! 0, almighty and pitying Father, let it not be as we think! - Let that cup
pass from us! But if it must come to our lips, give us strength to drink it!
No, there must be no putting away of justice; there must be no evasion of right-
eousness. She must speak, and I must make her."
So he went on, fighting with suspicions and horrors, for hour after hour.
We often hear of passing a night without sleep; it is an almost superhuman
feat and seldom accomplished; but Lehming did it. His mental trouble alone
might not have kept him waking, but he felt it his duty to watch against the
flight of Nestoria.
Wrapping himself in his overcoat, he moved his chair close to his partially
open door, and listened for the sound of stealthy feet in the passage. If he found
himself inclined to doze, he paced the room for a minute or two in his stockings,
and then resumed his ward. The dull hum and murmur of the great city around
him sank little by little into a perfect, solemn, and awful silence. From time
to time a bell, which he remembered that he had never heard before, gave him
notice of the death of the hours. This solitary sound, recurring after such
weary intervals, and striking into the midst of tragic reflectoris and anxieties,
seemed to him funereal. His powerful and sombre imagination awoke at the
summnions, spread its raven wings, and flew abroad through the night, seeking
out spectacles of sorrow  He heard in fancy all the bells that ring for the
burial of men, extorting the fierce or despairing grief of mourners all over
the world. He saw the black, slow corteges of those who cannot be comforted.
The vast ocean of universal human misery rolled in upon and swelled his own
wretchedness. It was such a night of sadness and boding as. only a most sen-
sitive imagination can know.
A little after two in the morning he started up from his seat with an i m-
pressioni that footsteps were gliding through the hall toward the stairway

142

,

Stepping out of his room as noiselessly as possible, he put forth one hand at a
venture in the darkness, and caught a figure wrapped in a shawl or some
other womanly vestment. There was a low cry, and an attempt at retreat ;
but Lehming held firm with one trembling hand, while with the other he drew
a match against the wall. As he expected he beheld the slight form and child-
like face, row pale and terrified enough, of Nettie,
"What do you stop me for?" she burst out in a harsh, eager, passionate
whisper.
"Come into my study and let me speak to you before you go," he replied.
"My poor child, only one moment!"

143

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.


CHAPTER XXXVII.
PERSUASION AND EXPLANATION.
T HE flickering aurole of the waxen match which Lehming held between
himself and Nestoria lighted up two pale, quivering, anxious, iiploring
faces.
One of these countenances pleaded with all the eloquence of affection, of
benevolence, and of conscious duty for one minute of speech and remonstrance.
The other pleaded with the still more intense fervor of keen misery and terror
for liberty to depart without a word into the unknown, into friendless flight,
into lifelong hiding.
They were much more than mere faces; they were souls encountering
each other. Neither saw the other's physical features; eyes looked far deeper
than the color and sparkle of eyes; they penetrated to the sufferings and long-
ings within. It was a meeting of vast import; one of those meetings which
must have more than earthly consequences; one of those meetings which
are worthy of the interest of seraphs and demons. Here were' two beings
gifted with immense power of desire and of suffering; two imaginations which
were mighty enough to create heavens and hells; two consciences of almost
superhuman range and sensibility. Here was a cherubic spirit on the verge
of erring, and an archangelic spirit strivng to save.
" The light has burned out," whispcaed Lehming, as he let the remains of
the consumed match fall from his hand. "It seems to me as if we had met
in the darkness which stretches beyond the grave. Can you not look upon
your present purpose as you will look back upon it in your future existence? I
have an idea that you are about taking 'a step which will be decisive of your
character through all the hereafter. Can you not think it over again before
you finally decide upon it? Meditate it. once more in my presence. I will
not utter a word of advice or query unless you wish it.  I will neither
help nor hinder by any act. All I want is that, before you depart, you shall
be sure that departure is right."
Nestoria, trembling from head to foot, did not answer; she appeared to
have no niore life than sufficed to keep her from falling. Notwithstanding
the complete darkness, she could still see Lehming as plainly as ever; and
she could not withdraw the gaze of her soul from that sympathetic and benev-
olent countenance. Sallow, irregular, and homely as it was, she had learned
to look upon it with liking and veneration, because it was so obviously the
index of a pure and compassionate spirit. And in this interview, under the
brief light of a moment since, it had so shone with heavenly yearning and
counsel, that it could' neither be forgotten nor repelled. It seemed to her,
wandering as she was in a tempest of trouble, that she had met some hMly one
walking upon the waters, able to stretch forth a victorious hand and save.
Her conscience, her strong and spiritualized imagination, all the righteous
influences of her earlier life, pressed her to lean toward this deliverer and ac

THlE WETHEREL AFFAIR-              R145
cept his help. She only needed a gentle and almost unfelt touch upon the
arm to turn her back from the stairway by which she had ipeant to fly from
all who had ever seen her.
In a moment more they were in the study, and the door was closed against
chance listeners. Lehming lighted his lamp, and saw that the girl was shiv-
ering as with an ague; he stirred the embers which he had left purposely in
his fireplace,.and roused a cheering blaze. For a little while they crouched
over the flame, merely warming themselves in silence, for both were chilled
with watching.  At last the young man raised his large head, and looked anx-
iously into the face of his guest. He was touched almost to tears by her ex-
pressiorn of unutterable perplexity, anxiety, ahd grief. Never before had he
seen such an agonizing revolt of mighty e notons against a mighty conscience.
" May I speak freely ?" he asked in a whisper.
" Yes," gasped Nestoria, without, lifting her eyes from the faces and han-
toms of another world which leered and grimaced at her from amid the char-
ring coals.
What I have to say will be hard to bear," he continued, dreading to in-
flict further suffering.
"I can lbear everything," replied the girl, remembering witi a shudder
how much she had already borne.
.Imust say then that I know you," he went on with difficulty. " You are
Nestoria Bernard."
Nestoria made no reply; she shuddered at hearing her own name, as if she
dreaded and hated it; but she still clung as firmly as she could to her secret.
"Here is your neckerchief, which I found in that closet," he said, produe.
ing it.  I understand how you came there. You ran in to escape from'Ed
ward Wtherel"
Still Nestoria did not confess, or confessed only by silence.
I wish you could see it to be your duty to reveal the cause of your flight
from Sea Lodge," he murmured with a sense of choking, as if the hangman's
noose were around his own neck.
A minute passed without a word from either. Several times Nestoria's
lips moved, but they gave forth no sound. Meantime the two continued to
look at each other with indescribable fixity and eagerness.
" Is there not a soul at stake in this matterP" he said at last.
Yes-mne!" she answered, shaking her head desperately. "But I can.
not save it. It must go."
" Oh, ho!" he protested, fearful of driving her quite to despair. "We
must make allowance for differences of judgment. You may he right in your
reticence. Time will show."
Then lie sank into a wretched silence; he feared that Edward was the
murderer.
"Ah, yes, I may be right!" Nestoria burst out, after a few moments of
meditation. " There may be some.mystery, some incomprehensible delusion,
in this horrible thing. Oh, there may be, there may be! Perhaps I ought to
wait; perhaps it is my duty. 0 God of mercy, grant that it may be so, and
that I may not die before I see it to be so!"
"Can you tell me nothing?" asked Lehming. "!CaT you not give me a
chance to judge your doubts? "
She looked at him with a dazed expression which might have meant that'
'ihe wanted to evade his question, or might have meant that she did not un-


146

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

derstand it. He decided that it was proper and necessary to speak with un-
mistakable plainness-
" Let me. lay the whole thing before you," he resumed. "You were in
the house of Judge Wetherel on the night of his death. Before morning you
had disappeared, and you have remained in hiding ever since. It is believed by
some misled people that you struck the blow which ended the old nman's life! "
He paused; but Nestoria did not answer, nor look up; she had evidently
considered the probability of this suspicion against herself; it was already an
idea so familiar that it did not surprise, nor even shock her.
"It is believed by-others that you witnessed the tragedy, and that you
were driven from the house by terror for yourself," continued Lehming.
The girl remained impassible; she'did not dissent by either word or look;
but he'guessed that this was not the true statement of the case.
"Others believe," he persisted, "that you recognized the murderer, and
that you fled in order to avoid bearing witness against him."
He stopped breathless. All his manhood, strength of mind, and sense of
duty had scarcely sufficed to enable him to make this terrible declaration. He
had feared,,and at the san e time had fully expected, that she would be over-
com e. by it.
He was disappointed. Nestoria did not utter a sound, and did not so much
as move. The volume of moral force which lay In this small, youthful, and
seemingly fragile creature was prodigious. She had long been prepared to
meet such a trial as this in some form or other, and now that it had come she
endured it with a composure which was almost more than human. Not a
vast intellect, not capable perhaps of a many-sided development, not gifted to
express even what was in her in any remarkable fashion, she had a depth of
feeling and a singleness of purpose and a tenacity of will which fitted her to
endure heroically. Fice to face with a man, who unveiled the horrible secret-
of her life, and charged her with what she wretchedly- felt to be her great
crime, she made no avowal either by word or glance. As she had resolved to
be silent and impassible if ever she should be brought before a court of justice,
"so she was silent and impassible now. And the wonder of this moral-or im-
moral-achievement was that she accomplished it in despite of a sense of guilt
from which her very soul revolted. The greatest and saddest feature of her
victory was that it was a victory of sentiment over conscience.
"Have you nothing to tell me? " inquired, Lehming, after long waiting.
Still Nestoria did not respond; she was meditating, and she would not
- speak until she had thought her thoughts clean out; not until she had surveyed
all the consequences which might follow on utterance.
"I had hoped to be able to counsel you," Lehming presently added. "I
find that I can only counsel myself."
"To surrender me?" she asked sharply. " You as good as'promised not,
to do that. I understood you so when I came in here."
" I will not surrender you," he said. " But, ought you not to surrender
yourself?"
Wait!" replied Nestoria.
This single word was the result of her long and laborious and miserable
deliberation. It was uttered most impressively, with a tone of finality, and
with a look of unalterable decision.
" Please to tell me more fully what you mean," he begged, meanwhile
gazing at her with wonder. a

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

4

"Oh, how hard it is to explain!" she groaned. "I want time. I am ot
yet satisfied. I still doubt what my eyes told me. I cannot doubt, andet
I must. Some day I may tell, but not now. I must have more time, more
time, I can't say how much. But I will stay here ; that is--will you keep my
secret tIf you will keep my secret, I will stay. Otherwise I will go at Once.
I know that you can't keep me-thitsyou' won't try to hold me. But if you
ill p promise me your silence, I will stay. I want to stay. I can trust you;
I can trust your word, and your wisdom, and your heart; you are the only
person in the world whom  I can trust fully. Now if you will give me
your word not to expose me, I will give you my word to remain here until-
until .  Ah, nov I dare not pledge myself," she added, shaking her head.
Some other discovery, some other  meeting, might drive me away in a mo-
mentree cand pl aed msL."
aInterested and agitated as Lehning was, he noted her forethoughtedness
and her respect for truth with amazement, and said to himself that a girl who
in such circumstances could retain so clear a mind and scrupulous a conscience
deserved confidence.
"Do you know who I am? " he asked.
"You are Alice's cousin," she answered. "I remember hearing her speak
of you. She only called you Cousin Walter. I did not recognize you un-
til -"nil               -
her "Until you heard me talking just now with him," he added, completing
hrsentence.p                                                     b
Nestoria nodded slightly. She could not be induced to mention the name
ot Evard Wetherel, nor to allude to him, in any distinct fashion, for fear,
doubtless, that if she once began: to speak of him, she might say too-much.
"Mrs. Dineford and Alice love you dearly," Leliming went on. "They
are full of anxiety about you. Will you let me tell them where you areP
Can't you trust them                                          a
Nfestoria's heart yearned for these two friends; but she said to herself that,
ifashe cae ewn t cthem, she might meet Edward; and she felt that that
was an interview which she could not endure. In response to Lehming's
question she covered her face with her hands and shook her head violently.
Then we two must keep this secret alone," he said sorrowfully. "I will
proise-it is a tremendous thing to do, and I fear a wicked one-but I will
promise not to reveal who you are until you give me leave to do so, unless in-
deed I am suddenly driven to call in others to save you from urgent danger.
I do this not because I approve of your decision, but to save you from flying
into lifelong hiding, remorse,-misery, and perhaps into eternal ruin. I do it
in the hope that you will yet be led to see your duty, and to perform it, how-
ever terrible it may be. I also hope that, if we wait a while, we may discover
soetig bter than you believe. If I am wrong, God forgive me!"
shn silence and with an air of profound abstraction Nestoria rose, threw her
shawl over her arm, picked up her little travelling-bag, and moved toward
" Whbgan                                     moe-toa-
the door.
c Where are you going?" he inquired anxiously, but without stirring to
check her._g
"I am going to my own room," she said, looking hi i  th
trustfulness which demanded trust.            gim inteface with a
h     teav l   dMercy grant you sleep!" he 'responded. "My poor,

4


148                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
She passed out; she was as noiseless as a shadow; he listened in vain for
a sound which should indicate whither she had gone; after a while he extin-
guished his lamp, stepped into the dark hall, and went to his bedroom.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
A SORE CONSCIENCE AND TENDER HEART.
LEHITNG went to his room not-alone, for a train of perplexities and anxie-
ties followed him, and, as we have already said, he did not sleep.
He had such a sense of guilt that it seemed to him as if he had never done
wickedness before, although during his pure life a scrupulous conscience had
wounded him with many arrows.
"Particeps criminis!" he repeated to himself a hundred times. "I an
aiding and abetting in the concealment of a murderer. I am helping to hide.
one who has shed the blood of his father's brother; the assassin of an old man
as venerable for goodness as for years."
"Is it possible P " he queried as often. " Have I not misuiiderstood this
poor, confused child? Has she not misunderstood events?  What are the
grounds of her conviction? Eyesiglit? She can hardly mean less;, nothing
less would have driven her from her betrothed lover;- she is too true in heart
to be moved by less."'
"I cannot believe such a monstrous thing," he declared over and over
again. "Edward never was-evil enough to commit a crime. He had in those
days no conscience toward God, but he had a conscience toward man. le
would break divine laws but not human laws. There are thousands and thou-
sands of such cases.. There are infidels and atheists whose lives are stainless,
honorable, beautiful. We who believe cannot comprehend it, but we are com-
pelled to admit it. Edward was honorable; he was a gentleman; he could
not murder."
There were moments during which he tried to persuade himself that Nesto-
ria was insane. "But-no," he decided; "I cannot believe it any more than
I can hope it; a clearer, steadier intellect never cane face to face with mine.
Madness could get no hold on such physical and mental health as hers. In all
the sorrow and terror which must have tormented her she has;not even hag a
brain fever. Looking at such a constitution as that, I must concede her entire
sanity."'
" Ah! there is some error," he frequently insisted, or rather pleaded.
"Some day events will force the real murderer to light, and compel him to
say to Edward, You are innocent! Some day the mists of this mystery will
blow away,'and we shall behold the actual fact of crime, hideous enough, but
endurable. Denunciation now might be calamitous and horrible falsehood.
Nestoria is right; we must wait. There is no peril to justice in waiting.
Edward will not fly; not even though he be guilty; least of all if he be
guilty."
"Wait!" was' his final conclusion. He started from it and returned to it
many times; he was like a bird tied by the leg who flutters uselessly; it was
in vain that his conscience and his reason strove to tear him away; his prom-
iso and his wishes both bound him to that word, Wait..
In these struggles the darkness of latter night and the grayness of early
-norning flitted by. lie was accustomed to rise at sunrise, breakfast on a roll'

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                          149
and a cup of coffee which he made for himself, and go over the lessons which
he would have to hear during the day, coaching up in them as carefully as if
he were pupil instead of teacher. This morning he was tempted to lie a while
later; his head reeled and his whole feeble body ached with the fever of sleep-
lessness; but, with that martyr-like spirit whlich formed a large part of his
character,'he resisted the temptation.
It was a trial to him to approach his mirror and face its pitiless candor. Hc
knew that he should be uglier than usual; that he should find himself little
less than repulsive. He was not one of those plain people who can create at4
illusion about their own plainness, discovering in it some redeeming feature,
which makes amends for surrounding imperfections, and drawing therefrom a
comfortable sense ofself-admiration. From the earliest days of childhood that
lie could remember, lie had been keenly conscious of his utter lack of comeli-
ness; and-the response of looking-glasses, that benediction of simple joy to so
many, had always been to him a message of wretched humiliation. With
beautiful meekness and self-control lie had fought with this aversion to a keen
spiritual pain, and forced himself into long contemplation of his ugliness.
Every day he made it a point to stand for a minute or so before his mirror, sur-
veying his misshapen head, his irregular features, and his yellow complexion,
and saying to himself with self-loathing, but with submission, "Thus it has
pleased God to make me."
This morning the trial was doubly hard to bear. Never before had he been
so desirous of appearing so far agreeable to himself as to give him a hope of
becoming agreeable to some fellow creature. Nestoria, with her childlike and
touching beauty, her immense sorrows, and her sweet endurance, had dazzled
his: intellect and won his heart. He believed that she would never return to
the man whom she had loved, and that some day, in pure loneliness and grief,
she would intrust herself to some other protector. To be that other Lehming
was willing to sacrifice whatever other good there might be for him in life,
and to complete the gift, if need be, with his death. Yet lie knew that the
moment he came face to face with his mirror, he should see himself to be to-
tally unworthy of the affectionate regard of any woman.
Ie approached the cruel truth-teller with as much repugnance as if it were
a mortal foe, ready to plung, a dagger into his breast. He looked into it; he
beheld his long, coarse face, 94ualid with trouble and want of rest; he suffered
under the spectacle, but he did not flinch front it. To this remorseless Moloch
he dragged all his delicate, throbbing hopes, and sacrificed them as the Tlyri-
anis sacrificed their little ones. He did not turn away until.it seeided to him
that the inhuman offering had been completed.
"I must live for others," he said as he left the mirror. "No one but a dog
would ever live for me. If I had a little less reason and faith than I have, I
should say that the Redeemer could not have died for me, so insignificant and
despicable do I seem to myself."
An hour later, after lie had prepared his lessons, lie heard the step of Inio-
gen Eleonore in the passage, joined her, and inquired after Nettie.: To his
great relief for up to this moment lie did not know that the girl had 'not fled)
he learned that she was in her room asleep. In his place another iian might
have been annoyed becauseshe could slumber while he had waked through
both night arid dawn, on her account. Lehming lelt only pleasure and hvon-
der, as if over a beneficent miracle.
" What health !" he marvelledl to himself. " What health of mind and


f-

150

'HE WETHEREL AFFgdR.

body! - Lesser troubles and perils than hers have sent men into sleepless ner-
vousness, ending in insanity. What is not such an organization capable of ?"
That day he gave out to his scholars as the subject for English composition,
"Health."  ,.
" Health of body and of mind," he lectured with enthusiasm. " Without it
we can do little or nothing. From health we get that calmness and that endu-
rance in labor which make labor effective. At twenty-two the young Cond6
slept until the opening guns of his first battle. From the tranquil and restora-
tive slumber of health he was awakened with difficulty to win the decisive vic-
tory of Rocroi. Nature, or rather the Allfather whio is- nature, had planned
Him for vast toil and great deeds. If you wish to accomplish much, you must
establish health as a starting-post. It is to the man of genius what the earth
was to Antinus; if he cannot touch it in his falls, he falls never to rise again.
Without it there can hardly be any splendid productiveness or large useful-
ness."
All that day he saw nothing of Nestoria, and knew of her only that she had
not fled. In the evening he went to his study, laid out the unfinished manu-
script of a story (for boys), and tried to write. But the chariots 4 fancy drave
heavily, and he could not get through a single sentence. He opened a book;
of course it was a masterpiece of one of his favorite great authors; he wanted
a strong and noble stimulus for liis flagging spirit. But the pages of Haw-
thorne were as dull ai41 cold to him as were the pages which lay before him in
his own handwriting. 'A night without rest, followed by a day of anxiety and
wearing inward debates, had utterly jaded both body and mind. Gradually his
long, unshapely chin drooped to his prominent breast- bones, and he sank into
the hard, horny gripe of the sleep of utter exhaustion.
Roused after a time by the consciousness of some presence, he became
aware that Nestoria was sitting by his fire and gazing upon his face, mean-
while warming her little hands with a kitten-like grace and tranquillity. She
greeted his awakening with one of her peculiar smiles, a smile which was full
of sweetness as well as of plaintiveness, reminding him of sunshine beaming
through the curtains of rain.
"I am glad you have slept," she said in a soothing tone, as if she were a
nurse and he her patient. "I am afraid that my troubles kept you awake last
night."
"Your voice is like an .Eolian harp," he answered dreamily. "It sings
because of storms, or in spite of them."
There was no reply, except that her smile became a thought more sad,
while retaining all its sweetness.
"I am greatly obliged to you for not going away," he presently continued,
recovering his waking senses, "You promised to remain, but it was a promise
hard to keep. I hope and, believe that you will not be. suffered to repent of it."
"I stayed to copfide in you," she said. "You are so good and sympathetic
that I cannot help trusting you, and leaning upon you. Now that my father
and Judge Wetherel are gone, it seems to me that you must be the best man in
the world. I cannot make ulpi my mind to leave you  I must have at least
one comforter in all this wretched earthly wilderness. It is dangerous to stay;
but I cannot, cannot go-at least not yet."
"You force me to do what you wish," he responded, after surveying her'
for some time in great perplexity of spul. "I still believe that I ought to urge
you to go before the authorities at once, and tell all you know- I still feel that

TILE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

I

151

it ismy duty to demand that step of you. But I am unable to demand it. I
must let you judge this tremendous matter for yourself. You-must have the,
time for deliberation that you require. We will wait."
" We must!" she decreed with quiet firmness, and seemingly without con-
sidering difficulties or adverse arguments, just as a child says, " I must have
the moon."
On this basis they continued their life. Lehming had hoped to gain, little
by little, such an influence, over the girl as would enable him to persuade her
into' discharging her conscience of the load which oppressed it, and into clear-
ing up the mystery which had thus far balked the inquisitions of justice, But
instead 'of his mind encroaching upon hers, it was hers which day by day
.gained empire over his. The moral force which springs from feeling was in
this case too mighty for themoral force which springs from conscience. The
woman's instinctive resoluteness defeated the man's superior reason.
He was almost carried away by her. He began to think of accepting his
portion, or at least some portion of the Wetherel estate, and devoting it to her
service. Would he.be justified, he occasionally asked himself, in transporting
her to a foreign land, where she might be safe from the houndings of law,and
pass ter days without terror? As yet he had not the presumption to query
whether it might not be right for him to unite her blighted life to his own
blighted life. 'He bowed down.to her in secret; he~ silently gave her all that
exuberance of affection in his nature which no one 'had cared to reap; in one
plain word, lie loved her. But he was too humble, too keenly aware of what
lie considered his repulsive imperfections, to approach the idea of marrying
her otherwise than slowly and unconsciously.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
A RATIONAL AND A WHXAiSICAL COMFORTER.
NESTORIA had now more peace of mind than had been hers since her flight
from the scene of the murder.'
She had, as it seemed to her, made a confidant of Lehming; 'and every in-
fant knows the comfort that there is in telling one's trouble. In actual fact she
nad barely hinted to him the solution of this horrible Wetherel problem, so
that a soul less sympathetic and clever than his might have altogether misap-
prehended her. But so clear and obvious to her mind was the whole labyrinth
of crime, that it appeared to her as if her few vague words had pointed out
every bloody footstep which tracked its obscure intersections. At times, in-
deed, she said to herself that she had divulged far too much, and was angry at
her weakness and terrified at her imprudence. But, on the whole, her over-
flow of confidence, and the sense of sympathy obtained, soothed her. Her eyes
began to beam their natural sunshine, and there was less plaintiveness and be-
seeching for pity' in her smile, while her conversation sparkled now and then
with the intrinsic lightsomeness of youth.
" How strangely we get used to things! " 'she one evening said to Lehming
"Once I would not have thought it possible that I should see the weeks which
I have seen, and yet preserve sanity and life. But here I am; I still have my
treason and draw my breath; indeed, it sometimes appears to me that I am not
even changed. I have just been reading a description of the siege of Port
Hudson, telling how accustomed the artillerymen became to the bombard-


152.

IL

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

ment, and how they slept alongside of the roaring gunis, The noise and the
danger were ordinary circumstances to them. It is just so with nie. I am usu-
ally as calm as I was in the days of innocence and safety. It seems like a stu-
por; and yet I am not stupefied; I am merely tranquil. It is a terrible mys-
tery. , One feels like saying that the human soul is capable of too much. It is
capable of living quietly in sin and sorrow, as well as in holiness and prosper.
ity. Are we right in pitying the poor and ignorant on the ground that they
are wretched? Perhaps they are as contented as the rich and wise. We
should pity them mainly for being thus contented with curses instead of long-
ing and striving after blessings. I understand now the lives of criminals. I
used to suppose that they were constantly tormented by remorse and terror.
The sad knowledge has come to me that it is not so. They are generally easy,
in their minds. They are like me. Perhaps I have suffered more with re-
morse than any brutal murderer now living. And yet I bear it; my hand does
not tremble when I paint; I hit the right colors without effort; I paint better
every day-better and more. easily. One might suppose that there was no
curse upon me for duty unfulfilled."
"Few can endure like you," sighed Lehming, who was often'"impatient of
the physical feebleness which he found in himself. "You are a marvel of
health. Under your load I should be crushed. Even the trifle of it which you
have given me to carry, seems at times nearly too much for me."
"I am sorry for it," she said humbly. "I ought to have gone away with-
out a word. 'I have been weak and selfish."
Lehming looked at her with wonder and almost with reverence. Ie said
to himself that-he had never known in one so young such elevation of senti-
ment and keenness of reflection. Had he seen her while she WAs at Sea Lodge,
and so been able to estimate the great advance which she had made since that
time in both moral and intellectual force, he would have been still more aston-
ished. The bearing of constant peril and vast sorrow had developed this late-
ly girlish spirit surprisingly and with surprising rapidity.
"Don't mind about having laden me," said the deformed young.man. "If
I cannot live a little for others,. I count myself nothing worth. I only regret
that you cannot see your way clear to do your instant duty, however painful it
may be."
"Ah! don't talk of that!" implored Nestoria, drooping her sunny head.
"Not yet! Wait!"
"Do you know that Edward Wetherel proved an alibi  " he continued,
venturing boldly upon the subject which he believed to be her torment. " He
proved that he was in New Haven on the night of the murder."
"Did he?" exclaimed Nestoria, her face-turning crimson. "Oh, did he?"
"I heard the testimony," replied Lehming, trembling with the eagerness
of hope. "The witnesses were wild fellows, but at the time I did not doubt
them."
For a minute or so the girl remained silent. She was studying over and
over the picture which her memory presented of the assassination, and striving
to eliminate from it the form and features of Edward Wetherel. The task was
impossible; the figure reappeared as fast as she rubbed it out; it had a cruel, a'
ghoulish tenacity of existence. The flush of joy in her cheeks faded tinder its
battenings to a plaintive pallor. Lehming's sensitive spirit divined from this
charge in her countenance that she knew of something which.would not let
her give lasting credit to his cheering tale. The subject became hateful toe
him, and he wrenched himself away from it.

TIE WETHEREL AFFAIR.,

153

"I wish we had some enlivening amusement for you," he said. "I should
like-if it were not too mad a wish-to take you to see a comedy."
She glanced at him with surprise, and replied, "I thought the theatre was
very wicked."
"It is a /matter of regret that so many good people have thought so," ob..
served Lehming. "The Church lost a strong grip on humanity when it de-
nounced. the drama and gave it over into the hands of the irreligious. Men
need relaxation, and will have it. Devout minds should have recognized the
fact, and should have provided pure public amusements, theatrical and others.
A Christiaiiized theatre would be a means of teaching, capable of reaching ears
that will not hearken to the pulpit."
"I can understand that it might be so," nodded Nestoria, after due reflec-
tion, such as she habitually gave 'to a new idea before accepting it. '" I should
like to see something amusing. . I should like," she added, the corners of her
mouth trembling piteously, "to laugh once more."
At this moment they heard a singular sound in the hall. It was a shuffling
and thumping, as of some one dancing, and dancing, too, with all his might,
like King David in his linen ephods Then the door opened, and the bushy,
grizzled hair and beard, and the rosy face of John Bowlder appeared, aciom-
panied of course by th it philosopher's bulky and cumbrous figure. He looked
bigger than ever, for he was clad in a flowered calico dressing-gown, which
was voluminous enough to wrap up a middle-sized steeple comfortably, and
which bagged and swung in all directions to get asway from its wearer. He
was dancing; there could be no doubt of the capering fact; lie was performing
some kind of an untaught, unteachable, unexampled jig; such a.jig as was
never produced to hdman eyes before, and without supernatural assistance
never-will, be again. A colt let loose in a meadow, or a calf welcoming its
mother home from pasture, never accomplished such unbroken plungings and
kickings and cuttings. Meantime-a philosopher through it all-he had the
rapt air of a whirling Dervish. His haystack of a head was thrown back in
a kind of ecstasy, and a childlike, simple smile played about the corners of his
wide mouth. Take his expression and his action together, and lie .was the
maddest hmmn spectacle imaginable. If Lehming and Nestoria had not been
familiar with his oddities, they would have judged him stark crazy, and set
about tying him.
"I am frisky to-night," he - gasped breathlessly, as he curvete. around the
room. "We must obey our whims, as well as our solemn intuitions, if we
would be real men.' Great and beautiful,Wand partakers of the divine essence,
are the untraninielled children of nature. It is our rational duty to do what we
want to do, like Robert Burns and George Gordon Byron-like kittens and in-
fants. If you desire to hop on one leg,,let your desire have instant and unpre-
meditated outcome, defying the promenaders and the police. Skip, hop, and
jump in Broadway, if.Broadway seems your arena. Only do not hop through
taking thought thereto, out of bravado or vain pomp. Let your hopping be
.he fruit of simplicity and honesty, or it is no'acceptable hopping, but rather.
dishonoring."
Here he caine in conflict with a chair, upsetting it and falling across it.
Nestoria burst into a hearty, natural laugh, the first laugh that Lehniing had
ever heard from her, her nly laugh since the night of the murder.
Unabashed by his calamity, John Bowvlder picked himself up, briskly set
the chair on its clattering, noisy legs,. placed himself astraddle of it,, and com-.
nmeiiced singing some of his owyn verses:


154                  THE WETHEREL' AFFAIR.
"All nature hath its clamorous joys ;
The hiding crickets make sharp noise,
The fireman yawps, the rooster crows,
The ploughman loudly blows his nose.
" Sing out, bawl out, the godlike glee.
Wherewith great Pan lhath dowered thee,
Which rings through Neptune's stormy reel
And in the porker's festive squeal.
"Let Bralun and Buddha swell the song,
Let Dagon thunder it along,
Let Woden shout his savage arune,
And Bowider answer with his tune.'
"Do you call it a tune, Mr. Bowlder?'" asked Nestoria, as soon as she.could
speak. "It seems as-though it must be something else."
Her face had a gleam   of that shrewd, infantile humor which those who
knew her months before had sometimes seen upon it. Lehming, to whom the
expression was a revelation, gazed upon it with wonder and pleasure. He be-
held in it the renewed hope and exhilaration of a  soul which, after long wan-
dering in utterly blinding darkness, finds its way into a more supportable
gloom, and walks on with reviving confidence and cheerfulness.
"Yes, I venture to call that yawp a tune, Miss Nettie," gayly replied the
philosopher. "It is the tune the old cow died of. It is Bowlder's tune, the
only one he knows, and kno n to no other cosmos. The man who feels that
he is called to sing cannot wa t to learn music. If he is a true 'man, he will
sing what be can, though the jackass keep him company. Supjpose Robert
Burns had refused to write poetry until he could write it in pure English or 'i
Latin.  We should not have had his great, boyish, demigod glee.    There
would have been no "Tam o' Shanter' for us, now nor forevermore. No Burns
am I; no Tam o' Shanter have I to cheer the world with; so much I know of
myself. But what I have that give I freely, like a bird, or a running spring.
or a pumpkin pie."
This last figure struck him as a particularly good one. It was natural, it
was drawn from common life, like the similes of Socrates and Emerson. It
inspired hini to improvise some more of his extraordinary poetry, singing it to
his invariable melody, which went equally well with all meters:
"Life a pumpkin pie-
Is this essor named I,
Free to every eater,
Would it were sweeter i
But such as it is, the gods mixed It,
And what there is of it, the universal forces fixed it;
*     And although it is thin and plain,
You may cut and conic again.
" The old; cow that died of-the tune may now die again of the verses," he
commented with exterior modesty, while yet he could not help glancing about
him in some faint hope of a compliment.
Nestoria smiled. The first burst of resuscitated gayety was spent, and had
not strength enough left to uplift her to a laugh. It seemed to her, neverthe-
less, that she was wildly merry.
"I shall grow fat again if I go on laughing at this rate," she said.'
" Let me urge yiu to laugh whenever you can," counselled Lehming,.
"Some of us have too few chances for light-hieartedness. We must let none
slip'

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.,                       155
" He means himself as well as me," thought Nestoria, glancing compas-
sionately at his deformed figure and plaintive face. "I must give him what
sympathy and comfort I can."
CHAPTER XL.
INQUISITIONS AND ADMONITIONS.
Now and then it seems as if the shallow materialists, who call themselves
Spiritualists because they have revived fetishism and the superstition of savages,
might yet be right in this one affirmation of theirs, that soul mnay communli-
cate with soul through some medium other than the ordinary senses.
What man so stolid and so isolated fromhis kind in heart, but that he has
at times felt that some woman, who merely sat or stood near him, uttering no
word and making no sign and sending him no glance, was yet kindly and
warmly interested in him ? An inaudible and invisible messenger has brought
the tale, thrilling the delicate aspens of the affections with glad thankfulness,
and perhaps even arousing the potent echoes of the blood.
Nestoria granted to Lehming a silent throb of sympathy, and he knew it.
It was a delicious moment: for a brief, happy while he forgot his ugliness; it
appeared to him that he was worthy of loving, perhaps of being loved. A
few tickings of the cheap wooden clock on his grimy mantelpiece measured
out to him more of ecstasy than he had known in his whole life before. Then,*
little by little, the splendid glamour of extravagant 'hope faded, and his reason
looked abroad once more upon its accustomed spectacle of a loveless life. He
said to himself that'it was folly to sit there gazing at Nestoria's fresh young
beauty, and building for her and himself cloud-castles which could nevt r be
come realities. He would quit her at once, and seek sanity in the streets. It
would be a wholesome self-sacrifice, honorable to his soul and of gooid augury
for his future.
'I shall leave you two to amuse each other," he said, rising and putting on
his Lilliputian overcoat. 'i"I have an errand or two to attend to before bed-
time."
-  What A man does, that he has," replied John Bowlder, quoting from his
demigod Emerson. "Nevertheless, as I care not for having, I give myself
little to doing. I want no ownership in errands. I can subsist without such
property. We do not spend half time enough in looking lazily into our own
hearts, as a boy stares at the crumblings and askings of the coals. Let me tall
you, Walter, that your life is too busy. You would be a greater 'soul if you
did less worldly work. You are over-useful, to your fellow creatures. And
Edward Wetherel is taking the same thoi-ny road and travelling in the same
barren circle. I met him to-day. The Briareus had all his spiritual arms full
of projects. It would take an Argus to see all the trouble he is going to make
for himself and others. le wants to cure the sickly, who ought to die; wants
to feed the lazy and stupid, who ought to starve; wants to turn good day la
borers into poor philosophers; wants to do an infinite deal of mischief."
Lehming could not help glancing at Nestoria. At the name of Edward she
had suddenly leaned forward, and she was now looking steadily into the blaze
of the fire, her face hidden between her hands. He trusted that she believed
somewhat to the young man's advantage, but he could not be sure.
" I think our cousin does well," lie observed aloud. "So far as is visible
to man , he is leading a noble life. I hope that you will not be permitted to
turn himn from the way lie has taken."


156                 THE WETIEREL AFFAIR.
"Nothing will turn him," said John Bowlder. " He is a chip of the old
gnarled Puritan oak. He is a Wetherel."
As Lehming moved toward the door he met Imogen'Eleonore entering.
"sAh! is it pos-si-ble? " drawled the schoolma'ani,'glancing significantly
from. Walter to Nestoria, and putting into her tone more of the mustard of sa-
tire than was absolutely necessary to give a taste to her words, as people of
light brains and incomplete cultivation'are apt to do when spiteful. " Can
Mr. Leliming persuade himself to leave such delightful company ?"
Within the last week or two Imogen Eleonore had undergone a change of
heart, or at least of behavior, for the worse. When she first extended her
gracious beams to the so-called Nettie Fulton, she had expected that that .mys-
terious young person would revolve around herself, and add to the glory of
the Jonesian system. In such a case she would have continued to shine upon
the girl with all the heat and splendor of her melodramatic affection. But
things had gone otherwise; the little protgde had become the planet; the
subli me patron had dwindled into the satellite.
Not only Mr. John Bowlder, who was a very queer stick anyhow, but also'
Mr. Walter Lehming; who had formerly been Miss Jones's particular friend
(as she supposed), had fallen down bewitched before this small stranger, both
being ready to wear their legs to stumps with running on her errands, and to
talk to her by the hour for the wages of .her rare and brief answers. It was
certainly most irrational conduct, and a just mind did well to be angry at it.
What was there in Nettie to admire but a pretty face, golden hair, a mystery
of some perhaps undesirable sort, and a certain odd, unexpected cleverness,
which after all was only occasional? Imogen Eleonore could see nothing
more; and in herself she could see a great deal more., She was "intellect-
ed," as she phrased it, and a remarkable " conversationist," as she persisted
it spelling it. - Her mind was richly stored with matters both useful and sen-
tiuental; she could discourse of grammar and geography and arithmetic and
history and astronomy; and as for the prose and poetry of the " New York-
Spasmodic," who could outquote herP
Yet here were these two men " a-going on " about this little Nettie! And
Mr. Lehining especially! a man whom she had supposed to be " talented! " a
man who heldthe lofty position of " instructor! "Hewasbowing down to
that chit; yes, he was actually " sitting up" with her. How ridiculous, partic-
ularly in a dwarf! Miss Jones was, in her own vigorous phrase, "real mad
. about it; " she could not put up with such silly " carryings-on; " she was real
mnad, and she didn't care who knew it. Even the dignity and puissance of a
male Instructor could not prevent her from showing her grittiness. in look,
tone, and speech.
But if she expected to sneer a retort out of Lehming, or to daunt him into
uttering some sidelong apology for his absurd preferences, she was disap-
pointed. -He divined the poor schoolma'am's bitterness of heart and pitied her
for it.1
"tWalk in, Miss Jones," he said with his gentlest smile. " Walk in, and
join our friends, and pardon me for leaving you."
With these words he went his way; and we shall do best to follow him.
He had not met Edward Wetherel since the evening when Nestoria's hints, or
rather her silence, had seemed to clothe him in the garb of murder. He had
not been able to muster the courage and the hardness to look him in the face.
Now he was going to see him; to cross-examine his countenance and de-
meanor; to judge, if it were possible, whether he were guilty or not. He

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         157
found the youthful millionaire, lately one of the most ostentatious of prodigals,
living in a single plainly-furnished room, which served both as parlor and
bedroom. The meeting between the pair was in one. respect very remark-
able. The inquisitor's eye wandered and his voice faltered, while the sup-
posed culprit was as calm and brave as innocence ever is.
You are economical," said Lehming, seating himself in a hard, well-
worn chair, and glancing about the somewhat dingy  chamber.
"I have wasted money enough in, my time," replied Edward. His man-
ner in making this confession was admirable; it had none of that conceit with
which reformed spendthrifts are apt to speak of their bygone extravagances;
it expressed honest regret and-self-reproach.
"A man in your situation is exposed to two great temptations," continued
Lehming. "Wealth is beckoned to by lavish pleasure on one side, and by
avarice on the other."
"I am shielded from both for the present," said Wetherel. -"I Consider
myself the trustee of this estate, and not the owner. But even if I were
really rich, I hope that I should not be a fool. My ideas of what is fine in
life have changed. Of course the .pendulum  may swing back; I may be-
come what I have been; but I trust not."
It seemed so. cleat that he meant even more than he said-there was such
testimony of a profound renovation of character in his very calmness of utter-
mee and demeanor-that Lehming turned upon his devils of suspicions, and
past them out.
"I do not wish you to be an ascetic," he observed with the frank kindness
of friendship. " All extremes of conduct verge on irrationality. The extremist
does evil as well as good. Calvin purified the church, but his preachings
were top violent,'and there has been a harmful reaction against them. Your
well-meaning and pure-hearted uncle was .in his way a Calvin. He did you
little good while he lived."
"It was hard to do good to such a jackanapes as I was," said Wetherol.
" Do you know that a few months ago I was a prodigious ass? It is enough
to make one both laugh and cry to think of it. When I was actually in a state
of insolvency, I bought myself a .two-hundred-dollar dressing-gown. I was
such an amazing jackanapes that I thought it a fine thing to wear a velvet and
brocade dressing-gown. I received my friends in it when they came to lend
me money to pay.my board bills."
Lehming smiled, for he believed in his relative's innocence of crime, and
the credence made him light-hearted.
"I used to attribute your profuseness to the influence of Wolverton," he
remarked.
"Wolverton was not a model," assented Wetherel. "But I never knew
him to be quite so bereft of common sense as myself. There was some judg-
ment in the man, and it helped him to some morality."
Here, by one of those coincidences which seem so frequent and so striking
to the imagination, the person who was the subject of conversation made his
appearance. There was a rap, and before Wetherel could fairly say, "Come
in," Wolverton entered.
" Unceremonious," he observed in his easy, assured, pleasant way. "But
I have something which I ,consider devilish important to lay before you two
gentlemen," he went on .with an earnestness unusual in him, he being com-
monly a talker of the elegantly languid type. " Came to-see Wetherel about
it, but glad to find you' both here. Don't you care anything about your rela-


158                  THE WETIIEREL AFFAIR.
tive, Miss Dinneford? I do; not that I have the honor to know her nmuch,
but I hate to see a nice girl in danger of coming to grief-that is, when she's
connected with a friend of mine," he added, quite unconscious of the horrible
cynicism of his qualification. "And come to grief she certainly will, if .she
marries that d-d Poloski. I've found out something about the man more
than we knew, Wetherel. I fell in with a detective, a low sort of blockhead
named Sweet, who waited to, pump me about the-the Wetherel aflair, you
know. Well, Sweet casually mentioned Poloski, and as I hate Poloski I asked
what he knew of him, and he- told me a doose of a story. He says the noble
foreigner is certainly an adventurer-well, we supposed as much, I take it---
that's not new, But he went on to say that he gets his living in all sorts of
queer ways-not only by poker, as we are experimentally aware, but by other
means less-genteel. That is, so Sweet thinks, and thinks he can prove. lie
has his eye on him; has traced him after midnight to Riley's saloon; horrid
bad place, if you know it. Of course Poloski might claim that he was there
to study character and-idioms. But Sweet followed him in, and found that lie
had gone up stairs alone with Riley, and also that he had the name of courting
Riley's daughter-pretty little wild girl, Sweet said. The fellovws there chaffed
her about the Count, and she bridled and giggled and all that sort of thing.
That was about all the man had to tell me. But don't you see that tie thing
looks dark? Of course I hate Poloski; he issomething of a rival of mine in
two or three places; I hate him a little, and despise him more, and so forth.
But prejudice aside, I claim that his case looks dark. And in my opinion--
begging your pardon for interfering in a family matter-you two fellows ought
to look after him. Just imagine this girl-excuse me, I mean Miss Dinne-
ford-jast imagine her married to Poloski. The next thing you would hear
would be that she was abandoned, perhaps in Europe or the Lord knows
where, and coming to grief all by herself. Don't you think so yourself now,
Wetherel?"
Edwvard's only reply was to rise from his chair with a mien of indignant
excitement, such as the defunct Judge Wetherel might have worn in the
sterner agitations of his youth, and such as we might perhaps fairly impute to
many previous Wetherels. Wolverton rose also, and walked to the door.
"Don't let me detain you," lie added as he went out. " The quicker you
put your oar in, the better. He might pop any day, and put things beyond
curing."
In a minute more-Wetherei. and Lehming were on their way toward the
Dinneford house.
CHAPTER XLI.
PEDANTIC LOVE-MAKING.
How came it about that' such a grotesque and dubious adventurer as Po-
loskishould win, to a certain extent at least, the confidence of such a sensible
mother in Israel as Mrs. Dinneford, and the liking of such a flirtish daughter
of Zion as Alice?
It was probably the title of Count which mainly did the business for these
two ladies, as well as for a number of other ladies then breathing the air of
freedom in this glorious republic, the land of democratic simplicity and equal-
ity. After our best society had decided to concede 'and eventually to affirm
that Poloski was an entirely authentic rnoble, his success as a man of fashion
and as a beau was assured. Even to the minds of free men and free women

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         159
there is something powerfully and we will not say irrationally dazzling in the
fact of descent from " a hundred earls," or even from a much shorter string of
titled forefathers. As we look upon a "scion of a noble stock," we get an im-
pression of the virtues and potencies and great deeds of successive eminent
generations, all accumulated and concentrated in the perhaps personally un-
attractive individual before us, and shining out of him like the vitality of by-
gone forests out of a lump of anthracite. It seems natural and right to how
down to a Lama whose lamaic predecessors have mayhap looked upon -the
crouchings of our predecessors. We are' good republicans in our heads; we
can argue against caste in the abstract, and do not want its hands in our
pockets; but our imaginations are enchanted by it.
So Count Poloski was a favorite in stylish New York society; a dozen, or
perhaps twenty, or perhaps forty of our young ladies were more or less be-
witched about him; and Alice Dinneford had not been able to resist the wide-
spread infection. Satirical, clever, and in some respects sensible, she was in
many things the abject slave of public opinion, and she wanted to carry off e
this prize which so many others strove for.. And, what is much more wonder-
ful, her mother had come to grant the Pole a certain degree of regard. The
fact that "Freedom  shrieked when Kosciusko fell"~pleaded eloquently for
lim to Mrs. Dinneford's excellent heart. Likewise it advantaged .him much
with her that he was such a "scholarly man," and knew so much, or so little,
of so many languages, and could talk fluently of so many diverse, abstruse
subjects.  An, intellectual charlatan, whose hasty cleverness had washed
through numerous channels and brought away some golden or at least shin-
ing sands, was naturally impressive to, a semi-educated spirit which had the
Nev England reverence for learning and looked upon every college tutor as a
precious well-spring of knowledge.
And when Mrs. Dinneford found that Poloski could discourse copiously
concerning the Scriptures, she became disposed to consider him an elect soul,
who might properly be received into any of the households of our American
Zion. His views of Jewish history, indeed, rather amazed her; he discussed
that revered subject with an absence of prejudice which at times seemed to
her to border on free-thinking; but the fact that a foreigner, and especially a
noble foreigner, should know anything at all about the Bible was delightful;
and on the whole she listened to the Count's doubts ahd queries with a patience
not devoid of respect and admiration. This very evening, while Edward
Wetherel and Lehming were coming' to dislodge Poloski from her confidence,
_ she held with him earnest speech concerning the influence of the captivity in
purifying and elevating the Hebrew religion.
The family scene was a pleasant one to look at. The tall, blonde, hand.
some, dandified Poloski talked from the sofa, or rose in moments of inspira-
tion to pace once or twice across the room, gesturing meanwhile with taking
vivacity. Mrs. Dinneford hearkened from her rocking-chair, her plain but
kindly and bright face beaming with interest, and her large, strongly-veined
hands busy upon some charitable needlework. Alice, curled up prettily on a
cushion, embroidered with a sort of tremulous vehemence quite characteristic
of her when debarred froni talking.
"In short, Mrs. Dinneford, the captivity founded Hebraism," summed up.
the eneyclopedical Count. " The captivity was the starting-point of the
Jewish national faith, as we know it. Up to the captivity the Hlebrews had
no national faith. The school of the prophets, which was a patriotic sect, wor-
shipped the Baal o1: Lord of Israel, who, as German scholars have discovered


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

was a sun-god. The other Jews worshipped Moloch, who was the sun-god of
the Tyrians, and the bacchic Baal, who was a sun-god of the northern Canaan.
ites, and Ashtaroth, who was the moon-goddess of the Sidonians, and othei
pantheonic deities. Their great king Solomon built temples to all the divini-
ties of the surrounding peoples. The nation was polytheistic through 4dl its
early history. It knew nothing of the great truth of monotheism. Superficial
scholars, such as you have in England and America, have stigmatized the son
of Nebat as an idolater. He was not; he was a reformer; he was a foe of
polytheism. He set up the golden calf, or bull, as the symbol of the sun-god
of Israel. He did away with other deities. He was the fonder of a national
faith, purer far than the faith of Solomon. But his struggle to establish mono-
theism was unsuccessful. Not until the captivity, not until the advent of the
Persie idea of a divine unity, did the Jews become monotheists. , We owe
Hebraic monotheism to the Persians, a race of the noble Aryan stock. That,
Mrs. Dinneford, is the true history of monotheism, at least so far as it concerns
the Hebrews."-
"These things are too hard for me, Mr. Poloski," replied the good lady,
shaking her orthodox head resolutely, but with less acrimony than might have
been expected. "I know that in the times of Elijah there were only seven
thousand that had not bowed the knee to Baal and kissed him. But that was
because Ahab and Jezebel had led the nation into apostasy. We have it in the
Scriptures that the Jews were God's chosen people."
"My dear Mrs. Dinneford, all peoples are dod's chosen peoples," urged
the Count. " He made them all; he chose to make them all; they are all his
chosen peoples."
" I must think of these matters," said Mrs. Dinneford, still shaking her
head; "Another time, when I have meditated more fully on these weighty
"questions,'I shall be glad to discuss them with you. I don't suppose that we
shall settle them," she laughed goodl-humoredly. "As Tupper says, Shall
time teach the lesson which eternity cannot master? I know that there are
difficulties in Hebrew history. But my faith stands firm. With Tupper, again,
I can declare, It is written, and so we believe, waiting not for outward proof.
To be sure, he speaks there of the Trinity; but the same good rule applies to
other mysteries; whatever is written I accept."
The Count bowed, lifted his shoulders slightly, and fell silent. Perhaps he
saw that it was useless to argue with this believing lady; perhaps he feared
that he had already argued too boldly for his own good. Conceited as he was,
and fond beyond measure of the sound of his own voice, he had nevertheless
some worldly wisdom of self-control, and he did not want to win the ill opin-
ion of Alice's mother.
By the way, how is it possible, in view of the theories which Poloski had
advanced, that Mrs. Dinneford had not set him down as an outright infidel,
and resolved to eschew his, company? Well, 'in. the first place, he was a
Count; and that was a fact which still confounded her greatly; she did -not
quite know what a Count ought to believe. In the second place, she was
largely broad-church in her sentiments; orthodox as she was for herself, she
was very charitable to the views of others; and if a man admitted the exist-
ence of a Creator, she strove to be content with him. In the third place-and
this was the most bewildering fact of all-Poloski admired Alice. .In a person
who beheld good in her child, this affectionate mother could find little evil.
" I doubt not you will convict me when we talk again, Mrs. Dinneford,"
bowed and smiled the Count. " In fact, we differ little in our opinions at

bottom. All my ancestors have been Christians, and have derived their faith
from the Hebrews.- I could not turn my back upon the belief of my ancestors."
"It is a great blessing to come of a devout family," observed Mrs. Dinne-
ford, who trusted that she had derived some good from her Wetllerel descent.
"1Virtue and credence are hereditary,". pursued the Count. " That is one
argument in favor of the belief in a special chosen people."
'"You are a philosopher, Mr. Poloski," said the lady, quite cheered and
gratified by this suggestion. "I do so reverence a philosophical mind, even
when led away by too much trusting to its own strength, as is the case, I fear,
with our great Emerson.' You remind me of my cousin, John Bowlder, who
is an Emersonian, or tries his best to be."
"Bowlder!" grimaced Poloski, not much pleased with the comparison.
"You must pardon me for saying what I think of Bowlder. He is an idea-
logue without a system. I have no confidence in idealogues who have no sys-
tem, but say everything they can think of, burly hourly "
Mrs. Dinneford burst .into a hearty laugh; her sense of humor was easily
tickled.
"Cousin John is tangled," she admitted. " His talk is much like throwing
things out of a window in a fire, grappling first whatever conies handiest, and
tumbling everything iri one pile. To listen to him is just about the same as
reading a dictionary: Deuteronomy, and deviltry, and duty, and dishwater
come in the same column. But Cousin Joln, notwithstanding nis queer mix-
tures, and his "poor, futile free-thinking, has such goodness of heart-- "
" Oh, I love goodness of heart," hastily interjected Poloski, fearing lest he
had been too hard upon Cousin Bowlder. "Goodness of heart makes amends
for everything," he added, kissing his fingers and waving them heavenward.
Alice cri::ged under this absurdly flat speech, and said to herself that now
and then the Count was too silly, and for a moment marvelled over the fact
that she had ceased to laugh at him. Then she reflected that he had improved
of late; that, for one thing, he had dropped his ridiculous investigations into
"slangs "; and finally that other girls as well as herself had learned to admire
him. Nevertheless, she was anxious to give such a turn to the conversation
as might prevent him from throwing any more kisses to goodness of heart.
So she asked him (and a most insidious question it was) whether he intended
to pass his life in America.
"I must go to Poland this very winter," returned Poloski, with the start
of a man who suddenly remembers urgent affairs.
" Why so?" asked Alice, conscious of a sharp pang of interest. " You are
not going to fire the Polish heart and make a revolution, I hope?" she added,
trying to varnish over her anxiety with a joke.
" I would if I could," declared the Count tragically. " But no; impossible.
The Russian and German colossuses are too big and strong. The emancipa-
tion of the serfs in Russia has thrown all:into confusion) in all Slavic countries.
My steward knows not how to manage free tenants, and my revenues have
diminished twenty thousand dollars, which," he added after a moment of com-
lpuitation---" whichis almost half. I must go there and restore order. I must
be my own Suwarbow. AJsteward cannot do it."
Mrs. Dinneford was delighted to see him take his loss of income so calmly,
thinking that he had indeed inherited a heroic and worthy spirit from his noble
ancestors.
" I trust you will be gentle with your poor tenants, who of course don't
know how to use their freedom aright the moment they get it, and must learn

l

THE WETHE REIN AFFAIR.

160

161


la2                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
oy degrees how to perform their duties toward their employer, as well as to-
ward themselves," she said with a simple good faith which might have drawn
tears from an honestly tender philanthropist, but which only tempted Poloski
to smile.
"I shall be considerate to them, I assure you, my excellent Mrs. Dinne-
ford," he promised with the gracious grandeur of an Ahasuerus extending his
sceptre. " Here in America I have made advances in the sublime science of
humanity."
This speech was a lilt, for Mrs. Dinneford had been an abolitionist from
her youth up, and had rejoiced exceedingly in emancipation and negro suf-
frage, and sympathized with Mr. Sumner's desire to give every colored brother
a farm and mule.
Poloski saw that he had produced a good impression, and it occurred to
him that he ought to improve it at once.. There was Miss Dinneford, a prize
worth having. She was genteel, and she was handsome, and, what was more,
she was rich, or would be. He must marry her; but to bring that about he
must propose to her; and how should he propose? Would it be best to declare
his love to the daughter after the American fashion, or preliminarily to the
mother, after the fashion of Europe? Should he ask a private interview with
Mrs. Dinneford or with Alice? For a few seconds he was silent, gravely de'-
bating these breathless questions.

CHAPTER XLII.
THE PLAIN DEALING OF TRUE FRIENDS.
(OUNT POLOSKI had just decided that he would put his covetousness of
Miss Dinneford's money into such affectionate and love-making English
as he could command, and fire it off at both mother and daughter together, in
the reasonable hope of bringing down at least one of them, when the door bell.
checked him with its intrusive, unsympathetic tinkle, and in walked Edward
Wetherel and Lehming.
It will be remembered that they believed him to be a perilous adventurer,
if not a vulgar ruffian, and that they came to exorcise him outof this house-
hold. But there was no violence, and even no outright, candid explanation, so
forbearing are the manners of American society, at least in the North, and so
little pugnacious is its very hostility. Wetherel and Lehming were young men
of the modern Puritan type, resolute and tenacious enough at heart, but out-
wardly composed and mild. During the walk hitherward they had talked
over their errand in a tranquil, business-like, considerate fashion, and had said
that while the Count must if possible be got rid of, the feelings of the Dinne-
fords must be handled delicately. So they bowed to Poloski, and took his hand
when he put it forth in his vivacious, genial way, and otherwise treated him
decorously. Of'course lie was exceedingly conciliatory to the relatives of.
Alice; he addressed Edward as "My dear Wetherel," and called Lehming
"Mon savant."
"I did not see you the, other evening at the Van Leers," he remarked to
Edward. " They gave a splendid soirde, the Van Leers. Mrs. Van Leer was
very gracious to me; she always is gracious.. I admire Mrs. Van Leer, she is
so gracious and spiritual. She is no longer quite young, but she is excessively
'delicious, she is so gracious. I was very sorry not to-see you there, my dear
Wetherel. I always miss you. And I missed .you, too, Mrs. Dinneford and
Miss Dinneford. I had very little pleasure there, because I did not see any of
you."
" we were not invited," answered Mrs. Dinneford with self-respectful
frankness, while Alice colored deeply, and barely refrained from biting her
lips with vexation; for the Van Leers were what she called "awfully fashion-
able," and the fact that they had overlooked her was mortifying. Lpt us re-
member, by the way, $liat it was mainly because the Count "went every-
where".that he seemed so desirable in her eyes. If she should become the
Countess Poloski, she too would be able to "go everywhere," certainly in New
York and probably in Europe.
" Oh, I am sure there was an invitation, but it did not arrive," replied the
ready Poloski. " The Van Leers have often spoken to me.of Mrs. and Miss
Dinneford with distinguished consideration," he continued, romancing with ad-
mirable volubility. " They must have invited you, they are so gracious.
Did.you not receive your invitation, my dear wetherel?"
"Yes," admitted Edward unwillingly, for he detected Alice's mortification,
and was sorry to increase it by publishing his own superior fashionableness,
"But I seldom go out of late. These crushes are uninteresting to me."


1                   THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
"You forget that Mr. Wetherel has suffered a bereavement lately," whis.
pered Mrs. Dinneford to Poloski.
" Ah-yes," murmued the Count with an air of extreme confusion, quite
remarkable in such a veteran of society.
He seemed to be painfully overwhelmed by his blunder, and sank into si-
lence. Alice discerned his embarrassment, and was affectionately minded to
come to his relief, and did so with all a woman's vivacity and fluency, giving
forth corruscations of her thin, sparkling prattle. But somehow the noble for-
eigner's, extinguished taper could not be relighted, and after grinning and
bowing and saying "Oh yes " a few times, he took a flourishing departure.
As soon as 'he had vanished, Alice became taciturn and moody. She had
an impression that somehow her two relatives had driven the Count away, and
she almost hated them for it. What young lady had he gone to see now, and
what would he say to her, and what would she reply, and what would he say
then, and what would be the result? were the important questions which per-
turbed her soul and darkened heir brow. She did not seem the same girl that
she had been during Poloski's visit. She was not merely speechless and so-
ber; she had suddenly turned a little haggard and pale.
"You appear to be unwell, Alice," observed Lehming, always promptly
sympathetic.
"I am not well," she said, rising in a state of uncontrollable nervousness,
so that the tears almost came into her eyes. "I wish you two would excuse
me for going to bed. I have a horrid headache. You can talk to mother, or
rather you can listen to her," she added, forcing a gleam of her natural gaye-
ty. "She will be so glad to get me off and have all the say to herself! Good-
night."
"Good-night," answered the young men, gazing after her pitifully, for
they were going to do a hard duty by her, and they were sensitive enough to
know it.
Alice gone, Edward took a seat by Mrs. Dinneford, and began: "My dear
aunt, we have come to speak of this very man whom we found here, Mr. Po-
loski."
Then he told her, without alluding to Alice's supposed heart affairs, what
Wolverton had reported to him of the Count's evil repute and suspicious ways.
Before he had finished his story the good woman's eyes were full of anxiety.,
"Oh dear!" she groaned. "What a world of snares and of pitfalls for the
feet we live in! It is the Valley of the Shadow of Death. The slough is on
the right hand and the black, miry ditch on the left, and devils roaming up and
down the footway."
"Until this man clears himself of these charges, and shows that he is a per-
son of reputable life, lie is not fit to enter your house," continued Wetherel.
"No," sighed Mrs. Dinneford, and came to a full stop there. She did not
much doubt the tale; she was accustomed to rely upon the judgment of both
Edward and Walter;   ey were not men to bring railing accusations against
any one unadvisedly. flt what was she to do, or rather what would she be
able to do, in this matter? Alice was a true woman; in an affair which-
goncerned her sentiments, she was almost ungovernable; what she wanted
with her heart, she wanted with all her mind and strength. Moreover, there
had been little government in the family since the death of its male head.
Mrs. Dinneford had been like most American mothers, and like most mothers
of only children everywherej; she was a good woman, conscientious and in-

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         165
telligent, but utterly incapable of holding strict rule 'over her offspring. If
there had been any domestic lawgiving, any wielding of a family sceptre, it
had been mainly on the part of Alice.  The affectionate mother actually
cringed before the idea of a conflict with the petted daughter.
" Mr. Wolverton himself is-is-" she presently stammered. "Are you
sure that we can trust what he says?"
"I know that Poloski is a gambler," replied Edward firmly. "In other
times he has won hundreds of dollars from me."
"The wages of sin! " shuddered Mrs. Dinneford.
"Gambling alone is not enough to ostracize hiimi from society," continued
the fair-minded young man. '" In Europe gentlemen and respectable people
gamble; fathers and children win each other's francs or shillings. But Polo-
ski has lived by cards. le makes gambling a (rofession. He has no other
visible means of existence. Moreover, I suspect him of being an impostor,
and perhaps worse. I give credit to all that Wolverton reports and hints, ex-
-cepting the mere point of actual crime, violation of the laws. I do not know
that the man belongs to the criminal classes. That I must admit."
"Oh, mysteries of wickedness!" sighed Mrs. Dinneford, her troubled eyes
fixed upon the carpet without seeing it.y
" What will you do?" asked Wetherel after a pause.
"It is Alice!" confessed the wretched mother in a sort of choked cry. "I
must tell you the whole of this wretched business. Alice is bewitched about
this man. Ever so many other girls are. I have never quite liked him, but I
have put up with him for her sake. I have feared some evil, and have fought,
in my poor, unfaithful way, against it, and have prayed for help. But my
child has been stubborn, and God has hot aided. What can a mother do
against her o011. daughter, and against her own foolish heart? I fear that we
shall both be terribly chastised. A just God will not spare such unfaithful-
ness."
"I trust that there is as yet no understanding--no engagement," put in
Lehming.
"Oh no!" gasped the mother, not quite sure of it.
"And you will-see that none takes place?" begged Wetherel.
"I will-strive," stammered Mrs. Dinneford, nearly weeping with the fear
that her strivings might be futile against the will of her child.
"Oh, we ought to have spoken before," groaned Edward, perceiving the
mother's weakness, and anticipating the worst from it. "My only excuse is
that I have been so terribly occupied with my wn wretched affairs I have for-
gotten my relatives. But do be urgent with Alice! And if your remonstran-
ces are of no avail, call us in to plead with her. She does not and cannot re-
alize how miserable she might be if she should marry a reckless, characterless
adventurer, a man without standing or morals. The dissipation of all i'er
property would be tie least of her troubles. He might lead her such a life of
domestic wretchedness as she cannot imagine. He might abandon her penni-
less in some distant country. Such things have been. American girls have
caught sham nobles, and even real ones, to their own sorrow."
He spoke with an earnestness and faithfulness which seemed little less than
cruel. Mrs. Dinneford, as she looked at him through her tea's, thought of his
~esolute and stern uncle, andof all the grim Wetherels of elder days.
." Be of good cheer," smiled Lehiming pitifully, as lie and Edward took their
departure. "I cannot believe that the Almighty Father in whom you have


166                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
trusted will.refuse you guidance and strength. If you want human help, send
for us immediately. I shall be here again to-morrow, and every day."
"God bless you, Walter-and you too, Edward!" called Mrs. Dinneford
from the doorstep.
A hulking, gorilla-browed man, in a'shaggy white overcoat, looked up with
a yellow grin, and a tawdry, painted,.consumptive girl burst into a hoarse gig-
gle. Regardless of these two denizens of a world which was not hers, or rather
so wrapt and blindly encunibered with her trouble of mind that she could not
really see them, Mrs. Dinneford closed the door and went slowly up stairs to
enter into conflict with the being whom she loved best in all the world. "It
would seem," she piteously thought, " as if it were always true that our foes
shall be they of our own household.".
Alice, notwithstanding her alleged headache, had not gone to bed. She sat
in a little rocking-chair, tossing one foot and biting her lips, half moping and
half petulant. She was the picture of a girl who wants her will, who fears
that she may not get it, who fears that it may hurt her, and who still wants it.
If ever a woman is stubborn and indifferent to consequences, and careless of
right and wrong, it is- in a love affair. It may be fairly doubted of many, or
even of most women, whether in such matters they exercise either judgment
or conscience. They will lie, they will deceive their parents, they will com-
mit petty meannesses, and all this without any pungent shame or sense of
guilt. The very next Sunday they are at church with demure, faces, and re-
main to communion. We are furious at their hypocrisy until we turn to study
the lives of their brothers. Then, without a further doubt or growl, we con-
cede the purity of womanhood.
"What did they talk about?." asked Alice peeyishly, as if suspicious that
the conversation below had not been such as to please her.
"They spoke of Mr. Poloski," answered the mother, in a tone which con-
fessed that the speaking had not been to that person's advantage.
Alice uttered an indistinct, sulky, anxious sound, which was not loud enough
to be called an exclamation, and which decorum forbids us from describing as
t grunt. She knew that something' evil was to be said of her Count, and she
did not want to hear it, and she was crazy to dispute it.
CHAPTER XLIII.
A SPARED ROD AND A 'SPOILED' CHILD.
BEFORE Alice could recover her power of speech Mrs. Dinneford was able
to tell her all the vague evil which Edward had charged against Poloski, and
to add, in a voice of touching appeal, ".Oh, my dear child, do send him
away!"
Then was exhibited all the unregenerate and little lest than unholy passion
of which a nominally good girl, " a member of the church in full and
regular standing," can be capable when she is determined on a lover, and is
forbidden to have him. Alice cried, but not meekly and sweetly ; she cried
in a rage, striking her feet on the floor and complainig loudly, and even scold-
ing; it was a grief as unlovely as that of a child who wails and screams and
snatches for cake. A man who had only seen this young lady in society,
gracious and graceful and entertaining and smiling, would not have known
her now .for the same person. 11er eyes were red and flashing; the tears

THE WETHJEREL AFFAIR.

I'

67

flowed copiously down her cheeks and spotted her dress; her face was swollen
and flushed, and her expression unpleasantly eager and wilful; she had ges-
tures which were eloquent certainly, but not agreeable to look upon.
The truth is that Alice, good-hearted as she was by nature, had been nearly
spoiled by indulgence. Like many another sweett girl"1 of our ' times, sheI
had grown up in the belief that life ought to be one everlasting picnic, at least
for young ladies. She felt herself wronged, and believed that she had a right
to be angry, when she was not amused from morning to night. Self-denial she
had none, nor any ennobling longing after labor and duty, but only a desire to
"have a good time." At last this sybarite of American democracy, this luxu-
rious child of a society which requires all play and no work of woman, was
faced by a denial and threatened by a disappointment, all for'her own good.
She could not endure' such unaccustomed hardness; she was in an agony of
grief and in a spasm of rage.
"What stuff 'for Edward to ilk!" she argued, as women and other people
in close quarters will do, evading the real point at issue. " What was Edward
himself a little while ago? He. was just as wild and dissipated as anybody.
ie is a pretty man to bring up stories against other 'people'! Why didn't he
say this to Count Poloski's face? He didn't dare to. He was afraid there
would e an easy explanation to All' this nonsense. He was afraid he might
get his charges, ack in his own face, hot and heavy. What if Count Poloski
was seen in a low drinking-saloon? In the first place, I don't believe it. I
don't believe that low man, Sweet-a mean, crawling spy and detective! And
then what if lie was there? Didn't Charles Dickens go to all the vile places
in this city to study character, and in London too?  Count Poloski is a
'oreigner. He wants of course to see our criminal classes. It's as likely as
not he is writing a book about America. And then he is a stranger here, and
I dare say he doesn't know every horrid hole in New York, like that wretched
Sweet, and sometimes goes where he wouldn't if he did know. I am perfect-
ly astonished at Edward. I didn't think he was so uncharitable and ungener-
ous and mean-oh, mean, mean-mean as dirt! Before I would do such a
tiing as. this!-blacken my friend's character behind his back!-for lie has
been his friend. Oh, I hate men! I hate 'em and despise 'em! They are all
mean, and I don't believe a word they say! and oh, I wish I was dead and
in my grave!
Here came a fresh burst of tears, with sobbings and twitchings of the mouth,
and angry stampings and gestures.
Mrs. Din neford listened and stared in severe silence. For a brief space
this fond an d over-indulgent mother was revolted by her daughter. She gazed
at tie girl with an eye which told of illusions lost, at least for the moment,
and which sparkled forth contempt and indignation as well as sorrow. It
would have been a relief to her sense of justice and to her feelingsito take this
silly young personby the arm and give her a sound shaking.
But Mrs. l)inneford was very clever; it is probable that early and thorou gh
culture might have developed her.into a woman of decided brilliance; and
een with her limited educational and social advantages, she had at t
flasesvafn'ta-esatmaes
flashes of intelligence which were near akin to genius. On the present occa-
sion, remembering some follies of her own immature years, and perhaps also
e h long pranks of school-girl compaons, she turned from the individual
to      x.    e judgment which she uttered was large enough to
lime and severe enough to b~e terrible.

,


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

"I do believe," she said slowly and sadly, " that no woman ever let her
God stand between herself and the man she wanted."
" Oh! what do you say that for?" Alice almost screamed, for she had a
conscience under her wilfulness, and it stung her wofully at this instant.
" There have been exceptions," continued the mother. "But you, my
child, are not one of them."
Alice slipped out of her chair upon the floor, and grovelled there in a par-
oxysm of humiliation.
"Oh! you have turned against me," she whimpered. "You are all against
me, you and Edward and Walter. I haven't a friend in my family. If ever I
want to do anything, you all want to stop me, just for the sake of stopping
me, and go to calling me sinful, and silly, and everything else that's horrid. I
am the most snubbed and governed and bullied girl that ever lived. Nobody
wants me to be happy, and everybody wants me to be wretched."
"Alice, stop! And get up! " commanded the mother, still keeping her
senses, in Spite of this piteous wail.
But the girl would not rise until she had conquered. She had one last re-
source, a reserve which had given her more than one victory, and she now
brought it into action. She went off in a sobbing, shrieking, jerking fit of
hysterics.
Mrs. Dinneford ought either to have left her, or to have emptied a pitcher
of water over her. Nobody ever indulges in hysterics alone, and no young
lady will lie still and let a favorite silk dress be spoiled. But Mrs. Dinneford
was at bottom soft-hearted, and moreover she was economical. She pitied
her convulsed child, she spared the lilac'silk and lace-edgings, and she lost
the battle. In a minute they were both weeping together, and the daughter
cried to better purpose than the parent. In a contest for mastery between two
people who love each other, the victory generally rests with the one who loves
least. , By the time that Alice had been lifted from the carpet and laid gently
on her bed and soothed with hartshorn and caresses, she had recovered her
supremacy over the doting creature who nursed her.
"Mamma, don't break my heart!" she sobbed, with her arms around her
mother's neck.
"Oh, no! I must let you break it yourself, and break mine," wept Mrs.
Dinneford, feeling that she was beaten and giving up the struggle in despair.
"No, no! He is better than you believe," insisted Alice. "At all events
my fate is fixed," she continued in a high-flying, sentimental' tone which ex-
pressed romantic egotism and self-worship at least as much as affection.
" This man must have me if he wants me. My heart must not be balked' ex-
cept by him."
"Oh, my child! does he really love you?" asked the unhappy mother,
catching at straws for comfort. " If he does, that may save all, even if he is
not good."
"He has pressed my hand," whispered the -silly girl, for whom we must
surely feel a profound commiseration, as well as a wholesome, wrathful deAire
to slap her. "And, 0 mamma, I was so happy! I am sure he will be good
when he sees how happy it'makes me to have him good."
"1God's will be done!" assented Mrs. Dinneford, sinking back from the
bed upon her knees. Then, feeling that it was not God's will which was to
be done, but something very different from that, she added, "God have mercy
upon us!"

" Oh, mamma, thank you!" whispered Alice, selfishly alert and prompt to
seize upon this hardly-wrung concession. She put out her hands, drew her
mother's throbbing head to her, and kissed it repeatedly. ' It was a touching
scene, and to one who did not know the folly which had ruled it and the
vretchied outlook which it'had into the future, it would have seemed a beauti-
ful one. - It ended when Mrs. Dinneford started abruptly from her knees and
went to her room to fall upon.them anew and alone.
Alice had now brought her mother to accept this betrothal; and more than
that, she had brought herself to accept.it. It is a curious fact, and indicative
of the dark ways of-the feminine soul (not to enter upon the oddities of the
masculine ditto), that up to this time she had not been able to decide whether
she wanted Poloski or not. She was fascinated by him, and yet she was a
good deal afraid that he might make a bad husband, and between these con-
flicting sentiments she had seesawed. Opposition had determined her; the
moment the man was forbidden fruit she longed for him; in the struggle to
have her will she had worked herself into a belief that she ardently loved him;
and perhaps there was as much affection in the. flurry as there is in mostof
those spasms of the inwards which lead to nuptials.
When Poloski'mglade his next call, which happened on the morning follow-
ing, it was delicately borne in upon him that a hand would be his for the ask-
ig. Women have numerous indescribable ways of imparting such informa-
tion, while preserving an air of heavenly guilelessness and freedom from
earthly motives, as if they no more thought of marrying than the angels. The
man who picks up what is laid fairly and squarely under his nose, is neverthe-
less left under the impression that he discovered it all by himself and with
great dificulty. It is like giving a mouse to a kitten; tommy invariably sup-
poses that he caught it. There are indeed male souls so timid or stupid that
they caunot see their good luck with suilioient clearness to lay a paw upon it.
We have read of a;lover who shot himself, in despair of winning his Dulcinea,
on the very day that she drowned herself because he could not be coaxed to
propose. But Count Poloski was not a suitor of this humble and unhopeful
stripe. When the mouse was pitched under his whiskers he alighted upon it
with- beautiful promptness and dexterity.
We cannot say what Alice did; perhaps she incidentally gave him a flower ;
perhaps she accidentally touched his hand; perhaps she only gazed meekly into
his eyes. But in the next second the Count had her by the trembling fingers,
and was pouring his tale of exotic love into her simple Yankee ears. In the
next minute she had cried, and had laid her hot, wet face on his noble shoul-
der, and had whispered a frightened, happy "Yes," and in short was a "gone
goose."
Poor little feminine republican! She did not really admire the man;; she
more or less thought him a jackanapes, and perhaps a bad fellow ; but her
democratic soul was entangled and laid helpless in the meshes of a title. How
many 'daughters of freedom, not to dilate upon a "smart sprinkling" of fathers
and mothers to the same, have gone and done likewise! One wonders whether
the time will ever come when our countrymen will be able to say with un-
shakable pride, feeling that there is no loftier boast on earth, "I am an Ameri-
can citizen! " Probably not while our politics remain in their present dlema-
gogical chaos. If bosses continue'to rule our cities, and old war-horses to
neigh brutish stupidities in our Congress, it will be well if the entire nation #

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

169

168


170                  THE WETIIEREL AFFAIR.
does not follow the example of Alice Dinneford, prostrating itself before some
Poloski and saying, " Rule thou over us."
When poor Mrs. Dinneford was informed of the betrothal, she could say
nothing cheerful to her daughter or her prospective. son-in-law. She kissed
Alice with convulsive affection, and endured Poloski's kiss without returning
it. During the greater part-of the day she remained in heri room weeping,
reading the Bible, and praying. Tupper was no egmfort; even Bunyan failed
to lift her the least bit out of her Slough of Despond; she could cling to noth-
ing but the " Promises."
But grieved as she was, she made no further fight; 'once more her child
had altogether triumphed over her; the sorrowful woman, to use her own
forcible phrase, "had given up."  When Edward called in the afternoon she
wrote on a card, " Alice is engaged--I cannot talk of it," and so sent him
away unseen. A similar missive met Lehming, and got rid of him likewise.
Nor would Alice see her cousins; she was furious at them still for maligning
her Poloski; she did not mean to forgive them unless they came to her wed-
ding.
Perhaps, too, she kept her room out of a vague fear lest these cruel men
had found some new accusation against her Count which would come hard
upon forcing her to dimiss him. We must, leave her to her selected destiny,
premising that it will not be a wehspring of pleasure.
-CHAPTER XLIV.
A PROSPECTIVE COUNTESS.
Mus. DINNEFORD was at first greatly amazed, as well as terrified and
grieved, by the result of Alice's flirtations.
She was as much astonished to find herself the prospective mother-in-law
of a dandified, grimacing, philological foreign Count as a sober hen might Ae
at discovering that she had hatched a hook-nosed, flame-colored, jabbering
macaw. It was really pitiful to see the eager, ruffled, clucking way in which
she watched his struttings and gasconadings, as if she were wondering what
noise this outlandish bird would make next, and fearing lest he should'peck
the coop to pieces. Little by little,.however, she became somewhat numb to
the situation, and even learned to treat her daughter's betrothed with a certain
exterior cordiality, smiling much at him in a mechanical, placating way, and,
so to speak, dumbly interceding with him not to be as bad as he could be.
He on his part saw that virtue was desired of him, aid did his best to in-
spire hope that it would be forthcoming. To hear him talk about himself was
like listening to a fairy-tale about the "good prince."  According to his tell-
ing, lie was oneof the finest fellows morally that you could set your mind's
eye upon.. He had never done a dishonorable thing; that was a point on
which he frequently and copiously insisted; nothing unworthy of a gentleinan !
nothing unworthy of his ancestors! nothing ignoble! And then lie was so
rich; he had such enormous and little less than Immeasurable territories!
such hosts, and ever increasing hosts, too, of tenants! The most remarkable
thing about his estate, indeed, was the facility with which it committed annex-
ation and doubled its population. The expansion of the United States and the
increase of the children of Israel in Egypt were as nothing by the side of these
phenomena. In truth it seemed alarmingly probable that if Poloski continued

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        171
to talk about his county, it would shortly absorb all Europe. A!s a matter of
course he was beloved to distraction by his multitudinous retainers; when he
should return to them they would pour forth to receive him with shouts, and
redden the domed night with bonfires of welcome. Of course also these gral-
deurs involved a footing in the highest walks of society, and an easy entree to
all the courts of Europe. His Alice, his adored and dashing Alice, would be
a "sure-enough countess and no mistake," he declared, falling back upon one
of his favorite "slangs " for a vividness of description suited to the brilliant
fact. In a word, the copious and imaginative man confessed and afliried him-
self to be a most desirable match, both in spirituals and temporals.
Mrs. Dinneford could not help. swallowing somewhat of a tale which was
put to her lips so often and so earnestly. She Was hopefully anxious to be-
lieve; she shut her eyes and opened her mouth, as children sayq doubt was
such a torment that she almost prayed for faith. Moreover, it is the nature
of women, shielded as they usually are from the business-like realities of life,
to grant easy credence to the new, the unheard of, the marvellous. The ex-
cellent lady actually feared at times lest her own and her daughter's head
should be turned by the social altitudes which they were about to ascend. . She
thought of Satan leading people up into high mountains, and promising them
kingdoms and the glory thereof, if they would fall down and worship him.
She meditated upon the warnings and reproofs which her favorite Massillon
(she read him in a translation) levelled against the "great ones of the earth "
who forget that they are human. As for Alice, that credulous and ambitious
young lady had fairly departed out, of her Yankee senses, and resided altogether
in cloud-castles of Polish construction.
We must not linger long on thedelectable mountains of this Poloski en-
gigement. Of course there was a deal of love-dalliance between Miss Dinne-
ford and her noble adorer, which we should find savory to the minutest sugared
crumb, if we could stop to feed upon it. But delicacy with regard to the young
lady, and the summoning :voices of more important adventures, oblige us to
omit tasting of these deleterious sweets. We must, however, state the satis-
factory fact that the Count's presents were all that a future countess could
reasonably expect. A superb engagement ring was the forerunner of pearl
brooches, coral earrings, choice mosaics, and other similar proofs of highborn,
opulent affection. Even Mrs. Diuneford was presently driven to admit that
Poloski's revenues must be ample, and that his heart seemed to be'in the right
place. Indeed, gifts came in so abundantly and of such an obviously costly
nature, that this mother in Israel, educated to regard economy as a weighty
duty and a bright virtue. felt herself called upon to remonstrate.
"You: are giving Alice too much," she whispered to the extravagant
grandee. "It really seems to me like wasting wealth, and I fear that some
day it may be regretted. Such generosity may spoil any girl, and lead her to
expect too much hereafter. You must forgive me for quoting to you a line
of iy favorite poet, Tupper: Rashly give they, and afterward are sad, a gift
that doubly erred."
"Bali! a few inexpensive trifles," laughed the Count, showing all his fine
teeth. " Excuse me, my very dear Mrs. Dinneford, for treating your most
kied and ,valued warning with gayety. I am profoundly impressed by the
softness of your heart and the hardness of your head. But money is a drug.
There is more where this comes from.. I haven't got to the bottom of my pile
by a long shut."


TIlE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

He quoted so many of our American "slangs," and he laughed so victori-
ously after each one pi them, that Mrs. Dinneford was silenced for a mo-
ment.
"Besides, there is more coming," continued Poloski, " We '-shall have
plenty to live on. Miss Dinneford is to get a fortune from the Wetherel es-
tate. Aha! you see that I know all. There is, money on both sides. Why
should there not be a few jimeracks and knicknacks?"
"I ought to speak to you about that," answered the good woman promptly
and firmly. "You have heard, I suppose, that my poor cousin, Judge Weth-
erel, left us a large property. It is my duty as a Christian woman to tell you
the exact truth of the matter. ' The will was lost and all the estate goes to
Edward Wetherel."
"I know-I have understood," hastily muttered the Count. He was not
looking at her; his eyes were wandering unsteadily about the room; he seemed
to her to be awaiting further information.
"Edward may give us something," hesitated Mrs. Dinneford, who did not
feel quite certain of the gift, now that Alice was about to make this dubious
match in spite of Edward. "lHe has declared his purpose of so doing. I query
and worry daily as to whether we ought to accept."
"Is lie mad, and are you all mad?" exclaimed the Count, turning upon her
with a stare of irritated amazement. "Why should you not accept? But he
will not give. No man gives away a fortune who is not forced. The thing is
to force. You' wait! I will attend to this business. You wait and see. All-
'that is yours shall come to you. The moment I shall have power to act for
Miss Alice I will make things to happen. I will makesome one restore that
estate. You shall have all your money.- You wait and trust in me. Say
nothing. Keep dark. Wait.",
" Do you mean to charge Edward  -? " stammered Mrs.,Dinneford, open-
ing her eyes wide in an obscurity full of horrors, and feeling as. if she were
turning dizzy on the verge of an abyss.
"I charge nothing," answered the Count, still looking away from her.
"But I will cause some one to disgorge. Wait till I am married. I will see
to all. I ask nothing of you but to trust in me and keep dark."
He would explain no further. Mrs. Dinneford went out from this inter-
view quite confounded' and terrified by it. What frightful thing had the man
uttered, or rather what frightful thing had he concealed? But after much
meditation she decided that his discourse had been mere high-flying babble,
such as she supposed foreigners could not help indulging in, especially if they
were counts. Alice, when informed of Poloski's tall talk, expressed the same
opinion of it.
"It is just some of his blank verse," she said in a tone of half petulance,
half apology. "I must admit that he does sometimes go on like a fairy-tale,
or like Mother Goose's Melodies," she added, unable to control her Wetherel
wit. "But I believe all those European continental folks do the same. They
have so much more vivacity and imaginationthan we Yankees! He has said
something of this sort to me once or twice. I don't know what he believes or
what he means to do. I didn't ask him. I didn't want to talk about it. It is
such a horrid, hateful. subject."
After a little she resumed hesitatingly: "Mother-do you suppose Ed-
ward can have-done anything wrong?"
"Oh, Alice!" implored Mrs. Dinneford, putting up her hands. "Don't say

i2

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

any such words to me. They are like the whisperings of Satan. We must
resist such thoughts as uncharitable and wicked temptations."
" I don't believe in him as I did," murmured Alice, who had not forgiven
Edward for opposing her match and maligning her lover.
Walter believes in him," replied Mrs. Dinneford, with a profound con-
fidence in the intelligence of Lehming, and little knowing the doubts by which
he was tormented.
"You shan't misjudge my Count," broke out Alice, after watching her
mother's worried face for an instant. "He is not to blame for having his sus-
picions. A great many people have-had suspicions. Just think what a mud-
dle it has-all been. Uncle Wetherel dead, and Nestoria spirited away, and the
whole thing as black as midnight! "
"I know," sighed Mrs. Dinneford. "We have cause to be thankful for
that we have been allowed to keep our reason amid it all."
"And you won't think hardly of him because he talks a little fancifully now
and then ?" begged the girl. "You will think kindly of him?"
"I will,"'promised .the: mother, unable to resist an only child, a child, too,
whom she was not used to resisting.
But Mrs. Dinneford and even Alice herself did come to feel a little hardly
toward the noble Poloski,,when a few days later he broached the idea of an
immediate marriage, to be followed by instant departure for Europe.
"I have letters which call for me to arrive," he alleged. " I must arrive
as soon as I can go. There are family affairs,.very urgent. My sister is
about to contract a marriage which is undemeaning of her and of our family.
I must hasten to prevent it."
What should be done? What girl wants to be hustled through that triumn-
phal march, that review which celebrates love's greatest victory, an engage-
ment?. The wedding trousseau was not selected; the robes of silk and the gar-
ments of fine linen were not made up; the hymeneal glories of all sorts were
in an entirely embryonic condition. Mrs. Dinneford mildly argued against
the confounding- proposition, while Alice protested, implored, pouted, and
finally wept. The Count did not take opposition sweetly, and there was a scene.
of the kind known as a love quarrel.
For a time the two women stood firm, upheld by the importance and gran-
deur of the situation, and by that habit of commanding the inferior sex which
American females have. It was proposed that the patrician lover should go
to Poland alone, and return as soon as he had finished his lofty business. But
he looked so sulky over this suggestion that it seemed quite probable that he
might not return at all. What if one of those titled' ladies whom he would be
sure to encounter in the courts of Europe should throw herself at his head and
cause him to 'orget the simple New York girl who had nothing to give him
but a heart and some democratic dollars? Moreover, he was heard to mutter
something about the insulted honor of his family and the possibility of a duel.
These bugbear i were too much for Alice. In general a woman does not
want to break off an engagement unless she is. comfortably certain of entering
promptly upon another, seizing the hand of Number Two simultaneously with.
dropping that'of Number One. Furthermore, Alice, like most newly betrothed
girls, had just set seriously to the work of loving. The Count had been daz-
zling to her betoi e he proposed; but now that he had been accepted, he was
.precious. It is one of the noble characteristics of the feminine heart that in
general it worships all the more earnestly for winning. Alice was beginning

178


THE   ETHEREAFFAIR.THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

to be honestly and almost passionately and we must say admirably infatuated
with her man, for the reason that she had got him and could call him her own.
When it seemed likely that she might have to part with him, and when she
was assaulted by the still more dreadful idea that he might rush into mortal
combat if she did not watch over him, she gave up her rapturous' dream of a
long engagement and a splendid wedding, and consented to become a wife
without ti'opsseau or cards.
The surrendry of Alice was punctually followed by that of Mrs. Dinneford.
"I consent," she said, dropping a tear over the thought of so early a parting.
" Heaven's will be done!-if it is heaven's will," she added with some temper.
" But I shall follow you, if you are gone two months. I shall break up and
rent the house and follow you."
" I shall be delighted, I am sure," bowed the Count with a grin which ex-
pressed a very skeleton-like sort of joy.
And so the wedding day was fixed for a week later: it was the 25th of
November which was to be thus honored; and on the 26th the happy couple
were to set sail for Hamburg.
CHAPTER XLV.
A PHILANTHROPIC CONSPIRACY.
ONE naturally marvels what the able and energetic Edward Wetherel is
doing all this while, and why he does not interfere in some Olympian manner
to save his cousin from her risky entanglement.
In apology for the young man we must observe that it is not so easy to de-
liver a young woman who positively objects to deliverance. . Besides, he was
breathlessly busy in these days, as indeed he had been ever since the tragedy of
Sea Lodge, although we have not deemed it worth while to follow him up in his
labors, which resulted in nothing more than mere futile rushing and raising
of dust, like the speed' of a blinded Jeu ,who drives furiously to arrive no-
where. It is only fair to him that we should listen to a bemoaning apology
for himself which he uttered about this time to Lelhming.
"I am bringing nothing to pass," he exclaimed fretfully. " But it does
seem to ine that it is less my fault than the fault of ungovernable circum-
stances. I have been driven to grapple with two awful mysteries-that of
my uncle's assassination, and that of Nestoria's disappearance-and they have
wasted all my time, and beaten me."
Lehming was smitten by a twinge of conscience and of compassion. Ie
had by this time recovered a certain degree of trust in Edward's innocence of
murder; and for a moment he was impetuously tempted to say, "I will show
you Nestoria."
" Horrible problems!" resumed Wetherel, shaking his head with a pathetic
air of lassitude. "They are too much for human ingenuity. They are like
ghosts to whom daybreak has not yet come, and who will persist in walking
the earth. Not one happy accident has favored my search; not one disen-'
tangling clew has fallen within reach of my hands; and heaven knows how
eagerly they have groped. IBut I am;not the 'only one who is baflled ; I am
only one of a perplexed multitude. Tle mousing of justice is equally at fault,
and the scent of public suspicion. The police of New York is as completely
bewildered as the police of Connecticut. Is it not monstrous and demoraliz-

174

ing that one vile assassin should be an overmatch for all the human race? It
is not true that murder will out., It is a popular delusion, helpful to the gen-
eral conscience undoubtedly, but as false almost as a superstition of fairies or
witches. Since I have been engaged in seeking out this homicide I have
heard of dozens and scores of others, all equally fallen into the dust of mystery
and become impalpable. Unconvicted and unsuspected murderers elbow us
in the streets. - It is a hideous, haunted world. I have some such feeling
about it as men must have had in other days when they believed in spectres,
brownies, wizards, troubling goblins, and physical manifestations of Satan.
I am constantly discovering, or rather seeming to discover, things which are
invisible to others' eyes, and which probably do not exist. Every day, and I
might almost say every hour, I see possible- assassins. I am followed and
whispered to by credulities and suspicions which vanish as soon as I question
them. The earth has changed to me; it is no longer an ordinary, natural,
sunlit planet; it is a valley of the shadow of death, full of demoniacal appari
tions. Bunyan saw a part of existence as I see the whole of it."
There was a passion, an exaltation, and a lyrical extravagance in his lan-
guage which showed that his imagination had been heated and set on fire by
the crime which had impinged upon and deflected his life. 'There had been a
collision of a mighty event with a soul, like the fabled shock of a comet
against a planet, and the result had been a conflagration, In his other days
of commonplace beipg he could not have talked with this lurid fervor of
fancy. Lehming listened to him and looked up at him with that surprise
which we accord to those who have ascended some mount of transfiguration.
Had you not better suspend for a time this search after the assassinP "
he asked with hesitation. "It may end in becoming a fixed idea, and inter-
fere with your usefulness throughout life."
"Yes," conceded Wetherel with a sigh. "It may. It has already wasted
much time for me. For months now I have done next to nothing but grope
for traces of crime without finding them. I have not shown myself to much
advantage. I have been a mole, working incessantly, but working under
earth, and finding no exit. All the plans for doing some little good, which I
blabbed and bragged about to you a while since, have come to nothing. You
remember that I proposed to instruct and help the working classes. I haven't
lone it; of course I haven't. How can a man carry out philanthropies when
he is startled every day by some false view-halloo- after an atrocity which con-
cerns his good name and happiness? Now I am in chase of the murderer of
my uncle, and now of the kidnapper of Nestoria. I am not a sufliciently great
man to be a mighty worker and a benefactor of my kind amid such a distract-
ing hurly-burly. I can only say for myself that I have nearly settled that
estate, and that I have made some progress in my medical studies."
Lehming still pondered whether he should revel. the hiding-place of Nes-
storia to this man who seemed so honestly and passionately eager to find her.
But he remembered the girl's word; wait{ he remembered his promise that he
would keep her secret; and, with a profoundly troubled spirit, he turned to
another urgent subject.
"'What will you do with the Dinnefords?" he asked. "Here is this
wretched marriage. If-you pay those two women some large sum of money,
what will become of it? Poloski, whatever else he may be, is a gambler and
a spendthrift'
" I am master in this matter, of course," replied Wetherel. "1. shall pay

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR,

175


176                 TIE WETIIEREL AFFAIR.
them, but under a trusteeship, and I shall be the trustee. I decided upon that
step as soon as I heard of the engagement."
"Have you ever considered one thing?" continued Lehming. "I have
thought of it repeatedly, but never when in your company. This will-this
will that you accept and talk of executing-you have no knowledge of it except
through Mrs. Dinneford."
"Mrs. Dinneford is such an entirely unselfish and honorable woman that I
should hardly doubt her unsupported word, even in a transaction so much to
her benefit," replied Wetherel tranquilly. "But I have other evidence. In
the first place, my uncle told me that he should cut me off, and he was a man
who never said more than he meant. In the second place, I found in his
journal a record of the making of the will, and a summary of its leading pro-
visions."
"Ahi!" said Lehming. "All that is new to me. I have occasionally wonr
dered whether you were not acting on insufficient testimony.'?
"No," responded Wetherel.
For a moment the two superbly unselfish men looked at each other in ad
miration.
"I thought you knew all this," resumed Wetherel with a smile. "You
are very incurious about your own affairs, and indifferent about money. I dare
say it is well for civilization that some men set greater store by it."
"Undoubtedly," admitted Lehming. "The greedy and even the miserly
are immensely useful, in spite of their egotistic and sordid motives. Capital
ists are essential to the advancement of the material and also the intellectual
and moralinterests of mankind. I have no doubt that Sallust's gardens and
even Lucullus's suppers helped to elevate the human race."
At this moment up came Wolverton, radiant as usual with the careful dan
dyism of thirty odd, but with a perturbed air of having something on his mind
and of finding it a worrying novelty.
"Have you heard anything?" asked Wetherel eagerly, as if he expected
important information.
"0A good deal," answered Wolverton in a hurried, confidential tone. "He's
a tough curse, that fellow is. I got Sweet to track him again, and Sweet has
a doose of a story to tell, and I -believe it. He doesn't go to Riley's any more;
but why doesn't he? - Because he has set Riley's daughter wrong; at least
that is what Sweet tells me, you know; and so the girl's father and brothers
are after him. Of course he could make it all right by marrying the little
fool; but that he won't do because she's common trash, and he's a gentleman.
Isn't the whole thing devilish ridiculous? Poloski too much of a gentleman
to marry Riley's daughter ! Besides, there's this other bewitched young lady
(1 beg your pardon) and a chance of. getting a fortune by her,;or at least a
moderate pot of money. Of course he isn't going to marry poor little Riley.
Well, the result is (so Sweet tells me) that his life is in danger. If the male-
Rileys meet him, they'll break his skull or something of that sort, and he
knows it.' That's why he wants to hurry up the wedding and get off for Eu-
ro'pe.".           a
"It must be stopped," scowled Edward. " We must take this story at once
to Mrs. Dinneford.".
" Yes-if it will be of any use," drawled Wolverton. "PIl hunt up Sweet,
and we'll all go together, if it will he of any use. But will it? Women are
so devilish unbelieving of' warnings in such matters! The man who says, You

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         177
are a dear creature, is always believed; the man who says, You are not a dear
creature, he is a liar; that's the way women judge. Can't you thrash the
chap within an inch of ,his life, or get some one to do it? Sweet would ham-
mer him to ajelly, for money enough. That's my idea."
It would not convince them," Judged Wetherel. "Besides, it is an un-
mannerly, disorderly way of doing things, begging your pardon, Wolverton."
Oh, we mustn't stand on decorum with such a low beast," said the dandy.
Manners are for gentlemen."
" But my relations would always think ill of it," persisted Wetherel. " I
should lose their esteem and confidence. want to convince them that the
fellow is a lnave, before I treat him as such."
"You are different from what you used to be," said Wolverton.
"Yes,".assented Wetherel gravely. " I should have thrashed him once, I
suppose, without stopping to think. I have been sobered, you know."
Oh, I dare say," mumbled Wolverton, shrugging his shoulders a little as
he thought of that ugly business, the Wetherel Affair. " Well, let's see. You
want to expose him. I can bring about a sort of exposure, if there is time for
it. Here we are at the 23d, and the wedding comes off on the 25th, and they
sail on the 26th. There,.isn't much leeway. I'However, what I can show is
this: I can show it to be pretty certain that Poloski hasn't any property; I
can show, too, that he.is charging all his bills, or some of them, to Mrs. Din-
ncford'
That will help," said Edward.
-tOh, yes, I can make a pretty fair showing there," laughed Wolverton.
"ft's a good joke. He's run up ldtsof bills for Mrs. Dinneford to settle. His
wedding clothes, his presents to the young lady, the engagement ring, and so
on-they are all down against the mother. You see he has been around among
the foreign dealers, the Jews and so forth, and told them who he is going to
niarry, and got his two or three thousand dollars on credit. The bills are to
go in to the old lady on the 27th, the day after the happy pair have started for
Europe. Now that can be shown. Sweet knows of three or four heavy ac-
counts,.and says there are others. You see he has had his eye on Riley's gang
for some time back, and on Poloski as a supposed member of it. lIe found
Out that the noble foreigner had been, buying largely of late, and he looked
into it; and, as I told you, he came across three or four bouncing bills charged
U) Mrs. Dinneford, and heard of others. By the way, Wetherel, Sweet wants
some, money."
"Ill give him something," returned Edward. "Suppose we look him up
and set him about this exposure. I am greatly obliged to you, Wolverton,
for attending to my business for me, and doing it so well."
Oh, it's nothing," drawled the dandy., "In fact, it rather amuses me,
and slaughters the time. Besides, I want to smash Poloski."
A walk to the Tombs 'and a brief search through that sombre and grimy
edifice (within human memory the pride of New York) brought the three men
face to face with detective Sweet. He was dressed in a velveteen'shooting.
jacket, double-breasted vest of the same material, and corduroy trousers, all
showing signs of wear and tear, especially the latter. le looked a little worn
and torn himself, too, his face being as red and scratched as if somebody had
been filing it, his eyes unusually bloodshot and one of them surrounded by a
blish halo, and his knuckles " barked " in various degrees of rawness.
"Excuse my breath, gentlemen," he hoarsely apologized as he drew con.


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

fidentially close to Wolverton and Wetherel. " I've been taking a restorer
or two. Up all night last night."
"I want to see you about that Pole, Count Poloski," said Wetherel. "You
tell Mr. Wolverton here that the man has been getting his accounts charged
to a Mrs. Dinneford. Can you prove that?"
"I can get the bills," declared Sweet with cheerful promptness.- "I ca
get-let mesee-six. I can bring yot six of them debits any day you want."'
"Do you know where Mrs. Dinneford lives?" 1
"I can get full name, number, and street, off one of the dealers' books. It
was all down."
"Very well. Now have those bills sent in to-morrow, the 24th of Novem-
ber, at twelve o'clock, without fail. Here is something for your expense and
trouble thus far. Can I dpend on you? To-morrow at noon."
"Twelve sharp," replied Mr. Sweet. "Thank you, sir; you're a gentle-
man. Twelve to-morrow, November 24th. You can bet on me. Do you
want 'em presented for collection? All right. I'll bring the chalks myself,
with a C. 0. D. No; that won't do, either. I don't want this man to know
that I am on his trail in any way. I'll send the dealers."  .
"If you fail, it is the last job you get through me," said Wetherel grimly.
"If I fail, may I be busted!" imprecated Mr. Sweet. "Oh, you just lay
your pile on me, Good morning, Mr. Wetherel. Very much obliged to you.
You're a gentleman-and a cutthroat prehaps," he muttered'to himself as the
three visitors went out of hearing. "But I don't know 's I much blame him,"
he continued to soliloquize in a fair-minded spirit. "A million is a pile of
money. It's enough to make any man kill his uncle. And if W etherel done
that job, he's a regular smart one, and I respect him. He hain't left a trail,
and he's as sassy as a saint in Paradise."

178

4

179

CHAPTER XLVI.
SEVERE MERCY.
A   LITTLE before noon of the day preceding the one fixed for Alice's patri-
cian nuptials, Edward.Wetherel and Walter Lehming arrived at Mrs.
Dinneford's house to await the advent of Count Poloski's creditors.
The two women were tired, but hard at work, and anxious enough in the
secret places of their hearts, but gay in countenance. There were many im-
portant things yet to be done; there was a hasty bridal robe which must have
some final embellishments; there was a dressmaker to -be supplied from mo-
ment to moment with ribbons and other necessaries of life; there was a colla-
tion, just decided upon, which must be ordered instantaneously from Delmon-
ico's; there was the inevitable hurly-burly of a wedding that is to be. Leh-
ming's compassionate heart turned sick as he looked upon these preparations
for woman's highest ceremony of happiness and honor, and thought how soon
they would tumble into disappointment, grief, and shame.
"had'you not better try to rest, you two?" lie said. "You will want
strength by and by."
" Did you ever know a girl who hadn't strength enough to get married?"
replied Mrs. Dinneford, and not by any means gloomily, for the excitement of
the occasion had given her a vivaciousness which verged upon gayety. "It is
the one thing that a daughter of Eve can always find the might to do, even if
she is at death's door."
" What is the matter with you, Walter?" burst in Alice gleefully. " You
look as white as if you were going to be married yourself. Now, if you are
turning pale on my account, you may save yourself the trouble. My Count
will be a good husband. You wait and see."
Lehming glanced imploringly at Edward. He pitied this infatuated girl
and this overborne mother with all the fervor of his sensitive spirit. Foolish
as he knew the desire to be, he half wished that the exposure which was to
turn their blithesomeness into weeping, might be averted, and half hoped that
if they should have their bewildered will, it might not be to their hurt. But
there was mio-relenting in that other young mhan; he was as calmly resolute
and unflinching as his uncle might have been in his place ; he was a Wetherel
of the ancient, remorseless, Cromwellian type.
" Do sit down and take a minute's repose," begged Lehming, seizing Mrs.
Dinneford's tired, trembling hands, and drawing her to a sofa.
"Edward, I am out of all patience with you," said Alice. "You look as
grim. as a justice. I know what you are thinking, and I don't like "it. Be-
sides, it's of no use. You can't make me give up this step at the eleventh
hour. I shall get married. So don't say a word about it and don't scowl.
What do you want to spoil my wedding for? It is too bad. My own cousins
groaning and glowering at me! It is too bad."
She was about to cry, but just then the door bell rang, and in an instant
she was all cheerful excitement, her cheeks glowing and her'eyes sparkling
splendidly

THE WETIIEREr. AFFAIR.


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

"There are the ribbons," she laughed. "Why don't they answer that belP
I wonder if there is a servant in the house."
The domestics were slow in coming. Meanwhile there was another ring,
and another, and another.
"They must be out, those creatures," exclaimed Alice petulantly.
"I will go," volunteered Edward, guessing what visitors waited admit-
tance.
He stepped into the hall, opened the street door, and ushered in six men,
all wearing more or less of the shopkeeping air and all of foreign aspect.
" What is your business? " he asked.
"My bishnish ish money," answered a somewhatsgreasy and rancid young- .
ster of brief stature and aquiline profile, at the same time exhibiting a slip of
paper.
Wetherel looked with an imperturbable countenance from one to another.
of the half dozen. Each and every one held forth a bill, with more or fewer
words of stammering explanation; mean while glancing suspiciously at his com-
rades.
"Islh this a do?" asked the one who had first spoken.
Let me have your bills," responded Wetherel. "And wait here."
Stepping -back into the parlor, he said in a clear; strong, merciless tone,"
"Mrs.. linneford, here are six tradesmen with their accounts. What shall I
say to them?"
"I don't owe a cent in-the world," exclaimed the astonished lady. "I pay
everything by the week."
"Just look at these and see what they mean," persisted Edward, handing
her the slips of paper.
Mrs. Dinneford put on her spectacles and read aloud, "One diamond ring
-three hundred dollars! ' I never bought a diamond ring in my life,"'she
broke out.' "Did you, Alice? "
The young lady's face was scarlet, and she merely responded by shaking
her head.
"One coat, one pair pants, one vest," continued the mother, glancing at a
second bill. " Why, this is some ridiculous mistake. These men have got the
wrong house."
But she looked agitated; - she had her ping of wretched divination; it
seemed to her that something ugly was at hand.
"Come in here, all of you," summoned Edward, opening the door into the
ball. "Come in and explain."
They entered, the entire half dozen; they told their six stories in six dia.-
lects of imported English; and all the six swindling, humiliating tales were
one. 'Mr. Boloski, or Boloshki, or Ploskee, or Plosk, as they variously styled
him, had, bought this, that, and the other at "our shop,"' and ordered the bill-
for the "lot" to be sent to Mrs. Dinneford, or Tinnevoort, or whatever it
might be.
The miserable mother, still not quite comprehending this confonding and
disreputable muddle, turned and stared at her still more miserable daughter.
Alice had not spoken since the men entered the room, and she could not
speak now. She had dropped into the chair which stood nearest, her face en-
tirely destitute of color and her head swimming. One, of the duns, an nn-
wholesomely sallow little creature, with wavy, glossy, carefully-brushed jet
hair, lhad his beadlike, glittering eyes fixed on her hands. She noticed hia

180

i

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

181

glance, and it startled her like the crawlng of a serpent, and she found power
for action and utterance. With a shudder of disgust she commenced stripping
her fingers of emeralds and diamonds.
"There they are," she said, handing Poloski's betrothal offerings to Leh-
m ing, who had stepped toward her with a fear that she might swoon. "Give
them to their owners. Mother, you must get the corals and the other things,
and send themtoo."
Then came a 'sob-an outburst of insupportable humiliation-and with a
rush and flutter she was gone.
"Go with her," urged Lehming, addressing the stupefied mother. " We
will attend to these men."
" Yes," added Wetherel. "Come into the hall, you people," he continued
to the six clerks.- "I will tell you what this means."
He led them out, and after a few words of explanation, sent them away,
some of them happy at recovering their merchandise, and others gloomy over
the prospect of collecting from Poloski.
When he returned to the parlor he was astonished by finding Alice there.
She was crying, without even trying to wipe away her tears, or seeming to
know that they were falling. She was weeping, sobbing, talking, and pacing
the room all at once; it was a storm of grief, of shame, and of anger overmas-
tering both; it was weakness, and yet it was strength.
"I came back-I wouldn't stay up stairs," she gasped out between her
sobs. "I have just one thing to say-just one thing and no more. le is all
you told me. ,I believe everything now. lie is a contemptible liar and swin-
dier and impostor. I have done with him. Oh, no doubt about that. I came
back to tell you so. J never will see him again. Never! If he has the face
to come here, I want you to drive him away. He is a mean impostor. Ie is
a liar. I don't believe a word he ever told me. You have carried your point,
Edward. I suppose you did this. You have almost killed me. But I thank
you. Is that enough? Are you satisfied? You ought to be."
Edward took her hand, kissed it respectfully, and tried gently, to make her
sit down. But she resisted him; elastic and strong with hysteria, she broke
away and kept-on walking the parlor; the storm of sobbing, tears, and sharp,
jerky talking did not cease for some minutes. What she said was mainly re-
iteration; but it was necessary that she should reiterate; nothing else would
soothe her agitation. Like her niotlher, she was a born talker, and mist bab-
ble out all her emotions or choke with them.
Do be quiet, child!" begged and commanded Mrs. Dinneford repeatedly,
alarmed by the girl's excitement.
"I must talk or (lie; let me alone! " returned Alice, and whirled on in her
gust of feverish speech. It was like a tempest in autumn woods, only that in
place of withered boughs and frostbitten leaves, blighted hopes and joys were
blowing about, noisily rustling forth their shame and spite.
"I knew it-I knew it all the while-I knew I was a fool," she chattered.
'I knew at the bottom that I was wrong. I knew it would end badly. And
it has. It has served me just right for being such a fool. I would have my
own way, and I've got it hot and heavy. I've got i right in my face and eyes.
This puts an end to Alice Dinneford.' I shan't go out again in society. It's
the last beau I shall have, unh'ss I pick up some old gentleman with a shiny
top and gold spectacles. You'll see me marry Methusaleh, or.1the old original
Jacob Townsend, if you see me marry at all. But I want this Count to catch


182

THE, WETHEREL AFFAIR.

trouble, too. Oh, I want him to have the hot end of the poker. I had no bu-
siness to believe his lies, but he had no business to lie. How glibly he did talk
about his estates and his revenuesand his money in bank! And he hadn't a
cent; charged his wedding coat to my mother; and my engagement presents
went down on those Jews' 1 ools! Oh, how I do despise him and hate him,
and what a time we should have had in a month! I wish he was in jail and
grinning through the bars."
"Alice, do hush!" implored the mother.' " You are turning yourself inside
out, like a fig-fish on the seashore. You are making a perfect spectacle of
yourself."
"And why not?" gasped Alice, throwing herself breathless into a chair
and patting the floor with her feet. "Edward and Walter know all about it
already. I can talk before my cousins, can't I? I can trust them, can't IF
And I niust talk. I must foam over, or explode. Corking this thing up would
kill me. Don't you know it would, mother? You are just like me. If I
were not gabbling all the time, you would be."
And,.in fact, Mrs. Dinneford was talking all the time, or striving so to do.
As was their wont in moments of unusual excitement, the two women ran
parallel streams of conversation, each gushin. along without much regard to
the other, like the Rhone and the Arve at their confluence. Only on this oc-
casion the superior volubility of the daughter constantly put the mother out,
and rendered her pretty much inaudible. The burden of the elder lady's frag
mentary discourse seemed to be this, that her child had been graciously fa-
vored with a wonderful preservation, and that Providence had interfered just
in the right season to tbeach a precious lesson of prudence and humility. Mean-
time the two men had withdrawn, as it were, to mountains of silence, accord-
ing to the custom of male creatures when the fountains of feminine eloquence
are broken up and the waters thereof overspread all creation.
Of a sudden Lehming, who had taken refuge in a window-seat, called sharp-
ly, "Here is the mpan."
"Let him come in,".replied Wetherel calmly. "But had not you two la-
dies better leave the room?"
Yes; go, Alice," urged Mrs. Dinneford.  "You must not meet him.
Now, child, do go!""
"I shan't stir a step," responded Alice spunkily. "I want to look at him'
when he catches it."
CHAPTER XLVII.
EXORCISING A SON OF -BELIAL.
WHEN Poloski entered the parlor Alice neither answered his bow nor eva-
ded his glance, but sat with burning cheeks and sparkling eyes, biting lie lips
and tossing her foot and staring at him, an incarnation of frank, hearty, quiv-
ering, feverish scorn and indignation.
For an instant the visitor of course supposed himself at home, and adva need
with proffered hand and his usual cordial show of glistening teeth, uttering.
salutations and compliments to right and left. But when no hand was put
forth to take his, and when he saw that all present eyed him with unfriendli-
ness, he was perforce driven to guess that some event adverse to him had be-
fallen. The discovery seemed to startle him quite wonderfully; lie became as
pale an " aristo " as a communist could wish to look upon. -

I

I

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR

183

"I do not understand this deportment," he stammered, glancing hurriedly
from face to face. "I demand to know the meaning of this deportment."
Edwiard Wetherel, with an imperious gesture which commanded the-others
to be silent, advanced close to the noble foreigner and looked him instantane-
ously out of countenance.
"Mr. Poloski, if that is your real name-" he began deliberately.
" Count Poloski, sir!" interrupted the Pole, making a spring to recover the
upper hand in the dialogue. "In view of this deportment I claim to be ad-
dressed by my title."
"It is my duty to charge you with an imposture," continued Wetherel,
taking no notice of Poloski's reclamation. "You have betrothed yourself to a
young lady, py relative, under pretence-of being a man of fortune, while you
were so utterly penniless and even without credit, that you were obliged to
charge your engagement presents, and, even your own 'wedding outfit, to this
young lady's mother."
" It is not so !" screamed the Count, turning from pale to crimson. "There
is some ridiculous error. I said to charge them to myself. Mrs. Dinneford,
I appeal to you, I protest to you, there is some error."
"Six men would not make the same mistake," Wetherel observed.
There have been six tradesmen here, all with bills against Mrs. Dinneford,
and all declaring that they presented them by your order."
The Count swore in a whisper under his moustache, like a panther spitting
softly through his whiskers.
"Your engagement ring," continued Wetherel, "all your betrothal pres-
ents, the clothes you have on your back, the clothes you meant to be married
in, the trunks for the wedding journey, your new revolver, dirk, and sword-
cane-we got the bills for all of them a few minutes since, all charged to Mrs.
Dinneford."
"It was a mistake, it was a:mistake," repeated Poloski. "I do assure you
solemnly, and upon my sacred honor, it was a stupid, cruel mistake."
"Ohm, I know it," smiled his pitiless antagonist. "You ordered that these
accounts should be presented on the 27th, two days after the wedding, and they
arrived on the 24th, the day before it. That was the mistake."
"I will not talk with you; 1, have nothing to do with you!" declared the
Count, 'turning his back on Edward and trying to subdue the women with a
glare; for though he was wretchedly cowed and even frightened, he still had
some spirit left. "I claim my rights. I demand my betrothed wife." .
" Go away; sir!" cried Mrs. Dinneford, rushing in front of her daughter.
She was really alarnied-had, as we remember, an old, native suspicion and
fear of foreigners; half expected to see the Pole grab up Alice and run out of
doors with her.       /
Poloski fell back and began to wheedle, bowing and extending his arms
deprecatingly, and beaming out with'such smiles as lie could get together' in
his trouble. -" Oh, my dear Mrs. Dinneford!" he implored. "How can you
behold in me an object of terrorP I offer no violence; I menace no harm. I
but.ask an interview with Miss Dinneford."
By-dint of dodging about lie caught several glimpses-of Alice's face, and
meanwhile lie made her a series of short speeches, backing tlAem up with
smiles and gestures.
"Miss Dinneford!" in a tone of reproach. "My dear Miss Dinneford!"
in a tone of entreaty, "Aice !" in a tone of romantic sweetness. " Will yoc


184                  THE WETHEREL ,AFFAIR.
not grant nie one word? One single moment alone? A chance to explain?'
A chance to reassure you? -Oh, for the sake of the vows we have inter-
changed, give me one instant of interview!"
Alice continued to gnaw her lips without opening them. In this talkative
young lady silence was an unmistakable sign of extreme, ungovernable irri-
tation in the way of wrath. Mrs. Dinneford, who of course -knew all her
daughter's moods, absolutely trembled at seeing her speechless, fearing lest
the next thing might be hysterics or some act of violence. "Edward! Ed-
ward!" she called eagerly, at the same time signing Poloski away.
Wetherel advanced, and before him the Count retreated, halting,,however,
near the door. There he surveyed his foes with a perplexed expression, obvi-
ously very anxious to make his peace with them and reestablish the engage-.
ment, but quite as obviously doubtful whether he had best utter all that was
upon his mind. His eyes wandered; }his lips parted and closed again several
times; lie had something to.say, and did not know how to put it.
You must excuse me," he began at last with an apologetical smile, "I
have to tell you one thing which it seems you know not. You are all laboring
under a social misapprehension. What I have done is not strange in Europe.
When a nobleman goes to espouse a-how shall I say it?-I mean no offence
-a bourgeoise-she always pays the bills. That is understood; that is the
bargain; everybody understands it so-that is, everybody in Europe. The no-
bleman has rank and the bourgeoise has money,; and they swap, as you Amer-
icans say; they swap. She gives him her money and he gives her his rank.
I have known, of many young nobles who have had all their wedding expenses'
paid by their betrotheds when the latter were bourgeoises. It is nothing new
in Europe. It is understood."
It may easily be guessed that Mrs. Dinneford and Alice were thunder-
struck by what seemed to them the outrageous insolence of this business-like
explanation. 'I do not know what they would have said if they could have
spolien; probably there would have been a scornful and angry outburst to the
effect that an American lady is the equal of any noble; but the lucky fact is
that they were stricken dumb, and so preserved their dignity by not uttering a
word. Edward answered for them, and not without a certain moderation and
considerateness of tone, for he was half inclined now to believe that he had a
real aristocrat before him, so patrician-like was the Count's cool assumption of
social superiority.
'-You are quite rightPoloski," he said. "You have stated the European
idea correctly'. But it makes no difference. My relatives do not want an alli-
ance with you on such an understanding, or on any understanding.  You
should not have acted in this matter covertly. As things are, you are a con-
fessed liar, and, I think I may add, swindler. Now go, and let us hear no
more of you."     -
"A liar! a swindler! " grinned Poloski furiously, jumping forward three
inches or thereabouts. "But no! " he added, checking his mad career  " You
know nothing of honor. You would call the police. You are a coward."
" Go away and don't be noisy, or I shall call the police," continued Weth-
erel in a quiet, resolute voice.
"Ha!" hissed the Count, slowly retreating. "Call the police! You? A
murderer call the police! What a joke is that!"
Both men were ghastly white now, but Wetherel advanced and Poloski re-
coiled. -When the latter found himself in the hall he grappled up his- hat,

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        185
clapped it upon his head with such force as if he were loading and ramming
himself into it, and, emboldened by this action of defiance, turned to blaze out
a last word.
"Revenge!" he shouted, in a style which italics, capitals, and exclamation
points can but faintly symbolize. "Revenge !! REVENGE!!!"
It was suich a salvo of menacing elocution as perhaps was never paralleled
before in real life, not'even among the Count's own rhetorical countrymen.
We can only account in full for his -preposterous emphasis by supposing that he
was familiar with our drama, and imagined that certain popular American ac-
tors do really and truly hold the mirror up to American nature, and inferred
that, if lie did not roar, his anger would not be believed in. It is a pity that
Miss Imogen Eleonore Jones could not have heard him; she would have found
in him a hero of the sort which she had learned to admire in the " Spasmod-
ic "; she would have joyed in such a rich and rare manifestation of the ideal.
Well, he had scarcely exploded ere he was gone, tearing open the street door,
skipping briskly out of it, slamming it behind him, and flying down the steps
as if he were exemplifying the chorus, "Rig a jig, jig,.and away we go."
When Vetherel i-euntered the parlor, with an irrepressible smile of Anglo-
Saxon scorn on his lips, lie found that Alice had leaped from her seat on the
sofa, and was gazing out of a-window. She turned a flushed face toward him,
and asked in an eager, panting, way, " Did you kick him out, Edward?1"
"No," replied the young man, wondering if he had come short of the girl's
expectations. "le seemed to kick himself out.' He went off like a shilling
cannon, loaded to the muzzle. He gave a great bang in one direction and
vanished like lightning in the other."
" Oh, how I hate him! " burst out Alice, thoroughly disgusted with her dis-
charged lover and with herself. A moment later she began to cry violently--
an altogether bewildered and hysterical and nearly demented young lady,
beset at once by grief, humiliation, anger, and no one can tell what other emo-
tions.
" Dear me, if the brazen nature of sin hasn't been uncovered and revealed
to-day most wonderfully !" exclaimed and moralized Mrs. Dinneford, as she
led Alice away to her bedroom to administer soothing andi repose. "I really
thought, in my simplicity, that fraud and lying and all wickedness were niis-
trustful and timorous and shamefaced, fearing the eye of the upright and the
injured. And here I have seen a son of Belial as bold as if he were the lion
of the tribe of Judah. I do believe that that impostor would have the front to
walk into the New Jerusalem and claim the highest saintly throne there, and
put a crown on his head and go to singing."
After the two women had retired, Wetherel turned to Lehming and ob-
served, " Apparently this battle is won."
"You have won it," replied the meek and gentle manikin. "Ihave done
nothing. I have no nerve for combats. Do you know that I actually pitied
that exposed swindler, and could hardly look in his degraded, wretched face? "
"I have not done with him.," said Wetherel. " lie must be followed up
and driven out of New York society, before lie victimizes another innocent."
"Of course," nodded Lehnming. " And, by-the way, perhaps a word more
may 1)e needed here to keep our friends from readmitting him. You know
tnat, after 1piabolus was chased out of the city of Mansoul, h3e got in again.
You must be monitor to the Dinnefords, and make thmem promise not to let Po.
loski into the house; for if he omnce gets a chance to lick them with his slimy


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

tongue, he is anaconda enough to swallow them. . Do you stay and warn.
must go."
He was anxious to get back to his lodgings and see to the safety of Nesto
ria. Of late he was always troubled about her when she was out of his sight
imagining that hie had been discovered by the police, or had been suddenly
frightened into running away, orin some other way had stumbled down the
steeps of calamity. We must understand that she had by this time grown ter-
ribly precious to him, and had become the centre and cause of nearly all his
thoughts and emotions.
Quitting the Dinneford house, he made for Fourth avenue at the best pace
permissible-to his shortness of limb and of breath, and jumped into a street
car which was humming and droning, like a huge, slow bumblebee, in the'di-
rection of his lodgings. From time, to time the heavy vehicle halted, or per-
haps only slackened its lumbering jog, to take on or put off other passengers.
He was moralizing over the matter; he was saying to himself, that this was
like the great chariot of huinai life, every second souls born into it and souls
dying out of it, yet the chariot always full and seemingly of much the same
people; he was, thinking of these things in his imaginative,,tender, Seyious
way, when two persons in the car suddenly aroused his earnest attention.
One of them was his fellow lodger, Imogen Eleonore Jones, and the other was
that no doubt useful but not altogether agreeable official, Mr. Sweet.
What startled Lelning was the fact that these two individuals appeared to
live some understanding; either they knew each other already, or they were
in a state of mind to strike up an acquaintance; at all events they exchanged
frequent and interested glances. If they were intimates, or if they should be-
come such, would Nestoria's secret remain hidden? Would it not tumble out
of Miss Jones's shallow " bread-basket " into the dangerous aids of detective
Sweet?
CHAPTER XLVIII,
A STREET-CAR FLIRTATION.
LEIIMING was so alarmed by the ocular telegraphing which he observed
between Sweet and Imogen Eleonore that lie lost his self-possession and decided
upon the wrong-course'of action.
He sat on the same side of the car with the girl, but partitioned from her
and thrown into shadow by the vast bulk of a portly old gentlenian in a caped
overcoat, who furthermore canopied his little figure with an open newspaper.
He might have revealed himself to Miss Jones, interrupted her mysterious
communications with the detective, and escorted her home. But there was a
little guilt upon his soul; he knew that he was hiding from justice a witness
whom justice needed and demanded;. and the result was that lie himself had
a feat of policemen and desired to evade their notice. So he left the car fur-.
tively, took a hack at the nearest stand, and drove with all purchasable speed
homeward, discovering indeed that Nestoria was still' unmolested, but leaving
the simple schoolna'am to the machinations of Mr. Sweet.
Now these two we must follow and watch-not because they are already
acquaintances, but because they are to become such. Mr. Sweet was on duty,
but, as in the case of Satan, his duty permitted him to wander much up and
down the earth, and even to have "his little fun" in It. It was his cue t-day
to go to and fro in good clothes and otherwise to play the part of a gentleman,

I

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

187

so far at least as his kind ofnature and grace enabled him to play it. le was
on the lookout for female pickpockets, and. this was why he had taken a seat
opposite Imogen Eleonore. There was in fact something flashy and dlashy
about that young person's outward attire, as there was, we remember, about
her intellectual outfit, the frippery and trappings of various spasmodical hero-
ines. Mr. Sweet, with his usual insight, judged at first glance that she was
one of the light-fingeyed sisterhood, or otherwise of illegal habits, and there-
fore took a seat where he could watch her. Miss Jones, who soon observed
his detective oglings, judged with her usual insight that Mr. Sweet was a gen-
tleman and was smitten with her. So, she ogled back; not that she at first
meant to do it; in fact she had very proper ideas concerning street-car flirta-
tions; but there was, she felt, such an attraction in this man's gaze as amounted
to fascination; and the result was that for every glance she returned a glance.
Oho! " said Sweet to himself, suddenly getting a new insight. "That's
what's the matter. She ain't a huntin' for wallets an' wipes. She's out on a
flirt."
le had no objection. He was very fond of love-making in public convey-
ances, and frequently indulged in it when not too much absorbed by his " biz."
There was to be sure a Mrs. Sweet, who kept1an eye on him and sometimes
"worked up his case " for him, judging him.with extreme severity for his po-
liteness to other ladies, or, as he phrased it, "sending him up for seven year."
But his wife was at hoiie minding her business, and so he felt free to gaze
tenderly at Miss Jones, and finally to launch a semi-wink at her. Imogen
Eleonore-was thrilled to the very core of what soul she had by this demonstra-
tion of interest. She did not consider it a wink; could not call it by such a
vulgar name. To her mind it was a gentle half-closing. of the eyes, such as
the most romantic and aristocratic of lovers at first sight might indulge in,
and very similar to ocular gestures which she had read of in her favorite
weekly literature. Such a blush came over the whole of her face that her
very hair seemed to be the redder for it, as if the blood had gushed along the
capillary tubes. It must, be remembered that she was on the whole a plain
girl, and that consequently strange gentlemen rarely winked at her.
Well, she was not only much moved, but, in spite of her sense of the p'ro-
prieties, she was gratified. How is a poor young woman, who knows few men
and is not courted by any of the few-how is she to feel when a fellow traveller
in a street-car shows symptoms-of admiration? Is a spasm of flattered vanity
and of human sympathy to be strictly forbidden .under such circumstances?
But we cannot stop to apologize for Imogen Eleonore; we have enough to do
to tell what she did and what resulted. She looked again at Mr. Sweet; and
then he looked at her; and then she looked at him; and then he at her; and
so on. Sweet was used to this sort of thing, and worked at it patiently, as if
it were a "case."  He knew by this time what lie was about; he was flirting
with a milliner, or a shop girl, or some other "piece of calico; " he had no
high and mighty~,expectations. Miss Jones, much less keen in detecting the
caste of people, and deceived by the detective's fashionable raiment (a second-
hand suit bought of an actor), supposed that she had touched the heart of some
social magnate, and began to wonder whether it would all end in her keeping
a carriage. That was the difference between them; the one, though an officer
of justice, was' a tolerably sharp knave; the other, though an instructor of
youth, was a little of a fool.
As may be supposed, JImogen Eleonore's fancied carriage did not appeal

186


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

Immediately to convey hbr to a brown-stone front in Fifth avenue. On the
contrary, she got out at her usual corner, with a small, depraved-looking gro-
cery stuck on the nib of it,'like a brandy blossom on a drunkard's nose, and
made her customary pilgrimage down a pungent by-street to her sordid lodg-
ings. Sweet was eager to follow her, but he had a job on hand which called
him further down town, and his noble motto was, business before pleasure.
So he simply took a mental note of her costume, speculated for a moment as
to whether she lived in -his tenement-house, or that, or the other, and then,
bending his soul to his duties, forgot her for some hours, as men do forget.
Two days later Miss Jones found among the " Herald" "personals " an ad-
vertisenent which set all her veins throbbing. It read as follows: " Will the
lady who rode in the Fourth avenue car, with blue bonnet, striped silk, and
auburn hair, grant a meeting to the gentleman who sat opposite her in Madi-
son Square, with a view to further acquaintanceP Address ' Herald' Oflice."
The dazzling signature to this confused piece of English composition was,
"Diamond Pin."
" Him!" exclaimed Imogen Eleonore, throwing down the paper with an
agitation which revealed how much she had thought of her chance admirer.
Hiuu! i " she repeated with an emphasis rarely equalled in real life, and for
some moments could utter no more, or at least did not. She rose and walked
the room; she wished people could see her striving with the unknown.; she
looked at herself in the glass, and made that do.
" Be it so! " she broke out at last. " This life is no longer bearable by
woman. I am too much alone with my own heart and with mysteries. I
must thrust out a desperate hand for sympathy, and dh-shall I say it?--for
love-yes, love! Be it in Madison Square or otherwheres, I will meet him,
and see at least what he truly is, and judge whether he be worthy. Be still,
poor fluttering heart! " and here she laid hands on that organ. " Be not
afraid of one venture. Perhaps thy consoler is at the end of my impassioned
and desperate resolve. Give me pen and paper," she added, as if addressing
the " page " who waits on the heroines of the "Spasmodic." "Let me an-
swer while I have the strength."
And so she wrote a letter to "Diamond Pin" (such a letter as he never
saw before out of print), informing him that she would dare to meet him in
Madison Square, and fixing day and hour for the thrilling rencontre. By (lint
of much impatient and tremulous waiting the appointed time was reached;
and Miss Jones, walking the twilight shades in her best dress, encountered
Mr. Sweet in his finest suit._
"Very glad indeed to have the honor," said the detective, taking off his hat
with a flourish common to people who "put on " their manners, instead of
wearing them habitually. "I am really so much obleeged that I don't know
what to say first," he added, a little abashed by discovering a gleam ofsreal
modesty in Imogen Eleonore's alarmed eyes. "You see I didn't hope it, and
it's really quite a surprise and takes my breath away," he resumed, summon-
ing back his characteristic impudence and doing his best to look gallant..
" Would you mind having my arm, Miss, and walking along as if we was go-
ing somewhereP It will seem more like folks, you know."
So Imogen Eleonore, who did not expect to go so far at the first jump,
found herself arm in arm with her nameless admirer, and considerably fright-
ened threat.
"Oh!" she gasped. "Is not this the very poetry of life! It is terrible."

188

189

In reality it was the very doggerel of life; and Mr. Sweet, a prosaic.
minded man with some coarse 'humor in him, rather saw it in that light;
while, being used to much severer adventures, and naturally of an undaunted
spirit, he could not discover the terribleness at all.
"0Oh, shaw, now!' he said cheeringly, at the same time squeezing Miss
Jones s bony wrist withhis mighty biceps. " There ain't nothin awful about
it., All we're going' to do is to just promenade a bit, and talk things over a
few minutes and see how we like each other."
"Only, I should feel more like saying to my fears, begone! if I might be
allowed to inquire your name," observed Imogen Eleonore.
"Certainly," responded this brazen detective. "I don't try to come the
incog. over ladies. My name is Livingstoine-C. J. Livingstone.'
Miss Jones believed this story, and her -features absolutely twitched with
excitement-a spasm of mingled fright and delight. She knew who the Liv-
ingstoncs of the manor were well enough-not merely because as a schoolmis-
tress she was thoroughly "posted" in the early history of New York, but also
because she was aware of their social fame as one of the chief of the "Knick-
erbocker families." Nor would her romantic imagination permit her to doubt
that this man, upon whose arm she leaned, was a scion of that -aristocratic
stock.
"It is a grand name," she said with humble flattery, and yet not without
a painful throb of envy and littleness, remembering her own undistinguished
descent and nomenclature.
" And may I ask your name P " inquired Mr. Sweet in a thrilling murmur,
the same hoarse murmur in which he said to barkeepers, " Whiskey straight."
"Youmay call me-I would prefer you should call me-that is until we
know each other more thoroughly-I ask it as a favor that you should call me
-Diana Vernon," stammered Imogen Eleonore, revolting from the thought
of saying Jones. "Of course it, is not the title of my-my ancestors," she
apologized; "but I trust that under the circumstances you will pardon a
lady's timidity about exposing herself."
"Just so," nodded the detective good-naturedly. "Diana Vernon," he re-
peated to fix the words in his memory, for he was not a reader of Scott. "I m
satisfied with it if you are."
"And now haven't we gone far enough? " said the schoolmistress, seeing
that they had reached an end of the square. "I dare not proceed further in
this direction."
"Oh, well, we'll wheel about and go back again," assented Mr. Sweet.
"One place is just as good as another, so long as we're together."
By this time Miss Jones had got a little impatient, or at least began to suf-
fer somewhat with suspense. She had come here to be courted, and the
courting did not seem to begin. We do not feel at libei;g to justify her; .we
merely claim that her feeling was natural. Furthermore, it was shared by
Mr. Sweet, who also thought that it was about time, as he expressed it in his
own mind, to "quit fooling round, and proceed to business." Accordingly he
squeezed her arm under his, and remarked, " You are a mighty nice girl!"
- "Oh, don't say that!" murmured Imogen Eleonore, scared out of her
breath now that the wooing had commenced.
"But you are, though, and I'm a-goin' to say it, and stick to it like a pitch
plaster," insisted Sweet with another pressure.
,"Oh, no !-flatter me, not-bewilder me not!" pleaded Imnogen, throbbing
with happiness perhaps as much as alarm.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR:-


190

THEWETHEREL AFFAIR.--

"Now don't put a dam-damper on a feller! " protested Sweet, slipping
that ponderous arm of his around her whalebony waist, for lie believed that.
her shyness was in her own way, and that she would be grateful to him for
breaking it down.,. " Come, it's dark enough for us to walk a little closer.
Nobody.'11 see it, or care if they do."
For a moment Miss Jones was paralyzed; for a moment she was squeezed
right heartily and without resistance; for, though she seemed to herself to
pull away, she did not pull an ounce. But she was really terrified; the mag-
azine of honest modesty which lay at the bottom of her silly soul was all
aflame; and she did sincerely want to get out of the hands of her athletic ad-
mirer. Unable to use her muscles, she remembered that she once had a
voice, and she made a spasmodic effort to get it out. In the next instant the
dusk of Madison Square resounded to a squeal of, " Unhand me, wretch!"
CHAPTER XLJIX.
A DETECTIVE IN FULL SCENT.
IMMEDIATELY that Imogen Eleonore raised her voice against the aggres-
sions of Mr. Sweet, he, to use his own phrase in describing the scene to a
brother detective, "set her loose quicker'n powder."
He was smartly startled and even gravely scared. If one of the regulars
should came along, and should turn out not to be a friend of his, he might get
reported for disorderliness if he staid, add might catch a "locustI" across his
head if he ran. There was even a chance-shadowy, it is true,bit still dis-
agreeable to consider-of being dismissed from the "force."  Furthermore the
epithet which this girl had applied to him was alarming because so entirely
novel. HIe had been called a great many grievous names in the course of his
adventurous life. He had been called a scamp, a scoundrel, a rascal, and a
blackguard, with every conceivable accompaniment of supporting blasphemy.
But never before, so far as he could remember then or thereafter, had he been
addressed as " wretch." It sounded like print; it was genteel and nobby and
highfalutin; it struck him as little less than solemn. With a sudden suspicion
that his Diana Vernon might be " a piece of muslin," instead of "calico," he
let go of her as promptly as if she were a red-hot poker, and commenced apolo-
gizing.
"Now, good gracious, don't! " he begged eagerly.. "Don't cut up that
way. Why I don't care a curse about it, if you don't want it. No idea at all
of hurtin' your feelin's or frightenin' you. Why, just look at it. I'm not
holdin' you. You can run away if you want to."
But Miss Jones did not want to run away. Like most women who are
apologized to, she perceived that shd was mistress of the situation; and what
she desired was, not to escape from her lover, but to keep him and rule him.
She dropped upon a bench, breathed forth a sob or two, and forgivingly asked
Mr. Sweet to sit. That gentleman's secret opinion was that he was wasting
his time and had better go; but he could not break the enchantment which
falls upon male creatures when they are both repelled and invited; so he first
took a furtive chew of tobacco to clear his mind and then accepted the invita-
tion.
"     1You think me very, very strange, no doubt," sighed Imogen Eleonoro bg
way of rekindling the conversation.

It

THE WETHEREIL AFFAIR.

I

191

"Ruther offish." grimly assented the confounded officer of justice. "You're
what I call a case. You're a-case as sure as my name is Sweet."
"I thought your name was Livingstone," exclaimed Miss Jones, drawing
away from him.
"So it is-Sweet Livingstone,".rejoined the able detective, promptly rem-
edying his mistake.
" But you said C. J. Livingstone, I thought."
" No; beg, pardon; S. J. Livingstone; that's what I said," undauntedly
affirmed Sweet.
" Oh-excuse me," murmured Imogen Eleonore. " Pardon my suspicious
nature. ' I cannot help it. My life has been a mystery-every day a tragedy.
Always, alhvays, some boding cloud above me, sending down from its murky
bosom chilling snows of gloom, and blighting every verdant hour just when
life looked all tinted with hope. I have lost my trust; I know it. It is very
sad, and I struggle against it, but still I remain suspicious."
" What is it all about?" inquired Sweet, somewhat bewildered by her sen-
sational rhetoric, and thinking that perhaps she could " let him into a case."
Just confide the whole business to me," he exhorted in a confidential tone.
"Make a clean breast of it; do you good. I may be able to see a way'to get
you out of it."
Imogen Eleonore hesitated. On reflection it did not seem to her that what
tragedies there had been in her life were sufficiently incarnadined with ca-
lamity nor sufficiently aglow with romance to arouse the sympathy of a Liv-
ingstone. But she wanted to tell something which should make her appear
great and interesting to her listener. She began to talk of Npttie Fulton--a
fe.w words only, she resolved-nothing that should unveil the secret.
" I will not weary you with my own sorrows," she answered in a certain
deep tone of hers which she considered "thrilling-ah, thrilling!"  "I have
nearly forgotten them of late in pitying the griefs of anotlieP. Such a inys-
tery! Imagine a lovely young girl, a girl scarcely yet of woman's years, seek-
ing shelter of me from the storms of this cruel world."
Mr. Sweet pricked up his ears. Ignoramus and dunce as lie was, he was
an eager, unforgetting detective, and lie thought instantly of the youthful
refugee from Sea Lodge. le awaited the remainder of the story curiously but
in sagacious silence.
"She is passing fair-too fair for the sun to shine upon rudely-much less
the wind and the rain," pursued Miss Jones. " Ah, such pearly tints and azure
eyes and golden hair, and a mouth sweet with the roses of eighteen, yet trem-
ulous and imploring, ever imploring with sorrow!"
"The very gal!" guessed the detective, hearkening like a spy of the Coun-
cil 6f Ten.
"6Her tale?" sighed Imogen Eleonore, who, as- we remember, knew next
to nothing of Nestoria's history. " Ah, io! That I may not breathe. Let the
wings of obscurity that brood over it brood there forever."
"What a pity!" groaned Mr. Sweet. "Very handsome young girl, you
say, and. rutlher little, and fair complexioned. How I do admire golden hair,
to be sure!"
You have described her," said Miss Jones, flattered by this preference of
his for golden hair, her own being of the " red, i'ed gold," as the ballads say.'
"Been with you long?" ventured Sweet.
"~ Only about three months-three months of grief and of pity-three months
of sorrow and sympathy."

-


192                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
The detective wanted to jump up on the stone seat and crow. It was three
months since Nestoria Bernard had vanished the description of her which he
carried in his pocket-book tallied exactly with this Diana Vernon's description
of her mysterious protdge'e; and he trusted that he had within his reach the
key to the Wetherel case, with all the " money that was in it." In his heart
he cursed himself and blessed himself for the luckiest of men; and he renewed
his attentions to Miss Jones as respectfully as if she were Astor or Vander.-
bilt. It was not eager wooing; his soul was intent now upon other things
than love; he did not so much as try to obtain a kiss. But he'brought about-
an agreement that they two should write to each other under their assumed
names, and that before long they should meet again-" ah, yes,-once again."
" Come, won't you let me go along with you?" lie begged as she rose to
leave him. "I just want to see where you put up. Won't try to crowd in,
'poji honor. All I want is to walk by the house now and then, and look at it
and think you're their."
"Ah, never!" shuddered Imogen Eleonore. "I have those who watch
me and whom I stand in awe of,' she added,.remembering Lehming and John
Bowlder, and converting them into overbearing caitiffs by an- effort of her
fancy.
"But your handsome little friend that's in trouble-I do want to give her a
lift;" suggested Sweet.
It was an unlucky remark; he had. spoken several times already of that
handsome friend; had been disagreeably desirous to know whether she " wasn't
mighty pretty." Miss Jones, smitten with jealous.r, a also with a creditable
fear of exposing Nettie Fulton's mysterious secret, ecame all the more deter'
mined not to exhibit to her admirer the dingy pover ' of her lodgings.
4       "No!" she insisted with unmistakable spunk.  'Never will I quit this
spot until you promise as a gentleman not to follow m ."
"Oh, well, I give it up, I promise," said Sweet. "  ord of a gentleman,"
he added, grinning under his slouched hat.
The moment  she left him he summoned a newspap r urchin, clapped a
half dollar into his dirty fist, and whispered, " Follow that bit of muslin home,
and come back here and tell me the street and number; nd I'll give you an-
other fifty."-
The boy departed, and the detective walked up and down awaiting his re-
turn, shivering in the increasing frostiness of the November blast, but bearing
it patiently by the aid of an occasional curse.-

The very next morning, as Walter Lehming sat before the fire in his study,
swallowed up and almost hidden by a high-backed chair, he heard a masculine
step in the hall which he at first supposed was John Bowlder's, and then a
voice inquiring through his partially open door, "'Was any coals- ordered
here?"
"No, my good man," he replied, without looking around. " None in this
room.''
"It war a young lady what ordered 'em," continued the voice. " Light
complected young lady, with blue eyes an' golden hair."
Lehming got out of his chair, walked to the door and confronted a preter-
naturally grimy coalheaver, who recoiled a little on seeing him, touched his
ragged hat and mumbled, "Beg pardon, sir.".
JI know that no fuel is wanted on this floor," said the young man staring.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                         193
hard at the blackened features of the intruder, for this description of Nestoria
disquieted him. "There is certainly some mistake."
The next moment 'his heart was in his mouth; he had recognized Mr.
Sweet's bloodshot eye. It was not merely bloodshot, it was peculiar in an-
other respect; there was a strange roundness and openness about it; the lids
exposed the whole pupil. It was the man's weak point as a detective, and,
kno wing it, he generally kept his eyelids drooped when in disguise; but on
this occasion he was so surprised by the appearance of a relative of the Weth-
erels that for a moment he forgot the precaution. Lehiming, a sensitive crea-
ture, and gifted with that acute observation of physical characteristics which a
writer of fiction is apt to have or to acquire, had noticed this singularity of
Sweet's optics the very first time that he saw him, and had never forgotten it.
What should he do? Dwarfish, fragile, and gentle, he had no aptitude for
physical emergencies, though brave and ready enough in the conflicts of the
soul. He simply stood still and stared silently at the detective, palm enough
in outward appearance, but speechless with alarm.
"Beg pardon, sir--some mistake," mumbled the spy, turning and walking
slowly down stairs. He was glad to get away; wondered if he had been re-
cognized by Lehiming; hoped not. He had, he thought, discovered some-
thing, as for instance that the girl was probably in the house, and that one of
the Wetherel set was there also, very likely watching over her.
Well, he disappeared, to the great joy of Lehming for one instant and to
his great terror in the next. Had the fellow gone to the police-office for a
search warrant, and would he return immediately to take Nestoria to prison?
Or had he only guessed at-her hiding-place, so that for the next day or two they
would see him lurking about the house in various unclean disguises-the ugly,
stealthy, pitiless forerunner of the fate which he would be sure at last to bring?
Dismayed and perplexed, Lehming stood for some time motionless, now
hearkening to see if the boding step of the detective were not reascending the
stairways, now cudgelling his meditative gentle soul in vain for some prompt
stratagem whereby to deliver Nestoria, and meanwhile half wishing that he
were a veteran criminal, so that he might know how to deal with- this guilty
and risky situation. He could not resolve to let the girl be seized, although
that would have been the easiest step to take, and, as he keenly felt, the right
step. She had quite mastered him. Her patience, her endurance, her heroic
will, and, more than all else perhaps, her beauty and other graciousness, had
made him her slave. Good and intelligent as he was, he had come to submit
both his conscience and his judgment to her. He must help to hide her until
she should be willing to hide no longer.
But how should he save her from this new peril? If he told her that she
was watched by a policeman, she would probably run away as soon as night
fell; she would once more become a friendless waif on the great, pitiless
ocean of life; she might sink under its billows into some undiscoverable cavern
of ruin. He decided at last that he must act without consulting her, and force a
rescue upon her before she could suspect and evade it. And hereupon his weak-
ness in practical affairs showed itself; he found that he could not devise and
execute unassisted. He could think of nothing better than to seek Mr"s. Din-
neford, reveal to her the whereabouts. and the danger of Nestoria. and ask her
help. On this errand he set forth, with the conscience and mien of-a criminal,
the most wretched good man in New York,.if a good man he can be called
Ite quitted the tenement house by a back way, crossing a narrow yard full

t


of rubbish and heaps of coal, forcing open with much difficulty the neglected
gate of a partition fence, stealing with the air of a thief through a low grocery
store, and tottering out upon a narrow and filthy alley.
The Dinnefords he found packing up and preparing to leave New York for
a season, in order to escape from Count Loloski's expected persecutions, and
from the evil fame of that humiliating betrothal. His heart sank within him,
for he inferred that they would not, and indeed could not, stay to aid him.
Nevertheless, he thought it best to tell his tale. The two impulsive, warm.
hearted, women at once forgot themselves; they were so unselfish and noble
that they brought the tears into the young man's eyes.
"Thank God!" exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford, half laughing and half sobbing.
"The lost sheep is found. Let us rejoice and make merry." Then, turning
anxiously to her daughter, 41What will you do, Alice.?"
"I will stay here and cuddle Nestoria," returned the girl, forgetful of her
-wn troubles, excited, elated, and gay. " Walter, do hurry and bring her."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR,

194

1
r

CHAPTER L.
HARK FROM THE TOMRS A DOLEFUL SOUND.!
T was decided that Mrs. Dinneford should go with Lehming to find Nbsto-
ria, and furthermore that she should if possible bring the girl back to her
own house, there to hide her until some wiser thing might be done.
The difference between the expressions of these two as they set off on their
errand was something very curious. Lehming, oppressed and cowed by the
illegality of the adventure, had that stealthy, cast-down air which a good man
cannot help wearing when his conscience troubles him. Mrs. Iinneford, on
the contrary, although a thoroughly worthy and fervently well-meaning soul,
felt no inward reprovings whatever. As is the case with most women, she
had little respect for statutes and enactments in themselves, but only so far as
they seemed in every special case to work sweetness and light, and wanted to
evade them whenever they, in her opinion, wrought the contrary. If she re-
alized at all that her errand was a law-breaking one, she cared little for it.
The idea that she was flying to the rescue of a "lost lamb," who had fallen
into a pit of sorrows, occupied nearly the whole of her affectionate and impul-
sive spirit. So, while her honest face was excited and anxious, it was also ea-
ger and elated and cheerful.
Theyleft the house on foot, with-the intention of taking a hack at a stand
5ome list since away. But they had scarcely shut the door behind them  when
a breathi ss, ragged boy fluttered up the steps, holding forth a letter, which
proved to be for Mrs. Dinneford.
It is Cousin John's-hand," she said, as she broke open the dirty envelope,
"and it is the very first note he ever wrote me in his life, and something. out-
landish must have happened. I do believe Emerson is dead or the sky has
f ilen."
She read, colored, laughed outright, and handed the billet to Lehming.
Dear Coz," it ran, "I am in durance vile. I regret to darken your mind
with my calamity; but school keeps not to-day, and Walter is in no set place;
a thot- and boys would not find him. Some one who knows me must come to
the Tombs and swear that I am a harmless philosopher and no midnight vil-
lain. Such is the charge against me, that I am a midnight villain.
"Yours in durance vile,
"JOHN BOWLDER."
"What stupid blunder can this be?" exclaim ed Lehming in great anxiety
'Ie says nothing about Nestoria; but she may be there nevertheless. We
must go first to the Tombs," he added, though mortally afraid of entering that
reputed abode of justice.
They walked on hurriedly, found a hack, and set off for the Tombs. Len-
rming was in a state of anxiety which amounted to anguish; his diseased heart
throbbed so painfully that he could not talk.
"Take courage, Walter," said Mrs. Dinneford cheerfully. "This looks to
me like a providence. It comes at such a critical time that I cannot believe
it to be anything less than an: interposition of the Almighty finger. I trust


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

that it happens for good, and to give us prosperity in our adventure. It is my
nature to believe that an interference is always meant in mercy, until I find
otherwise. We have few chastisements even which are not covert blessings.
That wretched engagement, for instance; the presence of it was alarming and
the departure humiliating; but I do entertain a hope that it has sobered Alice
for good. She was always a/ child-before, blowing soap-bubbles as it were oud,
of the windows of life, and wondering that the passing realities should break
them. But now she seems a woman. Didn't you observe somethiing noble in
her face and manner anad thoughts this morning? I am so glad you saw it!
She was willing in a moment to sacrifice her own plans and feelings for the
sake of little, lovely Nestoria. Dear me! that poor child-that wandering,
hiding child-what do you suppose ails her? Is she crazy? Have terror and
grief discomposed her intellect on one subject? I can't account for her con-
duct otherwise. Oh, what a mystery and labyrinth of darknesses this Wether-
el affair, as they call it, has been. Well, we shall come to the issue of it some
day, and find that every step of the tangled path was plain enough, only for
the blindness of our finite sight. Both she and all of us have been guided from
on high, and the Lord's guidance is always marvellous, though, it end in a
blessing.""
"I do sincerely pray that it may end well," sighed Lehming, whose mind
and conscience were more instructed than' Mrs. Dinneford's, and saw more
sides to every moral question, and had thornier doubts.
With a great thumping of hearts-beating sullenly and bodefully, like the
drums of an execution-they presently pulled up before the Tombs. The fa-
mous headquarters of the New York correctional system, sombre enough by
reason of its Egyptian architecture, and still more sombre because of its asso-
ciations with crime and punishment, looked unusually lowering through a
drizzling rain.
"Wait for me in the hack, and keep your face veiled," whispered Lehming
as he quitted Mrs. Dinneford.
Then he went trembling up the granite steps and through a heavy, slain-
ming door, which seemed to close upon him with a gripe. We have not time
to describe the grimy, gloomy great rooms amid which he wandered, nor the
lounging and pert or sullen officials who treated him with elaborate disrespect,
really putting themselves to some trouble about it.
At last he came to John Bowlder; and positively he did not know him.
An officer had to clap the imprisoned philosopher on the shoulder and say,
" Here is your man, sir," before Lehming could recognize his old friend. It
seemed as if an enchanter's wand must have been waved over Bowlder, or as .
if his soul had migrated into some new body. Where was the familiar rosy
face, and where the confident eye and cheery smile? The poor man was as
pale as a sheet, and was ready to sink on the dirty floor with fright, and hai
no more joy in his glance than a whipped dog. He was a transfigured create
ture in every way; there was nothing left of his usual bigness and bluffness
and blowsiness; there was, so to speak, only a skeleton of the original Bowl-
der. He was under examination, it must be understood, and had been stripped
of his outer clothing. To look at him now one would say that he must have
been all outer clothing. The policemen had taken off two coats, two vests,
two pairs of trousers, and more woollen undergarments than I dare tell of.
At last they had peeled him down to his proper outlines in shirt and drawers;
and such outlines, so altered, s9 incredibly!less, so diminished as if by vast dis-
tance!- They hardly knew hinm themselves, and half thought they had begun

196

i

197

with one man and finished with another, so marvellous had been the change.
A clothes-stand, on which his removed raiment hung, looked much more like
the real Bowlder than did this white taper of a figure.
"Ah-Walter!" exclaimed John, putting out a tremulous hand and seizing
Lehming with the eagerness of a man whoseeks to save himself from drown-
ing. "Here you are at last. Here you are. I want you to. bear witness that
I am a good .citizen. Tell these good people so., Tell them that I am not a
midnight miscreant. They accuse me, as near as I can make out, of murder-
ing our good old friend, Judge Wetherel. You know my innocence, Walter.
Get a Bible and swear to it."
Even his conversation, stripped and divested as it was of transcendental-
isms, was lean and shrunken. A man might have been pardoned for glancing
at the clothes-stand to see if his accustomed phraseology had not been hung up
along with his garments.
Lehming was anxious to know if Nestoria had also been arrested, but he
did not dare even to whisper this question in the presence of'justice. So he
simply turned to a policeman and inquired, " What is the meaning of this ar-
rest?"
"Found him in disguise, sir," replied the policeman, who was a tall, pow-
erful man of exceedingly combative aspect. "I'll tell you just how it was,"
he added with an air of nonchalant condescension, as though lie needn't tell if
he didn't want to, and wouldn't have told if he hadn't felt good-natured. "I
was passing along my beat in Fulton street, an' I saw this old feller wheeling'
bricks with a lot of Irishmen, an' I knew the minute I laid eyes on him he
wasn't used to the business. He was a-totterin' around, you see, an' a-tippin'
over his load and a-buckin into the other men, an' akin' a tinker's mess of
it generally. Well, says I, that's comical, an' so I stopped a bit to watch him.
I thought, of course, it was some dead beat who was trying' to earn a dollar,
and wan't in the habit of doin' it. But after a while lie fell down over his bar-
row, an' a gold ticker flew out of his vest pocket, an' that Sn a gold chain, too.
Well, says I, that's queerer than ever; that's. a d-n queer start, that is. You
know you don't often see a man who wheels bricks sporting' a gold watch. I
begun to think here was a case. How did a dead beat come by so much Jew-
elry an' bullion? That's the question. So I staid by an' kept my eye on
him. Well, next thing, a gentleman- come along who is in, our line, an' I
piuted out this man to him, an' lie inspected him a while, an' finally reiem-
bered him. Says he to me, That feller,-says lie, was up at New Haven time of
the Wetherel murder; he was a-hangm' about the h use, says he, at the very
time; I'll bet on him, says he. Well, that was a big thing, you know, that
Wetherel murder, an' one of our men has been a-workin' it up ever since, an'
wants all the items he can pick up. So I steps up to our friend here, an' says
to him in substance, Coie along with me. Then he sassed me, an' I tobk him
in charge. Well, here lle is--look at him yourself-disguised up to his ears--
a little man dressed to look like a big one. We've took oil' more things from
him than would clothe an alshouse. Just roll your eye around that haystack
of coats an' trousers over there. Don't.it look queer? I leave it to yourself.
Well, that's the story of the arrest; an' now, if there's anything' to say on the
other side, I shall be glad-to hear it; for we don't want to bother no innocent
man; of course we don't."
During this tale John Bowlder had repeatedly attenl ted to introduce cor-
rections, saying in a humble, placating voice, " My friend," but falling extinct
under the strong utterance of .the " star."

THE WETIIEREL AFFAIR.


"My friend," henow began again-"my official and much respected
friend, you are very right in the main. But allow me, my friend, a word of
explanation to my friend Lehming. I will tell you, Walter, how I came into
this scrape. I had a desire to know by experience the pains and joys of the
sons of toil. That is the reason why I sought a job at wheeling bricks. The
agreement was a dollar for a day. The remuneration was low because I hon-
estly avowed that I was a green hand at the bellows of labor. I did not wheel-
well; I admit it, my official friend; but I wheeled the best I could. Even iny
official friend here must concede that I whee~lad zealously."
"Oh, of course," nodded the policeman impatiently. "But that's all pop-
pycock, an' has nothin' to do with the case. I didn't arrest you for bad wheel-
in'. You was a suspicious feller, an' you sassed me."
"Yes, my official friend. I will confess somewhat of guilt in the matter
of sauce," replied Bowlder. "I did call you a minion. The term is not
savory; at least it is often used in an uncomplimentary sense; and I withdraw
it."
"Well, now about the gold watch, an' the extry coats an! britches?" con-
tinued the star, anxious to come to the main point. ' Who are you, anyway?
Does this man," turning to Lehming, " know you? "
Of course Lehming declared that lie was acquainted with Mr. Bowlder,
and could bear witness to his entire respectability.
"But who are you" .persisted the officer, too clever to, believe all he
heard. " Look here, I can't let thisman go so easy as that, you know. .He'll
have to wait here till we can send fbr the gentleman that's working up this
Wetherel case. I say, Bill," lie called to a brother minister of justice, "tell
some of them messen gers that Sweet is wanted."
"You'll have to Maf round a spell," answered the brother minister of jus-
tice with haughty indifference. "Jim is out on a circuit, an' it won't be easy
to find him."
"Oh, I know his hole;" said the first minister. And in a hoarse whisper
lie named a grocery which stood directly opposite Lehming's lodgings.-
So Jim was sent for. But presently Wolverton strolled in, also in search
of Sweet, whom lie wanted to see;alhout Poloski. And now deliverance came
to John Bowlder, for Wolverton was 'known to several of the officials, and his
declaration as to the philosopher's respectability was accepted.
"Dress as quickly as possible," urged Lehig. " I have a hack here and
will take you home."
"Walter, I will dress quickly,", snuffled Bowlder, who already had a cold
in the head. "But I must go back to my wheeling. I want to clear my char-
acter with those sons of toil who saw that minion take me into custody. Fur-
thermore, I want to earn that dollar. It is my shamefaced impression that I
never earned a dollar in my life. It is a sensation that I eagerly long for, as
Galahad longed for a sight of the Holy Grail; and I cannot be balked in my
search for it now that I am so near the goal. Go you, and ride in your luxu-
rious hack; and if you took it on my account, charge it to me. I will devote'
my dollar to paying for it "
He had begun to recover his spirits, and also a tag or two of his transcen-
dent phraseology. indeed, by the time that lie had got on his first layer of
outer clothing, he broke out reciting, or perhaps improvising, some of his won-
derful verses,-chanting them as usual to the tune that the cow died of.
Lehming hurried to his hack, directedl his Jehu wvhither to drive next, and
told Mrs. Dinneford the tale of Bowvlder's arrest. .Woi:ried and eager as she

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

198

was concerning the affair of Nestoria, the cheerful woman burst into one of
her hearty fits of laughter.
"Poor, good, foolish John!" she said. "I wonder what he was meant to
do in this world. It does seem as if half the people we know ought to have
been born in the moon."
"But I told you, Walter, that this was a providence," she presently added
with gravity. "You say that man Sweet was sent for. We shall be free to
make our exits and entrances without a spy over us."
CHAPTER LI.
WILL SHE ESCAPE?
MRs. DINNEFORD'S lively trust in Providence was not misplaced, nor her
interpretation of its immediate purposes'erroneous.
Detective' Sweet had really been summoned away from his ambuscade in
front of the tenement house, and in fact Lehming caught a rear view of him,
trudging in disguise, and through indirect streets, toward the Tombs.  Of
course this was an emboldening spectacle; nothing heartens even a brave sol-
dier like seeing the enemy in full retreat; and this excellent young man with
a guilty conscience greatly needed cheering. He did not, however,'neglect
any precaution against discovery. 'He halted his hack in the back alley, and
manwuvred Mrs. Dinneford through the grocery and the courtyard, precisely
as if Sweet were still at his post.
"Dear me, Walter! one might think we were doing something wrong,"
whispered that lady, with the adorable simplicity of a worthy soul which is ac-
customed to judge its actions by its motives.
Lehming envied lher uninstructed conscience, and marvelled over it. Hc
had told her repeatedly that this thing which they were doing was illegal and
perilous, without apparently gaining a spark of credence or rousing a throb of
fear. Sle knew that she was right because her heart blazed up with love, pity,
and other praiseworthy emotions, diffusing such a thick smoke of sweet in-
cense that she could not see the solemn, inquisitorial figures of law and jus-
tice. Without pausing to reason further with so convinced a spirit, Lehming
led the way into the grim old tenement and panted up the long stairways.
The door of his study was open, but the room was empty.
"I will place you in this ambush," he said to Mrs. Dinneford, pointing out
the closet which had once sheltered Nestoria from Edward Wetherel. "Then
I will bring her in here and you shall step out upon her. It is dreadful and
most degrading," he added with a groan, " to be obliged to resort to such de-
ceptions."
" Dreadful?" stared the worthy woman. " Why, Walter, it is all for the
best, I am sure." And then, without further unnecessary justification of right-
eousness, she rustled into the closet and seated herself cosily in the time-worn
chair which still stood there. Falstaff, taking refuge behind the arras from
Iis creditors, and snoring the snore of the upright, carried with him no quiet-
er cnscience.
Lehming now went out softly, as wicked men are fallaciously supposed to
walk, and'as good men do walk when they are doubtful of their courses. He
caine to Nestoria's door; there for a moment he paused, pressing his hand
upon that complaining, threatening heart of his; at last he mustered resolution
to tap upon the fateful panel. He heard a chair scrape on the bare floor with-

199

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.


in, and knew that the little artist was rising from her work-table, and thought
with compunction how trustfully-she would open to him. Next there was the
sound of a bolt slipping back, and then Nestoria stepped briskly out with a
smile.
She was a beautiful object in his eyes, and she would have been beautiful,
I doubt not, in the eyes of any man, or even of any woman. We must re-
member her childlike figure, not merely as small but also as plump as child-
hood, a figure like a cherub only half grown to be a seraph. This solidly.
graceful young woman, notwithstanding months of anxiety, was now in the
- richest health. She seemed able yet to endure anything that the youth of
"teens " can endure. Her carnelian face was roseate; her locks of living sun-
light were exuberant; her blue eyes were as clear as gems. There was some-
thing fascinating in her candid manner and in her singularly fearless pose.-
She stood square on both feet, her form perfectly erect and her head thrown a
little back. This position was habitual with her, and very naturally so. She
was so much shorter than most people, so much below the stature even of
most women, that she usually had to look up in order to see faces; and fur-
thermore, it was a characteristic of her confiding and brave nature that she
hardly ever spoke to any one without looking him or her full in the eyes; so
that this little head had learned to take and keep an upright carriage. Such
a bearing would have made a tall woman appear haughty and domineering;
but in this petite creature it only added to her air of innocence, of trustfulness,,
of appealing for protection.
" What is it, Mr. Lehming? " she asked in her frank, brief, practical way,
at the same time giving him the confiding smile of an infant.
His heart suddenly faced about and stepped into the paths of sincerity. He
had meant to inveigle the girl unawares into a meeting with Mrs. Dinneford.
But, loving her as he did, he could not look into those trustful eyes and keep
his Jesuitical purpose.
"My dear child, it is a -great deal," he said gently. "I have discovered
that this house is watched-at least so I believe-by a detective. I decided
that you must go otherwheres. The best friend that you have in this whole
land is Mrs. Dinneford. I went to her. She is here, hiding in the closet in'
nmy room, for I am sorry to say that I did mean to deceive you, meaning your
good. She is here to take you away. Will you see her? "
Nestoria turned pale, but her eyes retained their thoughtful composure,
and she seemed entirely self-possessed.
"Have you told her about me ?" she whispered. " Have you told her all
that you krow P9"
"Yes." he bowed meekly, not even asking forgiveness, he thought Aimself
so unworthy of it.
She bent her head a Moment, just a monimnt,- in meditation ; then she
looked up at him with a smile of assent, satisfaction, and pardon. In the next
breath she left him, walked with her usual firm, brisk step toward the study,
entered it, face toward the closet, and said, "Mrs. Dinneford, you may come
out."
The good lady opened the door of her hiding-place, sawNestoria smiling
at her, flew to her like a tempest, clasped her in' her arms, and cried with joy.
When the two women drew back to look at each other, both their faces were
quivering with emotion and wet with tears, although the younger one had not
uttered a sob.
"Oh, my dear little lost lamb!" exclaimed Mr's. Dinneford. " How you

200

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

have borne and how you can bear! You are not changed a particle. You
havp been in the furnace,. and the smell of fire is not upon you."
4,I have learned to bear," sighed Nestoria, her voice shaking a little.
"But do not let us talk of it-at least not now."
No; there is no tiie for it," struck in Lehming. "Miss Bernard, how
soon can you get away?"
"In five minutes," she replied.
"Leave the key of your room with me," he said. "I will see that your
baggage is packed and sent after. you.
"It is all packed but my brushes and colors," she smiled. "I have lived
packed. In a minute I will bring out my carpet-b g."
"I am so glad we brought your trunk to New  ork!" almost whimpered
Mrs. Dinneford, glancing pitifully at the girl's one well-worn dress. "You
will find all your nice things at our house."
"Come with me while I put on my bonnet and shawl," nodded Nestoria, as
tranquilly as if she were about to prepare for a quiet promenade in open day.
Mrs. Dinneford followed this strange young heroine into her box of a room,
and looked about it with moist eyes. There was the ugly, hired iron bedstead,
the coarse, hired bedding, a single cherry chair, a small whitewood table, a
washstand almost bald of varnish, no carpet, not a curtain, not a decoration of
any sort, not a knicknack, none of those delicate comforts or small, gracious
objects with which women love to surround themselves. For three months or
so the girl had not expended one penny which had not been absolutely neces-
sary to her mert existence. A few minute crumbs of sea biscuit on the man-
telpiece showed what had been her nourishment that morning. Mrs. -Dinne-
ford surveyed this confession of poverty, thought of the anxieties and sorrows
under Which it had doubtless been endured, and then looked with wonder at
Westoria's fresh cheeks and vigorous movements.
" What a marvel of health and strength you are!" she murmured with
something like awe
" Yes," was the qlict reply. "I have been favored more than I deserve."
"May the Lord sunder this sea of mystery," prayed Mrs. Dinneford, "and
lead us all through it in peace, and restore~you to your uses in life !"
Instantaneously startled and deeply moved by this impulsive petition, Nes-
toria for a moment covered her face with her hands and sobbed aloud. Im-
mediately recovering herself, however, she put on her well-worn hat and
coarse- shawl, picked up her carpet-bag, and walked into the entry. Lehming
was waiting there, meanwhile looking over the banisters.
"I owe for the rest of the month on the room and furniture," she said to
him, producing her purse. " Will you take -the money ?"
" Time presses," he replied. "I will pay the bills and settle with you
later."
With that singular frankness which lay at the root of her character, and
which still lived there in spite of months of concealment, she was about to de-
scend the front stairway.
"Nfot that way," called Lehming, at the same time seizing her carpet-bag.
"We must use caution to-day.
In two minutes more they had reached the back alley, and were driving
rapidly away in their hack, the windows up and curtains drawn. Once Leh-
migpeped out and beheld something which showed the value of minutes;
he discovered detective Sweet hurrying back to his post, accompanied by a po-
liceman.

201

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.


202

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

"I fear that a search warrant has been issued," he said. "Well, we have
the start, and New York is a wilderness, and our police is incapable. No one
has seen us but the coachman. The keeper of the grocery must have been
out."
."I heard him in his cellar," remarked Nestoria. "He was just going down
stairs as we entered."
" We are surely in the right way," commented Mrs. Dinneford, with hon-
est though perhaps erroneous thankfulness. " The finger of Providence aids
us at every step. It is a pillar of cloud behind us. But, Walter, what will you
do when they come to you?" .2.
"I shall say to them: There is the room; search it."
"Oh, how much trouble and perplexity I bring to you!" groaned Nestoria.
"Well, some day-yes, some day-I will speak."
There was not much said during the drive; they were too anxious to talk
even of their anxieties. Once only Nestoria spoke, saying with a sigh, " Poor
Imogen! She will be lonely, I am afraid. I wish I could have bidden her
good by. What a life!"
"It will end one happy day, one unexpected day," replied Lehming. "De-
liverance, like calamity, often comes by surprise.'
"Where are we going?" Mrs. Dinneford asked, seeing that they had passed
the street leading to her house.
"To the New Haven railroad station,". explained Lehming. " We must
throw this coachman off the trail."
On reaching the station (the old one on Twenty-seventh street) they dis-
charged the lack and entered the station. Lehming bought three tickets to
Boston, showed the ladies into a train which was about starting,-helped them
out on the opposite side of the enclosure, led them through the long shed which
opened on Madison avenue, and there took another carriage. Descending from
this at a corner near the Dinneford house, they waited until it had disappeared,
and then walked to their, refuge. Entering quietly by neians of a pass key,
Nestoria was hurried up stairs to her bedroom; there to find a memento of Sea
Lodge, her trunk.
"Now dress yourself, dear, and don't cry!" exhorted Mrs. Dinneford,
throwing herself into a chair and wiping her eyes. "I know the sight of the
old things will give you a turn. But you must put on some different clothes.-
It will be impossible to hide you from the servants, you know; and you must
not look strange to them. They are curious enough when there's nothing to
call for it. By the way, what a providence it was that we changed our help
when we left Brooklyn. If we had kept the old set that Cousin Wetherel
thought'-so much of, and used to discourse and expound to as though it was a
congregation, we couldn't have brought you here on the spur of the moment.-
They would have known you at the first glimpse, they thought so much of you
and mourned so about you. You remember old Sarah, with the loose eyes that
looked as though they had been dropped out and put back again. Well, Sarah
is keeping an intelligence office; she thought she could do better that way,
and it would be easier for her; and I knew it would be easier for me, for she
had got very slatteri ly. But what am I talking to 'you about Sarah for?
What's Hecuba to you? as Hamlet says, or something like it. I wonder wheie
Alice is? I thought surely she would be here, ready to eat you alive. But
perhaps she has-fun out to buy something that she thinks you will want.. Or
perhaps she got fiightened about us, we were gone so much longer than )ve
expected, and went to look for us. You know we women can't sit still when

I

6

203

Ci-IAPTER LII.
% HIDING, WATCHING, AND HALF- DISCERNING.
"IT is I-let me in," called the voice of Alice Dinneford through the key-
hole. " I have been shopping for her. Let me in."
"Oh, ygn child, how you scared me!" exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford. Open-
ing the door, she admitted a bounding, laughing young lady, who showed in
her countenance not a trace of her late disappointment in love matters, who
had forgotten completely the adventure of losingCount Poloski in the new ad-
venture of recovering Nestoria, and who bore in her hand, of all winter pres-
ents in the world, a gorgeous fan!
"Oh, you darling!" she cried, embracing the restored pet. "Oh, you
precious little speck of a thing! I had forgotten how little you were.. And
your hair is lovelier than ever," she went on fingering it. "There, there is
your present of welcome," she laughed, brandishing the fan. "Isn't it
sweet?"
"I painted it myself," quietly responded Nestoria, after one glance at the
gewgaw. "I am glad you picked it oit for me. It seems as if you were led
to remember me in a strange way. But how good of you to think of buying
anything for me! Dear Alice, I thank you."
"Life is just as full of special providences as it can stick," observed the
wondering Mrs. Dinneford. "It is splendid with-them, like a bird with featL-
ers. How beautiful and charitable it was of qur Heavenly Father to guide
Alice, all unwitting of what she did, to buy a piece of your own handiwork as
the fittest and loveliest gift she could find for you! As Tupper says, 'Is it not
also His doing when an aphis creepeth on a rosebud?"
Meantime the process of attiring continued. When it was finished, and
Nestoria stood up fresh and trim in an unworn dress, with its suitable adorn-
ments, she had gained in, beauty. , No wonder that women are dandies and
love fine raiment; the dreariest economist must admit that it is becoming.
Even Nestoria, almost an inhabitant of other worlds by reason of sorrows and
concealments, remained so far human as that she could discern how much
finer she was because of finer apparel. As she turned from the glass to her
two friends there was an arch smile on her lips, which was partly a confession
of satisfaction with her own appearance, and partly a grateful response to their
looks of admiration. In truth they were inexpressibly exultant over their re-
iiovated seraph. Mrs. Dinneford wanted to pick the girl up, and kiss her in
her arms like an infant. Alice fluttered around her as a butterfly flutters
around a flower. - Loving hands pulled and straightened the serious little al-

the waves roll over us; it is so at the bathing places, and so everywhere; we
must jump and scream. But yoig are different. What a wonder you are, to
be sure, unlocking your trunk with that steady hand! I wish there were more
women like you. The sex might be fit to vote then. Not that I want to vote
any more than I want to whistle. Dear me, what talk this is! How my mind
does canter about, like a colt in a pasture! Do let me help you on with that
pretty- "
At this moment there was a tap kt the door, rousing visions of detectives
and policemen.
"Who is it?" demanded Mrs. Dinneford, seizing the key with one hand
and the bolt with the other, as if she really meant to shut out the law.

THE WETIHEREL AFFAIR-


paca skirt, and decked its puritanism with sash, ribbons, and other dashes of
relieving finery. At last they all sat down, wearied with their excitements,
and loved each other in quiet.
But silence could not long prevail in a heaven upon earth populated mainly
by Dinnefords. . Alice, a most curious young woman, and violently interested
in mysteries, was wild to hear Nestoria's story. After looking at her with
eager eyes for a few seconds, she broke out with, " And now tell us all about
it. Do! You would feel so much better for telling us all about it!"
No,' interposed Mrs. Dinneford,. as inquisitive as her daughter, but able
through riper years to summon up some forbearance. "When Nestoria's con-
science tells her to speak, she will do so. Until then we will wait."
"You are very noble, Mrs. Dinneford," replied the girl, her eyes filling
with sparkles of gratitude. "It seems to me of late- that everybody is sub-
limely good or sublimely wicked. I never imagined human nature in such
strong lights as I have-seen it in during the last three months. Once I thought
there were few passions and no mysteries. Now everybody is terrible in my
eyes; everybody is capable of something fearful. It is a very different world,
and a much more awful world than I believed it."
"Nestoria, how you have grown! " stared Alice. " Well, I have had to
grow myself," she added with a sigh, remembering the Poloski folly. " I will
tell you about it some day. But it's horrid, this growing."
"We will gall you Nettie," said Mrs. Dinneford. "You shall be Miss Net..
tie, and nothing more. If 'you will keep within doors, or wear a deep veil
when you do go out, you will not be noticed, I hope. Walter thinks that the
police will hardly take it into their wooden heads to look for you here."
"These concealments! " sighed Nestoria. " Oh, these concealments! Well,
I have almost done with them. If light does not come of itself soon, I will
let it. I think I can promise you that I shall soon be - able to force myself to
speak. In a month, at the longest. Yes, in a month."
A woful tremor crisped the faces of all three women. Both Mrs. Dinne--
ford and Alice said in their hearts that, when their guest should break silence
concerning the Wetherel afflir, it would -be to denounce Edward Wetherel as
the assassin of his uncle, or at least as privy to the assassination. No, it is iiot
quite true that they said it; the thing seemed to be whispered to them, as by
some goblin; and they, on their parts, strove hard to close their ears against
the horrible suggestion.
Thus commenced Nestoria's-life in the Dinneford house. It was a life of
seclusion; she passed most of her time in her own room, painting, or reading,
or chatting with her hosts; she hardly ever sat, even for a moment, in the
parlor, and never went out except by evening. The servants knew no more
of her than that here was a guest. It is reasonable to suppose that Lehming
was the only person outside of the family who was aware of the girl's retreat.
By the way, this gentle creature, unfitted through fragile health to cope
with assailant fellow men of a rude and hearty morale, was graciously spared
all difficulties with Mr. Sweet. The detective' did indeed search Nestoria's
abandoned room, and was exceedingly miffed, even to blasphemy, at not find-
ing her. But he was a dullish man, as has perhaps already been made ap-
parent; he was no bloodhound, but rather a bulldog, with a poor nose for a
scent.- le went at Imogen Eleonore about her missing friend with such petu-
lant vim that she became more jealous than ever, and would not tell him what
little she did know concerning Nettle Fulton. iThen he quarrelled with her,
threatened her vaguely with the law, lost her confidence, scared her,-set-lier a-

204

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

trying , and in short dampened his own train of powder, and lost all present
chance of blasting open the Wetherel mystery. Strong and coarse, he under-
took to drive a wonan, and almost of necessity failed.
You can't drive a woman any more than you can drive a hen. She is too
suspicious, timorous, hysterical, and when desperate, too wild. This way she
dodges and that way she flutters, now,4naking, a rush between your legs, and
then cut-cut-ca-da-cut over your shoulder, and away cackling into some un-
traversable puddle, where she is badly off, to be sure, but you don't want to
chase her. Well, Mr. Sweet was so bewildered by Imogen Eleonore's spas-
modic ignorance and paroxysmal denials that he lost his faith in this Nettie
Fulton as a key to his ".case," And decided that he had wasted his valuable
time in watching the tenement-house. So, feeling that he had been somewhat
ridiculous,.and not wishing to " make a cussed ass of himself " any further, he
forbore from catechising Lehming, and in fact kept out of his way. Imogen
Eleonore, we may as well add, he wrathfully- abandoned and left in uncourted
desolation.
'One word of explanation here concerning detectives. It may be imnagineF
by some persons that I do injustice to this noble caste by presenting Mr. Sweet
as an example of their abilities. I modestly but firmly, and sorrowfully also,
believe the contrary. I believe that American detectives, and especially those
of New York city, are usually models either of eminent dishonesty or of emi-
uent incapacity.' Just consider the vast morasses and Pontine marshes of un-
drained, uncleared crime, which send up their horrible malaria on the isl-
and of Manhattan. Look at the Nathan murder and the long series o( other
murders which are set down as so much " dead stock " on the police books of /
that single municipality. Our assassins and. burglars are seemingly under as
little restraint as if they were a legalized class, the representatives of a "vested
interest," or an exceptional-judicature like the Holy Inquisition. Men whose
every footstep leaves a trace of blood, and from whose pockets drop stolen
bonds and greenbacks, walk under the noses of the men whose business it is
to see them and catch them, with an insolent impunity which is enough to
drive industry to other shores and make us rue our freedom. Of course .the
fault in the matter rests on loftier heads than those of Mr. Sweet and his com-
rades. A people which suffers itself to be rule )olitically by its non-taxpay-
era, and which degrades its judiciary by making it look for power and honor
to ward meetings and other similar sources of popular favor-such a people
must necessarily have inferior magistrates and officers of justice, from the
highest to the lowest.
From this festering subject (which lends, by the way, a groundwork of prob-
ability and even of naturalness to our story) we must return to Nestoria  She
had not been a day in her new refuge before she had heard the tale of Alice's
broken engagement. That frank'and sociable sufferer could not dam up her
woes and fortifications. On the first opportunity she talked them out as
freely as a swollen brook babbles forth its unaccustomed foam and "i-iliness."
So Nestoria knew all about Count Poloski, and held him in fear and abonina-
tion. She had disagreeable impressions even of his personal appearance. In
spite of Alice's declaration that the man was slender, and blond, handsome,
'hme pictured him as a stalwart creature of dark, saturnine, and forbidding .
aspect. It must be remembered that she had seen him but once, and then only
at a considerable distance and by moonlight. On the night when she had met
Edward Wethere upon the beach tear Sea Lodge, the Count had been merely a

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

205


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

206

black line rising from a dim profile of hillock against a background of moon-
lit cloud.
She learned that he was in the habit of passing the house frequently, oni the
lookout, as it was supposed, for Alice. One lonesome day, while the Dinne-
fords were out on one of those shopping ebullitions which serve to our ladies
in place of the Eleusinian mysteries, or the weeping for-Tammuz, Nestoria
placed herself at a window in the parlor and watched the passers by, wonder-
ing whether she would recognize the discarded lover if she should see him.
Unknown to her the chambermaid was polishing the door-plate and the door
was open. The Count, who happened to be close at hand, bounded up the steps
behind the woman, and, in spite of her hasty remonstrance, forced an entrance.
Nestoria, gazing just then in another direction, did not witness this adroit
and sudden escalade. The opening of a door and the sound of. a footstep in
the parlor were her first intimations that a stranger was near her. She turned
with a start of terror, and probably with an intent to fly; but the moment she
oked in the visitor's face she seemed to be fascinated ; she stood stock still,'
le, silent, and staring. Poloski did not know who she was, and at first took
little note of her; he just glanced at her, and then glared about the room
eagerly, undoubtedly seeking for Alice. His lost betrothed being nowhere
visible, he turned once more toward.Nestoria, and then he seemed to observe
the strange way in which shq gazed at him, for his eyes opened with an ex-
pression of wonder and mistrust.
"I beg your pardon, miss," he said, bowing civilly. "I regret that I have
alarmed you by my intrusion. May I ask if Miss Dinneford is at home? "
Nestoria did not answer, and continued to stare at him. She was evi-
dently agitated by violent and conflicting emotions, and her appearance was
very singular, startling, and even imposing. Her eyes were dilated and flash-
ing; her face changed rapidly from white to crimson, and back again her
very neck was blotched with crimson spots and streakings; all the blood in
her veins was in wild tumult.
" I demand to see Miss Dinneford, ' resumed Poloski,.evidently somewhat:
confounded by this odd reception, but nevertheless resolved to carry his point
if possible.
"1Who are you? " asked Nestoria. Her utterance was as strange and ab-
normal as her silence. The voice was not like hers; it was unnaturally harsh,
strident, and abrupt; it seemed to burst violently through choking obstacles.
"I am Count Poloski, at your service," replied the visitor, not forgetting
his habitual civilities, though he was broadly amazed.
"Oh!" gasped Nestoria in such a tone as rarely quivers through human
speech, however often it may be heard in worlds of vaster emotions than ours.
She was conscious of dizziness, of a humming and whirling of the whole room,
of some one departing in a rapid, ghostly, inaudible way, and then of nothing
more. The shock of a great hope, following on the shock of a great terror,
had been more than she could bear without swooning.
When she recovered her senses, she found herself laid upon a sofa, with
the-chambermaid putting water to her lips, and no one else present.
"9Was that Count Poloski?" were her first words, uttered in a faint voice,
but very eagerly. " Why didn't you call the police?"
The girl, who knew nothing against the Count except that he had been de4
nied the house, stared in confusion and mumbled sonme vague excuses, '
"Never mind," continued Nestoria. " I think I am well now. Help me
to my room."

CHAPTER LIII.
THE WETHEREL WILL FOR SALE.
WO or three days previous to Nestoria's adventure with Count Poloski,
Walter Lehming had received a startling visit from Edward Wetherel.a
The usually collected and serious, if not downright sombre young.nan was
in a state of eager and cheerful exhilaration ; he came running up Lehming's
stairway, rushed into his study without knocking, and tossed a billet to him
with the words, " Read that."
Walter glanced over the bit of manuscript, and saw that it was an anony-
mous letter addressed to Mr. Edward Wetherel,,the writing in the fashion*
pint, and the signature " Darkness."
"The will exists," he read. "It cuts you off with a shilling. You can
have it, if you will pay one hundred thousand dollars; otherwise it will be of-
fered to the other heirs, who will'be sure to take it. If you accept, put an ad-
vertisement in the 'herald,' saying, Terms agreeable, and signing your name.
Then I will instruct you how to open further communication with me."
As Lehming read, his long, sallow, homely, but sweet face flushed deeply,
and, when he had finished he looked up at Edward with an expression of deep
joy, a joy which he might not fully explain. If the letter were honest, if Ed-
ward had not fabricated it himself (and Lehming did not think of that imme-
diately), then it appeared certain that the murderer of Judge Wetherel was
sonie commonplace, mercenary ruffian, and that this young man here present,
this connection and friend, was innocent.
"Here we have the assassin! " exclaimed Wetherel, pacing the room excit-
edly and with countenance uplifted. "Here we have the bloody hand showing
itself. The question is how to seize it."
" Wonderful!" replied Lehming, with an intonation of profound gratitude.
" But what is to be done? "
"I cannot pay this money," continued Wetherel, halting with the bencled
head and folded arms of reflection. "I am not the heir, if this document is
found;'no, nor in any case. But I think' myself justified in promising it.
Are we boundto keep the truth with murderers? Just think how easily this
wretch has baffled justice thus far. The authorities of Connecticut gave up
the search for him long ago, and I suppose wisely ; the criminal was no doubt
beyond their jurisdiction before his crime was a day old. He came to New
York at once; he came instantly and instinctively to this sink of undisturbed
lawlessness; this letter proves almost positively that he is here to-day, and he
has probably been here all the while. Yet for three months our force-as the
police weakness sarcastically calls itself-has been pursuing him, or making
a show of pursuit. For three months I have been urging and bribing our de-
tectives and patrols to keep up the chase. Not a word have the drones, or
idiots, or scoundrels brought me that has been worthy of attention."
"You speak very strongly," said Lehming. " However, considering what
you have suffered, I don't wonder. Any man in your situation would suspect
a thousand things   "


208                  THE WETHElEL AFFAIR.
"Yes, I do speak strongly," interrupted Wetherel. "I am embittered and
enraged. I sometimes think that half our organization of justice, from the
highest officials to the lowest, is in league with crime, or afraid of it. Just
look at the Way things go in this single matter of homicide. No murderer is
ever found out who shows forethought in his sin, or common prudence in hid-
ing himself. And when a man is caught red-handed, he is not promptly and
honestly tried, or he is not punished. There are nearly thirty assassins in our
jails now, whom the law apparently dares not lay hands on, or covertly de-
sires to save. It is uncivilized,ihorrible to all upright souls, terrifying to all
good citizens. There is a paralysis of justice and of public morality. The
individual is left unprotected; he must defend himself from crime by his own
strength and cunning; he must do as he would in Calabria or the Isle of Miur-
derers. He cannot afford scruples in dealing with the criminal classes. Much
as I hate and despise deception, I must personallytell this villain a lie, and
perhaps many lies, in the hope of entrapping him. I dare not -intrust the
k to any one else, for fear that it will not be done faithfully and rightly, or
n  done at all. All my confidence in the ability or the purity of our correc-
tional system is gone. Besides, whatever else may happen, I must clear my
own name. I must!" he added, with a passion of utterance which revealed
long and acute suffering under the imputation of guilt.
"Do as you must," said Lehming, after a pause of painful deliberation, for
any and every fashion of falsehood was hateful to him. " When you have
learned more, let me know if I can help you."
So, under the pressure of what seemed relentless necessity, an advertise-
ment of " worded deceiving'" was inserted in the " Herald, ' informing " Dark-
ness " that his terms were agreeable. Then came another letter; it offered a
meeting, but not with Wetherel; some less formidable messenger must be
sent, bearing the money; the place- indicated was a wharf near the Battery,
and the hour three in the, morning.
"I will go," volunteered Lehming, after Edwai-d had read the note to
him. "But what about the filthy lucre? What sort of ghost or simulacrum
of it can I carry? I must have something to hold in my hands while I talk
with this wretch and try to divine who lie is."
"Counterfeit bills would answer best," muttered Edward. " They could
be got from the police for this purpose. But it is horrible pitch to touch lor
any purpose."S
"oLet me have a simple package of xiraste paper," said Lehming. " I can
do something with it. I can at least make sure that there is a man-at the end
of this mysterious correspondence. Besides, there are possibilities. Chance
may favor me. I may recognize him, may follow him, may bring about an
arrest. Of course I can do nothing in the way of seizing him myself. 'You
know I can neither fight. nor run. But Providence may help. At the very
least something will be gained. I shall be able to testify to a fact which will
go to show-your innocence."
' To think that it should need showing!" groaned Wetherel. "But I
thank you. Only, do you consider that you risk violence? This may be a
mere trick to delude a man with money about him into a place where he can
be waylaid. This fellow, too, when he finds that the package is a fraud, may
"ssaull li.eave my watch and wallet at home," replied Lehming. " As foi
my poor little carcass, it is not of much account, and I will risk it. Sonie onc
must go."

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        209
So Lehming went, enveloped in an old loose cloak, and carrying under it
a large sealed package, which had such a preposterously overt air of sham-
ming great value that he was more than once tempted to throw it away. He
started at two in the morning, for hiehad of course decided that he must go on
foot to, the rendezvous, and the preliminary throbbing of his anxious heart
told hin that he would not be able to walk fast. The streets were deserted,
even brawlers and drunkards having sought refuge within doors from the keen
December air; and as he looked up and down the long avenas of silence,
.ordered by monstrous walls which threw out not a gleam of light, he had an
impression as if he were traversing a necropolis. The only persons whom he
met were two or three isolated and nomadic policemen, who seemed to be en-
gaged in trying doors to see if they were locked. "I ani doing their work for
thei," he thought somewhat bitterly, and passed them by without asking for
their assistance.
By times his mind leaped forward to the interview which awaited him, and
sought to fashion it into some shape which would be manageable to his powers.
His vivid imagination enabled him to struggle painfully with incidents which
had not yet happened, and-to take anxious part in a dialogue which might
never be spoken. He was in the condition of a man who plays a game of
chess in his thoughts, striving to arrange an interminable series of moves in
such a fashion as to make them sure of success against every imaginable coun-
terplay, and fighting with an ativersary who has even the unknown to aid him,
but who yet must be beaten. His game worked badly ; he was not fitted for
the fencing of intrigue and for encounters with ruffians; and, knowing his own
weakness-in such matters, he could not fancy himself as getting the better of
his antagonist. His supposititious controversies with the mysterious villain of
the Battery all ended, no matter how often he recommenced them and how
eagerly he bent his mind to them, in discomfiture. The incognito wormed out
secrets and divulged none; he secured the sealed package and discovered it
to be a sham; he failed to exhibit the will, and successfully hid his guilty
visage. Wearied at last with these confusing and disheartening forereachings,
Lehming struggled to clear his brain of them and to trust that the trial would
bring him inspiration.
"I will do the best I can," he murmured. "And may Heaven help me,
as it sometimes does help the foolish."
Then another troublous subject gradually invaded his mind, like a tide
stealing over a low and dikeless land, driving out of it all present life and con-
firming the future as a waste. He was engaged in an enterprise which, if
completely successful, would prove the innocence of Edward Wetherel; and
one result, one morally certain result, of such a rehabilitation would be to give
Nestoria back to her betrothed lover. He himself felt sure of it, and that
surety was a dagger to him. He knew now, if he had never known it before,
that he loved the girl with all his heart and mind and strength. She had
never yet seemed to him, and indeed we might also say that she had never
really been, so beautiful, so sweet in her ways, so noble and pure and alto.
gether charming, as she appeared to his imagination in this momentous hour
when he was doing his feeble best to hand her over to another. He reniem.-
bered her smile-that tender starlight sparkle which had so often transmitted
to him messages of gratitude and friendship, and which had sometimes lighted
up- the dusky abysses of his humility with glimmers of trembling hope. He re-
called her various expressions, her thoughtful face, her sorrowful face, her


21.0

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

face of cheer, her rare face of gayety, all her faces, all familiar to his soul, all
capable of appearing before his mind's eye at an instant's summons, or with-
out a summons. His meditations concerning her were not philosophical, nor
hardly intelligent. They were vision and emotion; he saw and felt, rather
than thought.
It was a farewell. He gave her up; he sacrificed himself, as he was accus-
tomed to do; he walked onward the quicker in order to hasten the sacrifice.
It was a most sorrowful struggle, and every moment or two his eyes tookdes-
perate flights toward heaven in search of strength to bear it, dropping back
wearily to earth with no other help than .a suffering sense of resignation. .An
angel passing by might have seen a human dwarf striving to rejoice in the
hope that he was working out good and happiness for others, and meanwhile
wiping the tears from his cheeks. In this dolorous and sublime hour of re-
nunciation he would not forbid himself tears. He must have that feeble con-
solation, and he felt that he was worthy of it. It was surely not much to ob-
tan, but he thanked God for it, so humble was he. "Oh, merciful Father,"
he whispered, " thanks, thanks, for tears! "
Perhaps a man is never so worthy of a woman as when; for her betterment
and in spite of the pleadings of his heart, he resigns her to another. The very
grief and meekness with which he lets go all claim to her brings him near to
that divine ideal of love which renders all and requires nothing. Lehming,
always purer of egoism than most human beings, was just now nearly fit, one
may dare to say, for translation.
Meanwhile his thoughts devoured the long way, as if they had been a cha-
riot of fire; and of a sudden he was surprised by discovering that he had
reached the Battery. The dark open space, snowless as yet and lighted by
few lamps, its apparent size increased by the breadth of the invisible river be-
hind it, seemed to him at first a daunting desert to approach. He paused a
moment, wondered whether he should be waylaid, and then once more set for-
ward steadfastly. Reaching the iron fence which then surrounded the Battery,
and which by night was closed to prevent scenes of disorder and dramas of crime,
he turned to the right and soon found the place ofrendezvous. It was a small
open wharf, bare at the time of all lumbering of merchandise, and of course
jutting out into the sombre expanse of the North river. As he glanced along
its dim edge, feebly illuminated by a single lamp, he could at first see nothing
but ghostly outlines of shipping in the stream and a few distant lurid gleams
which indicated the position of Jersey City.
" This man means to sail to-morrow for Europe," he said to himself as'he
halted. "But will he come?""
Yes, he had come; there was' a figure lying on the extreme verge of the
wharf; and, as Lehming approached, it rose to an erect position.
CHAPTER LIV.
THE MASK TOR' OFF.
THE man who rose from the edge of the wharf to meet Lehming was wrap-
ped in a long, loose overcoat, furnished with a hood or capote which covered
his head and shadowed his visage."
Lehming did not recognize him; he could simply see that he was a tall .
man-about as tall as Wetherel; all other peculiarities of figure were shrouded

I

'.

i

211

and disguised by that voluminous garment. Presently, too, as the unknown
turned his face a little toward the wharf lamp, he perceived that that face was
masked. The mask was a commonplace, grotesque affair, such as may be
seen grimacing unchangeably through any toyshop window, and such as chil-
dren buy to scare smaller comrades with. The nose was prodigious, the color
of the lumpish cheeks was gross and glaring, and the huge mouth was moulded
to counterfeit a clownish laugh. There was something preteinaturally horrible
in the contrast between this leering, smirking simulacrum and the supposed
homicidal character of its wearer.
When within six or eight feet of the figure Lehming halted, and asked in a
voice which he could not quite steady, " Is this Darkness?"
"Yes," replied the other. The utterance, like the shape, was unrecogniza-
ble. There was now a moment of silence during which Lehming rallied his
thoughts and his strength for fresh speech, meanwhile listening to the lapping
of the waters at the base of the wharf, and noting also a dull, faint thumping
as of a boat beating against the timbers. "I come to you," he resumed, "from
Mr. Edward Wetherel."
"Very well," responded the mask. There i as no doubting or questioning;
the speaker had the air of being quite sure of the authenticity and good faith
of Lehiming; it seemed probable that he might have recognized him.
" Have you the papef?" asked the dwarf, after another pause.
"What paper? " was the cautious answer.
Lehming, after pondering a moment over this reticence, inferred from it
that he must-fully state his business, or the other would make no disclosures.
"I was sent here," he said; " to receive from you the will of Judge Jabez
Wetherel, which you agreed to surrender to his nephew for one hundred thou-
sand dollars."
"It is here," replied the stranger, slightly touching his breast. with one
hand, while the mask .nodded and leered its immutable grimace, as if it were
some Meiphistophelean spectator of the drama who scoffed and sneered.at the
two human actors.
Will you let me see the will-merely to make sure that you have it? '
asked Lehminmg.
T he goblin visor shook a slight negative, and the hollow voice beneath
it muttered: "I must first see the money."
There was a long and troubling silence, broken only by the swashing of
the ripples and the thumping of the unseen boat-tyo sounds which were very
strange as being audible on the verge of a great city, and very disquieting ag
suggesting easy homicide and the secure escape of the criminal. The disguised
man did not turn; the boat behind and below him was evidently his and no
other's; at least, so he believed. Had he turned, lie would have seen some-
thing to give him alarm; he would have seen a face peering over the edge.
beam, with its eyes fixed on him. Lehming, while fumbling with his sealed
package and debating whether he should hold it forth, chanced -to discover
this head. At first he thought that the mask had a comrade there, and in his
nervousness he involuntarily recoiled a pace. But in the next breath he sa w
a hand rise before the mysterious head, with one finger laid across the lips, as
if enjoining silence. Then it occurred-to, him that perhaps the police were at
hand; that Wetherel might have thought it best to advise them of the inter-
view; that somehow or other justice had stumbled upon the trail of this mis-
doer. At all events a crisis had come, and he must do his best to help it for-

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.


:
- ; r
'
'
,
-,

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

.

I.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

21:3

ward; he must engage the attention of the mask to keep him from turning
to see his peril. So he handed out his fraudful bundle, at the same time sav-
ing in a louder voice than he had yet used, "Where is the will?"
"I must look at this first," returned the unknown, beginning to tear off the
sealed envelope. It was natural enough'that he should doubt whether a hun-
dred thousand dollars had been brought him in the night by an unattended
dwarf; only a very idiot of a rogue would believe in such an Arabian Nights
adventure without ocular evidence of its actuality. He moved a little nearer to
the wharf lamp, and continued to unroll the package with hands that shook
quite visibly, his visor meanwhile grinning its hideous paper gratulation. Mean-
time the head behind him changed to a full figure, which stealthily grew up
on the extreme verge of the wharf, whatever noise it made being drowned by
the lapping of the water. Lehming, tried not to look at it, for fear of warning
the mask. He felt sure now that a policeman, or perhaps a party of the police,
had watched the outgoings of this criminal and followed him to the rendezvous.
In great trepidation, and dreading by moments lest his throbbing heart should
beat him to the earth senseless, he dropped his eyes and awaited the result.
Slowly. with a deliberation indeed which seemed to risk all chance of sue-
dess, but steadily and without a sound that could reach the ear, the stranger
moved toward the mask until he was within less than ten feet of him. Then
he sprang, and instantly there was a furious struggle between the two, the one
striving to escape and the other to hold fast, and both gasping out short, hard
breaths loaded with curses. Lehming saw a sparkle between them as of drawn
steel, but could not distinguish which grasped it, nor whether a blow was
struck. Fearful, however, that the policeman would be hurt or overcome, he
advanced to give him aid. But at this moment a new figure appeared on the
scene, climbing up the dock and running toward the combatants. Lehming
had just time to notice that this man, like the first, was not in police garb, but
wore a short shaggy box-coat and slouched hat, when he heard some one mut-
ter, as if through clenched teeth, "Upset that little fellow!" Almost instan-
taneously, and before he could think what the phrase meant, the last arrival
gave him a fisticuffs which laid him prostrate. It was a terrible blow; it be-
reft him of consciousness.                     '
When he came to himself some time must have elapsed, for all was quiet
He lay still upon the wharf, just where he had fallen, with the lamp dimly shin-
ing in his eyes. He was chilled through; his cloak had been thrown open, as
if to examine his clothing, and, as he afterwards discovered, his pockets were
turned inside out. Raising himself on one elbow, and lifting his bruised, ach-
ing, dizzy.head, he looked about him. At a little distance lay what seemed a
corpse. It was the man with the capote.
He rose, tottered toward this man, knelt by his side, and surveyed him at-
tentively. The leering, grinning mask was still on the face, giving a horrible
air of farce to this homicidal tragedy. It was not, however, fastened there,
but had evidently fallen off or been torn off, and then carelessly replaced, per-
hpps in mockery. Lehming gently removed this painted ghost of hilarity,
and stared at the uncovered visage with an amazement which nearly drowned
his horror.
"Edward!" he exclaimed. "No, it is Poloski."
Yes, the dead man who lay there, the man who had volunteered to surrender
the will of the murdered Judge Wetherel, was certainly Poloski.
" It is the finger of God," continued Lehming, impressed by that wonder

212

and awe, and that instinctive, impulsive belief in the supernatural, which are
apt to descend upon us when we do happen to see a great crime followed by
remarkable punishment.
Now all is explained," he resumed after a moment. "Nestoria mistook
this man for Edward. Ah, well, she will be happy. -,He is innocent."
Meantime, he was gently opening the large coarse overcoat which envel-
o ed the fallen figure. A moisture on his hands arrested his attention, and
them to the light, he saw stains of blood. Then, looking closely, he
discovered in the clothing the clean-cut rents of stabs-several stabs, one of
then close to the heart, if not penetrating it.
"What does this mean?" he exclaimed, looking fearfully around him.
" Why should the detectives leave us here? "
He had already searched in vain for Poloski's pulse with his chilled and
glassy fingers. He warmed and softened them between his lips, and renewed
his groping for signs of vitality. There was no movement--yes, there was a
feiule, uncertain fluttering; or was it the beating of his own blood? Lehming
feared this man, abhorred him, and almost revolted from touching him; yet
he bent over him with an intense eagerness to see him live, dragging at him
in spirit, one might say, to get him up the slopes of death.  And Poloski still
had breath in him ; after some minutes he opened his eyes. It was the first
time that Lehming had ever had the .gaze of a vitally injured man fixed on
his face; and he trembled all over, every fibre of his flesh seemed to quiver
and crawl, with an agonizing thrill of pity.
Shall I gc and bring help? "lhe whispered, stooping close to the sufferer.
Poloski did not at once reply lJbut it was probably not because he did not
understand; for even a mortally wounded man does not become delirious
until fever arrives; at first, if he has his consciousness, he has his reason.
This man's silence sprang mainly no doubt from weakness, though partly also,
it may be, from fear. Who that Lehming would seek would be likely to
bring Polaski help, or fail to bring him further harm?
"Yes-go," he said at last, in a faint gurgle, at the same time turning his
eyes toward the city.
Lehmiug rose and set off in the direction of the Battery; trusting that there
he might find a policeman, -should accident favor. he ought of course to have
secured the will first, but in his tenderness for this suffering and seemingly
dying fellow creature he had not attempted to rummage for it, if indeed he
had not temporarily forgotten it. Poloski, faint as he doubtless was, remem-
bered it only too well; he had the presence of mind, resolution, and hardness
of the practised criminal. The moment he was left alone he thrust his hand
slowly inside his blood-stained vest, broke open a loosely stitched, seam with
his numbed fingers, and drew forth the document. -His strength was as yet far
from gone. A man may be terribly lacerated and still retain much muscular
force. I have knownr}a soldier, who had fallen unconscious with a minia ball
through his lungs, to recover his senses and run a hundred yards or. more for
covert, there to fall again in a swoon. So Poloski, with five stabs- in his body,
two of them sure to be fatal, was able not only to secure this paper, but to
mangle it with his teeth.
But the work of destruction was not completed when Lehming reappeared;
he had recollected the will and he came running to save it. Terrible as such
a struggle must have been to him, he seized the wounded man's quivering
hands and wrenched from them the bloody fragments.


214                  THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
I have-ruined you," whispered Poloski, with a ghastly grimace which
strove to be a smile. "You-and those cursed-Dinnefords. You-shall have
-nothing."
Thank Heaven!" replied Lehming with honest gladness. "It is as it
should be. Justice has been done by hands most strangely called to it."
Poloski stared at him; but the stare was that of a fading consciousness; he
was once more swooning. His eyes had scarcely closed when new actors ap-
peared upon the scene. As Lehming was gathering up and putting into his
pockets the smaller tatters of the will he heard footsteps advancing rapidly
down the wharf, and presently saw two men enter the circle of light about him.
One of them was Edward Wetherel and the other detective James Sweet.
" You are alive then!" exclaimed Edward, joyfully. "I have suffered
horrors about you. It was a foolish plan and a foolish risk. I could not help
coming to see what had happened. But," and, here he glainced at the pros-
trate Poloski, ' what'is that?"
" Jiminy! it's the Poloski chap!" exclaimed Sweet, who had already dis-
covered the body and coolly squatted himself to inspect it. " And hain't he
been skewered. though? I say, Mr. Lehming, but you've had a.busting' old
time with him," he added, glancing with wonder and admiration at the little
inan, whom he regarded as the conqueror of Poloski in single combat.
"I was talking with.him when--" Lehming began to explain. Then he
turned to Wetherel and whispered rapidly, "lHe tore up the will, liut I iave
the pieces. I was talking with him," he resumed aloud, " when some men
climbed up over the wharf and assaulted him, knocking me down and going
off before I recovered. I had an idea that they were police or detectives."
"Detectives? " interrupted Sweet. "The devil!" he at once argued ad-
versely.  " Detectives wouldn't cut him up that way and then leave him;
they'd want the rewards. Some of his own private friends done this-some
of Riley's gang most probably-bet you what you like it was Riley's gang-go
you my whole pile on it. What's he got in his mouth?" he continued, turn-
ing once more to the pallid face under his elbow. " It's a piece-of paper, by
Jove! He's been tryin' to swallow it."
Inserting his horny fingers into Poloski's moth, he unlocked the teeth with
some difficulty, extricated a tattered scrap of paper, and held it up to the light.
"Look here!" he went on; " this concerns 'you gents. - There's Wetherel
on this."
",Jabez Wetherel? "- asked both Edward and Lehming, as they eagerly
bent over him. "No," added the former.  " Only Wetherel, and not the
whole of that. The signature is destroyed."
"Tie signature!" exclaimed Sweet, aghast with sudden comprehension.
" What! was this the will? The Wetherel will? And Poloski had it? Then
he was the murderer. So that was what this night's business was about. Oh,
Mr. Wetherel! you've played it rough on me. You've cut me out of the re-
wards. You brought me here, an' kep' me a-waitin', an' never told me a thing
when I could a caught the man.",
"I only brought you because I accidentally met you," replied Wetherel, a
little moved by this naive groan of distress, wrenched from the detective's in
most pocket. "You had failed completely so far. Never mind. You shall be
well paid."
Somewvhat comforted, Mr. Sweet touched Poloski with his boot and fell to
moralizing. " So this is the way the world goes, is it? Accident is the Boss-

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                       .215
Here is the Wetherel Case, what I've been workin' at for three months and
more, bust open all, by itself. Police ain't nowhere. Detectives don't count.
Justice takes the back seat. Well," he sighed, facing about upon Lehming,
"you are a lucky customer. You git the swag, I s'pose. A round twenty
thousan'! By jimmy, some fellows hit it, aim where they will! " he sighed
again, surveying the misshapen, heavy-laden Lehming with really pathetic,
envy.
The dwarf might have said, "I have lost a quarter of. a million, and lost it
gladly," but he did not say it, nor think of it. He turned to Edward and
asked anxiously, " Can you tell whether this man is still living? "
"4I think not," hesitated Wetherel, seeking in vain with his chilled fingers
for Poloski's pulse. .'6I cannot be sure yet, but he seems to me dead."
Lehming shuddered. "Without one call to preparation ! " he thought;
" why (lid I not utter it? "
.oAn instant later, worn out with the labor, hardship, and anxiety of this
tragedy which was now over, he sat down on the rimy planks of the wharf, very
faint.
"hurry off and get a hack," said Wetherel to Sweet. "He must be taken
home."
CHAPTER LV.
FACE TO FACE.
IT was a long time before Lehming awoke from his swoon, and when he
did recover his senses he found himself exceedingly weak, as if lie had barely
escaped from the strangling coil of death.
But he was in good hands, for he .had been carried to the house of Mrs.
Dinneford, and that tender mother in Israel had had him put to bed, and was.
now watching over him.
"There, go to sleep again," were the first words that he heard on opening
his-eyes. "You can't do better than sleep."
"Yes-I can do better," he whispered after a minute of vacant gazing,
during which his memory of the past and his full intelligence of the present
returned to him. "Where is Nestoria?"
"Must you see her now?" objected Mrs. Dinneford, not in the least guess-
ing how much the girl was to him, but merely judging him unfit for conversa-
tion with any one. "Are you sure tltyou can bear it? "
"I can bear it best now," murmured Lehming, his mind fixed on the fact
that lie must surrender Nestoria to Edward, and feeling that he could do it
easiest in this hour of weakness, which was so near to unconsciousness.
Mrs. Dinneford went out, but almost immediately returned, leading the
girl by the arm and prattling cheerfully: "She was just dressed, and bent on
seeing you."
Nestoria came up to the bedside in her quiet, quick way, took Lehming's
hand, and whispered, "My poor, dear friend!
"I have found the will," he said at once, while something like a tear glis-
tened in his eyes. "Poloski had it."
"He was the murderr" added Nestoria. Lehiming looked up at her with
surprise, she had spoken so promptly'n asrdy.
"I saw him yesterday," she continued. "I thought he wvas Edward-Mr.
Wetherel. When I found that lhe was not Mr. Wether'el I felt sure that he
must be the murdererr"


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

"And you had believed Edward guilty? " asked Mrs. Dinneford.
Nestoria fell upon her knees, buried her face in the bedclothes, and sobbed
violently, exclaiming from time to time, "Oh, what injustice!"
"I saw him by night," she went on after a while. "And they do surely re-
semble each other. I thought he was Edward. I was sure of it. But, oh,
what injustice! I can never forgive myself. He never can forgive me. No
man could forgive such an imputation. And from me especially, who was
bound to believe in him, and had promised to trust him!. Oh, it is unpardona-
ble! And I was all wrong-wrong all the way through. I have been wrong
in concealing this thing. I should have spoken; I should have told what I
knew-or thought I knew. Then there might have been an explanation. The
truth might have come to light long ago. What misery I have made for my
self and others by disobeying my conscience! I shall never be forgive .
either on earth or in heaven."
" We have all been wrong," whispered Lehming; venturing to put his sal-
low hand on her sunny head. "My hiding of you was wrong. My not insist-
ing with you for an immediate divulgence of the truth was wrong. It was of
a piece with the general lack of proper feeling in Anierica toward crime. I
have done what soft-hearted people do who sign petitions for mercy to assas-
sins, I have done what unfaithful policemen and jurymen and judges and
governors do. I have sought, with a false and unwiseand sinful pity, to shield
sin from punishment. Even when I fully believed Edward to be guilty, I
wanted to save him from the gallows, or at least to put off justice. We have
been wrong, and I more than all, for I knew it. It has turned out well, but
not through our merits-only through the compassion of God. But as He has'
benignly directed, so I trust that Ile will patiently pardon."
"How can wve doubt the infinite mercy?" broke in cheerful, confident Mrs.
Dinneford, always ready to be a medium for heavenly revelations, especially
those of a comfortable character. "Haven't we been already guided and de-
livered in the most wonderful, long-suffering, salvatory, reassuring, convinc-
ing manner? What might have happened to us but for these gracious deal-
ings? What if that murderer had been permitted to carry away Alice to some
of his dens of blood? But Apollyon was beaten there, and at every point; and
those who combated him have been brought through victorious, in spite of
their errors; and they will have undeserved forgiveness as surely as they have
had undeserved succor. And as for you two little creatures falling into ag-
onies of remorse about what has befallen, why it is certainly the most exti'aor-
dinary sight that I ever beheld in my life. I should as soon expect to hear
two pet lambs go to groaning over their sins because the wolf had killed the
watchdog. In my humble opinion, if our Heavenly Father had no worse chil-'
dren than you, it would be a very respectable family. Of course, I don't want
to encourage you to boast yourselves in the face of the divine perfection. As
Tupper says, Humility mainly becometh a man in converse with his Malker.
But there is such a thing as a child of Adam dealing over-strictly with him-
self, and holding himself to account as- if he were a god, instead of a.feeble,
soft-hearted, muddle-headed mortal, and, in short, exalting himself under pre-'
tence of a superhuman responsibility and contrition. It's as though a butterfly
should claim that lie was the chief of sinners, because lie failed to fly as high
as an eagle, or as though the automaton trumpet-player should put or dust and
ashes because lie blew a poorer tune than the man who invented him, 'I do '
believe that you two have done the best that God gave you the sense and heart

216

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

to do. Let us forget our little selves and our infinitesimal shortcomings, in
sarveying the wisdom and power and goodness. of Deity. . It does seem to me
that all has ended well enough to make all worthy souls turn their various
murmurs into a song of content, Here is this poor murderer dead, a&amp;Edward
jlst now sends word to me; gone off after a short revival of consciousness, in
which he talked about his.Origins of Speech, and wanted some charitable body
to finish them for him; but not suffered to depart until he had confessed his
crime in the hearing of the police, and so cleared the innocent. And here are
all the rest of us spared to see the unravelling of this bloody web of mystery,
and knowing each other to be guiltless. There is our crowning mercy. No
more suspicions of ensanguined foot-tracks in our midst ! No Cain among us
with a mark on his forehead! What an awful scene, by the way, that is in
'Macbeth ' where Lady Macbeth washes and washes her hands in vain! Our
hands are clean, and we know it. What we have done of evil is to suspect
wrongfully. We must bow down to Edward and ask his pardon. I shall send
a note to him at once."
She paused in her torrent of speech, glanced anxiously and yet with a hu-
morous expression at the girl beside her, and then asked, "Shall I say any-
thing for you, Nestoria?"
"I wrote to him last night," replied Nestoria, looking Mrs. Dinneford full
in the face with that frankness and bravery which her eyes always had. " I
told him how I had suspected him, and how I had come to believe him inno-
cent. I asked his pardon. He will get the letter to-day."
"And as soon as he gets it he will come here," said Mrs. Dinneford with
smiling excitement, as of a woman who sees a bridal at hand.
"rI should not think he would ever wish to see me gainn" murmured Nes-
toria, shaking her golden head sorrowfully.
Mrs. Dinneford merely patted the girl on the shoulder; she believed that
an hour of purest happiness was-coming to her;. but sympathetic and garru-
lous as she was, she would not forestall it by babbling. Lehmning, meanwhile,
his pallid face propped up by a pillow, gazed at Nestoria with an indescribable
tenderness, rejoicing in the joy which would soon be hers. He felt sure that
she did not even guess of his love for her, and the fact that he had never re-
vealed it gave him some small gladness. Had she known it, the knowledge
might have troubled her now, when her other troubles were departing. Balm
though her pity might have been to him, lie would not have purchased it at
the cost of any diminution' of her happiness, so entirely had he given her his
unselfish affection.
Some hours later, while Mrs. Dinneford and Nestoria were together in the
parlor, the door bell suddenly fell into a violent agitation, and the girl divined
the arrival of Edward Wetherel. She turned pale at once, and caught her
hostess by the skirt of the dress, whispering, "I cannot see him alone."
The warm-hearted lady took her by the should rs, pushed her gently back
upon a sofa, kissed her, and left the room. When Edward entered he saw his
betrothed sitting moveless and seemingly unable to move, her childlike face as
pale as it could be, and her blue eyes fixed on him in a kind of fascination of
dreadful expectancy. He knew at once that the letter which she had Written
him, imputing great wrong io herself, and humbly begging his forgiveness, had
been. no mere verbal exaggeration, and no statement of monientary emotion,
but an honest overflow of deep remorse and penitence. His very tiesh shook
with pity for such trouble, and with longing to put an instant end to it. With-


218                 THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.
out a word he advanced softly to her, knelt on one knee at her feet, took both
her hands in his and kissed them passionately.
"Oh, no, no, no! I am not worthy," broke out Nestoria, the tears rolling
down her cheeks. "You must not show me any kindness. You must not like
me. I am unworthy of your trust. I have wronged you dreadfully and, un-
pardonably."
"But you have righted me," replied Edward, rising and taking a seat by
her side, while still holding her hands. "You believe in me now?"
"Yes, I know now that you are good," said the girl, sobbing so violently
that her words were hardly distinguishable. "I kigow that you are far better
than I am, very far better than I have been. I cannot talk about it. Did you
get my letter? Did you read where I asked your pardon? "
"I did, and I pardoned," he answered, comprehending her intense humil-
iation and remorse, and believing that the blunt assurance of forgiveness would
not pain but comfort her. " Do you still blame yourself? I do not.. Appear-
ances were darkly against me. The life that I had 'led was my condemna-
tion.. What a life it must have been, and was! I ought to ask your pardon
for being such a man as that you could reasonably believe great ill of me. I
ought to ask your pardon, and not you mine. Well, I trust that I have
changed. I am at your feet once more. I ask you again to judge whether I
am worthy to be your husband. Will you take me?"
'"Oh, I must inot," groaned Nestoria. " It would be so wrong in me, after
all I have done! Don't you think I need any punishment? " she burst out ve-
hemently. 'Don't you see that you and everybody ought to punish me?  I
have broken my word to you and my faith with society. I am a wicked,
wicked woman."
"No, no!" pleaded Edward. " Don't say that; at least not now. We will
talk of your responsibility to society another time. What you did, you did
for love of me, and I can only hold you the dearer for it. Do submit your
mind and heart to mine. Do answer imy question."
He put his arm around her, drew her gently close to him and forced her
to lay her head upon his shoulder.
"Oh, I am so weak against you!" whispered Nestoria, a calmer expres-
sion stealing over her convulsed face. " I am so unable. to resist you!"
"Then you will be engaged to me once more? " he begged. " Will you?"
With a sigh which had the echo of sobs in it, Nestoria murmured brokenly,
"If you wish it-if you will have it so-I must-yes."
"But- I alone will be engaged," she continued, as he drew her closer and
kissed away her tears.. "You shall be free., You shall turn me off whenever
you wish. Promise it, Edward! Do you?"
"No," he replied, holding her face between his hands and looking down
into hei' eyes with a smile. "I bind myself to you forever."
"Oh, how can you!" she exclaimed, giving up the contest and letting her
head fall on his breast.
After she had lain there a little while she suddenly caught up ogle of his
hands in both hers, and before he could prevent her, pressed it to her lips. It
was an instinctive, unpremeditated, passionate gesture of joyful humiliation,
absolute confidence, and absorbing love. It apprised him, as perhaps nothing
else could have done,-that he had given his heart to a heart which was alto-
gether his, and which by its power of affection was worthy of all that he could
give.

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.                        219
Herein, that is to say in her capacity'of living for others, lay the greatness
of this simple girl, such greatness as she could claim. Amid all her ignorance
of the world, amid her incompleteness of education and her youthful limita-
tions of thought, amid her resultant errors of judgnient and of conduct, she
was possessed by a heroic self-abnegation and an almost superhuman affection.
Even when this man by her side had appeared to her quite dead in trespasses
and sins, she had still so loved him that ghe could not denounce him to just
punishment, and could not but continue to hope, against the evidence of her
senses, in his innocence, and was willing to bear every extremity of 'suffering
for his sake. Indeed, the central fact of her story is simply this, that in some'
natures love is lord of all, ennobling them in spite of misdoing.
It must be conceded that there has appeared in this stoi-y no grand triumph
of conscience or of wisdom, i-ecommendable for wide imitation. Nestoria, a
merely finite and fragile creature, has been guided by pungent emotion rather
than by cool and large reflection. But at least her emotions have not con-
cerned her alone; she has not lived, as a selfish woman in her place might
have done, to "enjoy herself" and to "have a good time"; she has been lov-
ing enough to bear through dolorous months the burden which' seemed to be-
long to another. And with regard to her one evil deed, the persistent con-
cealment of a supposed criminal, we may allege in her excuse that circum-
stances had placed her in a position of singular difficulty, and that those cir-
cumstances had been. prolonged by the immoral inefficiency of our judicial
system, so that American society must shoulder a-part of her blameworthiness.
Well, she had fought out her wretched battle, and now she was receiving
her reward.' She was lying on the heart of a man intelligent enough to divine
what stings of terror and of conscience she had borne for his sake, and grate-
fully loving enough to cover both her bygone sorrows and her clinging re-
morse with a flood of consolation.

CHAPTER LVI.
WHAT BECAME OF THEM ALL.
"AH! this cannot last-this ought not to last," Nestoria exclaimed of a sud
den, drawing herself back from Edward and looking him in the face with a
strange mixture of fear and joy.
"I am too happy," she went on. "I do not deserve any such happiness.
It will be surely taken away from me, unless I become' more worthy of it., I
must strive\ in some way to be more fit for it than I have been and am. Do
you know what I have long thought ;that I must do as soon as this mystery
should clear away and I could see to stir? I have felt that I must pass the
rest of my life in suffering to do good, instead of suffering, as I have done, to
do evil. I have wanted to- go as a-missionary," she faltered out, with a
piteous, pleading gaze into his eyes,.as if doubting whether he would let her
go.
We know already that Wetherel was of the firm and even masterful caste
of souls, such as his ancestors had mostly been before him, in spite of
their prevailing devoutness; but the .look of 'tenderness which he now bent
upon Nestoria showed that over her he intended to hold no sceptre of unper-
suasive rule. This one being was to be on equal terns with him, the asso-
ciated monarch of their united life, at least so far as she should desire.

i
f


220

THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

"My dear child, our existence is to be one," he said gently, at the same
time kissing her hands. "I do not wish to dissuade you from obeying your
conscience, nor from going where you can do the most good to others. But
must we not consider also where I cah be useful? You are already possessed
of a foreign language which will enable you to be at once of worth on a nis-
sion. I should have to study years to acquire that language. Moreover, I
have not even a profession; there are more years of.waiting and preparation;
and meanwhile life is hurrying by. Then, on the other hand, among my own
countrymen there is work all ready for' me, and more than I can do. If 1
am forced to retain a portion of my uncle's estate, I shall have means to enter
upon large philanthropies, such as I can myself oversee. I have thought this all
over many times already, and decided that I can be usefullest in America. Oh,
there are huge plans for doing good in my poor head," he added, with an apol-
ogetical smile. "But, grandiose as they are, they may come to something.
Will you not let your decision wait until you can hear about them ? "
"Ah, yes," sighed Nestoria, conscious, and joyfully conscious, too, despite
her scruples, of that weakness of love which trusts all to the love of a stronger
soul. " You must be considered. You ,can do far more in the vorld than I.
You must not be planted in poor earth because I might grow there to-my own
satisfaction. I leave everything to you."
It was not'a painful act of submission, although she did for an instant have
a vague fear lest she were doing wrong, and lest her fretful consciencemight
some day assault her because of it.
And now footsteps were heard, and Nestoria ran away to hide her happi-
ness, rustling out of one door as Mrs.'Dinneford, Alice, and Lehming entered
by another. The elder lady's eye sought Wetherel's face with a cordial yet'
humorous glance of inquiry.
" It is all as it should be," said .the young man; whereupon Mrs. Dinne-
ford smiled with pleasure, while Lehming, too shrewd at guessing, turned
pale.
Then there was much talk about the adventure of the past night, the won-
derful discovery and punishment of the murderer, and, in short, about the
whole Wetherel Affair.
"Only one thing-remains to be settled," said Edward. " That is the own-
ersnip of this estate. I have pieced the will together as far as may be, and
shown it to a lawyer. He says that it is worthless. The signature of the tes-
tator is torn off and partly destroyed. The signatures of the witnesses have
entirely vanished. The provisions are more or less incomplete. ,In short, it
is worthless. I am the heir."
"It is well," assented Lehming, in a firm voice, while Mrs. Dinneford and
Alice uttered some murmur of assent, which was naturally less clear and
emphatic.
"I will tell you what I propose," continued 'Edward. "I propose to pay
in full the legacies to p ilanthropic and religious objects, so far as they can
be made out or inferred . So much must be done out of respect to the- life-
long character of the dead as a lover of his fellow men and of his Maker.
You agree to that, I see. But after that, what? You must admit that it is a
weighty, and at the same time a delicate question. I have tried to decide upon
some plan of division, without being able to satisfy myself. I llave offered
you the whole, and you have refused. Nor will I take the whole. There we
are at a deadlock. You three must help me out." .

I

I

THE WETIIEREL AFFAIR,.

221

"It reminds me," put in Mrs. Dinneford, " of the favorite exhortation of a
pious, speechless deacon whom I used to know. ' Brethren,' he used to say,
prayer-meeting after prayer-meeting, ' brethren, we mustn't have too much
delicacy.' What the  good old slow creature meant by it I never could im-
agine, nor, I dare say, he either. But it applies to our situation-surely. 'We
are bothered by too much delicacy. Somebody ought to speak plainly and in
business-like fashion; and when it comes to business, I say let the men
begin.
" Certainly," nod1ed Wetherel. "Come, Walter, you are a just man; tell
us what shall be done."
"I have a whim," replied Lehming with a smile-" I have a whim which
settles my portion. It seems to me that I may fairly claim the rewards, all
of them; those offered by the authorities and by the estate, those offered for
the discovery of Miss Bernard and of the criminal. They come to twenty
thousand dollars. That sum will just serve me. I claim it, aidt no more.
Don't interrupt me, Edward. You called on me to judge this case.' Well, as
for these excellent Dinneford ladies," he continued, smiling from one to an-
other, "they ought surely to "be as liberal, or magnanimous, or just, or vhat-
ever it may be, between them, as I am alone. I give up a quarter of a mil-
lion which doesn't belong to me. Let them club together and do the same.
That leaves them a quarter of a million, which is not pinching poverty, even
in these times. As for the heir at law," turning to Wetherel, "let him take
his half million and hold his peace. There, you have my arbitration, and I
sincerely hope that no one will oppose it.
There was a general smile, which was clearly one of satisfaction, and
which ended the discussion. In short, such were the terms according to which
this fastidiously delicate matter of settling the' Wetherel estate was finally de-
cided. The Dinnefords were more than content' vith their allotment, and
Lehming positively refused to accept aught but what he had 'assigned
nimself.
And now John Bowlder rumbled into the house, as big and noisy and
cheerful and unpracti al as ever.
"There is your do ar, Walter," were his first words, meanwhile thrusting
a bill into Lehming's  east pocket. " Take it before I become vainglorious
over it and assume it a  blaz  or turn greedy and put it at interest. Take
it as a present, if not o ier) 'se.  t is a curiosity. It is Bowlder's only dollar,
the only one that ever re,  be onged to him, because the only one that he
ever earned. He wants never to see it again. He desires no more dollars
from that source. Ife prefers money that has been left him. Toil is all very
well for the predestined and habituated sons of toil; but the soul which basks
in its own, sunshine can be happiest without it. By the way, I hear that the
Wetherel, myster' has exploded, and that Nettie Fulton has reappeared out
of- it as Nestoria Bernard. Life is protean. It is also a Nemesis. Nemesis
at times interfer ,s with Proteus, and tears off his disguises. Meanwhile the
tranquil soul looks on, and thinks it as good as a play, taking that much inter
,est 'in it, and no more. The girl Nestoria,' however, I should like' to see
Thera-is somewhat about her which is good for the spectator, making him
both happy and benign.'
So Nestoria was sent for, and Bowlder greeted her with affectionate uproar,
'very absurd in a philosopher.
"I1 rejoice heartily," he admitted, " that your worries are over. I am

2 '-

IA


THE WETHEREL AFFAIR.

driven to profess at least as much common humanity as that. You are one
of the magicians, and bring me down to earth."
"How does poor Imogen Eleonore get on?" asked Nestoria. "Is she
lonely? Tell her I shall soon come to see her."
" Poor Imogen has taken to herself another likewise poor creature, and
gone into the moonshine of betrothed bliss," returned Bowlder. " A lover of
ancient days came down from Vermont yesterday, and carried her off this
morning with such ease that it seemed as if she were carrying him off. It is
not often that two souls take on a duality more promptly. She promised wed-
ding cake in time. Her last words to me were, Farewell, a long farewell!
Let us hope that she spoke prophetically," solemnly added Bowlder, who had
at last discovered that Miss Jones's grandiose conversation had the emptiness
as well as the gaudiness of a soap bubble. "The Turks believe that idiots
are inspired. But that credence is not a part of 'my religion. At all events,
I desire to hear no more of Imogen Eleonore's inspirations, and warn you
against her as being not heavenly but mundane, and poor at that."
" Ah! she had( not helped you," said Nestoria thoughtfully. " I owesher
much kindness.   must think how I can repay her."
We need add no more, unless the reader would like to know that Alice
Dinneford, blessed with a sufficient fortune and some experimental wisdom,
means to have an American husband of the usual sort, and will probably
not find it hard to get one.
THE END.

222


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
             
         
       
   
