
    ----CITATION----
        Cross, Jane T. H.. Duncan Adair, or, Captured in Escaping .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6194 wright2-0664
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Duncan Adair, or, Captured in escaping
            
                DUNCAN ADAIR: OR, CAPTURED IN ESCAPING.  A  STORY OF ONE OF MORGAN'S MEN. MACON, GA. 1864. MRs. JANE T. H. CROSS.  1.i  MAON, GA., ,.    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, by BURKE, BOYKIN & COMPANY, in the office of the Clerk of the District Court of Southern Georgia. .   CHAPTER I. THE SURPRISE. AT the close of a day in mid spring, when the dry sheath had scarcely yet fallen from the green leaf, a band of Confederate horsemen were seen approaching a village in Middle Tennessee. The horses struck their feet out in that half desperate, uncertain way, that indicates a struggle between the spirit within and the weary limbs without. They had evidently had hard traveling, as had the men too; but the human will was triumphant, and gibe and gay repartee passed from side to side, as they journeyed on.. These were men who had become so familiar with Death, Danger, and 'Fatigue, that they had formed a jesting acquaintanceship with them. As they neared the village, both horses and riders seemed to pluck up new spirit; the horses, because they felt, with their -instinctive sagacity, that they were coming to the end of the day's travel; the riders, in anticipation of the welcome which they were soon to receive fromn glancing eyes, and from waving handkerchiefs, filling the air with the delicate perfumes of the toilette. These gay anticipations were' not disappointed,-and the wearied soldiers felt compensated for their toils, when they saw at the doors, at the windows, on-the sideways, and even in the streets, the crowds of crying, laughing, sobbing women, praying Heaven     4        DUNCAN ADAIR. to bless them, hailing them as their deliverers, showering boquets upon them, and hastening with the busy feet of joy to bring forth every delicacy that their homes afforded. If there is a bliss on earth, that might mingle with the bliss of heaven and claim affinity, it is that of the soldier, who feels that in entering a to'wn, he takes possession, not of the houses only, but of the very hearts of the people. "When the ear hears him, it blesses "him, and when the eye sees him it gives witness to him, because he delivers the poor that cry, and the fatherless, and him that lhath none to help him. The blessing of him that was ready to perish comes upon him." The leader of these troops did not differ in dress or military ornament from the men by whom he was surrounded; but, even among that band of heroes, he was distinguished by the elegance of his form and features. He was not fashioned after the model of the stern, stout Roman, but of the joy-bireathing Greek; and on looking at him one might fancy Themistocles with fair, open .brow, gazing over the straits of Salamis. The features were. chiseled to delicacy, the expression bespoke a spirit in unity with nature; every thing was bright around him, and the glance from his quick but not restless eye, "Made sunshine in a shady place." Altogether, he was such a one as to call up in a musing mind, the thought: "God has formed that man to noble purposes. -He has endowed him with such graces as involve a solemn responsibility." He was mounted upon a black mare, made as even   THE SURPRISE.        5 an untutored eye might see, for swiftness. The diamond pin upon his bosom seemed playing with the rays of the declining sun, as the chieftain turned, from time to time, to speak to the young man who rode beside him. As they entered the town,he observed to his companion: "If we finish this expe- dition, as we hope, Adair, it will be the most brilliant exploit of the war."' "No doubt of its success, Colonel. When were Morgan's men known to fail?" This reply, uttered in a tone of confidence, was made by the young man to whom we have referred, as riding beside the commander. His age would not have numbered more than twenty years, yet in guessing, one would-have added to it three or four years more. He was more robust than his superior' officer, and not so handsome. He bore himself with an air of self-possession that mingled with indif- ference. His lips unclosed but slightly when he spoke, yet showed two rows- of large white teeth 'firmly set. The lines about the lower part of the face were expressive of great determination; and there was meditation in the serious, dark grey eyes. He held himself erect, and breathed with the full inspiratiop of one whose blood drinks eagerly the living principle. The first rush of welcome being over, sentinels were placed on every road, and our horsemen were. scattered about the town to enjoy its abundant hospi- talitv. Duncan Adair found a home for the night among friends, and after the women of the house had care- A*  '   ,;     6        DUNCAN ADAIR. fully tried to feed him to death at the supper table, they all took their places around the fire,to listen to' the recital of his adventures. Never did Desdemona listen to Othello more enchained! Never did her heart throb with so exultant a joy, for hers was the love of the individual; theirs, the higher love of country. Thus the young soldier, forgetful of his jaded condition, kept his audience until the small hours of the night, and then, being donducted to his room, he threw himself upon his comfortable bed, and was soon lost in that oblivion which we often find to be one of Heaven's best gifts. The early grey of morning had not yet begun to change to red, when the over-wearied soldiers were aroused from their slumbers, to be told -that they were surrounded by the enemy. In an instant, every man was on his feet catching up his weapons. Alas, it was too late! The Yankees, led by a renegade Tennesseean, had gained entrance to the town, and their numbers pouring in, left nothing to our brave men but to make their escape as best they could. The gallant leader is entrapped, but not secured. The word for the future-the time, the place-is given to the men, and they disperse. Our young Themistocles, no longer with smiling eye, looks over the straits of Salamis. The Persian has him at ad- vantage. He pursues him-he calls to him to sur- render. Shot after shot whistles by his ear; but Themistocles is used to such .music. He utters no word, but turning on his flying horse, so as to face his pursuers, he draws a pistol, and sends back a bul- let that brings his unworthy foeman, sorely wounded to the ground.   IN THE PENITENTIARY.      7 In the meantime, Duncan Adair is dressed in citi- zen's clothes and down stairs. The lady of the house is weeping and wringing her hands. "Oh, what shall we do?" she exclaims. "Wave your handkerchief to them! said Dun- can. "Oh, no!" she replied, "I cannot! I cannot wave my handkerchief to the Yankees!" Duncan caught up a handkerchief, put it into her hand, and said: "Wave it and we are safe!"She waved it with a burning cheek, muttering to herself: "For the safety of our soldiers, yes; for myself, never!" While she waved the pocket handkerchief, Duncan coolly walked out of the back door, mounted a horse and rode leisurely out of town. CHAPTER II. IN THE PENITENTIARY. IT. was nearly dark when a solitary horseman ap- proached a country tavern by the' road side. His horse was evidently fagged out, and the rider threw himself from the saddle, as if he were glad to rest. As the jolly tavern-keeper approached the traveler, he said:  "You are rather too fast, my friend. We have no more room for any one to-night."  "But, my, dear sir, " replied the traveler, " look at my condition; it is impossible for me to go -further. Look at-my jaded horse!" ' I am very sorry, sir; but every bed is occupied." - *     8        DUNCAN ADAIR. "I do not care for a bed, I can sleep on the floor; only let my horse be attended to. To finish the mat- ter, I am going to stay here to-night; so nothing more need be said on the subject." Saying this, the young man moved toward the door. "Stop, sir," said Boniface, "let me know who you are that speak like an English lord, and take possession of my house, without leave or license. I can tell you that I am master of my own premises; and I am not in the humor to be trifled with either; 1'ye been 'tigerated' enough lately." The young man walked up to him, and said in a low voice: "I anj Duncan Adair, a Kentuckian; I belong to Morgan's command.' Our forces were scat- tered at Lebanon, and I am trying to make, my escape." The tavern-keeper grasped his land. "Come in I come in, sir! You shall stay if my wife and I have to sleep on the floor. You are welcome, sir; wel- come to everything in my house! Here, boy! come quick! take this horse; rub him down, let him get cool, feed him well t Put hiT in Yorick's stall I you hear?" The servant, who was just at hand, answered: "Yes, sah " and was soon leading the horse around to the stable. As he went along, he muttered to himself: "Dar one dollar I make out dat Mr. Duncan Adair! He tink nobody hear 'em say he one Mor- gan's men; but I tell you dis nigga know what time o' day it is-he keep bofe eyes open. I go down to de Federal camp now, and form dose gemmen of de a           .   IN THE PENITENTIARY.      9 fac. Ah, de better time a comin' mighty fis! We hab de glorious Union,' den dis nigga be free, own all dis plantation, and Mr. Burton's fine house on de hill! Den I walk about wid my blue coat lace over wid gole, my sword by my side, my cap wid dat gole ting on it, and my cav'lry boots on. Den when I go down to Nashville, I'll show 'em dat dis neighbor- hood is consid'able of a sea port."  In the meantime, Duncan Adair had entered the house; and when the landlord had whispered to his wife, that they were entertaining one of Morgan's men, everything was put in motion, to prepare for him the most savory supper. Supper being ended, a young physician who board- ed in the house, invited Duncan to share his bed. The offer being accepted, they pioceeded at once to their sleeping room, and Duncan, having deposited his pistols beneath his pillow, threw himself upon the feather bed, and ever down sinking through tte regions of dreams, was at last lost in the profoundest depths of slumber. At midnight, he was awakened by a glare of light in his face. Opening his eyes, he beheld the room filled with Yankee officers and soldiers. "What is the matter?" he asked. He was answered: "One of Morgan's men is in this house, and we are in search of him." "One of Morgan's men!" he exclaimd, in appa- rent surprise, "where is he?" At the same time, thinking of his pistols, and fearing they might betray him from beneath his pillow, he carelessly threw up his arm, so as to conceal them effectually.     10       DUNCAN ADAIR. , One of the officers replied to his question: "That is just what we wish to discover. It must be either you or this gentleman in bed with'you." "You must be joking," replied Duncan, "to pre- tend to take either of us for one of Morgan's men. Do we present a very warlike appearance?"  "I can't say that you do," answered the officer, "but who is that young gentleman in bed with you?" "I am Dr. Garvin," replied the young physician; "I practice in this neighborhood, and board at this house."  "And who is this other gentleman?" "My name," answered Duncan, "is John Green; I am collector for a mercantile house in Louisville, and came into this neighborhood two weeks ago." ' Are you the son of Mr. Henry Green, of Louis. ville?" "No, sir; I am the son of Mr. Joshua Green, who lives on Waln'ut street." "Ah, yes," rejoined 'the officer, "I know that family also. Where are your sisters now, Mr. Green?" "Julia is at home, sir, and Mary is on a visit to Cincinnati." .By a wonderful chance, he had struck both names. "Are you clerk for Mark & Downs?" "No, sir, I am clerk at Mr. Nabb's establishment." "Ah, yes. Whose black horse is that I see in the stable, very much jaded?" "That is mine, sir," answered Dr. Garvin, "I was called to see a patient at some distance this morning, and have had a weary ride-so much the worse for being awakened in the middle of the night!"   IN THE PENITENTIARY.      " "Sorry to have disturbed you, sir; but it is all the fault of this rebellion; if your people had been quiet, they never would have been disturbed. They have no one to blame but themselves. Whose bay horse is that in the stable?'" That," responded Duncan, " is one I borrowed a few days ago, from Mr. McGuider, to ride home with some young ladies, and I have not yet returned him to his master." "Whose boots are these I see in the room?" "They are mine," responded Dr. Garvin. "Why did you buy cavalry boots?" "Because I could find no others at the time?" "I see several other pairs of boots and shoes in the room-whose are they?" "They are all mine, sir," answered Dr. Garvin, "except one pair that belong to Mr. Green." "You have quite a number." "Yes," rejoined the Doctor, dryly. "Should think you'd find them troublesome." ' Not at all." At length the officer said: Well, Mr. Green, I see no reason to doubt that you are'the person whom you represent yourself to be. However, it will be necessary for you to accompany us to Gallatin, whence we may possibly send you back to Louis- ville." "I think it a very hard thing," rejoined Duncan, "that a peaceable man should be aroused from his bed at midnight, and forced to get up and go wherever a band of strolling soldiers may choose to send him."     12       DUNCAN ADAIR. "All the fruits of the rebellion," replied the offi- cer; "I have a comfortable home of my own, and enjoy a quiet rest as much as any man; yet, I am obliged to spend sleepless nights and toilsome days, and- such will be the case until the very seed of the rebels is crushed out from the face of the earth." While this conversation was proceeding, Rosa Lin- ton, the bright-eyed daughter of the host, was listen- ing at the bottom of the stairs, that she might instruct the family how to corroborate the story of the Con- federate soldier. When he reached the rooms below, it was quite an established fact as to who he was. Turning to the officer, he said:. "May I be per- mitted to take a glass of buttermilk before leaving?" The officer may have thought it a strange taste in a Southern man to make him desire buttermilk at midnight. However, he answered, "Certainly," and Duncan turned to Rosa and asked her to get it for him. Following her into-the dining room, he asked her to have his pistols and horse taken care of until he could get them. The warm-hearted creature pro- mised all he asked, and then, with tears in her eyes, shook hands with him, saying: "Good-bye; I wish the Yankees were all dead!  Mrs. Linton said: "Farewell, Mr. Green. May heaven bless you!" and the old tavern-keeper gave his hand a hearty grip without speaking a word. How our country holds all her children pressed close together in her arms! After several hours, the military party arrived at Gallatin-twenty men escorting poor Duncan. When the breakfast hour came, he walked in, and with an   IN THE PENITENTIARY.     13 air of nonchalance took his seat. Just then some slight commotion at the door announced an addition to their company. What was the dismay of Duncan,  on looking up, to recognise in the Yankee uniform a man whom he had once knocked down on the streets of Louisville for insulting a lady. The, man whose eye gleamed with triumph, walked up and presented- his hand, saying: How are you, Mr. Adair?"Duncan saw, at once, that his impro- vised play was over; but, turning from the man with superb disdain, he said tothe officer who had arrested him: "Colonel, let me speak with you a few moments in the next room.' When they were alone, he said: "I have been deceiving you. I am one of Morgan's men; my name is Duncan Adair; dispose of me as you. see proper." The Colonel replied with some feeling': "Really, sir I am sorry. My duty compels me to send you on to Nashville. But," he continued after a mo- mentary pause, " we do not come down here as ene- mies;,we only wish the Southern people to respect the United States Government. You will not object to taking the oath of allegiance?" "I certainly shall object, sir, and do.' "But why?" "Because I have nothing to do with that Govern- ment; and nothing more to say to your proposition." So saying, Duncan drew himself up to his full height, and buttoning his coat around him, prepared to leave the room. "Stop a moment, Mr. Adair," said the officer. ' Your Southern blood is very hot; but I like your B ,"'-     "      DUNCAN ADAIR. spunk. However, I can modify that oath so that you can have no possible objection to it." "I shall take it, sir," replied Duncan, "in no man- ner, shape nor form. Do your duty!" Duncan was sent to Nashville. The Provost Mar- shal asked a single question: "Who is he? "One of Morgan's men." ' Take him to the Penitentiary." The Penitentiary had not yet become familiar to us as a place made sacred by its association with some of the bravest hearts, with some of the noblest and purest natures that have blest our earth. Formerly we have looked upon that Penitentiary at Nashville with a sorrowing pity for the crimes of our race; henceforth, if we should tread its pave- ments, it will be with a thrilling admiration for the patriots and martyrs who have suffered there. Our Savior made an instrument of disgrace the glory of the world. Some of His followers, with solemn reverence be it spoken, have made places allotted to crime, holy, by prayerful breathings from undefiled lips. When Duncan entered the stone portal of the Peni- tentiary, he felt as-if a blight and shame had fallen upon him. He muttered to himself between his clenched teeth: "I will not stay here; I will escape from this place." ,      t*S, C^   PREPARATORY TO LEAVE.      15 CHAPTER III. PREPARATORY TO LEAVE. DUNCAN had been two weeks in prison. Two weeks shut up-in inactivity, separated from the sympathy of friends and from the joy of companionship, hear- ing every day from our enemies the most dispiriting accounts of-our cause. As the light ship which was, wont to fly before the winds, when suddenly be- calmed in mid ocean, lies and rocks herself with uneasy, unavailing motion, so dwelt his soul in the; midst of this weary stillness. One morning he paced the long gloomy passage, with irrepressible restlessness, with'infinite yearnings toward the outer world. He thought- t himself: "Why can I not walk forth as at other times? Those iron bars stifle me, I cannot breathe! Why can I not walk down the stairs and out the door into the world? Those miserable wretches with their bayo- nets prevent me. Has my arm lost its strength? Could I not dash them to the earth? But then there are others and others who would overpower me, and here I am unarmed, powerless as Sampson without his locks. My very heart withers in this prison. O for a mouthful of free air I For the sight, if but for a single moment, of something belonging to the woods! ' The last words he uttered aloud, and as he turned it seemed as if Diana had heard the wish and had come in person to answer it. There stood before him a young girl-she might be sixteen- .LV 1 ,   sJ Y r* C1     16       DUNCAN ADAIR. neither bold nor bashful. She was straight, as the branches of the wahoo, and the open gaze of hergrey blue eye was as quiet as that of the young deer that has never yet heard the sound of the huntsman's horn. Her light brown hair was caught up in a knot at the back of her head, only a' tiny irrepressible curl fell on one temple She was robed in silk, the color of the spring leaves, a white scarf encircled her form, and the heron's plume in her hat drooped over her cheek and heightened the delicacy of her complexion. A half blown rose was fastened by the brooch which confined her collar. Above this arose her neck, white and round. Duncan's eye took in a vision at a glance. He paused. What man does not pause in the presence of a pure and beautiful girl? An elderly lady whom he had not at all noticed, stepped forward and ad- dressed him: "Are jou a prisoner, sir?" "I am, Madam." "Are you one of Morgan's men?" "Yes, Madam; my name is Adair." The lady introduced herself-Mrs. Murray. Then turning, introduced several young ladies who accom- panied her. Duncan saw no one but Diana in her green robe. Last of all the lady said: "My niece, Miss Trousdale." "We have come," Mrs. Murray continued, "to see youand he rest of the prisoners. We have taken the liber y of bringing you some delicacies, thinking they may be acceptable in a prison." When turning to the Diana she said: "Pauline, my dear, tell the servant to bring up the basket." ;   ,-t   PREPARATORY TO LEAVE.     17 Duncan listened eagerly for the sound of her voice. It completed the enchantment. The music echoed far down through the chambers of his heart. The other prisoners Were called in. The hall was filled with ladies and gentlemen, some standing, some sitting upon chairs, some upon a cot that stood in a corner, some upon the window sill, but all talking cheerfully, even merrily, discussing the merits, or rather the demerits of their enemies, with mingled laughter and abuse. The ladies, to enliven the prisoners, gave them amusing accounts of the occupation of Nashville by the Yankees. Among other things, Pauline Trous- dale said laughingly: One of their soldiers threat- ens to kill me before he returns North." '( To kill you!" exclaimed Duncan; and he fixed his eye upon her with a glance of wonder. To him it was incomprehensible, not only that any one should threaten to kill her, but that the idea of death could' be in any way connected with her. The forenoon passed rapidly away. The ladies arose to depart. The half-blown rose on Pauline'ds bosom became unfastened, and fell to the floor. Dun- can picked it up, and said to her in a low and hurried tone: "May I keep it?" "O, certainly!" she replied, "I will send you a large bouquet to-morrow that will serve to make your room look more cheerful." The answer was very kind, but he did not like it.. It was too frank, too unembarrassed.- "You will come again, perhaps, sometime," he re- joined, and bring me something to read to beguile. B* . "* ' * -  .  " -     18       DUNCAN ADAIR. the tedious hours." He had read enough of the heart of woman to know that the surest way to interest her is to make her feel that she is doing you a favor. Duncan was once more left alone. He stood, look- ing upon the bud that was still in his hand. From its fragrant leaves a rosy mist came forth and envel- oped him. Through this delicious cloud were seen air castles, all resplendent, fair green forests, enchant- ing vistas, fairy dells, gurgling waterfalls, flowers, dew-drops, birds-all that makes paradise. And moving everywhere through the scene, encircled by a halo, was the form of Pauline Trousdale. "Fool that I am " at last he exclaimed. "6She cares nothing for me! How unconcerned she was when she gave me the rosg-bud. She looked upon it as a gift of no importance; it was bestowed upon a sol- dier-a prisoner-and not, upon me-Duncan Adair. Of course, she cares nothing for nme-how could she? No girl of any sense would fall in love in two hours with a stranger; and no man of any sense would fall in love in two hours, and yet that is just whatI have done; but I am a simpleton, a blockhead. O, if I were only free, and on my good horse once more, I might then do some deed that would make me worthy of such a woman. I will be free! I will make the attempt to get out of here if it costs me my life! But then I must not think of that girl--perhaps she loves another-I know nothing of her-I believe my imprisonment has made me weak. In other times I have looked upon hundreds of beautiful women without being so touched. I must discourage this folly." So saying to himself, he threw the rose-bud )t   PREPARATORY TO LEAVE.      19 upon the window-sill, and walked away. When he had reached the door, he paused-turned--went back to the window-took up the bud, and, placing it in his bosom, buttoned his coat tightly over it. So much for the resolutions of man! A few mornings after, a soldier announced to Dun- can that Mrs. Murray wished to see him. As he proceeded to what might be called the prison recep- tion room, l1e thought to himself, "' Mrs. Murrayl is that all?" and he felt his heart beating violently against the rose-bud. The glimpse of a white dress through the open door-way re-assured him. There was Pauline, more lovely than ever-an angel in muslins. It was use- less debating the question with his heart. Her face undid all his arguments. She arose to meet him, provokingly self-possessed, and expressing her plea- sure likea child. She had brought him a book. The more he talked with her the more he was impressed with the simplicity and earnestness of her character. Her heart seemed to him like a deep lake, clear to the very bottom. After awhile, she said to him: "You do not look so cheerful as you did the other morning. Do they keep you a very close prisoner here?" Duncan looked around to see that none of the Yan- kees were very near, and then answered in a cautious voice: "Not particularly; but I pine for freedom; this prison life kills me; I shall make my escape." "O," she exclaimed. "that will be delightful! How will you do it?" He answered: "There is a window down stairs, ero ta a win     20       DUNCAN ADAIR. in which I have at different times loosened all the fastenings in the inside, so that they can be easily removed. But one obstacle remains to my opening the window that is a strong bolt upon the outside which must be drawn back. That must be done the night I make my escape, otherwise it will be discov- ered in the morning and re-fastened, and we shall be subjected to severer imprisonment. It is difficult to approach the window, even at night, because a sen- tinel stands near it. That is the first obstacle. The second is the sentinel at the head of the stairs, who would prevent my going down. Among these men, however, there is one who is disposed to be friendly to me. Sometimes ha is placed there as sentinel, and I think I could prevail upon him to let me. pass. If I only knew the night he would be stationed there, and could have the bolt withdrawn the same night, everything might be accomplished; for, although in jumping from the window I must attract the atten- tion of the sentinel, yet it will be so sudden and unexpected that I think, if the night is dark, I can elude him." "Perhaps I can assist you," said Pauline. "You!" "Yes; why not?" "Do you suppose I would implicate you in an affair of that kind?" "There would be no danger to me." Duncan looked up into her candid eyes and smiled, saying: "What do you propose?" "'If you could let me know the night your friend will stand guard, I think I know a man on the other   PREPARATORY TO' LEAVE.     21 side of the river who will come and withdraw the bolt. He will then direct you to my father's house. My father and mother are both absent now in Ken- tucky, where we expect to spend the summer, but my aunt there, Mrs. Murray, has the care of the house in their absence, and no. Confederate soldier was ever unwelcome at my father's. rNow you see there is no danger to me. Do let me have the pleasure of feeling, that if I cannot fight ;myself, I have at' least helped a soldier to 'the field." "I am not so sure but that you might fight. There is a good deal of calm resolution in your face." "We have to learn to be resolute now. Death is no longer terrible when contrasted with subjugation. But what do you say to my plan?" "Suppose the Yankees should learn that, you had engaged the man to withdraw the bolt?" v "They dare not take my head off." "They might imprison you." "I should not care for that. I could not fight if I were out of prison; and perhaps can serve my coun- try better in prison than anywhere else." "You are a brave girl " "Not braver than others around-me. There is not a girl in our neighborhood who would not be delighted to have the opportunity of assisting one of Mor- gan's men. This affair, however, requires no courage. The man whom I shall employ is a true Southerner, and a man of the strictest probity; nothing could induce him to betray us. There is no danger to me, I assure you. I will speak to the man as I go home to-day. To-morrow and every day hereafter, I will     22       DUNCAN ADAIR. come into town, and at eleven o'clock I shall walk  past the Penitentiary. Would you know me from here to the road?" "I should know you at any distance I could see you." "Well, to be sure, I will wear the green dress that you saw me wear the other day. When everything is ready, stand at the window and lift your handker- chief to your face. That night I shall have the bolt withdrawn before midnight. Will that do?" "Admirably." Duncan thought her charming, but could not help wishing in his secret heart that she thought less of helping him merely as a soldier, or as one of Mor- gan's men. CHAPTER IV. "EAVING THE PENITENTIARY. PAULINE started home, her checks already flushed with excitement. On her way she spoke to Mr. Witherspoon, the mechanic whom she hoped to inter- est in the case. She was not disappointed. He readily undertook the mission of withdrawing the bolt. The next morning Pauline was up with the lark, restlessly busy with household affairs. Nothing went fast enough for her. Her aunt was a little surprised, when she heard her after breakfast order the carriage to go into town, but Pauline was an only child, who   "EAVING THE PENITENTIARY.    23 had always had her own way, and it never occurred to her aunt to oppose her in anything. Day after day she drove into town, day after day she walked beyond the Penitentiary without seeing the signal. At last, one morning she thought she saw the flutter of a white handkerchief. She walked very slowly; again she saw it raised. There could be no mistake. It was the signal. 'After having gone some distance upon the road, she turned and came back. She saw before her a boy throwing a ball against the wall that encloses the-yard of the prison, and catching it as it rebounded. As she. came near him he put the ball into his pocket, and, walking carelessly along close. behind her, he said in a low voice: "Do not turn your head. Are you Miss Trousdale?" She answered, "Yes." Miss Pauline Trousdale?" "Yes." "Well, you had better stoop down to lace your gaiter. I have "a note for you; I will drop it as I pass." She stooped as directed. The note was dropped, and immediately seized and folded in her handker- chief. The boy passed on without appearing to no- tice her. Hurrying to the house of a friend in the city where she had engaged to take dinner, she ran up stairs to lay aside her bonnet, and while she was alone took the opportunity of reading the note. It ran thus: "I unexpectedly find an opportunity of     24       DUNCAN ADAIR. sending you a note. I hope you saw the signal. Remember the window, under the one near which we sat. To-night To-morrow morning they propose sending me to a Northern prison. If I do not see the man, I think I shall be able to find your house from the directions you gave me." Pauline was feverish from anxiety. It seemed as if the dinner of her friend would never be served, and when it came she had no appetite. She ate indiscriminately of any dish that was offered her, and never before had found strawherries and cream so tiresome. The dinner over, there were several things to be done in the - city for her aunt. These must engage her for two or three hours. All, at length, having been accomplished, she, with a sigh of relief, threw herself into the carriage and said: 4' Now, uncle Ned, drive out home." As she proceeded to the ferry she thought: "After all, I need not have felt so anxious and hurried. Everything is arranged. I need only stop'and speak to Mr. Witherspoon." After they had crossed the river, and had gone a little distance, she heard the carriage driver ejacu- late: "I wonder what de matter at Mr. Widder- Spoon's?" "What is it, uncle Ned?" Makin' such a parade ma'am." '"Who is making such a parade?" "Dey is ma'am." "Who?                a "Dem Yankees round Mr. Widderspoon's." 4"Drive up there, uncle Ned, and let me see what is the matter."   "EAVING THE PENITENTIARY.     25' The first thought that occurred to her was that her secret had been fdiscovered. PHer hands grew icy cold. A shiver ran through her-frame. As she drew near the house, she saw Mr. Witherspoon in the cus- tody of several soldiers. There -was a considerable display of guns and bayonets. She controlled her- self sufficiently to say in a quiet tone : "Uncle Ned, stop the carriage. Good evening, Mr. Witherspoon, what is the matter? ' "I am arrested, Miss. Trousdale, and they are taking'me to prison." Then turning to the soldiers he asked: "May I shake hands with Miss Trousdale and say ' Good-bye' to her!" "Yes; be quick about it." He stepped up to her hastily, took her hand and said in a whisper: "They know nothing of that business, but you see I cannot help you." Poor Pauline did see it with consternation. She shook his hand and said: a I am very sorry!"Then getting out of the carriage she went to his weeping wife and-tried to console her. This office of mercy overt she entered the carriage and ordered the driver to a go on." Affairs deemed to have suddenly grown desperate. Just as, with much pains, everything had been arranged, by a single stroke all had been disarranged. This was the only night that offered an opportu- nity of escape. The next day, Mr. Adair would be taken to the North. Once there she could-not tell the result-perhaps death in prison. There was no exchange being made at that time; she did not know when there would be. It was too late to procure any     26       DUNCAN ADAIR. one else to withdraw the bolt; indeed, she knew not to whom else to apply. Here were a great many perplexing things for a girl of sixteen to think of  Having reached home, Pauline said to the driver: ' Uncle Ned, when you have put away your horses, please come to the summer-house in the garden; I want to see you there." She then ran up to her own. room, closed the door, and threw herself upon her knees. -She had been taught that God cares for us, and that our smallest interest concerns Him. She remembered that He looseth the prisoners," and she prayed earnestly: "Lord, direct me! Lord, help me! Show me what to do!" She arose quietly to consider the situation. Uncle Ned was entirely faithful, and in his way intelligent, but she never could make him understand where the window was; then she did not know whether ho would have the nerve to go so near to a Yankee sen- tinel to assist a prisoner to make his escape; in the third place, she thought it would be cruel to expose the old servant to danger. On the other hand, Dun- can Adair was depending altogether upon her assur- ances that he should be free. She had offered her assistance. If she had not, he probably might have obtained help from some one else; but now it was impossible-to-morrow would be too late. Pauline grew pale as she said to herself: "Well, he must be free, that's all." Then hastily changing her dress for a dark calico wrapper, she ran down to the summer-house. Uncle Ned spon made his appearance. As he-came   "EAVING TIE PENITENTIARY.    27 near she arose and said: "Uncle Ned, do the Yan- kees station pickets on this road?" "Why, yes; bless your soul, Miss Pauline, dem debils everywhar." "Is it not possible to go through the woods and avoid them?" The old man scratched his head. "Yes, Miss; people 'voids 'em sometimes, but dey got mighty sharp eyes-dem Yankees." "Very well, we'll get by them, or we'll get round them at any rate." "We get by 'em?  Who get by 'em, Miss Pau- line?" "You and I, uncle Ned,?' answered Pauline, quietly.  Mercy 'pon us! What de chile thinking of?" "Hush, uncle Ned; don't speak so loud. I will tell you. I have no one to help me but you; I depend upon you." "Yes, chile; you may 'pend upon me. You been always mon'sus good to me, and if you is gwine to take a wild goose chase, I'll stick close to you any- how." "Well;- but you must not tell any one." Don't you be afraid, Miss. I come from ole Vir- ginny; nuff said." ' Well, as soon as it is dark, I am going to town to-night. I wish you to go with me. We cannot ride, for we should be stopped by the pickets, so we must walk and must start early, as early as we can with- out being suspected. There is a canoe I have fre- quently seen tied under the old sycamore by the     28       DUNCAN ADAIR. river. I am almost sure we can get that, and Vou will paddle me over to the other side." "Yes, Miss, but thar's some driff still floating on the river." "That cannot be helped; we must try and avoid it.' "Sattinly, Miss Pauline; but I'm mighty jubous about the weather," and uncle Ned looked up at the sky, which was becoming darkened with those hasty spring-clouds that so often gather. -. "If it rain," Pauline remarked, ' so much the better." 'Very well, Miss; I be ready." After tea, Mrs. Murray complaining of a slight headache, retired to her roomn; Pauline dismissed the servants, teling them that she would see that the house was fastened; then fastening all the doors except one at the back of the house, she passed out through that, and in a few minutes two figures niight have been seen, one enveloped in a black silk mantle, creeping stealthily along the lane, close in the shadow of the fence. The m'oon was wading heavily through the clouds, and only now and then a burst of light fell upon them. Pauline's heart beat so fast, that she felt as if it would burst through her bodice; her sup- pressed breathing did not seem to furnish half the air that was necessary for her lungs. They had intended turning into a second lane that led from the first, but Pauline fancying she saw a man at the head'of the lane, touched uncle Ned, and climbing a fence, dropped into the field beyond. There a range of bushes screened them from the fan- cied sentinel. The ground had been plowed for corn,   "EAVING THE PENITENTIARY.     29 and every step she sunk into the soft earth. She struggled on, however, until she came to a wood-land pasture, and there the walking was better, and the shade more secure. By the time they had reached  the river, the clouds had quite overcast the moon, and flashes of lightning from time to time illuminated their way. The wind blew in gusts, and occasionally large drops of rain were felt upon their faces and hands. The ground was so familiar to uncle Ned, that the canoe was found without much difficulty, but it seemed to Pauline that she had never seen him so long about anything as he was in untying the rope. She feared every moment that a Yankee soldier would come. She bent her head and listened painfully, and at the sound of a passing cow, she sank upon the bank ready to faint. The canoe was unmoored, and Pauline crouched down in the bottom while uncle Ned pushed it out from shore. It seemed a mere egg shell between them and the turbuleit waters. The current was swift, and although the river was no longer rising, occasional logs and other drift came floating past. The darkening sky aided the passage of the boat, for to one on shore it appeared to be but a portion of the drift. Uncle Ned used the paddle softly, and half floating, half rowing, he at last reached the other bank, but far below the point he had attempted to gain. Neither had spoken a word. Pauline's feet were cold and wet with the water in the bottom of the canoe, but she did not notice it; her soul was swat- C*     30       DUNCAN ADAIR. lowed up in apprehension. Once landed, she whis- pered : "Uncle Ned, where can you fasten the canoe so that we can find it again?" a Dar no place to fasten the canoe here, Miss Pau- line. Don't you see it's all rock. Ef you get in again, maybe I fine some place 'long de river." ' O, no! I can't do that! We have not a moment to lose; beside it would only be running fresh risk of- disco-very. No, you stay here, uncle Ned, and keeD the canoe until I come back." Before the old nman could reply, she was gone in the darkness, clambering up the slippery rocks. All alone, she struggled on through the night. The hor- ror of her helplessness canme over her at times until she was sick from fealr  Then she would draw cour- age from desperation. u' Surely," she would say to herself,." God will take care of me. I am doing right. I am actinlg for Him and for my country. He will not let anything hurt me. 'What time I am afraid, I will trust in Thee.' " Thus with alter- nate bravery and trepidation she still pursued her way. From caution she passed through the darkest streets, and they all, seemed unfamiliar to her. The night had grown so stormy that but few sentinels were out, and these, from her knowledge of the town, she was enabled to shun. Once only, she saw a sol- dier approaching so rapidly, that she gave up all hopes of-escape. Just then to her right hand, she discovered the gate of a coal yard left ajar. She slipped in and concealed herself among the piles of coal. She heard the soldier's feet ringing on the   "EAVING THE PENITENTIARY.      3 1 pavement as he passed, and her heart was quite in her throat, but He had not observed her. Again, as she turned into an unfrequented street, a drunken man came. reeling out of a low groggery, hallooing a bac- chanalian song. She was on the opposite side of the narrow way, and placing herself in a door-way, she stood perfectly still. The second danger passed, and the drunken song died away, amidst the wind and tile rain. As she came near the Penitentiary, the rain poured down in torrents, and the wind blew- with such violence that, at times, it was impossible to take a step forward. Not a light was seen anywhere. She groped her way along by the wall. She was drenched with the rain, but she was not cold; she had walked miles, but she was not fatigued. Her trepidation was all gone, her heart beat with a regular, firm stroke; ,not a nerve trembled. Without encountering- any one, she reached that part of the building, in front, to which she had been directel - She felt her way to the window. No sentinel was near it. He had taken shelter in the door-way some paces off. She ran her hand along the bars; she felt the bolt. Putting her hand into her pocket, she drew forth a small bottle of hair oil. With this she carefully greased the bolt: then she attempted to draw it back. It was heavy, and resisted her efforts. Again she oiled it, and col- lected all her strength for the exertion-joy! it gives way! The deed is accomplished! It had made some noise, but it was lost amnidst the noise of the storm. She had not turned .from the window, before it     32       DUNCAN ADAIR. opened and a man sprang from it. Then she trem- bled! It might be Duncan Adair,'but it might be one of the Yankee soldiers. He grasped her arm, and a sudden half suppressed exclamation escaped him. She caught his hand, for she had in the broken exclamation recognized his voice. Without speaking, she drew him along the wall. Soon they were in the road. Duncan drew her arm witlhin his, and crossing the street, passed into the open fields beyond. When quite sure that they were beyond the hearing of the sentinels, Duncan spoke: "Miss Trousdale, this is not what you promised me! How could you do it? You have killed your- self to save me! How could you do it?" O, hush!" she replied, "I am so glad you are free!" "But you will die from this exposure." "No danger! Rain hurts me no more than it does a young goose, which, perhaps, you think I am." "I think you are an angel." "Then you know the rain can't hurt me; but do not speak now; we are coming into town again." It was now near mid-night. The violence of the storm had driven every one off the street, except here and there a hardy sentinel stood at his post. These our fugitives had managed to avoid, until in turning a corner, they came so suddenly upon one standing under a gas-lamp, that it was impossible to escape his observation. They were passing him when he stopped them, and said to Duncan: "Your pass, sir!" "Ah, yes," replied Duncan, and began feeling in his vest pocket. At length he exclaimed in a tone   "EAVING THE PENITENTIARY.     33 of vexation: Why, where is the plaguey thing?" Then, as if suddenly recollecting himself, he turned to Pauline, and said: There now, Lucy, I left it in my other vest, which I pulled off at home this evening-what is to be done now?" Here address- ing himself to the sentinel, he said: "I have, unfor- tunately, forgotten my pass; but you see, sir, how I am situated. My sister here and I have been spend- ing the evening with a friend. Our mother is alone at home awaiting us. My sister is already very wet from the rain, and this situation is exposing her still more. You cannot suppose that I am on any errand of mischief, and a lady with me. Be so kind, sir, as to let us pass on out of this rain." The man hesitated. Duncan slipped a piece of money into his hand, and passed him, saying: "I cannot stay here parleying." The man looked after him, and said : "I guess it's all right." "Of course,' said Duncan in a low voice to him- self, ' it's all right when you have the money." Winding along through out of the way places, and amidst the tumbling down houses of the suburbs, they came out, at last, upon the river bank. The rain had ceased. Masses of broken cloud were roll- ing overhead. After walking up and down the bank for some time, and calling softly now and then, they came, at last, upon uncle Ned. "Marcy 'pon us, Miss Pauline! whar you bin gwine through all dis rain? I wus shore you wus drowned and killed and slaughtered, and dat bein de exposition of de fac, dis ole nigger was ready to     34       DUNCAN ADAIR. drown hisself, 'cause you know consequently, dis nigger could never face ole massa no more." "Don't talk, uncle Ned," said Pauline, until we get home. Some one may hear you." They took their seat in the canoe. All was silent. The rowing proved to be more difficult than when they came over, because now they were going up stream, but Duncan caught up a paddle that lay in the bottom of the canoe, and in a few minutes the vessel was skimming like a petrel over the waves. When they were near their place of landing, the moon burst through the clouds, and threw a flood of light over the waters. They heard some one hail them from the southern bank. They made no answer. Again, they heard the halloo, and then a shot came whizzing past them. They were now on shore. Uncle Ned did not stop to tie the canoe, but let it float down the current. They hurried on, through the woods, over fences, unregardful of any obstacle that lay in their way.' Pauline took Duncan's arm, and he almost bore her along, as they hastened onward. Often he whispered, "Are you not fatigued? Are you not cold?" but she always answered, "Not at all."   THE PURSUIT.       35 CHAPTER V. THE PURSUIT. AFTER a weary and muddy march, the party arrived at Mr. Trousdale's house. They entered softly through the back door. Pauline whispered to uncle Ned to show Mr. Adair to the library, to give him a change of her father's clothes, and to light a fire. She retired to her room, and changing her own clothes, put on a double dressing gown, and sitting down before the fire, spread her hair out over her shoulders to dry. Her cheeks were still glowing with excitement. Her whole nervous system was so thoroughly aroused that she felt neither weariness nor want of sleep. She sat looking into the fire, thinking over the events of the past few hours, and wondering if it were not a dream from which she would awake. She knew not what time had elapsed, when she heard a soft tap at the door. She arose and opened it. There stood uncle; Ned-his eyes bigger and whiter than ever before. "Miss Pauline, dey are here." "Who?"  "Dem debbils; they are all down stairs." "Go down, uncle Ned, and keep them there as long as you can," whispered Pauline; then going through the passage that separated her room from the library, she opened the door, and Duncan Adair stood before her, dressed in a complete suit of her father's clothes. Even her, father's round, drab-     836      DUNCAN ADAIR, colored hat which happened to be in the room, he had put on in a whim to complete the costume. A bright fire burned in the grate; a bottle of wine and a wine glass stood on a waiter upon the table. Everything looked so comfortable, "if," in the words of Sir Walter Raleigh, "one might have abided by it," Pauline took little time to notice these things. She merely whispered: "Make your escap e; they are here; in the house." "How can I escape then?" said Duncan very composedly. "There is a window," said Pauline, "at the end of the passage. You can get through that upon a back gallery which will lead you to the end of the house. By climbing over the railing there you can reach the roof of the kitchen. That is protected on one side by a breast work of brick; by laying down between that and the chimney you may conceal yourself. If there is no guard placed there, you may probably get down by catching the limbs of a tree which grows near the kitchen; but come, quickly! They will be up here in a moment!"  Duncan looked at her musingly as if he were thinking more of her than the escape. "And shall I ever meet you again?" he said. "Oh, yes, I hope so," she replied, "but make haste, they will take you!" He followed her to the end of the passage. She opened the window softly. He caught her hand, pressed it warmly, and stepped' out upon the gallery. The window was closed, and Pauline returned to the e    THE PURSUIT.        3 87 brary to see that nothing of Duncan's which might :cite suspicion was there, Everything had been removed, and put in a place 'safety by uncle Ned. She was about to leave the )om, when several Yankee soldiers presented them- Ives at the door, while behind them was seen the dae face of Mrs. Murray, and the black terror ricken countenance of Pauline's maid. Pauline said to the soldiers: "Why are we dis- rbed at this hour of the night?" One of them answered: "We are on the track of 1 escaped prisoner, named Duncan Adair." "Do you expect," she rejoined, to find him ere?" "Well, I calc'lste if he's here, we'll be pretty sure get him." "Very well, search the house." "You seem to keep pretty late hours here, Miss," id the soldier, "and make free use of-your fuel; is is a large fire to be burning at this time o' night." "Are you commissioned to inquire into the habits : our family," asked Pauline. "O, we have the right to ask of the rebels what iestions we think proper." Pauline's lip slightly curled, but she made no iswer. "You seem to have been keeping company, too, ith some one; I see you have wine." "If you want the wine, drink it . "Well, I dun't know as I hev any objection;" so ying, he poured out'a glass, drank it, and then he inded it to his companions who also drank. D     38       DUNCAN ADAIR. They then proceeded in their search, looking under tables, sofas and cushioned chairs, striking on the shelves of books to see if thie sound indicated any space behind them. In the meantime, Pauline had managed, to signal to the maid to go to her room. She knew, as the girl was intelligent and faithful, that as soon as she saw the wet clothes she would know they ought to be put out of the way. Then, turning 'to the sol- diers, she said: "You have not yet looked into that table drawer. He might be in that, perhaps. There is a wafer box, also, which you have not examined. I advise you to be careful lest he escape you." The soldiers appeared half ashamed and half angry, but, one of them stepping up to her, took hold of her hair, and said: ' Your hair seems to be damp, Miss?" She drew back, and from her eye flashed the spirit of the old Roman- senator who struck to the earth the barbarian for daring to handle his beard. "Ex- amine this house," she said, "if such be your orders, from "garret to cellar; but if you touch me again, it shall be at your peril." "Didn't mean to offend you,'Miss; I admire your grit." "O, don't talk to them, Pauline!" exclaimed Mrs. Murray. AInsolent dogs!" said Pauline as she. left the Troom. The search went forward. Duncan was not found, but so convinced were the Yankees of his being -concealed upon the premises, that they left a guard around the house.   THE PURSUIT.       39 An hour had passed. All was quiet. Duncan arose quietly, and looked beyond the breast work. Beneath the tree, whose branches almost touched the roof, he could discern through the darkness the figure of a sentinel, whose hand held the musket that stood on the ground beside him. With a quick eye and determined hand, Duncan put into execution the plan that occurred to him. Springing forward, he caught the branches of the tree, and as he swung himself down, he, with the heel of his boot, struck the sentinel such a blow upon the head as brought him senseless to the ground. The gun went off in the fall; but Duncan was unhurt, and leaping the garden fence he made his escape into the woods, before the sentinels could discover what had happened. He walked some distance in contradictory direc- tions through the woods, for the ground was soft, and he left the impress of his foot in the soil, then passing into the lane he crossed it, walking back- ward, and leaping another fence, passed through some pasture land in the direction of the city. About breakfast time the next morning, a respec. table looking man, in the dress of a middle aged person, with a round drab hat on, walked quietly into the steam ferry boat that was about starting across to the city. He took up a newspaper, and occupied himself with it, until they reached the south bank, then paying his fare he walked up the hill and entered Nashville. Passing through the streets, he saw no'hacks, but seeing a negro man- he. called him and said: "Do you see that lady standing. on the piazza paying for some 'strawherries?" "Yes, sah."     40       DUNCAN ADAIR. "Well, I am to take breakfast with her. Imme- diately after breakfast, I wish to drive into the coun- try-will you bring me a hack to the door?  "Yes, sah."  The gentleman then approached the lady, and said: "Madam, I belong to the Federal camp; I have been sick, and started to take a walks but find that I am not yet sufficiently strong-I have ordered a hackto take me back. May I be permitted to rest in your house until it comes?" The lady gave consent in a very cold ungracious tone. He walked in, and took a seat in the parlor, where he found several ladies. The welcome they gave him was chilling. Soon the gentleman of the house appeared, and saying "Good morning," asked him if he belonged to the Federal camp. "Yes, sir."  "What position have you in the army?" "I belong to the commissary department." "When have you heard from John Morgan and his men?  "Not for some time. O, I fancy we have pretty well cut them up."' '"No," rejoined the gentleman of the house with warmth, "you have not pretty well cut them up; but they will pretty well 'cut you up before you have done." The stranger turned and said to him: Sir, I have been lying to you. I am not a Federal officer, but am one of Morgan's men, and have just made my escape from the Penitentiary."   THE PURSUIT.      . 41 "One of Morgan's men?" exclaimed the ladies, all springing up at once, "'we must shake hands-with you." The gentleman expressed his gratification, but added : "Youmust not remain here. They will be searching for you. Come, our breakfast is just ready. Take your breakfast. In the mean time, I will have my carriage ordered, for the pickets on the road would stop the hack. My wife and daughters will take a morning ride. They -have a pass. They will take you to a friend of ours in the country, whence you can make your escape. A few days after these events, Mr. Trousdale's family physician called to see Pauline, and handed her a, note which had been given him by a gentle- man in Nashville. It ran thus: "I am safe, thanks to your courage and wisdonr! If I live, your name shall nerve my arm in every battle; if I die, I shall- bear your image with me into Eternity," Several months had passed. The long bright days of summer had come. Pauline was romping with her young cousins with whom she and her parents were spending the summer, or strolling with themr through the green woodlands of Kentucky, or sitting under some shady tree, watching her cork as it floated upon the quiet waters of " old Salt river." Some, times she paused and gazed on vacancy, -dreamingly gazed, as if something were in the space before, her, unseen by other eyes. One evening as she sat on. the steps of the. froat D*     42       DUNCAN ADAIR. portico, watching the black birds as they came troop- ing to an old elm for their night's repose, a young boy came running up the lawn, and when he arrived at the bottom of the steps, almost out .of breath, he exclaimed: "Cousin Pauline, Iohn Morgan's coming!" Pauline burst into a laugh: "That was capitally done, cousin Alf., but is it possible that you have put yourself to the trouble of running cleai across the lawn, just to hoax me with that story? No, no; Master Alfred Branham, I am not quite so young as to believe such an improbability." "I declare, cousin Pauline, upon my honor, it's thee truth." "Who told you so?" "A young fellow down in town told me that his father saw some of the soldiers yesterday, and he says they are not ttwenty miles from here, and that they will be here to-morrow." "Oh, how can that be? I wonder if it is true?" exclaimed Pauline, as she sprang up and ran into the house, crying, "Pa, Ma, cousin Miles, do you hear that? Morgan is coming Do you think it is true, Pa?" "You are a strange herald to bring us news, and then ask us to confirm it," said Mr. Trousdale. "But what do you think about it. Alfred says a boy told him that his father had seen some of the troops, and that they will be here to-morrow. I do hope it is true." "It is not very likely," remarked Mr. Branham, that Morgan would dare penetrate into the very heart   THE PURSUIT. .       43 of Kentucky, when there are Federal troops scat- tered all over the State.' The family all joined in expressing their disbelief of the story, and yet they all went out upon the por- tico as if to look already for his coming. No South- ern troops were in sight, but the "Home Guards" were flying in all directions, and the whole village seemed to be in a state of unusual commotion. The gentlemen put on their hats to go into the village, the ladies remained at home indulging in a thousand exciting conjectures. There was very little sleep in the house that night. The next, morning, however, they all arose disposed to laugh at the story which had created so much disturbance the day before. After breakfast Pauline went into the garden to gather some flowers, when Alfred again came rush- ing through the gate. "-Cousin Pauline, they're coming! I tell you they're coming! They are this side of Salt river! I saw them myself, and came galloping back to tell you." Pauline asked no second question. She ran into the house, caught up her hat, and she and Alf. started into the village as fast as they:could walk. The houses seemed emptying themselves into the streets, and the people were in a delirium of joy. Soon the grey uniform of the South was seen upon the hill- top that overlooked the village., The song of "The Bonnie Blue Flag" came floating down upon the breeze, the ladies waved their handkerchiefs, the little boys ran shouting to meet the soldiers, the old men stood with beaming faces and moistened eyes, the shout that they dared not utter with the little         .t     "       DnNOAN ADAIR. boys, being pent up within their hearts. Oh, Ken- tucky! when shall the voice of Freedom again ring from thy valleys and thy hill-tops! Pauline stood upon a terrace as the soldiers passed by, waving to them her handkerchief, throwing them the flowers that she held in her hand. It is useless to say that she did not look with a nervous' interest for the face of Duncan Adair. Among so many persons in uniform, it is difficult to recognize an acquaintance. They had all passed. Pauline was disappointed. She said to herself: "He is not with them," and was turning away, when Duncan stood on the terrace beside her. .He caught her hand. "Miss Trousdale, this is the crowning joy of this day!" Pauline answered: '.I am so glad to see you! I was afraid you were not among the troops; but come, you must go with me to my cousin's, you must see my father and mother." Duncan went with her. She busied herself in pre- paring for him the most delicate refreshments, she introduced him to her friends, she went with him through the garden to gather flowers; they walked through the grove, down by the spring that burst out beneath the ancient elm. All day long he was by her side. It was one of the golden days that seem sent down directly from the gates of heaven. Once, as they stood beside the spring, she said to him: "I was uneasy until I heard that you were safe, beyond the lines." "And yet," he replied, "I was captured in es- caping. Did you know it?" o   THE PURSUIT.        45 "No," she replied in surprise, looking up at him; "Where were you taken? ' "At Nashville." "I did not hear it! How did you escape the second time?" "I did not escape at all. I am still a captive, bound hand and foot, and that is what keeps me here beside you to-day. I do not wish to escape; I only ask gentle treatment for the prisoner." Pauline turned away blushing, and attempting to treat the matter playfully, said: "You are so enig- matinal, it is impossible to understand you." Duncan replied seriously: "You do understand me." Just then, to Pauline's relief, her father joined them. At twilight the order was given for the troops to leave. Again, for a moment, Pauline and Duncan were left alone. He said to her: "Will you think of me?" She struggled hard to keep back the tears, but they came in spite of her. Sobbing, she buried her face in her handkerchief. Before Duncan could speak or move, he heard the voices of soldiers behind him. Pauline turned hastily to conceal her tears, and entered an avenue leading back to the house. Duncan saw her no more.  e            ,     "      DUNCAN ADAIR. CHAPTER VI.  CONCLUSION. MR. TROUSDALE and his family remained long enough in Kentucky to witness Bragg's campaign, and when our forces retired once more,Aullen before the overwhelming numbers of the foe, Mr. Trousdale also left the State. He did .not remain long at -his home near Nashville. Unwilling to take the oath of allegiance to a foreign and hostile power, unwilling to brook the insults to which Southern people were daily subjected, he removed further South in Ten- nessee, that he might- put the brave hearts of our soldiers between his family and our enemies. He and his wife, trembling even there for their daughter, insisted upon her accepting the invitation of an old schoolmate to visit Georgia. Very reluctantly Pau- line obeyed. Months passed away. The brilliant victory of Murfreesboro' was won, but our army was obliged to retreat; then many other uncertain and weary months, and another retreat. Pauline was, indeed, now nearly frantic with anxiety, for her parents were left within 'the enemy's line. One morn- ing, to her immeasurable joy, she found hers'elf in their arms. - A second flight had brought them into Georgia. After all the first tumult of happiness had passed, Mrs. Trousdale said: "Pauline, your father had a very narrow escape from death by the Yan- kees, through the heroism of a friend of yours." "What do you mean, mamma?" said Pauline.   CONCLUSION..       47 Mrs. Trousdale continued: "We were living on debateable ground-that is, first in possession of one army and then of the other. One day a party of marauding Yankees came, and were destroying every- thing upon the place. Your father made no resist- ance, as he knew it was useless, until they attempted to enter the house. This he told them they should not do, as I was sick and in bed. A struggle ensued. They had overpowered your father, and 'had him on the ground. One man had his foot upon his breast, and was about to run his bayonet through him, when suddenly a rush and the report of a pistol was heard. The arm' of the Yankee dropped powerless at his side, and all his comrades instantly took to flight, pursued by six Confederates, who had come in the back way, through the garden, conducted by old uncle Ned. Several of the Yankees were killed, and several taken prisoners. Our men returned to our house to breakfast, and we then found that they were led by Duncan Adair. It was he who had shot the Yankee that was about killing your father." As Pauline listened to this recital, all the blood fled from her face. When it was finished, she threw her arms around her father's neck, and then around her mother's, exclaiming: "I will never leave you anv more." t It was our greatest comfort, my child," answered her mother, "that you were not with us, but in a place of safety. However, for the future, I think we will remain together. We will not be separated again, during this war, even for a day." "In that case," remarked Mr. Trousdale, "you     48       DUNCAN ADAIR. and Pauline must make yourselves ready to go with me to Savannah to-morrow, as I am called there on business. If Pauline's young friend. here-Miss Alice Wyatt--will consent to go with us, we may make it a pleasant party a  Alice readily consented, and the next day found them all at the Pulaski House in Savannah. No one ever goes to Savannah without visiting 'Bonaventure. Our party selected a pleasant day, and drove out there. The bright rays of the sun were softened into a melancholy light by the foliage of the spreading oak-the grey moss hung like trail- ing banners, which memory had planted over the past. The young girls wandered, hand in hand, through the broad avenues, wondering what hand had planted them, what eye had watched them grow, dreaming of the grandeur which in times long past, perhaps, had marked the place'; of the scenes of revelry and gaiety which it had witnessed; of the careless feet and loving hearts that had once rambled through that forest bower. Now the gay dream has passed away. Beauty and silence dwell there together; and the white marble that glistens through the enchant- ing gloom gives to it an undying interest, by speaking to us of the dead, our unoffending and best beloved ones! The party at last found itself upon the banks of a water course. The stream was tumbling onward with a reckless Southern impetuosity, its dark waters moving with a menacing roar. Pauline stood by the river, looking upon its boil-   CONCLUSION'.       49 ing waters as if she were fascinated by the struggling waves. One by one the others tired and wandered off, until she was left alone. She stood looking upon the waters and smiling. She was not thinking of the waters, nor of Bonaventure, neither of its past or its present. She was in Tennessee. She was witnessing the struggle at her father's door; she was looking at Duncan as he rode up and shot the Yan- kee; she was wondering why he had sent her no message through her mother; she was wondering if he thought of her, if he thought of her often; if he liked any one else better than herself; she was hoping-yes, it is just the truth-that he did not. A coming footstep aroused her from her dream. She turned with a mesmeric start. She knew it was Duncan. She felt as if her thought had conjured- him up; as if her wish had drawn him. She felt as if he had read her heart, as he would have read a letter, and had only obeyed its call. She was cov- ered with the most painful embarrassment; and when he approached her with quickened pace, and joy beaming countenance, she met him with a chilling reserve. He was stunned as by a blow. "Miss Trousdale," he exclaimed, " what is the matter?" "Nothing." "You seem sorry to see me." "Oh, no," she answered with an air of indifference, "I am very glad to see you." Drawing himself up proudly, he replied: I see, Miss Trousdale, I have in some way offended you." 'N No you have not. How could you have offended me? Did you not save my father's life? Grati- tude --"     60       DUNCAN ADAIR. "Please do not mention that," said Duncan impa- tiently, ' I detest gratitude." Pauline was in her turn wounded and remained silent.     '  Duncan continued rapidly: "I came to Savannah purposely to see you. The way seemed long and wearisome, till I should meet you. When I arrived at the hotel, I heard you were here, and I followed you, only to learn that I have made a fool of myself. Yet I will svay to you ^all that I intended to say, and then retrace my steps, at least a somewhat wiser man." 'He paused, as if suffering a sensation of choking, then continued: "In Kentucky you said I spoke in enigmas; now , will speak -plainly. I love you better than my own life I You came to me in prison like a vision. That vision took posses- sion of my whole being. I have suffered suspense for months. I could bear it no longer. I came to tell you this-to ask you to be mine, but you need not, Miss Trousdale, give yourself the trouble of denying me. I heard the denial in the first words of welcome that you uttered." While he was speaking, Pauline turned alternately red and pale. When he ceased she said in a low voice: "Why 'not call me Pauline?" He looked eagerly into her face. It was overspread with blushes, and her eyes were cast down. "May I?" he said, "may I call you Pauline?" "s Yes; call me Pauline," she' answered in the same low tone. He took her hand, he took it in both of his. She did not withdraw it. "And will you give me this                . ?',-   CONCLUSION.        61 little hand, Pauline, that drew back the bolt and gave me liberty?" For a moment she looked up into his face with eyes smiling through tears: "You have taken pos- session of it already." "But may I keep'it as my ona " "I am not strong enough to take it away." He bent over her hand and pressed it to his lips: ' Thank you, dear Pauline; I am not worthy of it, but I will strive to become so." They walked through the grove to seek their party. The green leaves of the live oaks were emeralds tretnbling in the sunshine; the sombre moss was a shining silver tapestry; the odor of violets was a breath of heaven, and this "field of death" grew up around them into a true and ever-blooming, field of life. e  ,              , *      
         
      
   
