
    ----CITATION----
        Cooper, S. M.. Life in the Forest, or, The Trials and Sufferings of a Pioneer .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6161 wright2-0630
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
            
         
         
            
               LIFE IN THE FOREST:
               OR, THE TRIALS AND SUFFERINGS OF A PIONEER.
            
            BY S. M. COOPER.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               PERRY AND ERETY, 
                     FOURTH AND RACE STREETS.
                  
               
            
            1854.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by PERRY AND ERETY, in the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
               PHILADELPHIA:
               T. K. AND P. G. COLLINS, PRINTERS.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            THE facts detailed in the following pages, were related to the author several years ago, by an elderly lady, since deceased. Being herself a relative of one of the families brought into view in the narrative, she was perfectly familiar with all the particulars, and they may be relied on as true.
            The author, at the time, deemed them possessed of more than ordinary interest, and as furnishing a good illustration of the trials and sufferings of a Pioneer family. They are now given to the public in as faithful a manner as memory, and full notes taken at the time, have enabled him to do.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. AN EMIGRANT FAMILY. 9
               
               CHAPTER II. AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE. 18
               
               CHAPTER III. THE SURPRISE. 29
               
               CHAPTER IV. THE ABDUCTION. 42
               
               CHAPTER V. THE PURSUIT. 56
               
               CHAPTER VI. THE QUEER DUTCHMAN. 74
               
               CHAPTER VII. KEMIE'S SON SLAIN. 86
               
               
               CHAPTER VIII. THE SEARCH. 101
               
               CHAPTER IX. THE LOST ONE FOUND. 118
               
               CHAPTER X. A TRAGEDY. 137
               
               CHAPTER XI. THE FATHER'S AND DAUGHTER'S RETURN. 147
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Life in the forest, or, The trials and sufferings of a pioneer
            LIFE IN THE FOREST.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               AN EMIGRANT FAMILY.
               IN the vicinity of an eastern town, in one of the old colonies, there was a rude frame building which had withstood the sunshine and storms of fifty years. It was a tenant-house; and, for several years, had been occupied by emigrant families from Scotland and Ireland.
               In the second story of this building, resided, nigh a century ago, a family by the name of Kemie. The Kemies had emigrated from the North of Scotland, and had been in America about six months. They were descendants of that noble band of Irish who, during the reign of Charles I., had fled to Scotland to enjoy, unmolested, the rights of conscience. Hence, they were Scotch-Irish, a term generally applied plied to that class of emigrants in an early day.
               The family consisted of five members, Mr. and Mrs. Kemie, one son, and two daughters. The son's name was John; the eldest daughter was named Jane, and the youngest Annie.
               James Kemie, at the time he landed in America, was about forty-five years of age. In person, he was about the ordinary height, stout-built, healthy, and well fitted to endure the hardships of a new country. He was, moreover, a pious man, and took great delight in the religious instruction of his children. In disposition he was mild, and yet, by times, very decided, and not easily reasoned out of anything he took in head. Although, in a general way, he was grave and quiet, yet there was an occasional humor about him, not easily suppressed.
               Betty, his wife, was a short, thick-set woman, with black hair and a florid complexion. There was nothing, however, remarkable in her character, one way or another; being merely what is termed a good natured, easy sort of a body—kind and obliging. Her education, moreover, was limited, although she could read the Bible, and had an accurate knowledge of its doctrines.
               Late one evening, in the month of October, Kemie returned to his humble dwelling very much fatigued. He had been assisting some workmen, during the day, to remove the rubbish of an old building, and had exerted himself quite beyond his strength.
               Betty was sitting in the corner beside the fire, looking quietly at her two daughters, who were busily engaged in darning some old stockings; while John, seated on a low stool, was gazing thoughtfully at the consuming embers.
               Kemie, entering the door by an outside stairway, walked slowly towards the fire, took down the old pipe from the dusky mantle, and, having lit it, sat down in the opposite corner.
               "I hae been thinking'," said he, after a few minutes silence, "this is nae the best o' places to be stoppin' in; it's nae aisy to get work, an' work's chape here."
               "I canna say as to that, mon," replied Betty, somewhat surprised.
               "I'm thinkin',"said he, "we'd better been remainin' in the oule coontre: I dinna ken what fetch'd us awa from that swate land wi' these bairns."
               "An' sure, Jemmy," said she, "'twas jist yer ounself that did it a'. I didna gee my consent for a lang time, an' sure ye know as hoo the chalder cree'd an' cree'd mony a lang day 'boot it."
               "Weal, weal," said he, "it canna be help'd noo," at the same time taking the pipe out of his mouth, and pressing down its contents with his finger; "we must mak' the best o' it noo, at ony rate; this is nae doot a brave coontre; I'm tould it's greicht way to the west o' it, an' that a mon can do better by goin' there."
               "An' on yer soule, Jemma," said Betty, "wad ye be lavin' the toon, an' movin' awa?"
               "Troth," said he, "I hae been thinkin' bravely 'boot it; there's nae livin' wi'oot work."
               "Weal," said she, looking thoughtfully at the fire, "this movin' aboot's nae pleasant for ony o' us."
               "That's a' true," said he, laying his pipe on the mantle, "but I've jist been thinkin' we'd move a hun'er miles or so to the West. I hae the fifty guineas in the oule stockin', an' they'll buy us a bit o' the land, an 'sure we can be livin' independent o' a' the world."
               John had been listening to this conversation with great earnestness, while Jane and Annie, although busy at work on the old stockings, had found leisure to cast a glance, now and then, in the direction of the old folks, sufficient to show that they comprehended its import.
               "There's big Ingins in the land o' the West," said John, looking up earnestly at his father.
               Jane and Annie gave a little chuckle of a laugh at this suggestion of John's, but went on repairing the breaches in the old stockings.
               "I'd be more 'fear'd o' the wild bastes, Joanny," said his mother, gravely.
               "Och," said Kemie, "ye're jist a jokin' noo; ye're a' full o' ye'r nonsense, wi' ye."
               "An' quoth, mon, when 'd ye be 'boot the startin'?" inquired Betty, disposed now to submit the whole matter to Jemmy's better judgment.
               "Weal," said he, rising to his feet, and laying the pipe on the dusky mantle, "I've been thinkin' a goin' richt soon: I'll buy an oule critter an' wagon, an' we can be awa richt soon an' aisy."
               Two days after this conversation, Kemie appeared before the door of the old frame building prepared for the movin', so far as the "oule critter" and wagon were concerned.
               
               The old horse had seen some hard times, and was quite stiff and crippled in his joints and limbs. The wagon was about half worn; and made at times, when in motion, a peculiar creaking noise; and, to add to its comfort and finish, was covered with thick, heavy, old sail-cloth.
               With the whole concern, Kemie seemed quite delighted; and, as he drove up to the door, he called to Betty and the children: "Ye'll be cumin' oot noo to tak a look at the oule critter an' wagon, I'm thinkin'."
               Betty and the two girls poked their heads out of the window in astonishment; and, in a moment, John stood beside his father, his eyes sparkling with delight.
               "Ye see what a brave oule critter I've got here—aye, an' faith, a brave oule creakin' wagon for ye, an' a' kiver'd wi' fine oule sail-cloth," said Kemie, with a significant wag of the head.
               "An' faith, Jemmy," said Betty, "it's jist gude enough for ye, or ony body."
               John walked several times round the establishment, looking at the wagon and in it—but seemed most delighted with the oule critter. He patted the bony sides, stroked the swollen and stiffened joints, and looked very inquisitively at the under lip which hung down as some useless appendage of the animal.
               "It's a brave critter, Joanny," said Kemie; "ye can be a drivin' o' it on the way; an' faith it 'll sarve mony a turn in the farmin'."
               John seemed quite elated with the idea of "driven';" and, thrusting his hand into his pockets and stepping back a few paces, he cast another glance at the concern, and then ran briskly up the old stairs, and began capering about with Jane and Annie.
               "Ye're hae'n a' things ready noo, I'm thinkin'," said Kemie, as he entered the old, dusky apartment, which, so far as beds, stools, dishes, and pots were concerned, was soon to be turned inside out.
               "Janny, d' ye think o' ony thing mair?" said Betty, thinkingly; "there's the beds, an' there's the kivers, there's the stools, an' here's the skillet, an' oule wooden ladle, an' here's the wearin' things in this," laying her hand on a bundle in the corner: "I canna think o' ony thing mair, gude mon."
               In a few minutes, Kemie had the contents of the room deposited in the wagon. Presently, Betty and the two girls had themselves snugly stowed away under cover of the old sail-cloth; and John, with an old whip in his hand, was seated along side of his father, prepared for the "drivin'."
               "Ye're ready noo for a start, I'm thinkin'," said Kemie, looking over his shoulder, at the same time, at Betty and the girls.
               "An' faith, aint we, noo? Jist be a stirrin' yerself, mon," said Betty.
               Kemie gave the "jep;" but the oule critter showed no disposition to move, at least till such time as suited his own convenience.
               "Jep! jep! there, noo; ye'll be stirrin' yerself, noo;" but it was all to no purpose. The old horse stood as if riveted to the earth.
               Betty, putting her head forward, very gravely suggested that the "oule critter" might be "hard o' the hearin'."
               "An' faith, he may be a' that, for I didna think 'boot the hearin'; but I'll try hoo it is wi' the feelin'," said he, at the same time taking the old whip out of John's hand. Then, after a few minutes jeping, and jerking the lines, and slashing the oule critter's sides with the whip, a forward motion was effected, and they were fairly under way.
               Mr. Kemie had no very definite object before him. He merely purposed moving west; but, being wholly unacquainted with the geography of the country, he had no particular place in view. Trusting, however, to Providence, he threw himself and family into the route usually taken by emigrants, believing that they would be guided to some home upon the frontiers, suited to their circumstances.
               The journey, however, was one of great privation. Imagine the state of the roads, and the inconvenience of travel, in this country a century ago, and you may form some idea of its privations and trials.
               They were about six weeks in making the distance of one hundred and twenty miles. During this time, the accidents they met with on the road, and their sufferings from exposure, would have utterly disheartened any one else than a bold, persevering Scotch-Irishman. Sometimes sticking fast in the mud, and obliged to unload the wagon and carry their effects for miles upon their backs—now out of provisions—and now "camping" by the way-side for the night—they made their way through mud and forest, till they had reached what was termed the "frontier settlements."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
               FAR back in the colony there was a small, basin-shaped valley, surrounded by rugged and lofty mountains.
               The valley itself was beautiful, and the mountain scenery around it truly grand and magnificent. It was timbered mostly with oak, beech, and walnut, except along the margin of its streams, the courses of which were mostly marked by a heavy growth of spruce and pine.
               The only natural entrance to the valley was through a gap in the mountain, to the east. Through this also, the several little streams that watered it, uniting, flowed. Along the bank of this stream a sort of road had been made—barely practicable, however, for the lightest wagons to pass.
               In this valley a family resided by the name of Wilks. Wilks was also Scotch-Irish, and had been in America about eight years. He had been residing in the valley, however, only four years.
               He was a huge specimen, full six feet in height, proportionably broad, bony, and muscular; and had he possessed courage in proportion, might have been a sufficient defence to some hundred miles of the frontier. But, to be brave, was reserved for the eldest of his three sons; and to whom we shall have occasion hereafter frequently to refer. As it was, however, Wilks was a very good sort of man, kind in his family, hospitable to strangers, and obliging to all with whom he had anything to do.
               Being industrious, he had made quite an improvement. A neat, comfortable cabin had been erected, several acres of land cleared; and, the summer previous, he had harvested quite a crop. Things, in general, were looking prosperous around him, and the place began to assume all the appearance of a home. He was, however, the only settler in the valley.
               One evening, about an hour after dark, as Wilks and his family were seated around the old pine table, partaking of their usual fare of "mush and milk," a loud rap was heard at the door of the cabin.
               
               "The Lord hae mercy on us," exclaimed Mrs. Wilks, half springing to her feet; "that canna be ony human bain' this time o' the nicht."
               Wilks rose from the table, and was advancing cautiously towards the door, while his eldest son had his eye on the rifle that stood in the corner.
               Just then another rap, and a "halloo!"
               "It's a livin' body, on yer soule;" said Mrs. Wilks.
               Wilks opened the door, and Kemie stood before him. They stared at each other for a moment, when he invited the man in.
               "I wad na gee in jist noo; my wife an' chalder's awa doon yon'er in the wads; I cudna find the way ony mair in the dark," said the stranger.
               In a moment, Wilks and his three sons had on their hats, and were leading the way, with a torch light, down through the woods.
               In the mean time, Mrs. Wilks and her daughters, with mingled emotions of joy and surprise, were hurrying the table out of the way, and setting the little cabin in order, to receive the benighted emigrants.
               "Won'er who on airth they are," remarked Mrs. Wilks, as she lifted the table, and hurriedly set it back against the rough, unhewn logs of the cabin.
               "They're from the oule coontre, I guess," said one of the daughters, who had just sat down on a stool to adjust her hair.
               Another, having opened the door, was looking out anxiously into the pitchy darkness in the direction they were to come: "Won'er what they're stayin' so lang 'boot," said she, slowly returning again to the fire.
               Again at the door: "They're a cumin' noo; I'm hearin' the boys lafin' an' talkin', at any rate."
               In an instant they were all at the door, Mrs. Wilks holding a burning pine stick in her hand above her head, and as far out into the darkness as she could reach.
               "It's jist the boys—why, what on airth are they carryin'! Och, it's jist some o' the movin;' 'spose the critter cudna pull a' up the hill in the dark."
               Presently, the boys threw down, each, a huge bundle in the corner, spattered with mud; and, wheeling, in an instant disappeared again in the darkness.
               "They're a cumin' noo;" and sure enough, the torchlight was flaming in the darkness, and the panting oule critter and creaking wagon were slowly advancing up the hill to the door of the cabin.
               "The Lord hae marcy on ye," exclaimed good Mrs. Wilks, as Mrs. Kemie and her two daughters entered the door; "the Lord hae marcy on ye; ye're a' wellcum here; noo be satin' ye'rselves; ye're a lookin' teer'd an' sort o' sceer'd; jist be falin' ye'rselves as if in ye'r oun hame—the Lord hae marcy; ye're from the oule coontre"—again and again she ejaculated, all the while bustling about, and giving, at the same time, sundry directions to her daughters about the shawls and bonnets.
               "Noo, mon, be a cumin' in," at the same time leading Kemie and his son into his hospitable cabin; "ye're nae doot teer'd; tak a sate, mon, an' faith, mon, I dinna sae hoo ye geed alang at a' this dark nicht."
               "It was richt ugly," said Kemie, "but the Lord has haen marcy on us a' the wa.'"
               In a short time the old pine table was again on the floor, a large bowl of must smoking upon it; the contents of which, however, were rapidly disappearing before the welcome guests.
               Wilks had seated himself in true Irish fashion in the corner, and was puffing the smoke of his pipe, with evident satisfaction, up the chimney; while Mrs. Wilks and her daughters, from the opposite corner, were eying their guests with a strange and wondering interest.
               The Kemies having finished their frugal meal, had seated themselves, as was convenient, around the fire, the evening being somewhat cool.
               "An' hoo lang's it since ye landed in America?" inquired Wilks.
               "'Boot sax or se'en months," was the reply.
               "An', may it plase ye, frae what part o' the oule coontre are ye?"
               "Frae the North o' Scotland; I'm the name o' Kemie, an' frae the Parish o' Hamlin."
               Wilks took the pipe from his mouth, and giving the smoke a hasty puff up the chimney, looked at Kemie with as much surprise as though he had told him he had just come from the moon, or the planet Jupiter; while Mrs. Wilks, lifting her hands, let them suddenly fall again into her lap, exclaiming: "An' yer nae Jemmy Kemie that lived awa doon by the Loch."
               "An', on yer faith, I'm the same Jemmy."
               The reader may imagine the astonishment this announcement produced, as well as what followed. The Kemies and Wilkses had lived quite near neighbors in Scotland, and had always been on terms of the greatest intimacy. No correspondence, however, had been kept up, and years had passed away; and now the novelty of their meeting had prevented entirely their recognition of each other.
               The old folks, on one side of the fire, were talking over the "olden times." Mr. and Mrs. Kemie, although worn down by their long and toilsome journey, were kept up till a late hour of the night answering the numerous questions respecting friends, acquaintances, &c. in the "oule coontre." Indeed, so great was their mutual joy, that time passed away unnoticed, and all fatigue, for the present, was forgotten.
               The youngsters, on the opposite side of the cabin, full of glee, were cracking their jokes, and talking and laughing as merrily as though the world was made up of fun.
               The eldest son had taken down the old fiddle which hung invitingly on the wall, and, having twanged it into tune, was rattling off some Scottish airs to the delight and merriment of the young Kemies.
               Indeed, now and then, as some old familiar air was touched, the old folks, stopping their conversation, would sit in silence, while tears rolled down their cheeks as recollections of by-gone times crowded upon their memories.
               Thus passed away the greater part of the night.
               Having spent several days in the hospitable cabin of Wilks, Kemie began to think of a settlement. Naturally industrious, he had no idea of being idle in the valley to which he had been conducted by a most singular Providence.
               The matter had been talked over and discussed at some length; and it had been fixed that Kemie must settle somewhere in the valley. This, of course, accorded with the wishes of the old folks, but seemed especially agreeable to the feeling of the youngsters.
               The sun had just risen brightly over the mountain that bounded the valley to the east. The repeated strokes of several axes were resounding through the forest, mingled with as many voices, and, occasionally, with a simultaneous burst of laughter, as some hearty joke was passed.
               This was the Wilkses and Kemies clearing the ground for a cabin.
               It was about a mile west of Wilks's, and was a beautiful situation for an improvement. A large spring of pure water, gushing from the base of a neighboring hill, ran but a few paces from the door of the intended cabin. The soil in the flats below was a deep, rich, vegetable mould, while that of the gently sloping hills around was a pure limestone. Indeed, all things considered, Kemie had been more fortunate in the selection of a home than his friend, both as regarded natural advantages, and the interests of agriculture.
               In a few days, the cabin was up and finished according to the most approved style of rural architecture in those days, and the Kemies were comfortably quartered in their new home.
               Indeed, for the first time since he landed in America, Mr. Kemie felt himself happy; and again and again, with his family gathered around him, did he read from the old family Bible, and, in all the devotional earnestness of his heart, return thanks to God who had so mercifully preserved them, and brought them to that spot. And now, with a home which he could call his own, and with his old friend and countryman for a neighbor, he could not but look forward to the future with the brightest prospects. He could see his farm cleared off, his fields waving with luxuriant crops, his barns stored with the fruits of his industry, and his wife and children blessed and happy around his fireside.
               But let us take a hasty glance at the reality, at things as they actually existed.
               All around was a trackless and almost unbroken wilderness. Across the mountains that stretched loftily and gloomily on the north, no white man, as yet, had ventured to pass; while over the mountain, to the south, in the midst of an extensive and beautiful valley, a settlement had existed for several years, composed mostly of Scotch and Irish families. The distance, however, to this settlement was ten miles, and, owing to the height and rockiness of the mountain, was accessible only by an old Indian path. There was no store, mill, blacksmith, shoemaker, tailor, nor anything of the kind, within six miles of this, to the south.
               Considerable apprehensions, moreover, about this time, were beginning to be felt on account of the Indians, all along the frontiers. Hitherto, a good understanding had existed between them and the settlers, and with most of the neighboring tribes they had been on friendly terms. Recently, however, some of them had manifested an unfriendly spirit, and an open rupture was seriously apprehended. In fact, a settlement to the southwest had recently been attacked by them, several persons massacred, and a number carried off prisoners. The settlers, in consequence, were arming themselves, erecting forts, and preparing to act on the defensive.
               Two years, however, passed away, during which Wilks and Kemie remained in unmolested possession of the valley, clearing and improving their farms.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE SURPRISE.
               LATE one afternoon, about the middle of the week, Wilks stood before the door of Kemie's cabin. His face was more than usually lighted up, while his whole manner indicated, at a glance, that he was the bearer of some pleasing intelligence.
               "My ouldest son has been awa in the settlement, an'he tells me there's to be prachin' there o' the Sunday," said he, still standing at the door.
               "An' will it plase ye, cum in, mon, an' tell us a' 'boot it?" said Kemie, setting forward a stool.
               "Weal, he's frae the oule coontre; an' he's cum a lang wa's on his oule pony jist a gee them a sarmon o' the Sunday. He's a gude mon, and loves the wa's o' the Lord, an' gaeds 'boot among the settlements prachin' the word."
               
               "The Lord hae marcy on, the gude mon," exclaimed Mrs. Kemie, lifting up her hands.
               "The Lord bless him in his labors o'love an' marcy," said Mr. Kemie, scarcely able to refrain from weeping.
               "An' now," said Wilks, "we must gang awa o'er the moont'in, an' be hearin' the mon."
               "An' sure we must," said Kemie; "'t wadna do to hae the prachin' sae convenient, an' nae be hearin' o' 't; an' troth, Betty can gee along wi' us."
               "Ay, an' faith can I," said Betty.
               "An' canna yer gude woman gee along wi' us?" inquired Kemie.
               "Bae sure, mon; she wadna miss the prachin' for a' the world."
               "The Lord hae marcy on us," again ejaculated Betty; "there's gude a cumin', an' sure some day we'll be ha'en the prachin' at hame here, in our own swate valley."
               Early on Saturday morning all was stir and bustle at the cabin of Wilks. The Kemies were all there; the old folks to go to the "prachin'," and the youngsters to remain till their return. It was quite a time. All were full of glee; and the hearty jokes, for which the Scotch-Irish, old and young, are proverbial, were passing round freely.
               "Noo sae that ye be gude bairns," said Mrs. "Wilks, in a motherly way, to the young folks.
               "An' the Lord presarve ye a'," said Mrs. Kemie, as she righted the old bonnet on her head, which had rather lost caste as well as color.
               Soon the little party were on their way. The two women were mounted on horseback, while the men, with their rifles upon their shoulders walked slowly ahead.
               In a short time they were in the forest, making their way to the south mountain, the top of which they reached about noon. Here they halted, and, at a small spring by the side of the path, partook of some refreshment which had been prepared for the occasion.
               From this point, the view, on all sides, was truly grand and magnificent. To the north, towered one above another a vast range of mountains, while the little valley they had just left lay several hundred feet beneath them. Then they could distinctly see the break in the forest which indicated the locality of their cabins. These they contemplated for some time with the most lively interest; and did not fail to remark how beautiful would be the sight when the forests were gone, and the entire valley converted into farms, and dotted with houses and villages.
               To the south, and far beneath them, lay a valley much more extensive. Through its centre, lengthwise, flowed a large stream of water, on the banks of which, and about the middle of the valley, they could observe several improvements. This was the settlement to which they were going, and whither, about sundown, they arrived in safety.
               An untenanted house had been fitted up by these pious settlers for the occasion; and which they designed henceforth to call the church. It was rude enough, inside and out. No pulpit—and the seats were logs, flattened a little on one side, and laid in rows, at suitable distances apart. It was in harmony, however, with everything else, and was regarded by them all with evident satisfaction and pride.
               The Sunday came, and, with it, a bright and beautiful morning. The sun rose in cloudless splendor, and, as it whirled along the old, beaten track of ages, was cheered by the songs of the feathered tribes, with which the American forests in those days plentifully abounded.
               An hour before the appointed time, the log church was crowded with settlers, men, women, and children. All were there old and young; and among them our four friends from the valley to the north. The minister, in order to meditate alone, had walked into the open woods that skirted the clear land a short distance south of the church: and the devout settlers were silently and anxiously awaiting his return. In the meantime, examining their rifles, they had set them up carefully in the corner, by the door.
               At length the minister entered. Every eye was fixed upon him. After singing a psalm, and engaging in a lengthy prayer, he announced his text. He then expatiated two hours upon the fulness and freeness of the gospel; and in all that earnestness and solemnity for which most of the itinerant preachers of those days were remarkable, he proceeded, in his application, to urge upon them an immediate and entire acceptance of the gospel. He reminded them of the uncertainty of life, and of the frail tenure of all earthly things. Not an eye was dry. Tears were flowing freely down the cheeks of the hardy settlers, while many of the women, convulsed with feeling, were sobbing aloud.
               Just then a young man without hat, coat, or shoes—almost breathless, and sweating at every pore, sprung in at the door, and shouted—"Ingins! Ingins!"
               In an instant the settlers sprung to their feet, and grasped their rifles. "Where—where?" shouted a dozen voices.
               "My God," exclaimed Wilks, "that's my son Walyam," and, bounding out of the door, in a moment, was out of sight in the forest.
               He was closely followed by Kemie; and several of the younger settlers, some on foot and some on horseback, hurried after. Even those, however, who were mounted on horses, although dashing ahead at the top of their speed, did not come up with Wilks and Kemie till near the top of the mountain. Two of the settlers then, dismounting, gave them their horses, and, in a few minutes, they were upon its summit.
               There was a point in the path from which they had a clear view of the valley beneath. Here they paused for a moment, and, looking down, beheld the smoke curling up, in massive volumes, directly over the break in the forest where their cabins stood.
               "Och, mon," said Wilks, "we're ruin'd! we're ruin'd."
               "Hoch! hoch! the chalder! the chalder!" exclaimed Kemie; and they were dashing down the mountain, at the imminent risk of their lives.
               In one hour, they were gazing, with overwhelming emotions, upon the smoking and smouldering ruins of Wilks's cabin and barn—the whole being consumed with all their contents. Kemie knew that his own had shared the same fate.
               They stood but a moment, however, looking upon this scene of desolation. The safety of their children had absorbed their thoughts from the moment they had left the church. Where were their children? Where were those loved ones from whom they had so recently parted, and whom they had left so full of life and merriment? It was a moment of the most intense anxiety. All was still and silent, save the crackling of the flames, as, now and then, they burst forth from the smouldering ruins.
               The excited minds of these two fathers, as they looked at the smoking pile, and glanced their eyes anxiously around them, imagined the worst. They're carried off prisoners; or, what is more probable, their lifeless remains are consuming beneath the burning logs of the cabin! For a time, they were entirely overcome, and, embracing each other, wept aloud over their misfortunes.
               The rest of the party having arrived, some were examining the skirts of the neighboring forest to discover, if possible, the direction the Indians had taken, resolved to pursue them: while others, with long poles, were searching the smoking ruins. No remains, however, of their bodies could be discovered; nor could any trace of the Indians be found in any direction; and the minds of these bold and hardy settlers were embarrassed, for a time, to know what to do.
               Wilks and Kemie, with their faces buried in their hands, had been sitting for some time in silent sadness. Suddenly, they both started to their feet, Kemie exclaiming as they rose, "They're dragg'd awa; we'll save them, or die wi' them," and, seizing his rifle, he bounded off towards the mountain on the north, followed by Wilks. The rest of the party, with their rifles, followed rapidly after.
               Just as they were entering the forest that skirted the clear land, a shout was heard in the opposite direction; and two individuals were seen emerging from the woods, and hurriedly crossing the fence. It was young Kemie and Wilks.
               "We're a' safe," they shouted, as soon as they came within hearing distance.
               "An' whar's the rest o' them?" was the eager inquiry.
               "They're awa down in the big holler, a livin' an' weal."
               Kemie and Wilks wept again; but the tears they shed were the flowings of overjoyous hearts. Raising their hands to heaven, they both gave audible thanks to God for his merciful preservation of their children.
               Two of the party were immediately dispatched with the sad intelligence to the settlement; and where, as was afterwards learned, they arrived about midnight.
               It appears that, early on Sabbath morning, Wilks's eldest son, in company with young Kemie, had strolled into the woods in the direction rection of Kemie's cabin, and, indeed, intended going on to it. They had not, however, proceeded far, when, from an eminence they observed smoke rising from both the cabin and barn, and presently descried a party of some eight or ten Indians advancing along a path in the direction of Wilks's.
               They immediately wheeled about, and, running with all their might, gave the alarm. Their first thought was to take the path and fly to the settlement, and which they did; but they had not proceeded far, when the thought occurred that the Indians would follow and kill them. Hence they left the path, and concealed themselves in a deep hollow, in the midst of a dense thicket of spruce and laurel.
               The elder Wilks, however, determined to cross the mountain and give the alarm, which he did in the manner stated.
               But to return to the church and settlement. The scene which followed the alarm well nigh baffles description. Women shrieked; and children screamed; mothers were wringing their hands, while Mrs. Wilks and Kemie, almost frantic, were ejaculating a thousand wild and unmeaning expressions. The good minister found his hands full, and it was some time before he could succeed in restoring anything like order or quietness.
               At length, the excitement having in some measure subsided, he made a few appropriate remarks, and concluded by offering up a most fervent prayer for the preservation of the lives and property of the settlers. Then, coming forward, he addressed a few consolatory remarks to Mrs. Wilks and Kemie, who were in the greatest possible distress.
               The minister had much experience in the world, and was thoroughly acquainted with the Indian character. He knew, if they were in any number, that the settlement was in danger of an attack, and that, in all probability, the attack would be made that night. Hence, after gathering all the information he could from young Wilks, he advised the settlers to remain together that they might be the better able to defend themselves, in case there should be occasion to do so. Accordingly, it was arranged that, in the evening, all should come together again at the church, and there remain during the night; and so, by dusk, the church was crowded with men, women, and children, and such of their effects as they could bring with them.
               The log church, in the meantime, was converted into a sort of fortress. Holes, at a suitable height, were pierced through the daubing between the logs, that, in case of an attack, they could fire upon the Indians without exposing their persons. At dark, moreover, a few of the more daring were stationed outside as sentinels.
               About the middle of the night, these sentinels rushed in, intensely excited, one or two of them having distinctly heard a tramping noise in the woods, and had seen, in the darkness, two forms issuing out of a neighboring thicket. All again was consternation and alarm. In stantly a dozen or more rifles were run through the holes, between the logs, in that direction, it being sufficiently light to see for some distance."
               "Dinna fire noo," said the minister, "till ye sae them alang the barrels o' the guns."
               "I sae somethin' moving'," said one of the settlers, as, stooping down, he looked through the opening between the logs. He was in the act of pulling the trigger, when the minister, rushing forward, laid his hand upon his shoulder, saying: "Stay, mon, stay!" a thought having just entered his mind.
               He then walked slowly to the door, and opening it cautiously a few inches, hallooed at the top of his voice, "Wha cums?"
               "Williams and Sanders," and the two men dispatched from the valley entered.
               The next day, Wilks and Kemie, with their children, returned again to the settlement, greatly distressed, and yet thankful that things were no worse. The evil done could be repaired; and they could, in a few weeks, be settled again on their farms, with their families. But had their children been murdered, or carried off prisoners, the blow would have been heartrending and irreparable. As it was, they comforted themselves as well as they could, receiving, at the same time, every attention and sympathy from the settlers which they could bestow.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE ABDUCTION.
               THE French and Indian war was now at its height. The colonists were in arms; and all along the line of frontier settlements the greatest terror and consternation prevailed. The Indians, instigated by the French, were perpetrating deeds of bloodshed and torture upon the unprotected colonists, at the thought of which the very blood chills. Dwellings were consumed, whole families were butchered, or carried off prisoners.
               It was about the commencement of this war, that Wilks and Kemie found themselves, with their families, quite comfortably quartered again in the valley. By their own industry, and the liberal assistance of the settlers, their cabins had been rebuilt, several acres sown, and things in general repaired.
               Wilks, however, did not seem satisfied, or at ease. Naturally somewhat taciturn, he had now less to say than usual, either in his family or out of it. He would sit for whole days in his cabin, in a deep study; or, strolling over his little farm, he would pass the day in an absent state of mind.
               The truth is, Wilks had resolved to leave the valley. The impression had taken hold of his mind, that, if he remained there, some calamity would befall either himself or his family.
               "Kemie," said he one day, "I hae been thinkin' o' lavin' this: my mind faels ill at aise here."
               "Och, mon, ye dinna sae."
               "I canna remain here ony longer; there's nae safty here for ony o' us," said he.
               Kemie was confounded. It was the first intimation he had had of the kind. As to himself, he was not, for some reason, so apprehensive of danger; and though he had been made aware of the treacherous disposition of the Indians, yet he could not think of abandoning the little farm in which he had invested his all. Besides, he had a confiding trust in Providence, and believed himself as safe there as anywhere else, and that, if suffering was to be his lot, he could not avoid it, go where he would. And yet, to remain in the valley alone, he felt would be a severe trial to himself, as well as to his family.
               Having seated himself, thoughtfully, at a small window which looked out over his farm, he said: "Betty, I hae bad news for ye."
               "The Lord hae marcy," said Betty, raising her hands and clasping them together; "an' who's been kilt noo?"
               "It's nae 'bout the murthers nor burnin's; it's nae onything o' that; but gude neighbor Welks's thinkin' o' lavin' the valley, an' movin' awa to the settlement," said he.
               "Did a'er! Lord blass me!—why, wha's cum o'er the mon? he's losin' his rason, sartinly," said Betty.
               Jane suddenly dropped the cloth with which she was wiping some dishes, and turned round, pale and faint-like, towards the old folks.
               "An' canna ye rason wi' the mon to gee up the queer notion?" inquired Betty.
               "Twad na be aisy, I'm thinkin'; he's fear'd o' the Ingins; an' he canna gat the fear oot o' his mind, the day nor nicht."
               "O, do rason; or we'll a' gee alang wi' them," said Jane; and then, as if frightened at what she had said, turned hastily round, picked up the cloth, and resumed her work.
               Betty looked at Jane, but said nothing.
               The next day, Jane made an excuse to get over to Wilks's. Her mother, however, endeavored to dissuade her from going: "It's a gude bit doon, an' ye'll be fear'd in the wads."
               Jane, however, had none "o' the fear," and, in a short time, was seated in Wilks's cabin, her face flushed, and somewhat confused.
               "We're hearin'," said she to Mrs. Wilks, who was sitting in the corner very leisurely smoking the pipe, "yer ga'en a lave the valley."
               Jane said this with a smothered, half-choked utterance; and, quickly locking her arms across her breast, made several hasty shifts on the old stool.
               "Weal, Jenny," said Mrs. Wilks, taking the pipe from her mouth, "the gude mon has got onaisy, an' will na stay ony long'r: that scarin' the Ingins geed us a' 's troublin' his mind, an' he canna rest a bit a' the nicht, but jist tum'els an' rools aboot in the bed till the mornin'."
               "An' will ye a' be lavin' this?" inquired Jane, with a somewhat faltering voice.
               "Walyam wad like richt weal to be stayin', but he canna stay wi'oot the rest o' us," said Mrs. Wilks, looking rather inquiringly at Jane.
               Jane blushed, and, in spite of all her efforts, a tear rolled down her cheek, which, however, she hurriedly brushed away with the corner of her apron.
               She sat for some time in silence, when, Wilks and his sons coming in, she cast a modest, blushing look at William as he slowly walked across the floor.
               "Weal, Jenny, an' hoo're ye a'?" inquired Mr. Wilks, in a rather cheerful, jovial way.
               "They're a' weal," said she, at the same time looking at William, who sat looking thoughtfully at the floor.
               After some general chat, in which all participated, Jane "must be lavin'."
               William followed her to the door, and as it was quite dark, of course, must see her safe through the "wads."
               In a few days, Wilks and his family bade adieu to the valley, but not without sorrow and regret. It was a trial to leave the spot where they had resided for several years, and which, though in the midst of the forest, had become greatly endeared to them. He regretted nothing however, more than leaving Kemie and his family behind him. Could he have prevailed on them to accompany him, he could have left with his mind more at ease. But Kemie was bent on staying. Indeed, he seemed bound to the spot by some mysterious charm, that seemed, as strange to himself afterward, as it did to others at the time. The Lord will do all his will and pleasure.
               The war continued to rage, especially to the north and southwest. Several expeditions had been planned against the French and Indians, but most of them had proved abortive; and, as yet, no impression had been made upon the enemy's strong-holds. Indeed, the Indians, if anything, were waxing more bold, and their deeds of bloodshed becoming more frequent and horrid. From the summits of the lofty mountains, they would look down upon the valleys, mark the settlements, reckon the number of inhabitants, and plan their modes of attack, which they would execute under cover of the night, in all the cruelty their savage natures could devise; or, if sufficiently strong, broad daylight would witness their bloody deeds.
               This mode of warfare was most unfortunate for the settlers. It was not giving battle in the open field. Concealed in some wooded ravine or in some thickset clump of bushes, under cover of the forest, they would watch their prey till they saw their time, and then, tiger-like, rush upon it. Thus families were sometimes butchered, or made prisoners, at a most unexpected moment; and the settlers, at work in their fields, or out about their cabins, or passing along the road, were in danger every moment of being shot down by an unseen foe.
               In the midst of these dangers, Kemie, now alone in the valley, busied himself upon his farm as contentedly, perhaps, as any one could have done in such circumstances. He was one of those easy, good-natured, unsuspecting sort of men who must see danger before they can fear it. As yet, he was not sufficiently acquainted with the Indian character to be fully aware of their treacherous and barbarous dispositions; and hence was not, perhaps, aware of the actual danger to which himself and family were exposed in their present isolated condition.
               William, the eldest son of Wilks, after their removal to the settlement, found frequent occasions sions for visiting the old homestead in the valley. He must see after the little farm, repair the fences, and keep things, in general, in order. He had, moreover, grown more bold and fearless than ever; and to cross the mountain in the dreariest and darkest nights, was only a pleasant recreation.
               Indeed, it is but justice to say, that he was the most noble and daring young man in the settlement. Tall, and well-proportioned, he was active and athletic, and more than a match for any of his companions in the various feats of strength and agility, in which the settlers were in the habit of exercising themselves. And then, he was rather good-looking. His large, dark eyes, finely moulded features, broad forehead, covered with massy folds of jet black hair, and portly bearing, imparted an appearance which few could help admiring. And, although his countenance in general was grave and thoughtful, yet, in conversation, it was lit up with a playful smile that betokened a noble and generous heart.
               It is also due to say, that, during these visits across the mountain, William took care to spend a due proportion of his time at Kemie's Jane, now in her seventeenth year, received a full share of his attentions.
               In truth, William and Jane were mutually attached, and had plighted their affections a year before Wilks left the valley.
               Jane was in every was worthy of him, and, in many a better station in life, would have been regarded as quite a beauty. Her complexion  was that fair for which the Scotch and Irish are remarkable. Her soft blue eyes sparkled beneath a pair of finely arched brows, while her rosy cheeks and ruby lips gave a peculiar charm to the modest smiles and blushes that continually played over her features. Her form was slightly delicate, though neat, elastic, and healthful. Her disposition was mild and gentle, though not wanting in that fortitude which must ever accompany a truly virtuous and generous heart. Jane had always been the idol of her parents, and their affections had ever been well repaid, in her unwearied efforts to minister to their comfort.
               One evening, about dark, William appeared, unexpectedly, at the door of Kemie's cabin. He had walked rapidly over the mountain, and the evening being warm and sultry, he was in quite a perspiration. He was met at the door by Jane, who, in more than a usually blushing and confused manner, pressed him in, and urged him to a seat.
               
                  That night, the time was set for their marriage. The following Sunday the minister was again to preach in the settlement. He was also to remain a few days, and attend to any other duties in the line of his profession. Tuesday was the fixed day.
               
               Things were now generally understood between the two families. William and Jane were to settle on the farm in the valley. This arrangement was especially agreeable to the Kemies, and had met with no serious objection on the other side, though Mr. Wilks had once or twice suggested that "Walyam had better been remainin' in the sattlement."
               All was stir and bustle early on Tuesday morning at the cabin of Kemie. Mr. Kemie was more than usually full of his jokes, and Betty found it necessary, once or twice, to administer a sort of smiling reproof to them all on account of their undue levity.
               "Ye musna be jokin' and laffin' this 'a' 'fore the preacher: he'll think hard o't."
               
               "Och, gude woman, yer jist a jokin' noo yourself; ye'll be laffin' an' merry as ony o' us afore nicht," said Kemie, in an easy good natured way.
               Jane and Annie were dashing about through the cabin, and out of it, arranging matters and attending to the cooking department, which consisted of two or three pots hung upon a pole, over a fire, some three or four rods back of the cabin, and a short distance from a thick clump of bushes that grew on the margin of a ravine, which extended back some distance into the forest.
               "Cum noo, Annie," said Jane, "an' we'll sae hoo them thangs's doin'. They'll be here 'gin ane, an' I hae a' my dressin' a do: I'll declare we must be stirrin' oorsel's," saying which, she hurried out of the door, followed by Annie.
               In a moment, they were righting up the fire, and looking into the pots. Mr. Kemie had gone down to the stable to make some arrangements for the horses; John was cutting a few sticks of wood on the opposite side of the cabin; while Betty was examining some little articles of dress at the window.
               The girls screamed—again they screamed! John bounded round the corner—an arrow stuck in the logs of the cabin by the side of his head! Kemie sprung from the door of the stable—flew for his rifle. But, alas! it was too late. The shrieks of Jane and Annie were becoming less and less audible, till, in a few minutes, their heart-rending cries had died away in the distant solitudes of the forest.
               It is unnecessary to state what had happened. A party of Indians had made their way down the ravine, under cover of the clump of bushes that stood on its margin, behind which they had lain concealed. Seeing the two girls at the fire, they rushed upon them, and bore them off.
               An hour after this sad occurrence, the minister, with Wilks and two other young men from the settlement, emerged from the forest, and quickened their pace up towards the door of the cabin.
               Kemie was standing before the door with his rifle firmly grasped in his hand. His eyes were set in his head; his teeth were clenched, and his cheeks were pale as death. He moved not—spake not—as the party rode up to where he was standing.
               "Wha's this?" said the minister, gathering up the reins of the bridle, and checking the speed of his horse; "that mon looks queer," he continued, turning his horse partly round, and addressing Wilks, who was coming up directly behind him.
               Wilks looked for a moment; and then, springing from his horse, said in a half-stifled voice: "There's somethin' nae richt here." He ran up, took hold of Kemie's arm, and spoke to him. He made no reply. Again he spoke, giving him, at the same time, a slight clap on the shoulder. Kemie merely raised his hand, and pointed up towards the clump of bushes on the ravine.
               By this time the minister and another of the party had entered the cabin. Mrs. Kemie was lying insensible on the floor. John was sitting on a stool by her side, his face buried in his hands, and weeping aloud.
               "Wha' on airth's the matter wi' them a'?" said the minister.
               John sprung from the stool, and, wringing his hands, paced wildly over the floor, saying: "Oh! my swate sasters! my swate sasters! I see'd the Ingins a draggin' them awa into the wads, an' I could hear them a screamin' an' screamin' a'er se lang. O, the Lord hae marcy on them; an' father's gaed after wi' the rifle."
               Kemie had pursued them a mile or more into the forest; but not hearing or seeing anything of them, had returned, and was found standing before the door of his cabin in the manner stated.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THE PURSUIT.
               THE truth flashed like lightning upon the minds of the party. Not a moment was to be lost. Kemie had recovered, in some measure, from the shock. While the minister was to remain at the cabin, the rest were to go in pursuit; and in fifteen minutes after their arrival, armed with their rifles, they struck into the forest. This was about 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
               The trail of the Indians could readily be traced. They had taken a direct course up the mountain, and by this time were possibly beyond it—in that interminable wilderness which stretched far northward to the lakes.
               But never did men urge their way on with such ardor. An idol snatched from the heart of one, and helpless children torn away by ruthless savages from the fireside of another, animated Wilks and Kemie with an irresistible energy and daring. As, bending forward, they urged their way up the mountain, the looks and movements of the one indicated that of a parent whose only desire was, once more, to embrace his children in his arms; whereas, in the case of the other, they indicated a lover not only in pursuit of his treasure, but resolved on revenge.
               
               In an hour, the party stood on the top of the mountain that bounded the valley they had just left on the north. Beyond, and as far as the eye could reach, extended the boundless forest, wild, gloomy, rugged. To the north, and far distant in the view, towered another mountain, seemingly more lofty and rugged than the one on which they stood. The intervening space was a wilderness of pine and hemlock, except the ridges and hills, some of which were covered with a stinted growth of oak. No signs of even savage life were visible—nothing but the evidence of some great convulsion, depressing and upheaving the face of nature into her wildest and most distorted forms.
               "I canna sae their tracks only mair," said Kemie, the first word spoken since they left the valley.
               The summit of the mountain was a mass of bare, gray, rugged rock, with only here and there a tall pine, or scrubby oak. Hence, there being no leaves and little rubbish of any kind, they had lost the trail, and were hunting round in search of it.
               "Here! here!" exclaimed Wilks, who had just observed some moss rubbed from the top of a rock, and a small stick cracked and pressed in the earth on the opposite side. From this and other signs, it was evident the Indians had taken a course westward along the brow of the mountain.
               Having followed the trail in this direction about a mile, it suddenly disappeared, and the party were again at a stand. It was soon, however, discovered, sloping down the mountain to the northeast. In half an hour they had made the descent, and were pressing on over rocks and logs, and through a dense thicket of spruce and laurel.
               The sun had gone down behind the dark mountain range to the west, and the gray dusk of evening had gathered thick around them. A stream was gurgling wildly on their right. They concluded to remain for the night upon its banks.
               Two of the party, having leaned their rifles against a tree, were drinking at the stream; while Wilks and Kemie were groping round in search of fuel for a fire. Kemie had stooped down to pick up a pine-knot, when, suddenly starting up, he exclaimed: "Did ony o' ye hear that? It's the girls a scramin', sure as airth."
               Instantly their rifles were in their hands, and they were standing in a listening posture. Nothing, however, was heard save the rumbling of the stream among the rocks.
               As Kemie insisted, however, that he heard some one screaming, with difficulty the party ascended an eminence on the left, and listened again; but still they could hear nothing except the occasional roar of some wild animal afar off in the dark and dreary forest. Perhaps it was this the poor man had heard, and which his excited imagination had converted into the screams of his children.
               The first rays of the morning were, as yet, scarcely visible. A few clouds, however, were floating by, and the tinged edges of one that seemed to have moored itself to a lofty peak in the dark mountain to the east, showed that the sun was fast approaching the horizon.
               The party had been on their feet, and prepared to start for some time. Wilks, by means of a small torchlight, had discovered the trail; and, scrambling through bushes and over fallen timber, had ascertained its general course. They had seated themselves around the last remnants of the fire, awaiting, with anxious and throbbing breasts, sufficient light to enable them to proceed.
               "I canna stay here ony long'r," said Kemie as, springing to his feet, he tucked his powder horn to one side, and pressed his hat down firmly on his head; "that scramin' o' my chalder's rangin' in my ears, an' I didna clase my ees a' the nicht on account o't."
               Again, bending forward, they were pressing through the thicket of spruce and laurel that skirted the stream. Wilks leading the way.
               In a short time, having gained a considerable eminence, they had a view of the country around for some distance, except to the northwest—the view in that direction being interrupted by a bald, lofty ridge, and to which the trail seemed to lead. The intervening space was covered with a dense, dark growth of pine and hemlock. They made their way through this with difficulty. Several times they lost the course, on which account they were enabled to make but slow progress.
               At length, however, they stood on the top of the bald ridge. It was covered with low, scrubby oak, and a dense growth of a prickly sort of shrub. From this ridge the view was uninterrupted, except by the lofty mountain range that stretched along the north, at the distance of many miles.
               Wilks had mounted a fallen tree, the top of which lay several feet from the ground and was looking anxiously around him.
               "I sae smoke risin' yon'er," said he.
               In a moment, Kemie was by his side: "Whar, mon, whar?"
               "Awa yon'er, in you black holler;" and sure enough, at the distance of several miles smoke could be distinctly seen, rising slowly up, and settling like a thin blue vapor above the tops of the tall pines.
               "They've stay'd there a' the nicht," said Kemie.
               "There's nae doot o't," replied Wilks, springing from the log, followed by Kemie; and, in a moment, they were bounding down the ridge like two hounds that had just scented again their lost prey.
               As they hurried along, they had occasionally observed shreds of Jane's and Annie's dresses sticking on the low, scrubby bushes. And now, for the first time, they observed traces of blood on the leaves and sticks, which had evidently been left there by the pressure of the foot.
               These little memorials thus left strewed along behind them, and these unmistakable evidences of the sufferings of his children, almost overcame the naturally buoyant mind of Kemie; and several times he had burst into a flood of tears as he beheld them. Wilks was also much affected; and he had been observed several times to snatch little pieces of Jane's dress, which he knew by the color, from the bushes on which they were hanging, and hurriedly cram them in the pouch that dangled by his side.
               About 10 o'clock, the party were rapidly drawing near the deep, dark hollow, from whence they had observed the smoke rising.
               It was a dense thicket; and, with much difficulty, they made their way through it, to a small stream, near which fire was burning in an old log. It was evident, from appearances, that the Indians had passed the night there; and that here Jane and Annie, in the hands of ruthless savages, had spent the first night of their wretched captivity.
               Kemie sat down on the log, near the fire, in the greatest agony; his distress increasing the farther they advanced, as the hope of rescuing his children thereby grew less probable.
               "Och!" said he, as he leaned forward, and rested his head on his hand, "I'm a poor, onhappy mon! I know I hae been a greicht sanner, an' am deservin' o' a' this; but I trust the Lord'll hae marcy on my chalder."
               "Mr. Kemie," said Wilks, who had just returned from examining the trail which led up a steep, rugged hill to the north, "an' sure it's a hard world this to be a lavin' in; we a' hae mony sorrows here; but the gude Book tells us o' anither world whar they'll be nae mair sorrowin' nor wapin'."
               "Och! yes, mon," said Kemie, "that's a' the comfort we're haen. Och! if my chalder had ounly been kilt, they'd been oot o' a' masery; but to be dragged aboot by the Ingins thra these wild wads, is awful. I canna bear the thocht o' that."
               Here Kemie buried his face in his hands, and wept aloud. Wilks, unable longer to restrain his feelings, wept too.
               
               At length, wiping the tears from his eyes, and suppressing his emotions, he said: "Mr. Kemie, ye needna wape ony mair for Annie; she's oot o' a' her airthly mas'ry, an' 's in the gude world above. The Ingins hae kilt Annie!"
               Kemie sprung to his feet, and throwing up his hands wildly, exclaimed: "Och, mon, ye dinna sae!"
               Wilks beckoned to his two companions, and, leading the way, they started up the hill which he had just been exploring.
               On the top of the eminence, at the foot of a tall pine, lay Annie. The sight was awful. Her face, hands, and arms, as well as her torn and tattered dress, were spattered with her blood and brains. Her eyes, glazed in death, were forced out of their sockets. Her scalp was removed, and her skull was gaping open, while the long, ample folds of her hair were lying stiffened in the cold clotted blood which had flowed from the gash in her head.
               Kemie gazed for a few moments on the lifeless and mangled body of his child, petrified with horror. His feelings were those of that deep anguish of soul which can find no utterance outwardly; its very depth and intensity preventing its rising up, and finding vent through the senses. To weep, was impossible; and as to speaking, he had nothing to say.
               He was doubtless sustained by a higher power. The Lord was a present help in time of need. He rejoiced that it was the will of his Heavenly Father to allow him once more to look upon his dear Annie, though lifeless and mangled; satisfied that her body was in his possession, though its spirit had fled; and that his child was rescued, though death was the deliverer. Hence after a little, he turned away, and sat down in silence on a projecting root of the pine, burying his face in his hands.
               Wilks, in the meantime, stooping down, wiped the blood from her face as well as he could; and, lifting up her long black hair, drew it several times through his hands, wiping off the blood with which it was clotted and stained; and then, with the aid of his companions, carried the body and laid it upon a broad, flat, mossy rock, at a little distance beyond. Then gazing upon it for a few minutes, with the deepest emotions of sorrow, he turned hastily round, knit his brows, clenched his fists, and exclaimed; "Noo death to the Ingins," at the same time giving the ground a stamp with his foot that caused it to tremble beneath him.
               Wilks, though naturally kind-hearted, noble, and generous, was, at the same time, brave, courageous, and decided: and that moment had formed a purpose of his life.
               "Walyam," said Kemie, as he rose to his feet: "there's nae use in followin' the Ingins ony mair; they're awa noo oot o' rach."
               "May be," said "Wilks, very much excited," but I'll hae vangeance."
               We will now return to the cabin. It is about an hour after dark. The minister is seated by the pine table, leaning slightly back on his chair. His right arm is resting on an old book that lies upon it. This is the old family Bible that has been in the Kemie family for three generations.
               Mrs. Kemie is seated at the opposite end of the table, her elbow resting upon it, and the side of her head reclining on her hand. She has just lifted the corner of her apron to wipe the tears from her eyes.
               John is seated on a low stool near the little window, looking out into the darkness, sad and thoughtful.
               The minister had been engaged in prayer, and they have just risen from their knees.
               "I hae oft thocht o' the Lord's servant, Job," said the minister, after a few moments silence: "Job's chalder wer' a' kilt in ane nicht, an' wi' the displaisure o' the Lord."
               "Hoch! yes, gude mon," said Betty, "but his chalder were o' the wacked, an' were dasarvin' o't; but oors," she continued, "were the swatest and kindest chalder in a' the airth; I ne'er had a spak a cross word to ane o' them; an' then they were so swate and kind wi' ane a'nither."
               "I hae nae doot o' that," said the minister; "but Job's chalder were a' takin' frae him at ane blaw; but ye hae ane o' yer chalder wi' ye, to be a comfort to ye in yer oule days."
               "Hoch, yes! here's Joanny, an' he's a brave, swate boy: but Job's chalder were kilt, an' he had the plaisure o' sae'n their bodies, an' gae'n them a dacent burryin': that was a greicht comfort to the mon."
               "That may a' be true; but, Betty," said he, "the marcies o' the Lord endure for aye, an' sure he may prasarve yer chalder, an' ye may hae them wi' ye a' yer days. His arm is na shortened that it canna save, nor his ear havy that it canna hear."
               "Och, gude mon," said Betty, shaking her head, and wiping the tears from her eyes, "that canna be; didna I sae wi' my oun ees the Ingins draggin' them awa, an' didna I hear them a screamin' an' screamin'! Och, mon, 'twas awful! Och-a-me! If I could ounly sae them agin', tho' they'd be kilt, 'twad be sic a comfort."
               Here Betty rose from her seat, and began pacing the floor, sobbing and weeping aloud.
               Just then a tramping noise was heard behind the cabin.
               "The Lord hae marcy," said she, throwing up her hands and looking wildly round. Wha's that? On airth! the Ingins cumin' ag'in, and we'll a' be dragg'd awa!" saying which, she fell senseless on the floor.
               The minister sprung from his seat, and, seizing a large wooden poker from the fire-place, took his stand by the side of the door. John, rising to his feet, stood trembling and motionless with fear.
               The tramping noise approached the door of the cabin. The minister grasped the poker firmly with both his hands, and, raising it over his left shoulder, placed himself in a firm posture of defence.
               "Noo jist lay't doon aisy a bit," said a low, whispering voice outside the door.
               The minister heard—listened—opened the door; and, surprised, beheld the party who had gone in pursuit of the Indians stand at the corner of the cabin.
               "I wadna tak' it in jist noo: the sight o't 'll be mair than Betty can stand wi'oot knawin' onything o't afore."
               "The will o' the Lord be done," said the minister, as he saw in the darkness the bloody and mangled head of Annie lying in the arms of one of the men who had seated himself by the door, leaning back against the logs of the cabin.
               "Och, yes," said Kemie, "my dear Annie's kilt; but the Lord hath prasarved to us her swate body."
               "Ye do weal," said the minister; "we heard the trampin' o' yer feet, an' thocht it was the Ingins: Betty fell down on the floor wi' fear."
               The minister re-entered the cabin, followed by Kemie and Wilks.
               
               Betty had partly raised herself up, and, resting on her elbow, was gazing wildly towards the door.
               Kemie hastened to her, and, raising her up, assisted her to the bed; when, burying his face in his hands, he sat down by her side.
               She stared wildly around for a few minutes, and then fixing her eyes earnestly upon him, said, in a faint trembling voice: "Och, Jemmy! Jemmy! an' its yer ounself."
               "The Lord hath haen marcy on us," said he, taking his hands from his face, and wiping the tears from his eyes: He hath haen marcy on us, an' hath prasarved to us Annie's swate body."
               "Yes," said the minister, approaching the bed, "Annie's sparit's in the gude world above; but ye hae her body here to look on, an' then dacently bury it aside ye here: this is a greicht comfort to ye a', Betty."
               "It's mair," calmly replied she, raising herself up in the bed, "than I'd ony rason to expect."
               The next morning, about 10 o'clock, Wilks and his two companions were patting the sides of Annie's grave in the corner of the little garden, surrounded by a rude inclosure of brush and poles, a few rods east of the cabin. The minister and the stricken family were standing by.
               A century, or more, has passed away since that sad morning. Poor Annie's dust still lies in that same spot. No rude stone, however, remains to show just where. Indeed, no one knows: few seem to care.
               In truth, no remains of Kemie's cabin are now to be found. Even the place where it stood is doubtful. The surrounding forests have all disappeared; and the valley now teems with a busy, bustling population, who, in their schemes of wealth and ambition, think not—perhaps know not the trials endured by their hardy forefathers.
               It was afterwards ascertained that Annie was killed as follows: They had been hurried over the mountain and through the forest, as fast as the Indians, between pulling, dragging, and menacing, could get them along. Towards evening, they both became faint and exhausted, and about sundown, Annie swooned and fell to the ground. Two of the Indians then assisted her along to the place where they encamped for the night. Her condition was most pitiable. Her dress was nearly torn from her by the bushes, and her feet, bruised and lacerated, were bleeding profusely. After they had rested for some time, she in a measure revived. She slept none, however, during the night; she cried incessantly; and the next morning she was so weak, and her feet so sore, that she was scarcely able to stand.
               It was hardly light when they started; and the Indians, by dragging and carrying, got her to the top of the hill. Here they suddenly halted, and held a rude, boisterous sort of council. Presently, one of the Indians, a fierce, savage looking monster, took hold of her arm, and led her back towards the tall pine, while the rest went on with Jane.
               In a few minutes, Annie was heard giving a wild shriek; and the party with Jane had not proceeded more than twenty rods, when this monster came up with them, his hands dripping with blood, and Annie's scalp dangling on a string by his side.
               Annie was fifteen years of age; and, in appearance, somewhat resembled Jane. Her hair was unusually long, black, and massive, and stroked back behind the ears, hung down in smooth, glistening folds upon her shoulders. Her education had not been neglected, and with her brother and sister, had shared in those early religious instructions which it had ever been the aim of Mr. Kemie to impart to his children. His fidelity in the discharge of his parental duties had in part its reward, in the hope he was enabled to indulge, that his child, though the victim of savage barbarity, had exchanged a world of sin and sorrow for one of pure and unalloyed felicity. In this hope, he found his "strength equal to his day."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE QUEER DUTCHMAN.
               IN half an hour after the body of Annie had been laid beneath the clods of the valley, Wilks, mounted on his horse, appeared before the door of the cabin. His rifle was firmly grasped in his hand, by his side. He was gazing anxiously down towards the narrow opening in the forest, which marked the entrance of the path that led over the mountain to the settlement.
               It was easy to see that some fixed purpose was agitating his mind. His cheeks were pale and sunken; his eyes shot out and fiery; his teeth set and his lips compressed—while his whole frame was nervous and excited. Even the old horse on which he was mounted seemed to share in the intensity of his feelings, and, after a manner, was chafing the bits of his bridle, and pawing, or rather attempting to paw, the ground with his foot.
               The party, in the meantime, had endeavored to persuade Kemie to leave the valley and move to the settlement. Their entreaties, however, had proved unavailing. Notwithstanding the severity of his afflictions, he seemed resolved to remain.
               "Och! 'twad be a brakin' o' my heart to lave this noo; I canna lave the body o' my child," he had said, in a voice which showed that any farther effort was unnecessary.
               Betty seemed of the same mind; she "wadna lave the grave o' Annie."
               The determination of these stricken parents was neither strange nor unnatural. Few know how strong is the tie that binds to the spot where lie the remains of some loved friend. None, alas! know, save by sad experience, what a struggle it is for parents to tear themselves away from the spot, hallowed and endeared by the dust and ashes of their children. To leave the living is often a trial; but to leave our dead behind us is sometimes the sorest trial that duty calls to perform. And the more painful and untimely their death, just so much the more affectingly do our hearts cling around the remains of their mortality, and refuse to be separated.
               
               About 12 o'clock the party bade adieu to the valley; and, with feelings of the deepest sorrow, began ascending the mountain. In three hours they arrived in the settlement. The settlers received with the most profound grief the sad intelligence. Many wept, while all observed, in the appearance and manners of Wilks, the most marked change.
               A company was forming in the southwest, to protect, as far as possible, the more exposed settlers and their families on the north. It was Wilks's purpose to join this expedition; and the sun had scarcely risen over the lofty mountains to the east, when, armed with his rifle and hunting knife, he was on his way to the place of rendezvous. He had resolved himself henceforth into the deadly foe of the Indian, and availed himself of this means of gaining more ready access to their savage abodes, that he might satiate to the full the revenge which now burned, volcano-like, in his breast.
               Here, for the present, we must leave Wilks, and return to the cabin of Kemie.
               It is now the fall of the year—November. During the summer, Kemie remained unmolested by the Indians. In addition to the ordinary nary routine of work on a farm, he was engaged in clearing a piece of new land, heavily timbered, and which he purposed sowing that season.
               "Vel! vel! how gae'st?" said a sharp, squeaking voice one day as Kemie, stooping down, was busily engaged in lifting a few rows of potatoes, in a small lot south of his cabin.
               Raising his head, and looking round, half frightened, he saw a queer looking man, resting his arms on the fence, a short distance from where he was at work. He was a short, slender man, with a long, thin face. His eyes were uncommonly brisk and lively, and, dancing about, seemed to be on half a dozen objects at the same time. His hair was sleek and long, and stuck down on his forehead to his eyes, and all around in a proportionable length. A beard several inches long graced his sharp, projecting chin; while an old, slouched, broad-brimmed hat sat, as seemed good, on his head. But, withal, through this strange, uncouth exterior appeared a smiling countenance, and much of what is termed an easy good nature.
               Kemie stared at the fellow for some minutes without speaking; while he, in turn, stared at Kemie as well as his eyes would allow him, laughing, as though conscious that he was rather an odd specimen of humanity, and good for making folks stare and wonder.
               "Weal," said Kemie, having recovered a little from his surprise, "an' hoo ar' ye, mon?"
               "I's well," was the sharp, shrill reply.
               "An', may it plase ye," said Kemie, eying the fellow, and walking slowly towards him, using his hoe as a staff, "jist tell a body yer name."
               "I's Dutch Pete; I be's from te Dutch settlin', over te mountain, 'way toon tare."
               "Won'er," said Kemie, "ye didna fear the Ingins cumin' over the moont'in yerself, mon."
               Peter laughed heartily for a few minutes, shaking his head, his eyes flying about in all directions, when quickly recovering his gravity, he said: "I dish not fear te Ingins; tem no kill te Dytchers; te Dytchers be's too sharp for tem."
               Kemie looked at him rather doubtingly—not having the same high opinion, perhaps, of the Dytchers.
               "An' wha' does Peter do to mak' a livin', noo-a-days?" said Kemie.
               "Vel, I dish not doo much of any ting; but I tink I'd jist cum over te mount'in, an' jist see a leetle of tis tuder side; ten I jist tink I'd vork a leetle here, if ter vas any peoples lifin in tis tuder side."
               Reader, this was Peter Von Cloot. He had come from a Dutch settlement some twenty miles to the southeast. He had been living, however, for some months past in the English settlement; and, being out of employment, he had found his way over the mountain without any definite object, perhaps, in view.
               Peter, although somewhat singular, was, nevertheless, a very good sort of a man. He was very kind and obliging, in his way; and, withal, a very good worker. He was especially remarkable for one trait, viz., fearlessness. Peter had no idea of being afraid of anything; and as to the Ingins—"tem jist notting at all."
               As it was, Kemie being engaged in clearing a piece of new land, as stated, and the season being advanced, he engaged Peter for a few days to assist in getting it ready for sowing. He proved himself an excellent hand at this sort of work; and, so pleased was he with his kind, obliging, and lively disposition, that he prevailed vailed on Peter to remain with him the coming winter.
               John Kemie was now a young man, sixteen years of age. He was naturally cheerful; but their trials had produced a deep impression on his mind, and, for some time, he had been unusually serious and thoughtful. To render his parents comfortable and happy seemed to be his only desire, while most of his leisure hours were spent in reading the Bible. In turn, he was the idol of his parents, and their only earthly comfort now seemed to be in "Joanny."
               In person, John was tall for one of his age, and neatly formed. He was, moreover, athletic and active, and, from his boyhood, had been a swift runner.
               
               "Jemmy," said Betty one evening, late in the fall, as she entered the cabin carrying in her hand a small pail of milk; "that brin'le coo's nae 'boot the nicht."
               "Is she nae alang wi' the rest o' them?" said Kemie, rising from his seat, and walking slowly to the door.
               "I canna sae her onywhere at a'," said Betty.
               "D'ye sae onything o' the brin'le coo?" said Kemie, addressing himself to Peter who was cutting the night's wood at the corner of the cabin.
               "I sees him tis mor'ya, jist up tare, toon tare mit te tuders, an' I no sees him since tat," said Peter, casting his eyes around him in all directions, not excepting upwards.
               "Won'er she's nae wi' the rest o' them!" said Kemie, thoughtfully, returning again to his seat.
               The missing cow was the subject of conversation that evening in the family. After various conjectures as to the cause of her absence, it was concluded that John and Peter should go in search of her in the morning, in case she did not return during the night.
               Peter was up two hours before daylight, and out to see if the cow had returned. But Brindle had not made her appearance; and by break of day, they were at the door on their way. John had the rifle on his shoulder, which, however, Peter regarded as a very unnecessary encumbrance.
               "I tink," said Peter, as they left the door, "he's up in tis ere way, as te tuders cum hame in tis ere way."
               John being of the same opinion, they struck into the woods, and took a west course up the valley. As they proceeded, Peter could observe many signs of Brindle on the bushes and in the leaves, and they would no doubt soon be up with her. Thus they wandered on till they were some three or four miles from the cabin. John had several times suggested that it was useless to go any farther; but Peter could still see signs. At length, however, John, being somewhat fatigued, sat down at the root of a tree, determined to proceed no farther; at the same time expressing his apprehensions, that, to go any farther, might not be safe.
               They were now opposite a gap in the mountain, on their left, and through which a small stream, running across the valley, flowed. The ground on which they stood was considerably elevated, and formed a ridge along the east bank of the stream. The slope on the east side of this ridge was gradual, while, on the west, it was more abrupt and rugged. This side of the ridge was also more heavily timbered, and, immediately on the banks of the stream, it was a dense thicket of laurel, and so continued to the termination of the valley.
               "Vel, Shon," said Peter, "if ye vil not go mit me, I'll jist go toon a leetle till te vater; I tink Brin'le go toon tare to git himself von trink, an' he's tare in the ticket."
               John endeavored to persuade Peter from going, as it was some distance; and as to the lost cow's being there, he knew there was little likelihood of that. But Peter would go—and off he started—leaving John sitting at the root of the tree, with his rifle lying across his knees.
               Peter had been gone about half an hour, when John was startled by a loud yell, in the direction he had taken. He fancied, also, that he could hear, at the same time, Peter speaking in a loud and animated voice, now in Dutch, and now in his broken English.
               Immediately after, the horror of their situation was revealed; Peter was coming up the side of the ridge at the top of his speed pursued by two Indians. For a moment, John lost all consciousness; but presently recovering himself, and getting a glance of one of the Indians through the bushes, he jirked his rifle to his eye and fired. He then wheeled and ran. Peter, by great exertion, had overtaken, him by the time he had reached the foot of the ridge.
               
               They were now three if not four miles from the cabin. In some places the ground was rocky and uneven, and strewed with brush and fallen pines; and then again it would be more smooth, and less heavily timbered.
               They had run about a mile over logs and through brush, neither gaining on the other. At length, coming into a more smooth and open space, John, glancing his eyes over his shoulder, perceived that one of the Indians had fallen considerably behind the other; but that the foremost, with his tomahawk half raised, was rapidly gaining upon them.
               It was an awful moment. One of them, at least, must perish. He glanced an eye at Peter, and saw the blood spirting from his nostrils.
               On they ran, or rather flew over the ground, now the one, perhaps, a spring ahead, and now the other. At length the panting and heavy steps of the Indian could be distinctly heard, only a few rods behind them. John, making a desperate effort, succeeded in getting a few yards ahead of Peter. In a moment after he heard a blow, and a heavy sighing moan!
               This was the last that was ever heard of Peter Von Cloot. His body was never recovered vered, and a mystery must forever shroud his tragical end. Indeed, years after, Peter was converted into a sort of ghost by the more timid and superstitious among the settlers; and poor Peter was often seen racing through the woods at night, a tomahawk sticking in the back of his head, his scalp off, and the blood spirting from his nostrils.
               John succeeded in making his escape; but in consequence of the over-exertion of his strength in running, he was unwell for several weeks.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               KEMIE'S SON SLAIN.
               THE death of Peter made a deep impression on Kemie's mind. His eyes were now opened to the full extent of their danger; and he resolved, as soon as John was well enough, to leave the valley and move to the settlement. Alas! that he had not listened to the advice of his friends, and gone sooner. His heart had, perhaps, been spared the severest blow of all, and that which flung into the angry storm the few remaining shreds of his happiness.
               The shades of the evening had settled down in the valley. Only a few rays of the setting sun were glancing on a lofty peak of the south mountain. It was one of those calm, still evenings in which the air is peculiarly given to conveying sounds; and when the stroke of the axe, or the clink of the cow-bell flies along the hill and mountain side, and is heard for the distance of miles. True, indeed, none of these evidences of a busy, bustling life were heard in the valley—nothing but the hummings of the tall pines, or the hoarse croak of the raven, circling round above the dark, gloomy forest.
               Kemie and his family had, all day, been busily engaged in preparing to move to the settlement. His farming utensils, for the present, had been put in the stable—while his few household matters had been carefully packed away in the loft of his cabin. They were taking nothing with them but two or three head of cattle, and a few necessary articles of clothing—these latter being tied up in a wallet prepared for the purpose.
               "Och!" said Kemie, "if' twas na for the grave o' my child, I could be lavin' this in pace."
               "Yes, Jemmy, that's tryin' on us a'," said Betty, wiping the tears from her eyes.
               "Weal, Betty, cum alang, an' we'll look at it ag'in afore lavin'."
               In a few moments, these afflicted parents, with John at their side, were standing at the head of Annie's grave—sobbing and weeping aloud. John was greatly affected, and, stooping down, patted the sides of the grave with his hand, moistening at the same time a little flower which he had recently planted with a profusion of tears. Indeed, during the whole day he had been more than usually sad and thoughtful. He had spoken but little; and several times he had taken down the Bible and read with deep emotion from its pages.
               His father, observing this, had said: "Weal, Joanny, my son, yer sad at lavin' the valley, an' yes saster's grave."
               "Yes, father," said he, "the Lord hath been bringin' mony troubles on you an' mother, an' when he'll mak an end o'these things he ounly knows himself."
               For their greater safety, they had concluded to cross the mountain in the night; and they are now just entering the forest that stretched across the valley to the south. Betty is mounted on the "oule critter." A large bundle is strung across behind her. Mr. Kemie is walking slowly a few rods ahead—while John is driving the cattle, and his mother following close behind him.
               They have crossed the valley without difficulty—the cattle following, readily, the well-known voice of Kemie. Indeed, in most places, it would have been impossible for them to have strayed from the path, on account of the dense thicket that lined it on either side.
               The last vestiges of the day had disappeared as they began slowly ascending the mountain, and night had flung her sable mantle, far and wide, over the gloomy face of nature. It was not, however, that utter darkness which sometimes reigns in the forest. The sky was perfectly clear—no mists nor floating clouds—and the clear starlight, finding its way down through the tops of the tall pines, made the direction of the path quite visible, and gave to objects some outline at the distance of several yards.
               The under-growth had become more dense along either side of the path, and which, inclining to the right, had its course for some distance along a bench of the mountain. They were moving along here in silence. Suddenly, John sprung two or three feet from the ground—wheeled round—flung out his arms—and, exclaiming, "Och! mother, mother!" fell dead across the path. An arrow was sticking in his heart! At the same instant three savage monsters sprung into the path directly behind the cattle, and within a few feet of where he had fallen.
               
               The horse on which Mrs. Kemie rode, frightened, and, wheeling around, went off at full speed down the mountain. Mr. Kemie fled along the path a few rods, and leaped into the thicket on his right.
               After some time, Mrs. Kemie found herself seated on her horse at the corner of the cabin—one hand firmly grasping the mane, and the other the reins of the bridle. She had no recollection as to how she came there, nor any knowledge of what had occurred. She got off the horse and sat down on the steps, in a dreamy, bewildered state of mind. After some time she could remember that the horse had frightened and wheeled, just as John had turned round, as she supposed, to speak to her. But she had no recollection of what he had said; nor was she aware that he had been killed. She was apprehensive, however, that something bad had happened, and her mind became filled, with the greatest distress and anxiety.
               What a situation for a poor, helpless woman! Alone in the night—in the midst of a wild, gloomy forest! But in the most trying situations, the most timid and fearful have displayed a fortitude and presence of mind as surprising to themselves afterwards, as to others.
               Her greatest fear now was the Indians. But what was she to do—what could she do? After debating several things confusedly in her mind, she concluded to enter the cabin, and conceal herself in the loft. This she did—concealing herself in a corner behind some bundles of clothes, and tucking over her an old quilt. Thus situated, she resigned herself into the hands of a merciful Providence.
               About the middle of the night, she heard a noise, at the door; something—something was there! Of course it is the Indians; and she shrunk herself up, and tucked the old quilt closer and tighter around her. Horrible! She hears them at the foot of the old ladder—ascending it—at the top of it—creeping along the floor towards where she lay. They lie down by the pile of old clothes, directly opposite. Poor Betty! a faintness seized her—her mind wandered; and, unconscious of it, she cried out: "O! the Lord hae marcy on me! the Lord hae marcy on Jemmy and Joanny."
               "Betty! Betty!" exclaimed Mr. Kemie, springing to his feet, trembling with astonishment.
               Kemie had been wandering about in the forest for several hours. In consequence of the excited state of his mind he had become bewildered, and had found his way to the cabin with difficulty. He had, moreover, a confused recollection of what had taken place. He thought the horse had suddenly turned round, and run back, and that John had followed after; but that he had been killed was the most distant from his thoughts. Hence they were both ignorant of the extent of their calamity—that the cup of their sorrow had been filled.
               They remained in the loft of the cabin till daylight—in the greatest possible anxiety, expecting every moment to hear the savage yells of the Indians at the door.
               As soon as it was sufficiently light, Kemie ventured out; and, after searching round for some time, found the horse—the wallet of clothes being still on its back. In a few moments Betty was again mounted; and, following close behind Mr. Kemie, they were on their way to the mountain.
               As they drew near the place where they had been separated the evening previous, Kemie, quickening his pace, proceeded a few yards ahead of Betty. Instantly his eye caught the lifeless and extended body of his son. He sprung forward—gazed a moment upon it—then, turning round, he exclaimed: "Och, Betty, Joanny's kilt—the Ingins hae kilt Joanny!"
               Betty dropped the reins of the bridle, threw up her hands, and gave a loud scream; and then slid, or rather fell from the horse. She instantly rose to her feet—stood a few moments gazing wildly around her; and then, with a loud, wild laugh, turned round, and ran with all her speed down the path in the direction of the valley.
               John was lying upon his back across the path. His eyes were closed, and death sat, pale and enthroned, on his countenance. An arrow was sticking in his left breast in the region of the heart; and he had probably never moved after he fell.
               Kemie sat down by the lifeless body of his son—gazed upon it—adjusted the raven locks of hair that curled gracefully on the forehead. He could not weep. The fountain was sealed— dried up. He had no more tears to shed. He rose, caught the horse, mounted, and rode over to the settlement.
               He arrived there about 12 o'clock. He could not, however, tell what was the matter, or what he wanted. He merely pointed to the mountain. His mind was evidently wandering. The settlers, however, inferred that something had happened to his family; and, arming themselves, about a dozen started, over the mountain as hastily as they could. In the mean time, Kemie was conducted to Wilks's.
               On the opposite side of the mountain, the party suddenly came upon the lifeless body. They knew it was Kemie's son, and were deeply affected at the sight. The youthful form—the placid countenance—the ringlets of glossy black hair—and the long arrow, sticking a foot or more out of the breast—touched their hearts; and, gathering round the body, they wept like children.
               But how did the body get there? Was this the spot where he fell? Where was Mrs. Kemie? No one could conjecture.
               It was at length agreed that four of the party should return with the body to the settlement, and that the rest would proceed to the cabin in search of Mrs. Kemie.
               As they suddenly merged out of the forest into the clear land, they observed a woman in the corner of the, garden, stooping down, and apparently digging in the earth. Presently, however, raising herself up, and seeing the party, she fled into the cabin. Who was this? They concluded it must be Mrs. Kemie, and accounted for her conduct by supposing she had mistaken them for Indians.
               They proceeded to the cabin, and entered it, but could see nothing of the woman. After a little, however, she was found in a corner, in the loft, covered with a quilt.
               It was Betty! But, alas! reason had fled, and she had been digging into Annie's grave with a stick. She could give no account of herself, or of what had happened. Sometimes she would laugh wildly—then sob and cry—and then attempt to escape from them; and with much difficulty they succeeded in getting her to the settlement.
               Wilks, on his removal to the settlement, had occupied an untenanted cabin on the banks of the creek, a mile south of the church.
               
               The whole family most deeply sympathized with Mr. Kemie in his afflictions. They all wept aloud, as the four settlers entered the cabin, carrying the dead body of John; and nothing could exceed the distress of Mrs. Wilks and her daughters when the rest of the party arrived with Mrs. Kemie—wild, haggard, raving. Indeed, no one could enter the cabin, and look upon the youthful form of John, and the bereaved, sorrowing, demented parents, and not have the deep, unused fountain of their sorrows stirred up.
               Early the following day, the settlers generally, old and young, were collected in and around the cabin of Wilks. They had come to attend the body of John to the grave. Sadness and anxiety were depicted in every countenance. A feeling of insecurity and alarm had now become general; and each one felt that the next blow might fall upon himself or family. Life as well as property were regarded as insecure; and no one knew what a day or an hour might bring forth. Hitherto a merciful Providence had protected them—but now, the settlers perceived that the enemy was lurking in the mountains around their dwellings, and might, at any moment, attack them. Hence, while the necessary preparations were making, several were stationed at some distance around the cabin as sentinels.
               The body of John, attired simply in a clean shirt, was deposited in a rough, wooden box; and which, being carried out by four of the younger settlers, was laid on a sled drawn by a yoke of oxen. Everything being thus in readiness, the procession moved off.
               It was a strange sight, and yet solemn. Most of the men were barefooted—few had on coats, while each had his rifle on his shoulder, and his powder-horn strung at his side. And yet it was not a military procession—the burial of a youthful soldier. It was a funeral of the "olden times."
               "Hoch! hoch!" said Mr. Kemie, as they moved along, "if I'd stayin in the oule coontre, I wadna haen a' this masery on me."
               "That's a' true," said Wilks, who was walking by his side; "but, mon, the hand o' the Lord's in a' we do, an' in a' that cums on us."
               "Och! an' did ye sae my gude woman what a masery she's in—I'm feer'd she'll be losin' o' her rason."
               
               Directly behind the log meeting-house, there was a dense thicket of laurel and scrubby oak. Into this a path had been cut for several rods, where a small piece of ground had been cleared off. This was the place where the settlers buried their dead; and here the body of John was interred amid the sobs of the young, and the fears and apprehensions of the aged.
               On their return, they found Mrs. Kemie more composed, lying upon a bed, and apparently in a doze of sleep. Suddenly, however, she started up, as if in a fright; and, springing from the bed, rushed out of the door, and in an instant was out of sight in the woods. She was pursued by Wilks and his sons, but it was some time before they succeeded in overtaking her, and it was only with the greatest difficulty they could prevail on her to return. She insisted that the Indians were digging up Annie's grave, and she must go and drive them off.
               Poor Mrs. Kemie! Deprived of all that could solace her days on earth, her reason had fled, and she gradually sunk into a confirmed insanity. She became, however, in a few days more composed, and more easily managed.
               But never was there a more pitiable sight than Betty Kemie, and one whose condition demanded more the sympathy of friends and neighbors. She would sit all day long in the corner, wrapped up in an old plaid cloak, without speaking or scarcely noticing any one. When Mrs. Wilks or any of the family would come in, she would give a little laugh, and gaze at them with a wild, vacant stare. When a stranger, however, entered, she would invariably turn her back to them, and bury her face in the folds of her old plaid, and thus remain till they left. Sometimes she would stand in the door for hours, and in a manner that touched the hearts of all who heard her, call on Jenny to "cum hame."
               In a short time a neat little cabin was erected by the settlers, a few rods from Wilks's for them to reside in. Wilks's two sons, in company with several others, had crossed the mountain, and brought over some little necessaries left in the valley. Other things were added by the neighbors, and soon they were as comfortably situated as their condition would allow. But what comfort have the bereaved—the broken-hearted—the demented! Mr. Kemie, being a pious man, spent the most of his time in the study of the Scriptures, staying his mind upon its promises. Then there was the faint hope that Jane might still be alive, and might be restored to them. How this could be done, he could not tell. The impression, however, had taken hold of his mind, and at length occupied his thoughts day and night.
               "Och, mon," said he, one day, as Wilks entered the door of his little cabin, "jist a sight o' Jenny was be swater to me than a' the world, an' I hae a falin' in my breast that the Lord 'll grant me this ane comfort afore I lave this world o' sorrows."
               "I dinna doot it, Jemmy," said Wilks; "but its mair than ony o' us can weal expect."
               "I'd be trav'lin' a' the airth o'er to find her, or hear onything o' her," said Kemie.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE SEARCH.
               ONE day, as Wilks was seated before the door of his cabin, leaning his head forward on his hands, he was startled by the appearance of a stranger mounted on horseback. He was a man apparently about forty years of age—tall, and rather lean. His visage was hardy and care-worn. His large dark eyes glanced keenly around him as he rode up to the door.
               This was an agent of the colonial government, who had been sent to the frontiers to ascertain the condition of the settlers, and devise measures for their defence and protection.
               As he drew up the reins of the bridle, he made a hasty bow of the head; and then, glancing his eyes around him a moment, he began making his inquiries in regard to the settlement, and the extent of their sufferings.
               Wilks briefly related his own misfortunes—but more particularly the trials of his neighbor Kemie, at the recital of which he seemed much affected.
               "Your neighbor has suffered much," said he, "but there's hope for the prisoners."
               Kemie, attracted by the voice of the stranger, had come to the door of his cabin. He could not, however, hear distinctly the subject of conversation; but thought he heard something said about prisoners. Hence, hastening to them, and fixing his eyes full upon him, said: "An', mon, didna ye sae somethin' 'boot the prasoners? I hae a swate child a prasoner, an' may be she's livin' yet."
               "Very likely," said the stranger, "there are many of them in the French forts, on the lakes, and your child's likely among them."
               After making some farther inquiries, the agent bade adieu, and proceeded to visit some families residing farther up the creek.
               For several days Kemie seemed in a deep study. He slept but little at night, and spent most of the day in walking to and fro in his cabin. He had been observed, moreover, making certain preparations which showed some design on his part, and which had created some uneasiness in the mind of Wilks.
               "Weal, Jemmy," said Wilks, one day, "yer thinkin' too much 'boot the loss o' yer chalder; we mustna let these things trouble us too much, mon."
               "I'm nae a childless mon yet," said Kemie.
               "But, Jemmy," said Wilks, "we must wait the time o' the Lord in a' things; an' sure, mon, if Jenny's livin' an' weal, she'll be restored to ye ag'in, wi' the blassin' o' the Lord."
               "I canna stay ony longer," said Kemie; "I hae nae pace o' mind the day nor nicht—jist ane sight o' Jenny wad restore Betty to her rason ag'in, an' I'd travel a' the airth o'er fra that."
               Wilks was taken by surprise. He saw that Kemie was decided. He endeavored to dissuade him, however, from such a hopeless and perilous undertaking—telling him the little probability that he could even find the place of her imprisonment, and the likelihood that he would himself perish in the attempt.
               "I'll gae at ony rate; an' I'll gae in the strength o' the Lord," said Kemie.
               The next day, Kemie was on his way. His course was directed towards the lakes. The distance was, at least, two hundred miles, through an unbroken forest, and without even a footpath for a guide. His old rifle was firmly grasped in his hand, and some bread and boiled venison, stowed in a knapsack, were strung across his shoulders. The hope of rescuing his long lost, and only surviving child, was the anchor of his soul. This was enough; and he had left the settlement without regret, and thrown himself alone into the dark forest without the least fear or trembling.
               All things considered, however, the journey was as perilous a one as had ever been undertaken; and, so far as human forecast could predict, as equally hopeless. But what will not parental affection undergo to save a beloved child, and with what energy and fortitude does it inspire the heart so long as there remains the faintest glimmerings of hope.
               The particulars of the journey, and what befell him on the way, were afterwards learned from himself.
               He travelled at the rate of ten or fifteen miles a day; and slept at night, for the most part, in the top of some fallen tree, or some dense thicket of laurel. His little store of provisions being soon exhausted, he subsisted on roots and berries ries, and such small game as came within range of his rifle. Several times, however, he lost the course, and was unable to distinguish north from south; and once he wandered about for several days, not being at any one time, as he afterwards ascertained, a mile from the spot he had left.
               One day, having crossed a lofty range of hills, and being much fatigued, he sat down by the root of a tall pine to rest. In a short time he fell, unconsciously, into a sound sleep. Suddenly awaking, he saw several Indians approaching him, and within a few rods of where he was seated. He sprung to his feet, and grasped his rifle; but seeing no possibility of either making his escape or defending himself against such numbers, he laid down his rifle and suffered himself to be taken.
               The Indians were eight in number; and had with them a white woman and a little boy—her son—about six years old. He observed, also, several fresh scalps hanging at the side of one of the Indians, a fierce looking monster, who seemed to be chief or head man of the party.
               Rushing forward and seizing Kemie, they tied his hands behind his back, and took him on with them. After proceeding about a mile, they halted, kindled a fire, and partook of some food.
               During this time Kemie had leisure to reflect on his situation. How horrible! He had little expectation that his life would be spared; and from some movements which he observed, he apprehended they designed putting him to death immediately—in prospect of which he earnestly commended his spirit to God. He thought of the companion of his life's toils and trials; of that beloved child for whose sake he was now in the midst of perils and death, and he poured forth the silent aspirations of his soul in their behalf. He then thought of his children in heaven; and, expecting in a few moments to join them there, his mind became calm and composed, and he resolved to meet his fate with the fortitude of a Christian and martyr.
               He was also much affected at the sight of the poor woman and her little boy. The deepest misery was depicted in her countenance. She took, no notice of anything that was going on around her. She sat, like a statue, with her eyes fixed upon the ground, while her boy, leaning upon her shoulder, stood with his little arms around her neck.
               Kemie's fears that the Indians intended putting him to death were, at length, dispelled. It was evident now, from their movements, that they designed retaining him as their prisoner, at least for the present. In half an hour they were on their march.
               They did not stop again till about an hour after dark, when, arriving at a small stream, they kindled a fire, and there passed the night. Kemie was compelled to lie down upon his back, and his arms being extended, his wrists were tied to stakes driven into the ground. In this painful posture he passed a sleepless night. The woman and her boy lay on the opposite side of the fire, her right hand being bound to a stake in a similar manner. The Indians lay scattered around the fire, wrapped in their blankets, and slept soundly from the moment they lay down till about daylight, when they all awoke, and immediately began making preparations to proceed on their journey.
               The little boy fretted and cried the greater part of the night. He kept telling his mother all the time that his feet were so sore, and he was so hungry, he could not sleep. Several times, also, he asked her where his papa was, and where they were going. Kemie, moreover, could hear her sobbing and crying, and making what little effort she could to keep him quiet, and get him asleep.
               In the morning, he could observe a great change in the woman's appearance. If possible she looked more wretched and miserable, and seemed scarcely able to rise, or stand upon her feet. The little boy also looked paler, and was more fretful, and kept constantly telling his mother that he "wanted to go home." It was evident that neither the mother nor child could travel much further; and Kemie feared that the Indians, to get rid of them, would tomahawk and scalp them. Hence, soon after they started, an opportunity presenting itself, he told her to keep good heart, to put her trust in God, and do her best to get herself and child along. Indeed, he seemed to forget all his own trials in his anxiety for the safety of the woman and her boy.
               Whether from compassion to their prisoners, or thinking themselves beyond the danger of pursuit, he could not tell; but the Indians did not, for some reason, travel so rapidly as they had done the day previous. Several times they had halted, and sat down. The face of the country, however, was exceedingly wild and rugged; and, in many places, the growth of pine and hemlock was so dense, as almost to present a complete barrier to their progress. During the day they had also crossed several streams, through which they were obliged to wade, sometimes up to the waist in water.
               Towards evening, the little boy began crying most bitterly, and plead with his mother to carry him. "Mother," said he, "I can't walk any more. Oh, do carry me, mother!" She took him up in her arms, but only proceeded a few yards, when she swooned and fell, the child lying partly under her.
               Kemie hastened to her assistance; but his right arm being bound across his breast to his left shoulder, he could render her but little aid. He succeeded, however, in getting the boy out from under her. In a few minutes, the woman partially revived, and rose to her feet. Kemie exhorted her to persevere a little longer, as they would probably soon stop for the night; telling her, at the same time, that her own life and that of her child depended upon it.
               In the mean time, the Indians had been engaged in an animated talk; the purport of which, however, the prisoners could not understand. The chief or head, man seemed much excited, and, several times, had pointed at the woman and boy with the most savage expression of countenance. Kemie, conjecturing their intention, took up the boy in his arm that was free, and started on; the woman following close behind. The Indians, also, instantly stopping their talk, followed sulkily after them.
               Proceeding in this manner for half an hour, they halted, when the Indians, after parleying for some time, began preparations to encamp for the night.
               It was a low, flat piece of ground, smooth, and free from undergrowth. On the northeast, and within a few rods of the camp, there was a considerable eminence, the top and sides of which were covered with a thicket of laurel of an unusually tall growth, and somewhat open underneath. From the top of this eminence, the place of their encampment could be distinctly seen.
               The prisoners and Indians were arranged around the fire as on the night previous, except that Kemie, for some reason, was lashed to a tree in a sitting posture, and on the side of the fire opposite the eminence. The woman and boy lay about a yard from him, on the right. The Indians, with their feet to the fire, had their heads, except three of them, towards the eminence.
               Before lying down, the Indians had stuck the scalps on small sticks around the fire, to dry. As usual, they were soon in a sound sleep; their tomahawks and scalping knives lying by their sides.
               The little boy, as on the night previous, had fretted and cried for some time; but, at length, seemed to have fallen asleep. Kemie, however, could not close his eyes. His anxiety for the safety of the woman and her boy, as well as the uncertainty that hung around his own fate, rendered sleep impossible. The savage monsters lying around him, the sighing mother, the scalps sticking around the fire, the pitchy darkness, and the frequent howlings of wild animals in the surrounding forest, was a situation, indeed, in which few could have composed themselves to rest. Then the thought of Betty and his murdered children, and the living form of Jane flitting before his eyes, would, for a time, almost deprive him of his reason. He stayed himself, however, on the arm of Infinite Mercy, and many were the fervent prayers, he offered up for himself and all in affliction.
               He was thus mentally engaged, when he was startled by a slight, crackling noise on the top of the eminence. He attributed it, however, to some wild animal, and supposed it would not approach nearer. But, after some time, he heard a slight rustling noise in the bushes, and within a few rods of where he was seated. He trembled with fear, and had thoughts of making a noise to wake the Indians. But all was quiet again, and he desisted from his purpose.
               "Noo, mak' sure work o' it!" he distinctly heard in a suppressed voice; and, before he had time to take a thought, the thicket was in a blaze of fire, and the report of a hundred rifles, as it seemed to him, was ringing in the forest. Five of the Indians rolled over with a heavy groan. The remaining three sprung to their feet, and grasped their tomahawks; but, before they could put themselves in a posture of defence fence, a white man, followed by four others, bounded, like so many tigers, from the thicket, and, wresting the tomahawks from their hands, dashed out their brains with a single blow.
               The woman, waking, fainted away. The little boy screamed. Kemie was speechless with astonishment, and, before he had recovered from his surprise, he was cut loose and on his feet. The first thing he observed, was a man with the little boy in his arms, pressing him to his breast, and endeavoring to quiet him; while another was seated on the ground, chafing the temples of the woman.
               Just then, the man with the boy in his arms rushed towards him, his eyes rolling like balls of fire, and exclaimed: "My God, Kemie, is this you?"
               Kemie gazed for a moment, and then threw his arms around his neck, exclaiming:"Och! Walyam! Walyam!" It was young Wilks. The man seated on the ground was the woman's husband.
               The Indians were some of a larger party, who, a few days before, had attacked a settlement to the southwest; and who, after killing several of the settlers, and setting fire to a number of dwellings, had retreated, carrying off the woman and boy as prisoners. The party, however, had separated, some of them taking a more westerly route, while these eight were returning directly to the Lakes.
               Wilks, being in, or near the settlement at the time of the massacre, had put himself at the head of a small company of settlers, and started in pursuit. Several of them, however, had returned, disheartened, and afraid to venture farther. But the woman's husband and three others, urged on by the bold and intrepid Wilks, determined to continue the pursuit a day longer.
               During the greater part of the day, they were convinced they were close upon the Indians; and at sunset they had observed smoke rising about a mile ahead of them. They then halted till an hour or more after dark, when, led on by Wilks, they groped their way to the top of the eminence—where they found themselves within a few rods of their camp. Everything was favorable. They could distinctly see the position of the Indians around the fire—the white man lashed to the tree, and the woman and boy close by.
               Having remained secreted on the top of the eminence till they supposed the Indians were in a sound sleep, they at length prepared to make their attack. Getting upon their knees, they crept down the hill under cover of the laurel, till within a few yards of the fire. Each one then selecting the head of an Indian, they took aim on their knees and fired, the result being as stated.
               Nothing could exceed the surprise and joy of Wilks and Kemie. It was some time, however, before either ventured upon an explanation of the circumstances which had led to this strange and unexpected meeting in the forest—far from home, and the abodes of civilized life.
               After some time, Wilks, having seated himself at the foot of the tree to which Kemie had been tied, said: "Hoo on airth 'd ye git yerself into the hands o' these bastely savages?"
               "Och, mon," said he, "I hae been unfortunate on my joorney. These poor craturs o' Ingins cum on me wi'oot my knowin' onything o' it, and they carried me alang wi' this poor woman an' her boy; but the Lord has haen marcy on her and the child."
               "What joorney?" eagerly inquired Wilks.
               
               "Och, mon, I was jist a goin' oot to the fort to fetch hame my swate child."
               "It's a greicht un'ertakin," said Wilks, rising to his feet.
               "I'm goin' in the strength o' the Lord, an' he'll gae me this ane desire o' my heart," replied Kemie.
               The rest of the party, with the woman and boy, had retired a short distance from the fire, and sat down under cover of the laurel. Kemie joined them, and embraced his deliverer—his heart overflowing with gratitude.
               Wilks seated himself again at the foot of the tree, and remained there alone, apparently in a deep study. His eyes were fixed on the fire that still burned before him. Now and then he would lift them up, and east a dark, scornful, hated glance at the savage forms that lay ghastly and lifeless around it, and then fix them on the fire again, as before.
               Having thus remained for near an hour, he sprung to his feet, and laying hold of the foot of one of the Indians, rolled him over on his back, at the same time saying: "You'll shed nae mair blood, at ony rate." He then joined the rest of the party.
               The next morning, by daylight, they were up and prepared to return. The woman and boy, however, were scarcely able to stand; but it was thought, with assistance, they could at least get along a few miles.
               Kemie, in the meantime, had recovered his old trusty rifle and shotpouch, and, once more embracing his deliverers, and imploring the Divine blessing upon them, had turned his face toward the north.
               "Stay, mon!" said Wilks; and, bidding his companions a hasty farewell, in a moment he stood by Kemie's side.
               "Ye canna gae on this joorney yerself," said he.
               "Nay, mon! nay!" said Kemie, beseechingly; "ye mustna thraw awa yer life for sak' o' me."
               "Mr. Kemie," said Wilks, in a decided tone of voice, "I've made up my mind; you may need my help ag'in in this matter."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE LOST ONE FOUND.
               ON a bluff, commanding a view of one of the lakes, stood a strong, but rudely constructed fort. The side next the lake was protected by a natural wall of rock that sprung up from the water's edge almost perpendicular, to the height of a hundred or more feet. On the south, the approach to the fort was also rendered difficult by the abrupt and broken nature of the ground, leaving the north and northwest to afford the only practicable access to its gates.
               This fort, for some years, had been the strong hold of the French and Indians. It was here several of their most bloody expeditions were planned; and through its gates had passed out from time to time, many a warrior band, to carry death and consternation, far and wide, among the unprotected colonists; and who, after a campaign of a few months, have re-entered its gates, ladened with the trophies of some inglorious victory.
               It was here, too, that many of their captives, dragged from their homes and firesides, were carried; and where, guarded with the utmost vigilance, they were exposed to all the tortures of the most horrid inquisition.
               At this time, there might have been within its walls some thirty or forty of these unfortunate beings, of every age and sex, and from almost the entire line of frontier settlements.
               Nothing could have been more harrowing to the feelings, or more calculated to stir up the deepest sympathies of the soul—than a sight of these emaciated and wretched captives, as, with despairing looks and frantic gestures, they filled the air of that horrid den with their groans and lamentations.
               In one corner, seated on the ground, and lashed to a stake, was a father who had been torn away from the embraces of his wife and children; or who, having defended them to the uttermost of his strength, had seen them butchered in cold blood before his eyes. Now he sits with his eyes riveted to the earth—the floods of unabating sorrow tossing to and fro his riven and shattered heart, as the angry waves are wont to toss the shattered and dismasted vessel.
               On the opposite side is seated a mother, clasping, in an overwhelming agony of grief, an emaciated and fretting infant to her breast. Her hair is dishevelled—her dress tattered and torn—her cheeks pale and sunken—her eyes wild and fiery. Now and then there is an earnest, solemn, thoughtful look. Ah! who can comprehend what is in it? or pry into the secrets of that heart thus shadowing forth its emotions. Perhaps the thought of a far distant home—of loving friends—of a fond husband—of dear children, from whom, with the little one clinging to her breast, she was ruthlessly torn away—is there: or, perchance, there is ineffaceably impressed on that heart the image of all these weltering in their blood.
               Not far from her side is a young maiden—a girl of seventeen—delicately formed, and not wanting in education and refinement. Though the rosy tints have fled from the cheek, and the playful smile from the lip, and the sparkling effulgence from the eye—yet, even in her captivity and wretchedness, she is beautiful. And who is this? Perchance she is the only child of refined and wealthy parents, and who, that moment, are wailing and lamenting in inconsolable grief the abduction of their daughter. But why has that thoughtful sorrow mantled the brow of this captive maiden? Why those long, deep, heavy sighs, bubbling, and gushing up from the deepest recesses of the heart? Of course, it is the remembrance of her home—of her dear father and dearest mother. But there was another she loved—loved earnestly—loved with all her soul; and by whom she was loved with a devotion as entire—and to whom, in a few days, perhaps hours, her hand would have been given in marriage. Now, however, far separated from all she loved on earth, surrounded by ruthless savages and unprincipled monsters, she sighs, and frets, and pines away as the flower withers and fades underneath the scorching sun or the rude blasts of winter.
               There are there, also, little children, boys and girls, eight, nine, or ten years of age—orphans. They had seen their parents rush between them and their savage foe, and there, with a strength and courage superhuman, did they see them battling with the enemy till the uplifted tomahawk of the savage cleft their skulls asunder. Now they stand huddled in little groups—trembling, fretting, crying; or, shrinking away, they endeavor to conceal themselves from the blood-stained monsters who stalk around them. What more pitiable than the condition of these children!
               Then, there is within the walls of that grim, gloomy, sickening fortress—the young man—bold, courageous, daring. But what could these heroic virtues avail against unequal numbers, or treachery, or the sudden rush of an unseen foe upon the unsuspecting and unarmed? Now they lie bound hand and foot upon their backs, or lean heavily against the walls of the fort. But mark that look! The Commander has just passed, or some petty officer in French uniform; or, perhaps, before him there is some Indian warrior exhibiting his dozen or more scalps. That knit brow, those curled lips, those flashing eyes, and that convulsed, heaving chest, show the volcanic fires that burn within the breast, and which, though pent up, struggle to burst forth, and overwhelm these monsters of cruelty in a moment.
               Such were not unlikely the scenes to be witnessed in the fort at the time to which we refer. In truth, a more wretched existence cannot be conceived than that which the American prisoners were compelled to drag out during the French and Indian war. Not only destitute of every comfort, but they were very often, both men and women, put to the severest tortures the savage cruelty of their captors could devise.
               It is due, however, to the Indian character to say that there were some exceptions; and that some few of Indian tribes treated their prisoners with as much kindness as they were capable of. Such as they took a liking for, the chiefs and others would adopt as their children, and treat them accordingly.
               The influence of the French, however, added nothing to the comfort of those who were so unfortunate as to fall into the hands of the Indians. It seems to have been their object, during the war with the colonies, to rouse the evil passions of the Indians to the highest pitch; and to instigate them to deeds of bloodshed shed and cruelty too horrible to relate. Accordingly, but few who fell into their hands during that period were shown any mercy: and it would have been fortunate for many had they been at once put to death. Nor was their condition in any way bettered by being carried into French territory, and confined in forts under French command. The cruelty which the rude mind of the Indian could not devise—the refined gallantry of the Frenchman could readily suggest.
               This was the fortress towards which Kemie and Wilks were directing their pathless course through the forest.
               Though Kemie had, all along, felt confident that the Lord would guide his steps, and restore to him his abducted child, yet he was now more fully persuaded of this than ever. He could not but regard his recent deliverance from the hands of the Indians as a direct interposition of Providence in his behalf, and as a proof that the Lord was with him. And now, with Wilks at his side, the fears which had occasionally clouded the prospect before him vanished, and he could already realize the object of his search rejoicing in his arms.
               It was still, however, some days' travel to the fort, and the country, if possible, more wild and rugged, and the general direction more difficult to determine. Traces, also, of the Indians were becoming more frequent, and the necessity of being continually on the lookout became greater as they advanced.
               Wilks mostly led the way. Sometimes he was quite cheerful and talkative; then, again, knitting his brows, he would jog on over logs and through thickets in a gloomy, sullen, thoughtful mood.
               "This requires some perseverance," said he, one day, as, pushing the thick, clustering branches of the low undergrowth aside, and clambering over large masses of gray rock, they toiled up the side of a lofty hill.
               "An' sure it does, mon," said Kemie, as he bounded over a shelf of projecting rock, "but I gae in the strength o' the Lord, an' sure he'll gae us strength to parsevere in."
               "Spose," said Wilks, "ye'll be thinkin' a' these troubles nathin', if ye get Jenny hame wi' ye."
               As he said this, a slight flush crimsoned his cheeks, followed by a sudden paleness, and a quick, wild flashing of the eyes; and he bounded forward, Kemie pressing close behind, till, in a few minutes, they stood on the top of the lofty rugged hill.
               This seemed to be the first of a succession of hills, or rather mountains, stretching away northward as far as the eye could reach. Hence the prospect before them, though grand and magnificent, was, nevertheless, gloomy and forbidding. But the heart of Kemie, in his anxiety to rescue his child, could quail before no obstacle however great, or apparently insurmountable; while Wilks, animated by feelings of a different kind, had a courage and intrepidity which death alone could subdue.
               The sun was just going down behind the most distant of the hills; shooting its rays between the tall pines that stood up loftily against the horizon, at the same time glancing upon the more elevated crests that intervened, it formed a fine contrast with the deep black gulfs and gorges in which the shades of night had already settled.
               "We'll be stayin' a' the nicht doon in yon black holler," said Wilks.
               "It's a mournin' lookin' place," observed Kemie, casting his eyes in the direction, "but we'll be as weal in the hands o' the Lord there as ony place."
               In half an hour, they were down in the black hollow. It was dark—pitchy dark; and yet, with their hands, they were scooping up water to their parched lips from a small stream on whose crystal waters a ray of the sun, perhaps, had never fallen.
               "This wa', mon," said Wilks, who, between feeling, groping, and breaking branches, had made his way a few yards from the stream to a dry, mossy eminence, with quite an abrupt pitch on the east.
               In a few minutes, a light made of a splitted pine-knot, picked up on the hill side, was flashing in his hand; now stuck in the soft, mossy earth, it glared into the darkness for a rod or more around. A few dry sticks, obtained from the top of a fallen tree near by, were added; and after broiling and partaking of a small piece of venison, they wrapped themselves up in their blankets, and lay down for the night.
               Kemie being more than usually fatigued, could not sleep soundly. After dozing for a time, he would wake up with an uneasy sort of pain in his head, back, and limbs. Then dozing, he would wake up again, his pains being, if anything, more acute. Thus dozing and waking, he had passed the night, till, perhaps, one or two o'clock. Wilks had been up an hour before this, and had thrown together the unburned ends of the sticks, and blew them into a flame.
               Kemie, several times in the night, had heard strange noises, as he thought, not far off, as well as the constant roaring of wild animals in the tops and sides of the neighboring hills. Being accustomed, however, to such things, he was not alarmed.
               About the hour, however, mentioned above, he was startled by a rustling noise in the bushes just behind where they were lying. He instantly sprung to his feet, and waking Wilks, told him what he had heard. They both stood and listened for some time. At last, they could not be mistaken, the same rustling noise was again heard quite near them, though neither could see anything.
               "May be Ingins," said Kemie, in a low trembling voice.
               "As weal be a leetle on the lookout, at ony rate," said Wilks, at the same instant seizing his rifle and taking his stand behind a tree on the opposite side of the fire—Kemie doing the same.
               In a moment after, a huge panther sprung from the darkness, and lit directly over Wilks's knapsack, and on which his head had just been reclining. The animal, as if conscious that it had missed its prey, stood, cat-like, with its head raised; and, looking furiously around, lashed its sides with its tail. Quick as thought, Wilks, slipping his rifle round the tree, lodged its contents in the monster's head. Making a desperate leap, and lighting within a few feet of where Kemie was standing, it rolled down the bank into the stream.
               Kemie could see in this, as he had good reason, the hand of a most merciful Providence. One, or both of them, might readily have lost their lives, as the panthers which then roamed in the American forests were the largest and fiercest of their species. He no longer attributed his sleeplessness to fatigue, but to that Providence which numbers the hairs of our heads.
               Two days after this escape from the very jaws of death, a circumstance occurred which can hardly be justified. As they were passing over an elevated tract of table-land, covered with a few scattered pines, and a thick growth of scrub by bushes, they suddenly came upon an old Indian path, leading to the northwest. Keeping this path about a mile, it made an angle, and struck off to the southwest in the direction of a bald-looking range of hills.
               Just at this point they observed two Indians lying directly across the path in a sound sleep. They were first seen by Kemie, who was a few yards ahead; and who, the instant he observed them, wheeled, and requested Wilks to return along the path as quietly as he could. Instead of doing this, Wilks passed Kemie, and proceeded along the path till he saw the cause of his alarm. He then, after pausing a moment, advanced cautiously a few steps farther, and having reconnoitered the position of the Indians as well as he could, he returned.
               "I'll shoot them rascals," said he.
               "Nay, mon, nay!" said Kemie, hurriedly, and much agitated—"there's nae use o' that."
               "They may gae us trouble—they're good as dogs at the scentin'," said Wilks.
               "The Lord hae marcy on them," ejaculated Kemie.
               "Them that show no marcy are desarvin' o'none," said Wilks, at the same time taking Kemie's rifle out of his hand.
               He then slipped along the path till within two rods of where the Indians were lying, when, setting the butt of Kemie's rifle on the ground—the top resting against the inside of his left shoulder—he raised his own rifle to his eye, and fired. The Indian farthest from him sprung to his feet with a horrid yell: in a moment, however, the contents of Kemie's rifle were lodged in his breast and he fell dead across the body of his companion. Returning Kemie his rifle, they struck off the path into the forest, and in a short time they were miles from the place of this bloody tragedy.
               The next day, about 10 o'clock, from the top of a lofty range of hills they caught a view of the waters of the lake. Away to the north-west, they could perceive a small flag floating in the dingy, smoky atmosphere. Strange as it may seem, this was the fort.
               Kemie was overjoyed. Having seated himself on an old log, he buried his face in his hands, and secretly returned thanks to God who had so mercifully preserved them; and who had so guided their steps through the trackless wilderness that they had arrived within view of the fortress they were in search of!
               During this time, Wilks had stood by his side in silence, leaning on the muzzle of his rifle. His eyes were now fixed on the placid waters of the lake, and now on the flag of the fortress as it floated and flapped in the passing breeze; his heaving breast, at the same time, showing that it was the seat of strong, conflicting emotions.
               It is necessary here to state, that, for some time past, the most active preparations had been making throughout the colonies, to carry the war into the enemy's territories. The several expeditions set on foot the previous season, had, in general, proved successful, and a decided advantage had been gained over the French, some of their strongest positions having been subdued. This season, the colonists, expecting a strong reinforcement from the mother country, had resolved to march directly to the north, and, if possible, put an end to a war which had been so bloody, and so disastrous to their interests.
               Wilks and Kemie lay concealed in a thicket a mile from the fort. Their intention was to disguise themselves as Indians—thus enter it—and, if possible, obtain the object of their search.
               About 2 o'clock, however, they were startled by the sudden roar of artillery and the rapid discharge of musketry. In a moment they were on the top of an eminence on their right, and, to their astonishment, beheld the fort enveloped in a cloud of smoke.
               "It's ane o' the expeditions," said Wilks, hurriedly, his eyes flashing and staring in the direction.
               "The Lord hae marcy on my child," said Kemie, and, grasping their rifles, in a few minutes they were in the thickest and hottest of the fight.
               The conflict for some time was desperate. The French and Indians defended themselves with the most obstinate courage. At length the colonists resolved to take the fort by storm. The outer defences were soon levelled to the ground, and Wilks stood huzzaing on the top of the rude walls, and which, instantly, were covered by hundreds of brave-hearted men, clambering over, and throwing themselves into the enemy's midst. For twenty minutes nothing was heard but the clashing of arms, the groans of the dying, and the shouts of the victors. It was soon, however, over. The French cry for quaters was heard in all directions. Two hundred lay dead and dying, three hundred more were prisoners, and the fort was in the hands of the colonists.
               This was a detachment from one of the main divisions of the English army, commanded by the brave and lamented Prideaux.
               Shortly after the battle, Wilks and Kemie met, seemingly by accident, whilst in search of each other, though Wilks could scarcely be recognized, his face, hands, and clothes, being so blackened with dust, and stained with the blood of those whom he had slain.
               Outside the main fortification, and on the side next the lake, there was a rude inclosure, divided into two or three apartments. This was the place where the French had kept their stores. In one of these apartments there were about thirty emaciated and wretched beings— men, women, and children. These were the prisoners.
               Wilks had left Kemie, but presently returned; and, taking him by the arm, led him to the door of the apartment where the prisoners were confined. Kemie could not suppress his emotions, as his eye caught a sight of these unfortunate beings, and he turned away and burst into a flood of tears. Indeed, so strange and conflicting were his emotions—hope and fear rushing alternately upon him like a wild, whirling, dashing flood—that he scarcely knew where he was or what he was doing. At length, however, recovering himself, he again approached the door and entered. He stood, gazed round, his heart fluttering, and almost choked with emotion.
               But where was his "swate child?" Where was Jenny? Alas! Jenny was not there! No one looked like her—none seemed to recognize him! He turned and walked out, pale, sick, fainting. His hopes were all blasted. His dreams of happiness were all gone, and the image of his child that had cheered him in the solitudes of the forest, faded away in a moment, and, in despair, he threw himself down on a pile of old blankets that lay on the right of the door.
               In a few minutes Wilks was again at his side, and had hold of his arm. They approached a low, rude, smoky sort of a hut or wigwam, in the north corner of the inclosure. Wilks, stooping down, looked in, and saw two white women seated on the earthen floor—pale and trembling. He instantly started back, and turned away. Kemie stooped down and entered. There was a wild shriek, and one of the women lay senseless at his feet. It was his daughter!
               I shall not attempt to describe the scene that followed. Jane soon recovered from the shock, and the father and daughter were in each other's arms, weeping with joy.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               A TRAGEDY.
               THE next morning was exceedingly fine. The sun rose in cloudless splendor, mingling its silvery rays with the waters of the lake, slightly ruffled by the balmy breezes that came frisking and playing from the south. The shattered fortress was standing out in bold relief—pencilled into lights and shadows in the best taste of nature's great artist; while the deep, dark solitudes of the forest were enlivened by the varied music of the feathered tribes.
               During greater part of the night the brave and generous colonists were engaged in burying their own slain as well as the slain of the enemy, which they did by throwing the bodies into the trenches around the fort, and covering them with a thick layer of earth. The wounded on both sides are as well attended to as circumstances would admit—while the officers, as well as men, were assiduous in their attentions to the poor captives—some of whom had been sighing and fretting away a wretched existence in the fort for several years.
               It was finally decided by the officers that, while a detachment of sixty men should proceed with the captives to the main division of the army, the remainder should remain in possession of the fort till orders were received from the General of the division as to what disposition should be made of it, and the French and Indian prisoners.
               The detachment was prepared to start. The drums were beating to the music of a popular air. The plumes of the officers were waving in the breeze, and their epaulets glittering in the sunbeams. The rescued captives, with brightened looks and fluttering hearts, were standing a little in advance of the formed line.
               Just at this moment, two men came hurriedly out of the fort supporting a pale, delicate-looking female; and who was clinging to their arms with all her strength. This was Kemie and Wilks, with Jane, hastening to join the detachment.
               They were followed closely by an Indian in great distress, and in a high state of excitement. He was stamping the ground with his feet—throwing up his right arm in the air—now raving, and now howling in the most piteous manner. Jane cast a look behind her; seeing which, the Indian help up his right hand, from which the two fore-fingers were severed, looked at it and then at her, with the most pitiful expression of countenance.
               Presently a second Indian made his appearance, of huge dimensions, and with all the evil passions of the savage most strongly developed. He stood, surveying the scene before him in all the haughty, sullen pride of the warrior—casting, however, at the liberated captives the most ferocious and revengeful looks. Jane shuddered when she saw him; and, clinging more closely to her father's arm, said: "That's the Ingin that kilt Annie." Wilks, hearing this, looked at the Indian—eyed him with all the keenness and voracity of the tiger and, once or twice had his finger on the trigger of his half-raised rifle.
               "March!" said the captain, at the top of his voice. A lively air was struck up, and the detachment was off.
               
               The afternoon of the day was excessively hot. The refreshing breezes of the morning had passed away, followed by a peculiar sultriness, such as is not unusual at that particular season of the year in the region of the Lakes. The atmosphere became suddenly smoky, and not a breath of air was astir.
               Towards evening, however, a long line of black cloud was observed in the horizon to the southwest. Its thick, massive, voluminous edges, reflecting the rays of the setting sun, resembled masses of molten gold; imparting, however, to the advancing cloud a peculiarly black, ominous aspect.
               An hour after dark, the cloud was rapidly approaching the meridian, while the successive flashes of lightning, followed by peals of thunder, illuminated the whole heavens. Occasional puffs of wind, whirling and careering around the fort, and then sweeping away over the waters of the lake, gave warning that a storm was rapidly approaching.
               In half an hour it was on—a perfect tornado of wind and rain. The atmosphere was in a blaze; while the lake was one broad, whirling, dashing sheet of foam. The prisoners shrunk into the corners, while the victors, officers as well as men, were awed into silence.
               The sentinels, unable to stand at their posts, had shrunk in behind one of the outer walls. In truth, their office for the present seemed unnecessary. Nature, in her warring elements, had thrown around them a sure defence. In the fury of the tempest, however, and under view of a flash of lightning, one of the sentinels fancied he saw a form advancing in the direction of the fort. He jerked his musket to his eye, and waited another flash, but nothing was to be seen.
               In an hour, the storm had spent its strength. The thunders had rumbled across the lake, and could only be heard along the horizon to the northeast. Over the fort, and all down the heavens to the southwest, the stars were sparkling with an unusual brilliancy. Within the fort everything had resumed its wonted life and activity; and, while some were brooding over their misfortunes, some were cracking their jokes, and venting their feelings in bursts of boisterous laughter.
               In the inclosure, behind the main fortress, a number of Indian prisoners were collected. Some of them were engaged in a sort of dance, while others, seated around, were smoking their pipes. As they were merely the bribed allies of the French, the fall of the fort was a matter of little consequence to them. They were in as high spirits, and sung their rude songs with as much zest as if seated around the fires of their own forest homes, or as if just returned from a successful hunting expedition. True, many of their bravest warriors had fallen in defence of the fort the day previous; but, what of that? They could see them through the thin, gauzy curtain of the future, sporting in the chase, and pursuing the deer and buffalo in the spirit world, far beyond the setting sun.
               In the midst of this scene of barbarous mirth, an Indian rushed from the wigwam in the north corner of the inclosure, and commenced singing a war-song, holding up, at the same time, in his right hand a half-dozen or more dried scalps. The whole party were awed into silence by his extravagant gestures, and fierce savage looks. His every feature was distorted and bloated up with the worst passions, while his movements indicated a mind wrought up to the highest pitch of excitement.
               Presently there was the quick, sharp report of a rifle behind the wigwam. The Indian sprung several feet into the air, and then lighting, stood for a minute or more perfectly motionless, when he fell dead without a groan or struggle.
               A number of warriors rushed to the spot; and, gazing at him a few moments, began gesturing and howling in a manner peculiar to themselves when visited by any sudden calamity.
               The report of the rifle threw the fort into a state of alarm. The drums beat, and the Americans flew to their arms. To add to the consternation, one of the sentinels had just discharged his musket outside of the walls, and had shouted "a deserter." A man had sprung over the breastwork, a little beyond where he stood, and had bounded down the rugged declivity to the southeast, and disappeared in the darkness.
               It was some time before the cause of the alarm could be properly understood, or before the excitement passed away. Who had shot the Indian? Who had deserted? No one knew; none could conjecture. The roll was called; all answered to their names. The prisoners were under the closest guard, and none of them were missing. The thing was a mystery, and completely puzzled the heads of officers as well as men.
               It will solve the mystery, however, when the reader is apprised that, shortly after the detachment had left the fort, Wilks suddenly disappeared. Without intimating to Kemie his intention, he had turned aside, and concealed himself in the forest. The storm favoring his design, he had entered the fort, and shot the Indian who had "killed Annie."
               A few days after the death of Annie at the foot of the tall pine, Jane had well-nigh shared the same sad fate. Her strength had become entirely exhausted, and she was unable to proceed farther. The murder of her sister, also, had deeply affected her mind; and, for several days after, she was almost entirely unconscious of anything that took place. She could recollect, however, that several times she had fainted away, and that one of the Indians, in particular, had assisted her in getting along, and seemed very kind to her.
               One day, suddenly recovering her consciousness, she found herself lying at the root of a tree. The Indians were collected around her, engaged in an animated talk—just, she remembered, as they had been at the time her sister was killed. The thought rushed into her mind that they intended killing her also, when, exerting all her strength, she rose to her feet. Her present situation, her past life, her kindred and home, all presented themselves, in a moment, to her mind. She seemed all at once to become her former self.
               
               Just then one of the Indians, the same monster who had killed Annie, approached behind her. She closed her eyes. The expected blow came not. She heard a rush by her side, followed by a loud yell. She opened her eyes, and beheld before her the Indian who had shown her so much kindness. The two forefingers were severed from the right hand, and the blood was streaming on the ground. He had sprung forward, and throwing out his arm, had received on his hand the blow which was aimed at her head! The rest of the Indians stood gazing on in silence, evidently much affected. The chief immediately interposed, and Jane's life was preserved. They looked upon her now as under the protection of the Great Spirit; and from that time forward she became an object of veneration among them.
               On their arrival at the fort, the Indian who had thus saved her life, adopted her as his daughter, and protected her with a father's care. If at any time she offended him, he would merely hold up his right hand. Hence the free use he made of this maimed member, when, in company with her father, she abandoned him to return home.
               But notwithstanding the advantages enjoyed from this adoption, Jane had spent two years in a state of the most wretched captivity. Her trials and sufferings had deeply affected her health, and somewhat impaired her mind. From cheerfulness, she had sunk into sadness and melancholy; from being the picture of health, she had become pale, emaciated and haggard; and, in place of the mirthful song, there was the ominous hectic.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE FATHER'S AND DAUGHTER'S RETURN.
               KEMIE was too overjoyed for some time after leaving the fort to converse with his daughter, or make any inquiries. Hence they walked along for some time in silence—each, perhaps, reflecting on the past, or looking forward into the brightening future.
               "Weal, Jenny," said Kemie, at length, "this is a bonnie day to me; an' sure jist a sight o' yer swate face 'll restore yer gude mother to her rason agi'n."
               "Is mother livin'?" inquired Jane, hurriedly, wiping the tears from her eyes.
               "Yes, swate child," said Kemie, "but she's haen mony troubles, an' they're a greicht burden on her mind the day an' nicht."
               "I fear'd oor carryin' awa'd been mair than mother could stand; an' Annie cre'd aboot her a' the time till the Ingins kilt her."
               "Och, yes, it was a mournin' thing on us a'; but the Lord prasarved to us her swate body, an' that gae'd us some comfort."
               "An' did ye get her body?" inquired Jane, much surprised.
               "Yes; an it's buried in the garden aside the cabin, jist where yerself an' her planted the little tree."
               "I thocht mair aboot Joanny than ony o' ye," said Jane.
               It was some time before Kemie's feelings would allow him to speak. At length, however, he told her of his death, and related some of the circumstances connected with it.
               Jane suddenly stopped, and raising her hands, exclaimed: "Then I hae nae brother," and burst into tears.
               "Yes, my child," said Kemie, "the Lord has greatly afflicted us a'; but afflications do not cum oot o' the ground. This is a world o' sorrow an' wapin'; but we'll a' meet Joanny in a better world, for he was a gude boy, an' loved the wa's o' the Lord weal."
               It is about an hour after dark. A light is burning in the little cabin beside Wilks's. Mrs. Wilks, and three or four of the neighboring women are there. In one corner of the apartment ment there is a woman lying upon a bed; and, gathered around, they are gazing upon her with anxious and sorrowing looks.
               This is Mrs. Kemie. The lamp of her life has almost burnt down. It is only emitting, now and then, a feeble, flickering flame; and these few friends, in saddened silence, are watching for that moment when it shall go out, and burn no more in this world. How near at hand! She is unconscious; her eyes are set, and the cold sweat is on her brow.
               "Och! if her gude mon was ounly at hame," said Mrs. Wilks, as she moistened her lips.
               "It was queer o' the mon lavin' her at ony rate," said one of the neighboring women.
               "Weal," said Mr. Wilks, "he aye thocht that the sight o' Jenny 'd comfort her mind ag'in."
               Just then there was a rap at the door. Mrs. Wilks, walking lightly across the floor, lifted the wooden latch, and opened it—when Mr. Kemie and his daughter stood before her.
               Instantly recognizing him, she lifted up her hands, exclaiming: "The Lord hae marcy on me! It's the gude mon himself."
               Kemie entered the cabin, followed by Jane. In a moment they were at the bedside. He gazed upon the face of his dying wife for two or three minutes in silence; and then, turning round, sat down on a stool, and wept as though his heart would break. Jane, bending over, embraced her mother; and, again and again, kissed her cold motionless lips.
               "Och, mother! mother!" she said, "can't ye spak to me once mair afore ye lave this world? I'm yer own swate child."
               It was an affecting sight. The women all wept. But the dying mother was unconscious of the presence of any one, though her lips had been observed once or twice to move, and a heavenly smile to play over her countenance.
               In an hour she seemed suddenly to revive, and cast her eyes around her in an inquiring way, that greatly surprised all present. That peculiar vacuity which had so long sat on her countenance seemed to have gone; and her looks were more rational.
               After a little she made an effort to raise herself up in the bed, and partially turned herself on her side. She gazed thoughtfully at each one a moment, and then turning herself round again, looked at the loft of the cabin, at her hands, at everything around as if in a wonder.
               Mrs. Wilks, approaching the bedside, inquired if she was better. She gave a slight nod of the head.
               Mr. Kemie then asked her if she knew him. After gazing at him a moment, she distinctly said: "Yes, its Jemmy; an' it's a' weal noo wi' Betty. I hae been in the gude world, and see'd Joanny an' Annie; an' I was tould I must cum an' sae yerself an' Jenny once mair on airth."
               "Here's oor swate child a livin' an' weal," said Mr. Kemie, assisting Jane to the bedside, who, seated on a stool, had been resting her head upon the lap of one of the women, faint and entirely overcome.
               "It's Jenny! I know her weal now," said she, in a distinct, audible voice. "It's a marcy the Lord's a grantin' me this for some o' my troubles, but I canna be wi' ye lang."
               "Saying this, she put her arms round Jane's neck, and embraced her for some time. She then stretched out her hand to Mr. Kemie, and said: "Fare-ye-weal, Jemmy," and immediately sunk back again into a state of unconsciousness. She lingered about an hour, when her spirit, freed from its earthly tabernacle, took its flight to the skies. 
                     
                        "The world recedes, it disappears;
                        Heaven opens on my eyes—my ears
                        With sounds seraphic ring:
                        Lend, lend your wings, I mount, I fly;
                        Oh grave, where is thy victory?
                        Oh death, where is thy sting?"
                     
                   Mrs. Kemie was buried the next day, in the afternoon, by the side of her son. Her funeral was numerously attended by the settlers, old and young. All were anxious to pay this last respect to one who had had a full share of this world's sorrows.
               Kemie and his daughter were about six weeks on their way home. They travelled most of the distance on foot. The road, after a day or so, was tolerably good—being the route taken by most of the expeditions that had gone north. They were, moreover, in little danger of being molested by the Indians, as most of the tribes, through whose country they passed, were friendly to the colonists. The journey, however ever, had been a fatiguing one, and they had passed through many hardships as well as dangers; but in all of which they had been mercifully preserved and sustained.
               Jane was never well after their return. Her trials and exposures had brought on her a pulmonary affection. Nor did she seem ever happy. She seldom went from home, and would sit whole days and nights fretting and crying. Mr. Kemie did all in his power to comfort her, and many of the neighbors did the same. But their efforts were fruitless. She fretted and pined away, till, in a few weeks, she followed her mother to the grave.
               Mr. Kemie survived the death of Jane about eleven months. He continued to reside in the settlement till his death. Most of his time was spent in reading the Bible, and preparing himself for that change which he felt was rapidly drawing near, and which he earnestly longed for. Deprived of all that was dear to him on earth, his constant prayer was for his own speedy deliverance, that he might join his family in heaven. Finally the hour arrived, and he went to rest, thoroughly sanctified by his afflictions, and in the full assurance of that "rest which remaineth for the people of God."
               Thus passed away, one after another, an entire family; and whose trials and sufferings, perhaps, can hardly find a parallel.
               Wilks, in attempting to reach the settlement alone, after making several narrow escapes, was finally captured by a large party of Indians, and retained among them for several months, as their prisoner. He was kept under the strictest watch; and several times he had been compelled to run the gauntlet, and undergo other tortures for the amusement of the chiefs and warriors. They had however, a high respect for him, on account of his strength and courage. At length he succeeded in making his escape, after a desperate conflict with the Indians, in which four of their number were killed, and reached the settlement in safety, a short time before the death of Mr. Kemie.
               He resided in the settlement till the Revolutionary war, when, at the call of his country, he was among the first to take up arms in her defence. He immediately joined the army under Washington, and after distinguishing himself in several battles, and in various ways, he was wounded in the battle at Princeton, and died the next day. 
                     
                        "Lord, how mysterious are thy ways!
                        How blind are we, how mean our praise!
                        Thy steps no mortal eyes explore;
                        'Tis ours to wonder and adore."
                     
                  
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
         
            
            PERRY & ERETY'S CATALOGUE,
            Fourth and Race, Phila.
            A Beautifully Illustrated Edition
            OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
            JUST PUBLISHED BY PERRY & ERETY,
            S. W. corner of Fourth and Race Sts., Philadelphia.
            Price, Cloth, 8vo., $1 50; library style, $1 75.
            This edition is recommended to the public as being the best and handsomest of any edition published in this country; bound in one volume, octavo, printed on large clear type and fine white paper, handsomely illustrated with fine engravings and colored frontispiece, containing a valuable memoir of the author, De Foe, and a sketch of Alexander Selkirk, the Scottish sailor whose strange and surprising adventures gave rise to this beautiful story, which has been read by its thousands and tens of thousands, of every age and clime, since its first appearance in 1719.
            
               AUSTRALIAN CRUSOE: illustrated, $1.
               THE BOY HUNTERS. By Capt. Reid, 75 cents.
               THE BOY'S OWN BOOK: illustrated, 75 cents.
            
         
         
            
            SLOAN'S MODEL ARCHITECT:
            Containing designs for Cottages, Villas, Suburban Residences, &c., accompanied by explanations, specifications, estimates, and elaborate details, prepared expressly for Projectors and Artisans throughout the United States: complete in twenty-four Nos., at 50 cents each, or handsomely bound in two vols., $15.
            
               DOWNING'S ARCHITECTURE OF COUNTRY HOUSES: 320 illustrations: 1 vol. 8vo., $4.
               DOWNING'S LANDSCAPE GARDENING AND RURAL ARCHITECTURE: enlarged edition, cloth, 8vo., $3 50.
               CHARPENTER'S GUIDE: new and improved edition, 1 vol. 4to., $3 50.
               STUART'S DICTIONARY OF ARCHITECTURE: illustrated with over one thousand drawings.
               EVAN'S MILLWRIGHT AND MILLER'S GUIDE: 1 vol.
               APPLETION'S DICTIONARY OF MECHANICES: 400 engravings, 2 vols., $12.
               PRACTICAL METAL WORKER'S ASSISTANT: numerous engravings, $4.
               PRACTICAL MODEL CALCULATOR, for the Engineer, Mechanic, Machinist, &c., $3 50.
            
         
      
   
