
    ----CITATION----
        De Forest, John William, (1826-1906). Overland .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6239 wright2-0710
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
                  J. W. De FOREST, (Author of "Overland," etc.)
               
            
         
         
            
               OVER LAND.
               A NOVEL.
            
            BY J. W. DE FOREST, AUTHOR OF "KATE BEAUMONT," "MISS
               RAVENEL'S CONVERSION," &c.
            
               NEW YORK:
               SHELDON AND COMPANY,
                  
                     677 BROADWAY, AND 214 & 216 MERCER ST.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by SHELDON AND
                  COMPANY, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
               Steretoyped by SMITH & MCDOUGAL, 82 Beekman Street, New
                  York.
            
         
      
      
         
            Overland
            OVERLAND.
            BY J. W. DE FOREST, Author of "Kate Beaumont," etc.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               IN those days; Santa Fé New Mexico, was an undergrown, decrepit, out at-elbows
                  ancient hidalgo of a town, with not a scintillation of prosperity or grandeur
                  about it, except the name of capital.
               It was two hundred and seventy years old; and it had less than five thousand
                  inhabitants. It was the metropolis of a vast extent of country, not destitute of
                  natural wealth; and it consisted of a few narrow, irregular streets, lined by
                  one-story houses built of sun-baked bricks. Owing to the fine climate, it was
                  difficult to die there; but owing to many things not fine, it was almost equally
                  difficult to live.
               Even the fact that Santa Fé had been for a period under the fostering wings of the
                  American eagle did not make it grow much. Westward-ho emigrants halted there to
                  refit and buy cattle and provisions; but always started resolutely on again,
                  westward-hoing across the continent. Nobody seemed to want to stay in Santa Fé,
                  except the aforesaid less than five thousand inhabitants, who were able to endure
                  the place because they had never seen any other, and who had become a part of its
                  gray, dirty, lazy lifelessness and despondency.
               For a wonder, this old atom of a metropolis had lately had an increase of
                  population, which was nearly as great a wonder as Sarah having a son when she was
                  "well stricken in years." A couple of new-comers—not a man nor woman less than a
                  couple—now stood on the flat roof of one of the largest of the sunbaked brick
                  houses. By great good luck, moreover, these two were, I humbly trust, worthy of
                  attention. The one was interesting because she was the handsomest girl in Santa
                  Fé, and would have been considered a handsome girl anywhere; the other was
                  interesting because she was a remarkable woman, and even, as Mr. Jefferson Brick
                  might have phrased it, "one of the most remarkable women in our country, sir." At
                  least so she judged, and judged it too with very considerable confidence, being
                  one of those persons who say, "If I know myself and I think I do."
               The beauty was of a mixed type. She combined the blonde and the brunette fashions
                  of loveliness. You might guess at the first glance that she had in her the blood
                  of both the Teutonic and the Latin races. While her skin was clear and rosy, and her curling hair was of a light and
                  bright chestnut, her long, shadowy eyelashes were almost black, and her eyes were
                  of a deep hazel, nearly allied to blackness. Her form had the height of the usual
                  American girl, and the round plumpness of the usual Spanish girl. Even in her
                  bearing and expression you could discover more or less of this union of different
                  races. There was shyness and frankness; there was mistrust and confidence; there
                  was sentimentality and gayety. In short, Clara Munoz Garcia Van Diemen was a
                  handsome and interesting young lady.
               Now for the remarkable woman. Sturdy and prominent old character, obviously.
                  Forty-seven years old, or thereabouts; lots of curling iron-gray hair twisted
                  about her round forehead; a few wrinkles, and not all of the newest Round face,
                  round and earnest eyes, short, self-confident nose, chin sticking out in search of
                  its own way, mouth trembling with unuttered ideas. Good figure—what Lord Dundreary
                  would call "dem robust," but not so sumptuous as to be merely ornamental;
                  tolerably convenient figure to get about in. Walks up and down, man-fashion, with
                  her hands behind her back—also man-fashion. Such is Mrs. Maria Stanley, the sister
                  of Clara Van Diemen's father, and best known to Clara as Aunt Maria.
               "And so this is Santa Fé?" said Aunt Maria, rolling her spectacles over the little
                  wilted city. "Founded in 1581; two hundred and seventy years old. Well, if this is
                  all that man can do in that time, he had better leave colonization to woman."
               Clara smiled with an innocent air of half wonder and half amusement, such as you
                  may see on the face of a child when it is shown some new and rather awe-striking
                  marvel of the universe, whether a jack-in-a-box or a comet. She had only known
                  Aunt Maria for the last four years, and she had not yet got used to her
                  rough-and-ready mannish ways, nor learned to see any sense in her philosophizings.
                  Looking upon her as a comical character, and supposing that she talked mainly for
                  the fun of the thing, she was disposed to laugh at her doings and sayings, though
                  mostly meant in solemn earnest.
               "But about your affairs, my child," continued Aunt Maria, suddenly gripping a
                  fresh subject after her quick and startling fashion. "I don't understand them. How
                  is it possible? Here is a great fortune gone; gone in a moment; gone
                  incomprehensibly. What does it mean? Some rascality here. Some man at the bottom
                  of this."
               "I presume my relative, Garcia, must be right," commenced Clara.
               "No, he isn't," interrupted Aunt Maria. "He is wrong. Of course he's wrong. I
                  never knew a man yet but what he was wrong."
               "You make me laugh in spite of my troubles," said Clara, laughing, however, Only
                  through her eyes, which had great faculties for sparkling out meanings. "But see
                  here," she added, turning grave again, and putting up her hand to ask attention.
                  "Mr. Garcia tells a straight story, and gives reasons enough. There was the war,"
                  and here she began to count on her fingers. "That destroyed a great deal. I know
                  when my father could scarcely send on money to pay my bills in New York. And then
                  there was the signature for Señor Pedraez. And then there were the Apaches who
                  burnt the hacienda and drove off the cattle. And then he——"
               Her voice faltered and she stopped; she could not say, "He died."
               "My poor, dear child!" sighed Aunt Maria, walking up to the girl and caressing her
                  with a tenderness which was all womanly.
               "That seems enough," continued Clara, when she could speak again. "I suppose that
                  what Garcia and the lawyers tell us is true. I suppose I am not worth a thousand
                  dollars."
               "Will a thousand dollars support you here?"
               "I don't know, I don't think it will."
               "Then if I can't set this thing straight, if I can't make somebody disgorge your
                  property, I must take you back with me."
               "Oh! if you would!" implored Clara, all the tender helplessness of Spanish
                  girlhood appealing from her eyes.
               "Of course I will," said Aunt Maria, with a benevolent energy which was almost
                  terrific.
               "I would try to do something. I don't know. Couldn't I teach Spanish?"
               "You shan't," decided Aunt Maria. "Yes, you shall. You
                  shall be professor of foreign languages in a Female College which I mean to have
                  founded."
               Clara stared with astonishment, and then burst into a hearty fit of laughter, the
                  two finishing the drying of her tears. She was so far from wishing to be a
                  strong-minded person of either gender, that she did not comprehend that her aunt
                  could wish it for her, or could herself seriously claim to be one. The talk about
                  a professorship was in her estimation the wayward, humorous whim of an eccentric
                  who was fond of solemn joking. Mrs. Stanley, meanwhile, could not see why her
                  utterance should not be taken in earnest, and opened her eyes at Clara's
                  merriment.
               We must say a word or two concerning the past of this young lady, Twenty-five
                  years previous a New Yorker named Augustus Van Diemen, the brother of that Maria
                  Jane Van Diemen now known to the world as Mrs. Stanley, had migrated to
                  California, set up in the hide business, and married by stealth the daughter of a
                  wealthy Mexican named Pedro Muñoz. Muñoz got into a Spanish Catholic rage at
                  having a Yankee Protestant son-in-law, disowned and formally disinherited his
                  child, and worried her husband into quitting the country. Van Diemen returned to
                  the United States, but his wife soon became homesick for her native land, and,
                  like a good husband as he was, he went once more to Mexico. This time he settled
                  in Santa Fé, where he accumulated a handsome fortune, lived in the best house in
                  the city, and owned haciendas.
               Clara's mother dying when the girl was fourteen years old, Van Diemen felt free to
                  give her, his only child, an American education, and sent her to New York, where
                  she went through four years of schooling. During this period came the war between
                  the United States and Mexico. Foreign residents were ill-treated; Van Diemen was
                  sometimes a prisoner, sometimes a fugitive; in one way or another his fortune went
                  to pieces. Four months previous to the opening of this story he died in a state
                  little better than insolvency. Clara, returning to Santa Fé under the care of her
                  energetic and affectionate relative, found that the deluge of debt would cover
                  town house and haciendas, leaving her barely a thousand dollars. She was handsome
                  and accomplished, but she was an orphan and poor. The main chance with her seemed
                  to lie in the likelihood that she would find a mother (or a father) in Aunt
                  Maria.
               Yes, there was another sustaining possibility, and of a more poetic nature. There
                  was a young American officer named Thurstane, a second lieutenant acting as
                  quartermaster of the Department, who had met her heretofore in New York, who had
                  seemed delighted to welcome her to Santa Fé, and who now called on her nearly
                  every day. Might it not be that Lieutenant Thurstane would want to make her Mrs.
                  Thurstane, and would have power granted him to induce her to consent to the
                  arrangement? Clara was sufficiently a woman, and sufficiently a Spanish woman especially, to believe
                  in marriage. She did not mean particularly to be Mrs. Thurstane, but she did mean
                  generally to be Mrs. Somebody. And why not Thurstane? Well, that was for him to
                  decide, at least to a considerable extent. In the mean time she did not love him;
                  she only disliked the thought of leaving him.
               While these two women had been talking and thinking, a lazy Indian servant had
                  been lounging up the stairway. Arrived on the roof, he advanced to La Señorita
                  Clara, and handed her a letter. The girl opened it, glanced through it with a
                  flushing face, and cried out delightedly, "It is from my grandfather. How
                  wonderful! O holy Maria, thanks! His heart has been softened. He invites me to
                  come and live with him in San Francisco. O Madre de
                     Dios!"
               Although Clara spoke English perfectly, and although she was in faith quite as
                  much of a Protestant as a Catholic, yet in her moments of strong excitement she
                  sometimes fell back into the language and ideas of her childhood.
               "Child, what are you jabbering about?" asked Aunt Maria.
               "There it is. See! Pedro Muñoz! It is his own signature. I have seen letters of
                  his. Pedro Muñoz! Read it. Oh! you don't read Spanish."
               Then she translated the letter aloud. Aunt Maria listened with a firm and almost
                  stern aspect, like one who sees some justice done, but not enough.
               "He doesn't beg your pardon," she said at the close of the reading.
               Clara, supposing that she was expected to laugh, and not seeing the point of the
                  joke, stared in amazement.
               "But probably he is in a meeker mood now," continued Aunt Maria. "By this time it
                  is to be hoped that he sees his past conduct in a proper light. The letter was
                  written three months ago."
               "Three months ago," repeated Clara. "Yes, it has taken all that time to come. How
                  long will it take me to go there? How shall I go?"
               "We will see," said Aunt Maria, with the air of one who holds the fates in her
                  hand, and doesn't mean to open it till she gets ready. She was by no means
                  satisfied as yet that this grandfather Muñoz was a proper person to be intrusted
                  with the destinies of a young lady. In refusing to let his daughter select her own
                  husband, he had shown a very squinting and incomplete perception of the rights of
                  woman.
               "Old reprobate!" thought Aunt Maria. "Probably he has got gouty with his vices,
                  and wants to be nursed. I fancy I see him getting Clara without going on his sore
                  marrow-bones and begging pardon of gods and women."
               "Of course I must go," continued Clara, unsuspicious of her aunt's reflections.
                  "At all events he will support me. Besides, he is now the head of my family."
               "Head of the family!" frowned Aunt Maria. "Because he is a man? So much the more
                  reason for his being the tail of it. My dear, you are your own head."
               "Ah—well. What is the use of all that!" asked Clara, smiling away
                  those views. "I have no money, and he has."
               "Well, we will see," persisted Aunt Maria. "I just told you so. We will see."
               The two women had scarcely left the roof of the house and got themselves down to
                  the large, breezy, sparsely furnished parlor, ere the lazy, dawdling Indian
                  servant announced Lieutenant Thurstane.
               Lieutenant Ralph Thurstane was a tall, full-chested, finely-limbed gladiator of
                  perhaps four and twenty. Broad forehead; nose straight and high enough; lower part
                  of the face oval; on the whole a good physiognomy. Cheek bones rather strongly
                  marked; a hint of Scandinavian ancestry supported by his name. Thurstane is
                  evidently Thor's stone or altar; forefathers priests of the god of thunder. His
                  complexion was so reddened and darkened by sunburn that his untanned forehead
                  looked unnaturally white and delicate. His yellow, one might almost call it golden
                  hair, was wavy enough to be handsome. Eyes quite remarkable; blue, but of a very
                  dark blue, like the coloring which is sometimes given to steel; so dark indeed
                  that one's first impression was that they were black. Their natural expression
                  seemed to be gentle, pathetic, and almost imploring; but authority,
                  responsibility, hardship, and danger had given them an ability to be stern. In his
                  whole face, young as he was, there was already the look of the veteran, that calm
                  reminiscence of trials endured, that preparedness for trials to come. In fine,
                  taking figure, physiognomy, and demeanor together, he was attractive.
               He saluted the ladies as if they were his superior officers. It was a kindly
                  address, but ceremonious; it was almost humble, and yet it was
                  self-respectful.
               "I have some great news," he presently said, in the full masculine tone of one who
                  has done much drilling. "That is, it is great to me. I change station."
               "How is that?" asked Clara eagerly. She was not troubled at the thought of losing
                  a beau; we must not be so hard upon her as to make that supposition; but here was
                  a trustworthy friend going away just when she wanted counsel and perhaps aid.
               "I have been promoted first lieutenant of Company I, Fifth Regiment, and I must
                  join my company."
               "Promoted! I am glad," said Clara.
               "You ought to be pleased," put in Aunt Maria, staring at the grave face of the
                  young man with no approving expression. "I thought men were always pleased with
                  such things."
               "So I am," returned Thurstane. "Of course I am pleased with the step. But I must
                  leave Santa Fé. And I have found Santa Fé very pleasant."
               There was so much meaning obvious in these last words that Clara's face colored
                  like a sunset.
               "I thought soldiers never indulged in such feelings," continued the unmollified
                  Aunt Maria.
               "Soldiers are but men," observed Thurstane, flushing through his sunburn.
               "And men are weak creatures."
               Thurstane grew still redder. This old lady (old in his young eyes) was always at
                  him about his manship, as if it were a crime and disgrace. He wanted to give her
                  one, but out of respect for Clara he did not, and merely moved uneasily in his
                  seat, as men are apt to do when they are set down hard.
               "How soon must you go? Where?" demanded Clara.
               "As soon as I can close my accounts here and turn over my stores to my successor.
                  Company I is at Fort Yuma on the Colorado. It is the first post in
                  California."
               "California!" And Clara could not help brightening up in cheeks and eyes with fine
                  tints and flashes. "Why, I am going to California."
               "We will see," said Aunt Maria, still holding the fates in her fist.
               Then came the story of Grandfather Muñoz's letter, with a hint or two concerning
                  the decay of the Van Diemen fortune, for Clara was not worldly wise enough to hide
                  her poverty.
               Thurstane's face turned as red with pleasure as if it had been dipped in the sun. If this young lady was going to
                  California, he might perhaps be her knight-errant across the desert, guard her
                  from privations and hardships, and crown himself with her smiles. If she was poor,
                  he might—well, he would not speculate upon that; it was too dizzying.
               We must say a word as to his history in order to show why he was so shy and
                  sensitive. He had been through West Point, confined himself while there closely to
                  his studies, gone very soon into active service, and so seen little society. The
                  discipline of the Academy and three years in the regular army had ground into him
                  the soldier's respect for superiors. He revered his field officers; he received a
                  communication from the War Department as a sort of superhuman revelation; he would
                  have blown himself sky-high at the command of General Scott. This habit of
                  subordination, coupled with a natural fund of reverence, led him to feel that many
                  persons were better than himself, and to be humble in their presence. All women
                  were his superior officers, and the highest in rank was Clara Van Diemen.
               Well, hurrah! he was to march under her to California! and the thought made him
                  half wild. He would protect her; he would kill all the Indians in the desert for
                  her sake; he would feed her on his own blood, if necessary.
               As he considered these proper and feasible projects, the audacious thought which
                  he had just tried to expel from his mind forced its way back into it. If the Van
                  Diemen estate were insolvent, if this semi-divine Clara were as poor as himself,
                  there was a call on him to double his devotion to her, and there was a hope that
                  his worship might some day be rewarded.
               How he would slave and serve for her; how he would earn promotion for her sake;
                  how he would fight her battle in life! But would she let him do it? Ah, it seemed
                  too much to hope. Poor though she was, she was still a heaven or so above him; she
                  was so beautiful and had so many perfections!
               Oh, the purity, the self-abnegation, the humility of love! It makes a man scarcely
                  lower than the angels, and quite superior to not a few reverenced saints.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               "I MUST say," observed Thurstane—"I beg your pardon for advising—but I think you
                  had better accept your grandfather's invitation."
               He said it with a pang at his heart, for if this adorable girl went to her
                  grandfather, the old fellow would be sure to love her and leave her his property,
                  in which case there would be no chance for a proud and poor lieutenant. He gave
                  his advice under a grim sense that it was his duty to give it, because the
                  following of it would be best for Miss Van Diemen.
               "So I think," nodded Clara, fortified by this opinion to resist Aunt Maria, and
                  the more fortified because it was the opinion of a man.
               After a certain amount of discussion the elder lady was persuaded to loosen her
                  mighty grip and give the destinies a little liberty.
               "Well, it may be best," she said, pursing her mouth as if she tasted
                  the bitter of some half-suspected and disagreeable future. "I don't know. I won't
                  undertake positively to decide. But, if you do go," and here she became authentic
                  and despotic—"if you do go, I shall go with you and see you safe there."
               "Oh! will you?" exclaimed Clara, all Spanish and all emotion in an
                  instant. "How sweet and good and beautiful of you! You are my guardian angel. Do
                  you know? I thought you would offer to go. I said to myself, She came on to Santa
                  Fé for my sake, and she will go to California. But oh, it is too much for me to
                  ask. How shall I ever pay you?"
               "I will pay myself," returned Aunt Maria. "I have plans for California."
               It was as if she had said, "Go to, we will make California in our own image."
               The young lady was satisfied. Her strong-minded relative was a mighty mystery to
                  her, just as men were mighty mysteries. Whatever she or they said could be done
                  and should be done, why of course it would be done, and that shortly.
               By the time that Aunt Maria had announced her decision, another visitor was on the
                  point of entrance. Carlos Maria Muñoz Garcia de Coronado was a nephew of Manuel
                  Garcia, who was a cousin of Clara's grandfather; only, as Garcia was merely his
                  uncle by marriage, Coronado and Clara were not related by blood, though calling
                  each other cousin. He was a man of medium stature, slender in build, agile and
                  graceful, in movement, complexion very dark, features high and aristocratic, short
                  black hair and small black moustache, eyes black also, but veiled and dusky. He
                  was about twenty-eight, but he seemed at least four years older, partly because of
                  a deep wrinkle which slashed down each cheek, and partly because he was so
                  perfectly self-possessed and elaborately courteous. His intellect was apparently
                  as alert and adroit as his physical action. A few words from Clara enabled him to
                  seize the situation.
               "Go at once," he decided without a moment's hesitation. "My dear cousin, it will
                  be the happy turning point of your fortunes. I fancy you already inheriting the
                  hoards, city lots, haciendas, mines, and cattle of our excellent relative
                  Muñoz—long may he live to enjoy them! Certainly. Don't whisper an objection. Muñoz
                  owes you that reparation. His conduct has been—we will not describe it—we will
                  hope that he means to make amends for it. Unquestionably he will. My dear cousin,
                  nothing can resist you. You will enchant your grandfather. It will all end, like
                  the tales of the Arabian Nights, in your living in a palace. How delightful to
                  think of this long family quarrel at last coming to a close! But how do you
                  go?"
               "If Miss Van Diemen goes overland, I can do something toward protecting her and
                  making her comfortable," suggested Thurstane. "I am ordered to Fort Yuma."
               Coronado glanced at the young officer, noted the guilty blush which peeped out of
                  his tanned cheek, and came to a decision on the instant.
               "Overland!" he exclaimed, lifting both his hands. "Take her overland! My God! my
                  God!"
               Thurstane reddened at the insinuation that he had given bad advice to Miss Van
                  Diemen; but though he wanted to fight the Mexican, he controlled himself, and did
                  not even argue, Like all sensitive and at the same time self-respectful persons,
                  he was exceedingly considerate of the feelings of others, and was a very lamb in
                  conversation.
               "It is a desert," continued Coronado in a kind of scream of horror. "It is a
                  waterless desert, without a blade of grass, and haunted from end to end by
                  Apaches. My little cousin would die of thirst and hunger. She would be hunted and
                  scalped. O my God! overland!"
               "Emigrant parties are going all the while," ventured Thurstane, very angry at such
                  extravagant opposition, but merely looking a little stiff.
               "Certainly. You are right, Lieutenant," bowed Coronado. "They do go. But how many
                  perish on the way? They march between the unburied and withered corpses of their
                  predecessors. And what a journey for a woman—for a lady accustomed to, luxury—for
                  my little cousin! I beg your pardon, my dear Lieutenant Thurstane, for disagreeing
                  with you. My advice is—the isthmus."
               
               "I have, of course, nothing to say," admitted the officer, returning Coronado's
                  bow. "The family must decide."
               "Certainly, the isthmus, the steamers," went on the fluent Mexican. "You sail to
                  Panama. You have an easy and safe land trip of a few days. Then steamers again.
                  Poff! you are there. By all means, the isthmus."
               We must allot a few more words of description to this Don Carlos Coronado. Let no
                  one expect a stage Spaniard, with the air of a matador or a guerrillero, who wears
                  only picturesque, and outlandish costumes, and speaks only magniloquent Castilian.
                  Coronado was dressed, on this spring morning, precisely as American dandies then
                  dressed for summer promenades on Broadway. His hat was a fine panama with a broad
                  black ribbon; his frock-coat was of thin cloth, plain, dark, and altogether
                  civilized; his light trousers were cut gaiter-fashion, and strapped under the
                  instep; his small boots were patent-leather, and of the ordinary type. There was
                  nothing poetic about his attire except a reasonably wide Byron collar and a rather
                  dashing crimson neck-tie, well suited to his dark complexion.
               His manner was sometimes excitable, as we have seen above; but usually he was like
                  what gentlemen with us desire to be. Perhaps he bowed lower and smiled oftener and
                  gestured more gracefully than Americans are apt to do. But there was in general
                  nothing Oriental about him, no assumption of barbaric pompousness, no extravagance
                  of bearing. His prevailing deportment was calm, grave, and deliciously courteous.
                  If you had met him, no matter how or where, you would probably have been pleased
                  with him. He would have made conversation for you, and put you at ease in a
                  moment; you would have believed that he liked you, and you would therefore have
                  been disposed to like him. In short, he was agreeable to most people, and to some
                  people fascinating.
               And then his English! It was wonderful to hear him talk it. No American could say
                  that he spoke better English than Coronado, and no American surely ever spoke it
                  so fluently. It rolled off his lips in a torrent, undefiled by a mispronunciation
                  or a foreign idiom. And yet he had begun to learn the language after reaching the
                  age of manhood, and had acquired it mainly during three years of exile and
                  teaching of Spanish in the United States. His linguistic cleverness was a fair
                  specimen of his general quickness of intellect.
               Mrs. Stanley had liked him at first sight—that is, liked him for a man. He knew
                  it; he had seen that she was a person worth conciliating; he had addressed himself
                  to her, let off his bows at her, made her the centre of conversation. In ten
                  minutes from the entrance of Coronado Mrs. Stanley was of opinion that Clara ought
                  to go to California by way of the isthmus, although she had previously taken the
                  overland route for granted. In another ten minutes the matter was settled: the
                  ladies were to go by way of New Orleans, Panama, and the Pacific.
               Shortly afterward, Coronado and Thurstane took their leave; the Mexican affable,
                  sociable, smiling, smoking; the American civil, but taciturn and grave.
               "Aha! I have disappointed the young gentleman," thought Coronado as they parted,
                  the one going to his quartermaster's office and the other to Garcia's house.
               Coronado, although he had spent great part of his life in courting women, was a
                  bachelor. He had been engaged once in New Mexico and two or three times in New
                  York, but had always, as he could tell you with a smile, been disappointed. He now
                  lived with his uncle, that Señor Manuel Garcia whom Clara has mentioned, a trader
                  with California, an owner of vast estates and much cattle, and reputed to be one
                  of the richest men in New Mexico. The two often quarrelled, and the elder had once
                  turned the younger out of doors, so lively were their dispositions. But as Garcia
                  had lost one by one all his children, he had at last taken his nephew into
                  permanent favor, and would, it was said, leave him his property.
               The house, a hollow square built of adobe bricks
                  in one story, covered a vast deal of ground, had spacious rooms and a court big
                  enough to bivouac a regiment. It was, in fact, not only a dwelling, but a magazine
                  where Garcia stored his merchandise, and a caravansary where he parked his wagons.
                  As Coronado lounged into the main doorway he was run against by a short, pursy old
                  gentleman who was rushing out.
               "Ah! there you are!" exclaimed the old gentleman, in Spanish. "O you pig! you dog!
                  you never are here. O Madre de Dios! how I have needed you! There is no time to
                  lose. Enter at once."
               A dyspeptic, worn with work and anxieties, his nervous system shattered, Garcia
                  was subject to fits of petulance which were ludicrous. In these rages he called
                  everybody who would bear it pigs, dogs, and other more unsavory nicknames.
                  Coronado bore it because thus he got his living, and got it without much
                  labor.
               "I want you," gasped Garcia, seizing the young man by the arm and dragging him
                  into a private room. "I want to speak to you in confidence—in confidence, mind
                  you, in confidence—about Muñoz."
               "I have heard of it," said Coronado, as the old man stopped to catch his
                  breath.
               "Heard of it!" exclaimed Garcia, in such consternation that he turned yellow,
                  which was his way of turning pale. "Has the news got here? O Madre de Dios!"
               "Yes, I was at our little cousin's this evening. It is an ugly affair."
               "And she knows it?" groaned the old man. "O Madre de Dios!"
               "She told me of it. She is going there. I did the best I could, She was about to
                  go overland, in charge of the American, Thurstane. I broke that up. I persuaded
                  her to go by the isthmus."
               "It is of little use," said Garcia, his eyes filmy with despair, as if he were
                  dying. "She will, get there. The property will be hers."
               "Not necessarily. He has simply invited her to live with him. She may not
                  suit."
               "How?" demanded Garcia, open-eyed and open-mouthed with anxiety.
               "He has simply invited her to live with him," repeated Coronado. "I saw the
                  letter."
               "What! you don't know, then?"
               "Know what?"
               "Muñoz is dead."
               Coronado threw out, first a stare of surprise, and then a shout of laughter.
               "And here they have just got a letter from him," he said presently; "and I have
                  been persuading her to go to him by the isthmus!"
               "May the journey take her to him!" muttered Garcia. "How old was this letter?"
               "Nearly three months. It came by sea, first to New York, and then here."
               "My news is a month later. It came overland by special messenger. Listen to me,
                  Carlos. This affair is worse than you know. Do you know what Muñoz has done? Oh, the pig! the dog! the
                  villainous pig! He has left everything to his granddaughter."
               Coronado, dumb with astonishment and dismay, mechanically slapped his boat with
                  his cane and stared at Garcia.
               "I am ruined," cried the old man. "The pig of hell has ruined me. He has left me,
                  his cousin, his only male relative, to ruin. Not a doubloon to save me.'
               "Is there no chance?" asked Coronado, after a long silence.
               "None! Oh—yes—one. A little one, a miserable little one. If she dies I without
                  issue and without a will, I am heir. And you, Carlos" (changing here to a
                  wheedling tone), "you are mine."
               The look which accompanied these last words was a terrible mingling of cunning,
                  cruelty, hope, and despair.
               Coronado glanced at Garcia with a shocking comprehension, and immediately dropped
                  his dusky eyes upon the floor.
               "You know I have made my will," resumed the old man, "and left you
                  everything."
               "Which is nothing," returned Coronado, aware that his uncle was insolvent in
                  reality, and that his estate when settled would not show the residuum of a
                  dollar.
               "If the fortune of Muñoz comes to me, I shall be very rich."
               "When you get it."
               "Listen to me, Carlos. Is there no way of getting it?"
               As the two men stared at each other they were horrible. The uncle was always
                  horrible; he was one of the very ugliest of Spaniards; he was a brutal caricature
                  of the national type. He had a low forehead, round face, bulbous nose, shaking fat
                  cheeks, insignificant chin, and only one eye, a black and sleepy orb, which seemed
                  to crawl like a snake. His exceedingly dark skin was made darker by a singular
                  bluish tinge which resulted from heavy doses of nitrate of silver, taken as a
                  remedy for epilepsy. His face was, moreover, mottled with dusky spots, so that he
                  reminded the spectator of a frog or a toad. Just now he looked nothing less than
                  poisonous; the hungriest of cannibals would not have dared eat him.
               "I am ruined," he went on groaning. "The war, the Yankees, the Apaches, the
                  devil—I am completely ruined. In another year I shall be sold out. Then, my dear
                  Carlos, you will have no home."
               "Sangre de Dios!" growled Coronado. "Do you want
                  to drive me to the devil?
               "O God! to force an old man to such an extremity!" continued Garcia. "It is more
                  than an old man is fitted to strive with. An old man—an old, sick, worn-out
                  man!"
               "You are sure about the will?" demanded the nephew.
               "I have a copy of it," said Garcia, eagerly. "Here it is. Read it. O Madre de
                  Dios! there is no doubt about it. I can trust my lawyer. It all goes to her. It
                  only comes to me if she dies childless and intestate."
               "This is a horrible dilemma to force us into," observed Coronado, after he had
                  read the paper.
               "So it is," assented Garcia, looking at him with indescribable anxiety. "So it is;
                  so it is. What is to be done?"
               "Suppose I should marry her?"
               The old man's countenance fell; he wanted to call his nephew a pig, a dog and
                  everything else that is villainous; but he restrained himself and merely
                  whimpered, "It would be better than nothing. You could help me."
               "There is little chance of it," said Coronado, seeing that the proposition was not
                  approved. "She likes the American lieutenant much, and does not like me at
                  all."
               "Then——" began Garcia, and stopped there, trembling all over.
               "Then what?"
               The venomous old toad made a supreme effort and whispered, "Suppose she should
                  die?"
               Coronado wheeled about, walked two or three times up and down the room, returned
                  to where Garcia sat quivering, and murmured, "It must be done quickly."
               "Yes, yes," gasped the old man. "She must—it must be childless and intestate."
               "She must go off in some natural way," continued the nephew.
               The uncle looked up with a vague hope in his one dusky and filmy eye.
               "Perhaps the isthmus will do it for her."
               Again the old man turned to an image of despair, as he mumbled, "O Madre de Dios!
                  no, no. The isthmus is nothing."
               "Is the overland route more dangerous?" asked Coronado.
               "It might be made more dangerous. One gets lost in the desert. There are
                  Apaches."
               "It is a horrible business," growled Coronado, shaking his head and biting his
                  lips.
               "Oh, horrible, horrible!" groaned Garcia. "Muñoz was a pig, and a dog, and a toad,
                  and a snake."
               "You old coward! can't you speak out?" hissed Coronado, losing his patience. "Do
                  you want me both to devise and execute, while you take the purses? Tell me at once
                  what your plan is."
               "The overland route," whispered Garcia, shaking from head to foot. "You go with
                  her. I pay—I pay everything. You shall have men, horses, mules, wagons, all you
                  want."
               "I shall want money, too. I shall need, perhaps, two thousand dollars.
                  Apaches."
               "Yes, yes," assented Garcia. "The Apaches make an attack. You shall have money, I
                  can raise it; I will."
               "How soon will you have a train ready?"
               "Immediately. Any day you want. You must start at once. She must not know of the
                  will. She might remain here, and let the estate be settled for her, and draw on
                  it. She might go back to New York. Anybody would lend her money."
               "Yes, events hurry us," muttered Coronado. "Well, get your cursed train ready. I
                  will induce her to take it. I must unsay now all that I said in favor of the
                  isthmus."
               "Do be judicious," implored Garcia. "With judgment, with judgment. Lost on the
                  plains. Stolen by Apaches. No killing. No scandals. O my God, how I hate scandals
                  and uproars! I am an old man, Carlos. With judgment, with judgment."
               "I comprehend," responded Coronado, adding a long string of Spanish curses, most
                  of them meant for his uncle.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               THAT very day Coronado made a second call on Clara and her Aunt Maria, to retract,
                  contradict, and disprove all that he had said in favor of the isthmus and against
                  the overland route.
               Although his visit was timed early in the evening, he found Lieutenant Thurstane
                  already with the ladies. Instead of scowling at him, or crouching in conscious
                  guilt before him, he made a cordial rush for his hand, smiled sweetly in his face,
                  and offered him incense of gratitude.
               "My dear Lieutenant, you are perfectly right," he said, in his fluent English.
                  "The journey by the isthmus is not to be thought of. I have just seen a friend who
                  has made it. Poisonous serpents in myriads. The most deadly climate in the world.
                  Nearly everybody had the vomito; one-fifth died
                  of it. You eat a little fruit; down you go on your back—dead in four hours. Then
                  there are constant fights between the emigrants and the sullen, ferocious Indians
                  of the isthmus. My poor friend never slept with his revolver out of his hand. I
                  said to him, "My dear fellow, it is cruel to rejoice in your misfortunes, but I am
                  heartily glad that I have heard of them. You have saved the life of the most
                  remarkable woman that I ever knew, and of a cousin of mine who is the star of her
                  sex."
               Here Coronado made one bow to Mrs. Stanley and another to Clara, at the same time
                  kissing his sallow hand enthusiastically to all creation. Aunt Maria tried to look
                  stern at the compliment, but eventually thawed into a smile over it. Clara
                  acknowledged it with a little wave of the hand, as if, coming from Corona-do, it
                  meant nothing more than good-morning, which indeed was just about his measure of
                  it.
               "Moreover," continued the Mexican, "overland route? Why, it is overland route both
                  ways. If you go by the isthmus, you must traverse all Texas and Louisiana, at the
                  very least. You might as well go at once to San Diego. In short, the route by the
                  isthmus is not to be thought of."
               "And what of the overland route?" asked Mrs. Stanley.
               "The overland route is the other," laughed Coronado.
               "Yes, I know. We must take it, I suppose. But what is the last news about it? You
                  spoke this morning of Indians, I believe. Not that I suppose they are very
                  formidable."
               "The overland route does not lead directly through paradise, my dear Mrs.
                  Stanley," admitted Coronado with insinuating candor. "But it is not as bad as has
                  been represented. I have never tried it. I must rely upon the report of others.
                  Well, on learning that the isthmus would not do for you, I rushed off immediately
                  to inquire about the overland. I questioned Garcia's teamsters. I catechized some
                  newly-arrived travellers. I pumped dry every source of information. The result is
                  that the overland route will do. No suffering; absolutely none; not a bit. And no
                  danger worth mentioning. The Apaches are under a cloud. Our American conquerors
                  and fellow-citizens" (here he gently patted Thurstane on the shoulder-strap), "our
                  Romans of the nineteenth century, they tranquillize the Apaches. A child might
                  walk from here to Fort Yuma without risking its little scalp."
               All this was said in the most light-hearted and airy manner conceivable. Coronado
                  waved and floated on zephyrs of fancy and fluency. A butterfly or a humming-bird
                  could not have talked more cheerily about flying over a parterre, of flowers than
                  he about traversing the North American desert. And, with all this frivolous,
                  imponderable grace, what an accent of verity he had! He spoke of the teamsters as
                  if he had actually conversed with them, and of the overland route as if he had
                  been studiously gathering information concerning it.
               "I believe that what you say about the Apaches is true," observed Thurstane, a bit
                  awkwardly.
               Coronado smiled, tossed him a little bow, and murmured in the most cordial, genial
                  way, "And the rest?"
               "I beg pardon," said the Lieutenant, reddening. "I didn't mean to cast doubt upon
                  any of your statements, sir."
               Thurstane had the army tone; he meant to be punctiliously polite; perhaps he was a
                  little stiff in his politeness. But he was young, had had small practice in
                  society, was somewhat hampered by modesty, and so sometimes made a blunder. Such
                  things annoyed him excessively; a breach of etiquette seemed something like a
                  breach of orders; hadn't meant to charge Coronado with drawing the long bow;
                  couldn't help coloring about it. Didn't think much of Coronado, but stood somewhat
                  in awe of him, as being four years older in time and a dozen years older in the
                  ways of the world.
               "I only meant to say," he continued, "that I have information concerning the
                  Apaches which coincides with yours, sir. They are quiet, at least for the present.
                  Indeed, I understand that Red Sleeve, or Manga Colorada, as you call him, is
                  coming in with his band to make a treaty."
               "Admirable!" cried Coronado. "Why not hire him to guarantee our safety? Set a
                  thief to catch a thief. Why does not your Government do that sort of thing? Let
                  the Apaches protect the emigrants, and the United States pay the Apaches. They
                  would be the cheapest military force possible. That is the way the Turks manage
                  the desert Arabs."
               "Mr. Coronado, you ought to be Governor of New Mexico," said Aunt Maria, stricken
                  with admiration at this project.
               Thurstane looked at the two as if he considered them a couple of fools, each
                  bigger than the other. Coronado advanced to Mrs. Stanley, took her hand, bowed
                  over it, and murmured, "Let me have your influence at Washington, my dear Madame."
                  The remarkable woman squirmed a little, fearing lest he should kiss her fingers,
                  but nevertheless gave him a gracious smile.
               "It strikes me, however," she said, "that the isthmus route is better. We know by
                  experience that the journey from here to Bent's Fort is safe and easy. From there
                  down the Arkansas and Missouri to St. Louis it is mostly water carriage; and from
                  St. Louis you can sail anywhere."
               Coronado was alarmed, He must put a stopper on this project. He called up all his
                  resources.
               "My dear Mrs. Stanley, allow me. Remember that emigrants move westward, and not
                  eastward. Coming from Bent's Fort you had protection and company; but going
                  towards it would be different. And then think what you would lose. The great
                  American desert, as it is absurdly styled, is one of the most interesting regions
                  on earth. Mrs. Stanley, did you ever hear of the Casas Grandes, the Casas de
                  Montezuma, the ruined cities of New Mexico? In this so-called desert there was
                  once an immense population. There was a civilization which rose, flourished,
                  decayed, and disappeared without a historian. Nothing remains of it but the walls
                  of its fortresses and palaces. Those you will see. They are wonderful. They are
                  worth ten times the labor and danger which we shall encounter. Buildings eight
                  hundred feet long by two hundred and fifty feet deep, Mrs. Stanley. The
                  resting-places and wayside strongholds of the Aztecs on their route from the frozen North to found the
                  Empire of the Montezumas! This whole region is strewn, and cumbered, and glorified
                  with ruins. If we should go by the way of the San Juan——"
               "The San Juan!" protested Thurstane. "Nobody goes by the way of the San Juan."
               Coronado stopped, bowed, smiled, waited to see if Thurstane had finished, and then
                  proceeded.
               "Along the San Juan every hilltop is crowned with these monuments of antiquity. It
                  is like the castled Rhine. Ruins looking in the faces of ruins. It is a tragedy in
                  stone. It is like Niobe and her daughters. Moreover, if we take this route we
                  shall pass the Moquis. The independent Moquis are a fragment of the ancient ruling
                  race of New Mexico. They live in stone-built cities on lofty eminences. They weave
                  blankets of exquisite patterns and colors, and produce a species of pottery which
                  almost deserves the name of porcelain."
               "Really, you ought to write all this," exclaimed Aunt Maria, her imagination fired
                  to a white heat.
               "I ought," said Coronado, impressively. "I owe it to these people to celebrate
                  them in history. I owe them that much because of the name I bear. Did you ever
                  hear of Coronado, the conqueror of New Mexico, the stormer of the seven cities of
                  Cibola? It was he who gave the final shock to this antique civilization. He was
                  the Cortes of this portion of the continent. I bear his name, and his blood runs
                  in my veins."
               He held down his head as if he were painfully oppressed by the sense of his crimes
                  and responsibilities as a descendant of the waster of aboriginal New Mexico. Mrs.
                  Stanley, delighted with his emotion, slily grasped and pressed his hand.
               "Oh, man! man!" she groaned. "What evils has that creature man wrought in this
                  beautiful world! Ah, Mr. Coronado, it would have been a very different planet had
                  woman had her rightful share in the management of its affairs."
               "Undoubtedly," sighed Coronado. He had already obtained an insight into this
                  remarkable person's views on the woman question, the superiority of her own sex,
                  the stolidity and infamy of the other. It was worth his while to humor her on this
                  point, for the sake of gaining an influence over her, and so over Clara. Cheered
                  by the success of his history, he now launched into pure poetry.
               "Woman has done something," he said. "There is every reason to believe that the
                  cities of the San Juan were ruled by queens, and that some of them were inhabited
                  by a race of Amazons."
               "Is it possible?" exclaimed Aunt Maria, flushing and rustling with interest.
               "It is the opinion of the best antiquarians. It is my opinion. Nothing else can
                  account for the exquisite earthenware which is found there. Women, you are aware,
                  far surpass men in the arts of beauty. Moreover, the inscriptions on hieroglyphic
                  rocks in these abandoned cities evidently refer to Amazons. There you see them
                  doing the work of men—carrying on war, ruling conquered regions, founding cities.
                  It is a picture of a golden age, Mrs. Stanley."
               Aunt Maria meant to go by way of the San Juan, if she had to scalp Apaches herself
                  in doing it.
               "Lieutenant Thurstane, what do you say?" she asked, turning her sparkling eyes
                  upon the officer.
               "I must confess that I never heard of all these things," replied Thurstane, with
                  an air which added, "And I don't believe in most of them."
               "As for the San Juan route," he continued, "it is two hundred miles at least out
                  of our way. The country is a desert and almost unexplored. I don't fancy the
                  plan—I beg your pardon, Mr. Coronado—but I don't fancy it at all."
               Aunt Maria despised him and almost hated him for his stupid, practical, unpoetic
                  common sense.
               "I must say, that I quite fancy the San Juan route," she responded, with proper
                  firmness.
               "I venture to agree with you," said Coronado, as meekly as if her fancy were not
                  of his own making. "Only a hundred miles off the straight line (begging your
                  pardon, my clear Lieutenant), and through a country which is naturally
                  fertile—witness the immense population which it once supported. As for its being
                  unexplored, I have explored it myself; and I shall go with you."
               "Shall you!" cried Aunt Maria, as if that made all safe and delightful.
               "Yes. My excellent Uncle Garcia (good, kind-hearted old man) takes the strongest
                  interest in this affair. He is resolved that his charming little relative here, La
                  Señorita Clara, shall cross the continent in safety and comfort. He offers a
                  special wagon train for the purpose, and insists that I shall accompany it. Of
                  course I am only too delighted to obey him."
               "Garcia is very good, and so are you, Coronado," said Clara, very thankful and
                  profoundly astonished. "How can I ever repay you both? I shall always be your
                  debtor."
               "My dear cousin!" protested Coronado, bowing and smiling. "Well, it is settled. We
                  will start as soon as may be. The train will be ready in a day or two."
               "I have no money," stammered Clara. "The estate is not settled."
               "Our good old Garcia has thought of everything. He will advance you what you want,
                  and take your draft on the executors."
               "Your uncle is one of nature's noblemen," affirmed Aunt Maria. "I must call on him
                  and thank him for his goodness and generosity."
               "Oh, never!" said Coronado. "He only waits your permission to visit you and pay
                  you his humble respects. Absence has prevented him from attending to that
                  delightful duty heretofore. He has but just returned from Albuquerque."
               "Tell him I shall be glad to see him," smiled Aunt Maria. "But what does he say of
                  the San Juan route?"
               "He advises it. He has been in the overland trade for thirty years. He is tenderly
                  interested in his relative Clara; and he advises her to go by way of the San
                  Juan."
               "Then so it shall be," declared Aunt Maria.
               "And how do you go, Lieutenant?" asked Coronado, turning to Thurstane.
               "I had thought of travelling with you," was the answer, delivered with a grave and
                  troubled air, as if now he must give up his project.
               Coronado was delighted. He had urged the northern and circuitous route mainly to
                  get rid of the officer, taking it for granted that the latter must join his new
                  command as soon as possible. He did not want him courting Clara all across the
                  continent; and he did not want him saving her from being lost, if it should become
                  necessary to lose her.
               "I earnestly hope that we shall not be deprived of your company," he said.
               Thurstane, in profound thought, simply bowed his acknowledgments. A few minutes
                  later, as he rose to return to his quarters, he said, with an air of solemn
                  resolution, "If I can possibly go with you, I will."
               All the next day and evening Coronado was in and out of the Van Diemen house. Had there been a mail for the
                  ladies, he would have brought it to them; had it contained a letter from
                  California, he would have abstracted and burnt it. He helped them pack for the
                  journey; he made an inventory of the furniture and found storeroom for it; he was
                  a valet and a spy in one. Meantime Garcia hurried up his train, and hired suitable
                  muleteers for the animals and suitable assassins for the travellers. Thurstane was
                  also busy, working all day and half of the night over his government accounts, so
                  that he might if possible get off with Clara.
               Coronado thought of making interest with the post-commandant to have Thurstane
                  kept a few days in Santa Fé. But the post-commandant was a grim and taciturn old
                  major, who looked him through and through with a pair of icy gray eyes, and
                  returned brief answers to his musical commonplaces. Coronado did not see how he
                  could humbug him, and concluded not to try it. The attempt might excite suspicion;
                  the major might say, "How is this your business?" So, after a little unimportant
                  tattle, Coronado made his best bow to the old fellow, and hurried off to oversee
                  his so-called cousin.
               In the evening he brought Garcia to call on the ladies. Aunt Maria was rather
                  surprised and shocked to see such an excellent man look so much like an infamous
                  scoundrel. "But good people are always plain," she reasoned; and so she was as
                  cordial to him as one can be in English to a saint who understands nothing but
                  Spanish. Garcia, instructed by Coronado, could not bow low enough nor smile
                  greasily enough at Aunt Maria. His dull commonplaces, moreover, were translated by
                  his nephew into flowering compliments for the lady herself, and enthusiastic
                  professions of faith in the superior intelligence and moral worth of all women. So
                  the two got along famously, although neither ever knew what the other had really
                  said.
               When Clara appeared, Garcia bowed humbly without lifting his eyes to her face, and
                  received her kiss without returning it, as one might receive the kiss of a
                  corpse.
               "Contemptible coward!" thought Coronado. Then, turning to Mrs. Stanley, he
                  whispered, "My uncle is almost broken down with this parting."
               "Excellent creature!" murmured Aunt Maria, surveying the old toad with warm
                  sympathy. "What a pity he has lost one eye! It quite injures the benevolent
                  expression of his face."
               Although Garcia was very distantly connected with Clara, she gave him the title of
                  uncle.
               "How is this, my uncle?" she said, gaily. "You send your merchandise trains
                  through Bernalillo, and you send me through Santa Anna and Rio Arriba."
               Garcia, cowed and confounded, made no reply that was comprehensible.
               "It is a newly discovered route," put in Coronado, "lately found to be easier and
                  safer than the old one. Two hundred and fifty years in learning the fact, Mrs.
                  Stanley! Just as we were two hundred and fifty years without discovering the gold
                  of California."
               "Ah!" said Clara. Absent since her childhood from New Mexico, she knew little
                  about its geography, and could be easily deceived.
               After a while Thurstane entered, out of breath and red with haste. He had stolen
                  ten minutes from his accounts and stores to bring Miss Van Diemen a piece of
                  information which was to him important and distressing.
               "I fear that I shall not be able to go with you," he said. "I have received orders
                  to wait for a sergeant and three recruits who have been assigned to my company.
                  The messenger reports that they are on the march from Fort Bent with an emigrant
                  train, and will not be here for a week. It annoys me horribly, Miss Van Diemen. I
                  thought I saw my way clear to be of your party. I assure you I earnestly desired
                  it. This route—I am afraid of it—I wanted to be with you."
               "To protect me?" queried Clara, her face lighting up with a grateful smile, so
                  innocent and frank was she. Then she turned grave again, and added, "I am
                  sorry."
               Thankful for these last words, but nevertheless quite miserable, the youngest
                  worshipped her and trembled for her.
               This conversation had been carried on in a quiet tone, so that the others of the
                  party had not overheard it, not even the watchful Coronado.
               "It is too unfortunate," said Clara, turning to them. "Lieutenant Thurstane cannot
                  go with us."
               Garcia and Coronado exchanged a look which said, "Thank—the devil!"
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE next day brought news of an obstacle to the march of the wagon train through
                  Santa Anna and Rio Arriba.
               It was reported that the audacious and savage Apache chieftain, Manga Colorado, or
                  Red Sleeve, under pretence of wanting to make a treaty with the Americans, had
                  approached within sixty miles of Santa Fé to the west, and camped there, on the
                  route to the San Juan country, not making treaties at all, but simply making hot
                  beefsteaks out of Mexican cattle and cold carcasses out of Mexican rancheros.
               "We shall have to get those fellows off that trail and put them across the
                  Bernalillo route," said Coronado to Garcia.
               "The pigs! the dogs! The wicked beasts! the devils!" barked the old man dancing
                  about the room in a rage. After a while he dropped breathless into a chair and
                  looked eagerly at his nephew for help.
               "It will cost at least another thousand," observed the younger man.
               "You have had two thousand," shuddered Garcia. "You were to do the whole accursed
                  job with that."
               "I did not count on Manga Colorado. Besides, I have given a thousand to our little
                  cousin. I must keep a thousand to meet the chances that may come. There are men to
                  be bribed."
               Garcia groaned, hesitated, decided, went to some hoard which he had put aside for
                  great needs, counted out a hundred American eagles, toyed with them, wept over
                  them, and brought them to Coronado.
               "Will that do?" he asked. "It must do. There is no more."
               "I will try with that," said the nephew. "Now let me have a few good men and your
                  best horses. I want to see them all before I trust myself with them."
               Coronado felt himself in a position to dictate, and it was curious to see how
                  quick he put on magisterial airs; he was one of those who enjoy authority, though
                  little and brief.
               "Accursed beast!" thought Garcia, who did not dare just now to break out with his
                  "pig, dog," etc. "He wants me to pay everything. The thousand ought to be enough
                  for men and horses and all. Why not poison the girl at once, and save all this
                  money? If he had the spirit of a man! O Madre de Dios! Madre de Dios! What
                  extremities! What extremities!"
               
               But Garcia was like a good many of us; his thoughts were worse than his deeds and
                  words. While he was cogitating thus savagely, he was saying aloud, "My son, my
                  dear Carlos, come and choose for yourself."
               Turning into the court of the house, they strolled through a medley of wagons,
                  males, horses, merchandise, muleteers, teamsters, idlers, white men and Indians.
                  Coronado soon picked out a couple of rancheros whom he knew as capital riders,
                  fair marksmen, faithful and intelligent. Next his eye fell upon a man in Mexican
                  clothing, almost as dark and dirty too as the ordinary Mexican, but whose height,
                  size, insolence of carriage, and ferocity of expression marked him as of another
                  and more pugnacious, more imperial race.
               "You are an American," said Coronado, in his civil manner, for he had two manners
                  as opposite as the poles.
               "I be," replied the stranger, staring at Coronado as a Lombard or Prankish warrior
                  might have stared at an effeminate and diminutive Roman.
               "May I ask what your name is?"
               "Some folks call me Texas Smith."
               Coronado shifted uneasily on his feet, as a man might shift in presence of a
                  tiger, who, as he feared, was insufficiently chained. He was face to face with a
                  fellow who was as much the terror of the table-land, from the borders of Texas to
                  California, as if he had been an Apache chief.
               This noted desperado, although not more than twenty-six or seven years old, had
                  the horrible fame of a score of murders. His appearance mated well with his
                  frightful history and reputation. His intensely black eyes, blacker even than the
                  eyes of Coronado, had a stare of absolutely indescribable ferocity. It was more
                  ferocious than the merely brutal glare of a tiger; it was an intentional
                  malignity, super-beastly and sub-human. They were eyes which no other man ever
                  looked into and afterward forgot. His sunburnt, sallow, haggard, ghastly face,
                  stained early and for life with the corpse-like coloring of malarious fevers, was
                  a fit setting for such optics. Although it was nearly oval in contour, and
                  although the features were or had been fairly regular, yet it was so marked by
                  hard, and one might almost say fleshless muscles, and so brutalized by long
                  indulgence in savage passions, that it struck you as frightfully ugly. A large
                  dull-red scar on the right jaw and another across the left cheek added the final
                  touches to this countenance of a cougar.
               "He is my man," whispered Garcia to Coronado. "I have hired him for the great
                  adventure. Sixty piastres a month. Why not take him with you today?"
               Coronado gave another glance at the gladiator and meditated. Should he trust this
                  beast of a Texan to guard him against those other beasts, the Apaches? Well, he
                  could die but once; this whole affair was detestably risky; he must not lose time
                  in shuddering over the first steps.
               "Mr. Smith," he said, "very glad to know that you are with us. Can you start in an
                  hour for the camp of Manga Colorada? Sixty miles there. We must be back by
                  to-morrow night. If would be best not to say where we are going."
               Texas Smith nodded, turned abruptly on the huge heels of his Mexican boots,
                  stalked to where his horse was fastened, and began to saddle him.
               "My dear uncle, why didn't you hire the devil?" whispered Coronado as he stared
                  after the cutthroat.
               "Get yourself ready, my nephew," was Garcia's reply. "I will see to the men and
                  horses.'
               In an hour the expedition was off at full gallop. Coronado had laid aside his
                  American dandy raiment, and was in the full costume of a Mexican of the
                  provinces—broad-brimmed hat of white straw, blue broadcloth jacket adorned with
                  numerous small silver buttons, velvet vest of similar splendor, blue trousers
                  slashed from the knee downwards and gay with buttons, high, loose embroidered
                  boots of crimson leather, long steel spurs jingling and shining. The change became
                  him; he seemed a larger and handsomer man for it; he looked the caballero and
                  almost the hidalgo.
               Three hours took the party thirty miles to a hacienda of Garcia's, where they
                  changed horses, leaving their first mounting for the return. After half an hour
                  for dinner, they pushed on again, always at a gallop, the hoofs clattering over
                  the hard, yellow, sunbaked earth, or dashing recklessly along smooth sheets of
                  rock, or through fields of loose, slippery stones. Rare halts to breathe the
                  animals; then the steady, tearing gallop again; no walking or other leisurely
                  gait. Coronado led the way and hastened the pace. There was no tiring him; his
                  thin, sinewy, sun-hardened frame could bear enormous fatigue; moreover, the saddle
                  was so familiar to him that he almost reposed in it. If he had needed physical
                  support, he would have found it in his mental energy. He was capable of that
                  executive furor, that intense passion of exertion, which the man of Latin race can
                  exhibit when he has once fairly set himself to an enterprise. He was of the breed
                  which in nobler days had produced Gonsalvo, Cortes, Pizarro, and Darien.
               These riders had set out at ten o'clock in the morning; at five in the afternoon
                  they drew bridle in sight of the Apache encampment. They were on the brow of a
                  stony hill: a pile of bare, gray, glaring, treeless, herbless layers of rock; a
                  pyramid truncated near its base, but still of majestic altitude; one of the
                  pyramids of nature in that region; in short, a butte. Below them lay a valley of
                  six or eight miles in length by one or two in breadth, through the centre of which
                  a rivulet had drawn a paradise of verdure. In the middle of the valley, at the
                  head of a bend in the rivulet, was a camp of human brutes. It was a bivouac rather
                  than a camp. The large tents of bison hide used by the northern Indians are
                  unknown to the Apaches; they have not the bison, and they have less need of
                  shelter in winter. What Coronado saw at this distance was, a few huts of branches,
                  a strolling of many horses, and some scattered riders.
               Texas Smith gave him a glance of inquiry which said, "Shall we go ahead—or
                  fire?"
               Coronado spurred his horse down the rough, disjointed, slippery declivity, and the
                  others followed. They were soon perceived; the Apache swarm was instantly in a
                  buzz; horses were saddled and mounted, or mounted without saddling; there was a
                  consultation, and then a wild dash toward the travellers. As the two parties
                  neared each other at a gallop, Coronado rode to the front of his squad, waving his
                  sombrero. An Indian who wore the dress of a Mexican caballero, jacket, loose
                  trousers, hat, and boots, spurred in like manner to the front, gestured to his
                  followers to halt, brought his horse to a walk, and slowly approached the white
                  man. Coronado made a sign to show that his pistols were in his holsters; and the
                  Apache responded by dropping his lance and slinging his bow over his shoulder. The
                  two met midway between the two squads of staring, silent horsemen.
               "Is it Manga Colorada?" asked the Mexican, in Spanish.
               "Manga Colorada," replied the Apache, his long, dark, haggard, savage face
                  lighting up for a moment with a smile of gratified vanity.
               "I come in peace, then," said Coronado. "I want your help; I will pay for it."
               
               In our account of this interview we shall translate the broken Spanish of the
                  Indian into ordinary English.
               "Manga Colorada will help," he said, "if the pay is good."
               Even during this short dialogue the Apaches had with difficulty restrained their
                  curiosity; and their little wiry horses were now caracoling, rearing, and plunging
                  in close proximity to the two speakers.
               "We will talk of this by ourselves," said Coronado. "Let us go to your camp."
               The conjoint movement of the leaders toward the Indian bivouac was a signal for
                  their followers to mingle and exchange greetings. The, adventurers were enveloped
                  and very nearly ridden down by over two hundred prancing, screaming horsemen,
                  shouting to their visitors in their own guttural tongue or in broken Spanish, and
                  enforcing their wild speech with vehement gestures. It was a pandemonium which
                  horribly frightened the Mexican rancheros, and made Coronado's dark cheek turn to
                  an ashy yellow.
               The civilized imagination can hardly conceive such a tableau of savagery as that
                  presented by these Arabs of the great American desert. Arabs! The similitude is a
                  calumny on the descendants of Ishmael; the fiercest Bedouin are refined and mild
                  compared with the Apaches. Even the brutal and criminal classes of civilization,
                  the pugilists, roughs, burglars, and pickpockets-of our large cities, the men
                  whose daily life is rebellion against conscience, commandment, and justice, offer
                  a gentler and nobler type of character and expression than these "children of
                  nature." There was hardly a face among that gang of wild riders which did not
                  outdo the face of Texas Smith in degraded ferocity. Almost every man and boy was
                  obviously a liar, a thief, and a murderer. The air of beastly cruelty was made
                  even more hateful by an air of beastly cunning. Taking color, brutality,
                  grotesqueness, and filth together, it seemed as if here were a mob of those
                  malignant and ill-favored devils whom Dante has described and the art of his age
                  has painted and sculptured.
               It is possible, by the way, that this appearance of moral ugliness was due in part
                  to the physical ugliness of features, which were nearly without exception coarse,
                  irregular, exaggerated, grotesque, and in some cases more like hideous masks than
                  like faces.
               Ferocity of expression was further enhanced by poverty and squalor. The mass of
                  this fierce cavalry was wretchedly clothed and disgustingly dirty. Even the showy
                  Mexican costume of Manga Colorada was ripped, frayed, stained with grease and
                  perspiration, and not free from sombre spots which looked like blood. Every one
                  wore the breech-cloth, in some cases nicely fitted and sewed, in others nothing
                  but a shapeless piece of deerskin tied on anyhow. There were a few, either minor
                  chiefs, or leading braves, or professional dandies (for this class exists among
                  the Indians), who sported something like a full Apache costume, consisting of a
                  helmet-shaped cap with a plume of feathers, a blanket or serape flying loose from the shoulders, a shirt and breech-cloth,
                  and a pair of long boots, made large and loose in the Mexican style and showy with
                  dyeing and embroidery. These boots, very necessary to men who must ride through
                  thorns and bushes, were either drawn up so as to cover the thighs or turned over
                  from the knee downward, like the leg-covering of Rupert's cavaliers. Many heads
                  were bare, or merely shielded by wreaths of grasses and leaves, the greenery
                  contrasting fantastically with the unkempt hair and fierce faces, but producing at
                  a distance an effect which was not without sylvan grace.
               The only weapons were iron-tipped lances eight or nine feet long, thick and strong
                  bows of three or three and a half feet, and quivers of arrows slung across the
                  thigh or over the shoulder. The Apaches make little use of firearms, being too
                  lazy or too stupid to keep them in order, and finding it difficult to get
                  ammunition. But so long as they have to fight only the unwarlike Mexicans, they
                  are none the worse for this lack. The Mexicans fly at the first veil; the Apaches
                  ride after them and lance them in the back; clumsy escopetos drop loaded from the hands of dying cowards. Such are the
                  battles of New Mexico. It is only when these red-skinned Tartars meet Americans or
                  such high-spirited Indians as the Opates that they have to recoil before
                     gunpowder.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Since those times the Apaches have learned to use firearms.
               
               The fact that Coronado dared ride into this camp of thieving assassins shows what
                  risks he could force himself to run when he thought it necessary. He was not
                  physically a very brave man; he had no pugnacity and no adventurous love of danger
                  for its own sake; but when he was resolved on an enterprise, he could go through
                  with it.
               There was a rest of several hours. The rancheros fed the horses on corn which they
                  had brought in small sacks. Texas Smith kept watch, suffered no Apache to touch
                  him, had his pistols always cocked, and stood ready to sell life at the highest
                  price. Coronado walked deliberately to a retired spot with Manga Colorada,
                  Delgadito, and two other chiefs, and made known his propositions. What he desired
                  was that the Apaches should quit their present post immediately, perform a forced
                  march of a hundred and forty miles or so to the southwest, place themselves across
                  the overland trail through Bernalillo, and do something to alarm people. No great
                  harm; he did not want men murdered nor houses burned; they might eat a few cattle,
                  if they were hungry: there were plenty of cattle, and Apaches must live. And if
                  they should yell at a train or so and stampede the loose mules, he had no
                  objection. But no slaughtering; he wanted them to be merciful: just make a
                  pretence of harrying in Bernalillo; nothing more.
               The chiefs turned their ill-favored countenances on each other, and talked for a
                  while in their own language. Then, looking at Coronado, they grunted, nodded, and
                  sat in silence, waiting for his terms.
               "Send that boy away," said the Mexican, pointing to a youth of twelve or fourteen,
                  better dressed than most Apache urchins, who had joined the little circle.
               "It is my son," replied Manga Colorada. "He is learning to be a chief."
               The boy stood upright, facing the group with dignity, a handsomer youth than is
                  often seen among his people. Coronado, who had something of the artist in him, was
                  so interested in noting the lad's regular features and tragic firmness of
                  expression, that for a moment he forgot his projects. Manga Colorada, mistaking
                  the cause of his silence, encouraged him to proceed.
               "My son does not speak Spanish," he said. "He will not understand."
               "You know what money is?" inquired the Mexican.
               "Yes, we know," grunted the chief.
               "You can buy clothes and arms with it in the villages, and aguardiente.'
               Another grunt of assent and satisfaction.
               "Three hundred piastres," said Coronado.
               The chiefs consulted in their own tongue, and then replied, "The way is long.
               "How much?"
               Manga Colorada held up five fingers.
               "Five hundred?'
               A unanimous grunt.
               "It is all I have," said Coronado.
               The chiefs made no reply.
               
               Coronado rose, walked to his horse, took two small packages out of his saddle-bags
                  and slipped them slily into his boots, and then carried the bags to where the
                  chiefs sat in council. There he held them up and rolled out five rouleaux, each containing a hundred Mexican dollars.
                  The Indians tore open the envelopes, stared at the broad pieces, fingered them,
                  jingled them together, and uttered grunts of amazement and joy. Probably they had
                  never before seen so much money, at least not in their own possession. Coronado
                  was hardly less content; for while he had received a thousand dollars to bring
                  about this understanding, he had risked but seven hundred with him, and of these
                  he had saved two hundred.
               Four hours later the camp had vanished, and the Indians were on their way toward
                  the southwest, the moonlight showing their irregular column of march, and glinting
                  faintly from the heads of their lances.
               At nine or ten in the evening, when every Apache had disappeared, and the clatter
                  of ponies had gone far away into the quiet night, Coronado lay down to rest. He
                  would have started homeward, but the country was a complete desert, the trail led
                  here and there over vast sheets of trackless rock, and he feared that he might
                  lose his way. Texas Smith and one of the rancheros had ridden after the Apaches to
                  see whether they kept the direction which had been agreed upon. One ranchero was
                  slumbering already, and the third crouched as sentinel.
               Coronado could not sleep at once. He thought over his enterprise, cross-examined
                  his chances of success, studied the invisible courses of the future. Leave Clara
                  on the plains, to be butchered by Indians, or to die of starvation? He hardly
                  considered the idea; it was horrible and repulsive; better marry her. If
                  necessary, force her into a marriage; he could bring it about somehow; she would
                  be much in his power. Well, he had got rid of Thurstane; that was a great obstacle
                  removed. Probably, that fellow being out of sight, he, Coronado, could soon
                  eclipse him in the girl's estimation. There would be no need of violence; all
                  would go easily and end in prosperity, Garcia would be furious at the marriage,
                  but Garcia was a fool to expect any other result.
               However, here he was, just at the beginning of things, and by no means safe from
                  danger. He had two hundred dollars in his boot-legs. Had his rancheros suspected
                  it? Would they murder him for the money? He hoped not; he just faintly hoped not;
                  for he was becoming very sleepy; he was asleep.
               He was awakened by a noise, or perhaps it was a touch, he scarcely knew what. He
                  struggled as fiercely and vainly as one who fights against a nightmare. A dark
                  form was over him, a hard knee was on his breast, hard knuckles were at his
                  throat, an arm was raised to strike, a weapon was gleaming.
               On the threshold of his enterprise, after he had taken its first hazardous step
                  with safety and success, Coronado found himself at the point of death.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               WHEN Coronado regained a portion of the senses which had been throttled out of
                  him, he discovered Texas Smith standing by his side, and two dead men lying near,
                  all rather vaguely seen at first through his dizziness and the moonlight.
               "What does this mean?" he gasped, getting on his hands and knees, and then on his
                  feet. "Who has been assassinating?"
               The borderer, who, instead of helping his employer to rise, was coolly reloading
                  loading his rifle, did not immediately reply. As the shaken and somewhat unmanned
                  Coronado looked at him, he was afraid of him. The moonlight made Smith's sallow,
                  disfigured face so much more ghastly than usual, that he had the air of a ghoul or
                  vampyre. And when, after carefully capping his piece, he drawled forth the word
                  "Patchies," his harsh, croaking voice had an unwholesome, unhuman sound, as if it
                  were indeed the utterance of a feeder upon corpses.
               "Apaches!" said Coronado. "What! after I had made a treaty with them?"
               "This un is a 'Patchie," remarked Texas, giving the nearest body a shove with his
                  boot. "Thar was two of 'em. They knifed one of your men. T'other cleared, he did.
                  I was comin' in afoot. I had a notion of suthin' goin' on, 'n' left the critters
                  out thar, with the rancheros, 'n' stole in. Got in just in time to pop the cuss
                  that had you. T'other un vamosed."
               "Oh, the villains!" shrieked Coronado, excited at the thought of his narrow
                  escape. "This is the way they keep their treaties."
               "Mought be these a'n't the same," observed Texas. "Some 'Patchies is wild, 'n'
                  live separate, like bachelor beavers."
               Coronado stooped and examined the dead Indian. He was a miserable object, naked,
                  except a ragged, filthy breech-clout, his figure gaunt, and his legs absolutely
                  scaly with dirt, starvation, and hard living of all sorts. He might well be one of
                  those outcasts who are in disfavor with their savage brethren, lead a precarious
                  existence outside of the tribal organization, and are to the Apaches what the
                  Texas Smiths are to decent Americans.
               "One of the bachelor-beaver sort, you bet," continued Texas. "Don't run with the
                  rest of the crowd."
               "And there's that infernal coward of a ranchero," cried Coronado, as the runaway
                  sentry sneaked back to the group. "You cursed poltroon, why didn't you give the
                  alarm? Why didn't you fight?"
               He struck the man, pulled his long hair, threw him down, kicked him, and spat on
                  him. Texas Smith looked on with an approving grin, and suggested, "Better shute
                  the dam cuss."
               But Coronado was not bloodthirsty; having vented his spite, he let the fellow go.
                  "You saved my life," he said to Texas. "When we get back you shall be paid for
                  it."
               At the moment he intended to present him with the two hundred dollars which were
                  cumbering his boots. But by the time they had reached Garcia's hacienda on the way
                  back to Sante Fé, his gratitude had fallen off seventy-five per cent., and he
                  thought fifty enough. Even that diminished his profits on the expedition to four
                  hundred and fifty dollars. And Coronado, although extravagant, was not generous;
                  he liked to spend money, but he hated to give it or pay it.
               During the four days which immediately followed his safe return to Santa Fé, he
                  and Garcia were in a worry of anxiety. Would Manga Colorada fulfil his contract
                  and cast a shadow of peril over the Bernalillo route? Would letters or messengers
                  arrive from California, informing Clara of the death and will of Muñoz? Everything
                  happened as they wished; reports came that the Apaches were raiding in Bernalillo;
                  the girl received no news concerning her grandfather. Coronado, smiling with
                  success and hope, met Thurstane at the Van Diemen house, in the presence of Clara
                  and Aunt Maria, and blandly triumphed over him.
               "How now about your safe road through the southern counties?" he said,
                  "Apaches!"
               "So I hear," replied the young officer soberly. "It is horribly unlucky."
               
               "We start to-morrow," added Coronado.
               "To-morrow!" replied Thurstane, with a look of dismay.
               "I hope you will be with us," said Coronado.
               "Everything goes wrong," exclaimed the annoyed lieutenant. "Here are some of my
                  stores damaged, and I have had to ask for a board of survey. I couldn't possibly
                  leave for two days yet, even if my recruits should arrive."
               "How very unfortunate!" groaned Coronado. "My dear fellow, we had counted on
                  you."
               "Lieutenant Thurstane, can't you overtake us?" inquired Clara.
               Thurstane wanted to kneel down and thank her, while Coronado wanted to throw
                  something at her.
               "I will try," promised the officer, his fine, frank, manly face brightening with
                  pleasure. "If the thing can be done, it will be done."
               Coronado, while hoping that he would be ordered by the southern route, or that he
                  would somehow break his neck, had the superfine brass to say, "Don't fail us,
                  Lieutenant."
               In spite of the managements of the Mexican to keep Clara and Thurstane apart, the
                  latter succeeded in getting an aside with the young lady.
               "So you take the northern trail?" he said, with a seriousness which gave his
                  blue-black eyes an expression of almost painful pathos. Those eyes were traitors;
                  however discreet the rest of his face might be, they revealed his feelings; they
                  were altogether too pathetic to be in the head of a man and an officer.
               "But you will overtake us," Clara replied, out of a charming faith that with men
                  all things are possible.
               "Yes," he said, almost fiercely.
               "Besides, Coronado knows," she added, still trusting in the male being. "He says
                  this is the surest road."
               Thurstane did not believe it, but he did not want to alarm her when alarm was
                  useless, and he made no comment.
               "I have a great mind to resign," he presently broke out.
               Clara colored; she did not fully understand him, but she guessed that all this
                  emotion was somehow on her account; and a surprised, warm Spanish heart beat at
                  once its alarm.
               "It would be of no use," he immediately added. "I couldn't get away until my
                  resignation had been accepted. I must bear this as well as I can."
               The young lady began to like him better than ever before, and yet she began to
                  draw gently away from him, frightened by a consciousness of her liking.
               "I beg your pardon, Miss Van Diemen," said Thurstane, in an inexplicable
                  confusion.
               "There is no need," replied Clara, equally confused.
               "Well," he resumed, after a struggle to regain his self-control, "I will do my
                  utmost to overtake you."
               "We shall be very glad," returned Clara, with a singular mixture of consciousness
                  and artlessness.
               There was an exquisite innocence and almost childish simplicity in this girl of
                  eighteen. It was, so to speak, not quite civilized; it was not in the style of
                  American young ladies; our officer had never, at home, observed anything like it;
                  and, of course—O yes, of course, it fascinated him. The truth is, he was so far
                  gone in loving her that he would have been charmed by her ways no matter what they
                  might have been.
               On the very morning after the above dialogue Garcia's train started for Rio
                  Arriba, taking with it a girl who had been singled out for a marriage which she
                  did not guess, or for a death whose horrors were beyond her wildest fears.
               The train consisted of six long and heavy covered vehicles, not dissimilar in
                  size, strength, and build to army wagons. Garcia had thought that two would
                  suffice; six wagons, with their mules, etc., were a small fortune: what if the
                  Apaches should take them? But Coronado had replied: "Nobody sends a train of two
                  wagons; do you want to rouse suspicion?"
               So there were six; and each had a driver and a muleteer, making twelve hired men
                  thus far. On horseback, there were six Mexicans, nominally cattle-drivers going to
                  California, but really guards for the expedition—the most courageous bullies that
                  could be picked up in Santa Fé, each armed with pistols and a rifle. Finally,
                  there were Coronado and his terrible henchman, Texas Smith, with their rifles and
                  revolvers. Old Garcia perspired with anguish as he looked over his caravan, and
                  figured up the cost in his head.
               Thurstane, wretched at heart, but with a cheering smile on his lips, came to bid
                  the ladies farewell.
               "What do you think of this?" Aunt Maria called to him from her seat in one of the
                  covered wagons. "We are going a thousand miles through deserts and savages. You
                  men suppose that women have no courage. I call this heroism."
               "Certainly," nodded the young fellow, not thinking of her at all, unless it was
                  that she was next door to an idiot.
               Although his mind was so full of Clara that it did not seem as if he could receive
                  an impression from any other human being, his attention was for a moment arrested
                  by a countenance which struck him as being more ferocious than he had ever seen
                  before except on the shoulders of an Apache. A tall man in Mexican costume, with a
                  scar on his chin and another on his cheek, was glaring at him with two intensely
                  black and savage eyes. It was Texas Smith, taking the measure of Thurstane's
                  fighting-power and disposition. A hint from Coronado had warned the borderer that
                  here was a person whom it might be necessary some day to get rid of. The officer
                  responded to this ferocious gaze with a grim, imperious stare, such as one is apt
                  to acquire amid the responsibilities and dangers of army life. It was like a wolf
                  and a mastiff surveying each other.
               Thurstane advanced to Clara, helped her Into her saddle, and held her hand while
                  he urged her to be careful of herself, never to wander from the train, never to be
                  alone, etc. The girl turned a little pale; it was not exactly because of his
                  anxious manner; it was because of the eloquence that there is in a word of
                  parting. At the moment she felt so alone in the world, in such womanish need of
                  sympathy, that had he whispered to her, "Be my wife," she might have reached out
                  her hands to him. But Thurstane was far from guessing that an angel could have
                  such weak impulses; and he no more thought of proposing to her thus abruptly than
                  of ascending off-hand into heaven.
               Coronado observed the scene, and guessing how perilous the moment was, pushed
                  forward his uncle to say good-by to Clara. The old scoundrel kissed her hand; he
                  did not dare to lift his one eye to her face; he kissed her hand and bowed himself
                  out of reach.
               "Farewell, Mr. Garcia," called Aunt Maria. "Poor, excellent old creature! What a
                  pity he can't understand English! I should so like to say something nice to him.
                  Farewell, Mr. Garcia."
               Garcia kissed his fat fingers to her, took off his sombrero, waved it, bowed a
                  dozen times, and smiled like a scared devil. Then, with other good-bys, delivered
                  right and left, from everybody to everybody, the train rumbled away. Thurstane was about to accompany it out of the town
                  when his clerk came to tell him that the board of survey required his immediate
                  presence. Cursing his hard fate, and wishing himself anything but an officer in
                  the army, he waved a last farewell to Clara, and turned his back on her, perhaps
                  forever.
               Santa Fé is situated on the great central plateau of North America, seven thousand
                  feet above the level of the sea. Around it spreads an and plain, sloping slightly
                  where it approaches the Rio Grande, and bordered by mountains which toward the
                  south are of moderate height, while toward the north they rise into fine peaks,
                  glorious with eternal snow. Although the city is in the latitude of Albemarle
                  Sound, North Carolina, its elevation and its neighborhood to Alpine ranges give it
                  a climate which is in the main cool, equable, and healthy.
               The expedition moved across the plain in a southwesterly direction. Coronado's
                  intention was to cross the Rio Grande at Peña Blanca, skirt the southern edge of
                  the Jemez Mountains, reach San Isidoro, and then march northward toward the San
                  Juan region, The wagons were well fitted out with mules, and as Garcia had not
                  chosen to send much merchandise by this risky route, they were light, so that the
                  rate of progress was unusually rapid. We cannot trouble ourselves with the minor
                  incidents of the journey. Taking it for granted that the Rio Grande was passed,
                  that halts were made, meals cooked and eaten, nights passed in sleep, days in
                  pleasant and picturesque travelling, we will leap into the desert land beyond San
                  Isidoro.
               The train was now seventy-five miles from Santa Fé. Coronado had so pushed the
                  pace that he had made this distance in the rather remarkable time of three days.
                  Of course his object in thus hurrying was to get so far ahead of Thurstane that
                  the latter would not try to overtake him, or would get lost in attempting it.
               Meanwhile he had not forgotten Garcia's little plan, and he had even better
                  remembered his own. The time might come when he would be driven to lose Clara; it
                  was very shocking to think of, however, and so for the present he did' not think
                  of it; on the contrary, he worked hard (much as he hated work) at courting
                  her.
               It is strange that so many men who are morally in a state of decomposition should
                  be, or at least can be, sweet and charming in manner. During these three days
                  Coronado was delightful; and not merely in this, that he watched over Clara's
                  comfort, rode a great deal by her side, gathered wild flowers for her, talked much
                  and agreeably; but also in that he poured oil over his whole conduct, and was good
                  to everybody. Although his natural disposition was to be domineering to inferiors
                  and irascible under the small provocations of life, he now gave his orders in a
                  gentle tone, never stormed at the drivers for their blunders, made light of the
                  bad cooking, and was in short a model for travellers, lovers, and husbands. Few
                  human beings have so much self-control as Coronado, and so little. So long as it
                  was policy to be sweet, he could generally be a very honeycomb; but once a certain
                  limit of patience passed, he was like a swarm of angry bees; he became blind, mad,
                  and poisonous with passion.
               "Mr. Coronado, you are a wonder," proclaimed the admiring Aunt Maria. "You are the
                  only man I ever knew that was patient."
               "I catch a grace from those who have it abundantly and to spare," said Coronado,
                  taking off his hat and waving it at the two ladies.
               "Ah, yes, we women know how to be patient," smiled Aunt Maria. "I think we are
                  born so. But, more than that, we learn it. Moreover, our physical nature teaches
                  us. We have lessons of pain and weakness that men know nothing of. The great,
                  healthy savages! If they had our troubles, they might have some of our
                  virtues."
               "I refuse to believe it," cried Coronado. "Man acquire woman's worth? Never! The
                  nature of the beast is inferior. He is not fashioned to become an angel."
               "How charmingly candid and humble!" thought Aunt Maria. "How different from that
                  sulky, proud Thurstane, who never says anything of the sort, and never thinks it
                  either, I'll be bound."
               All this sort of talk passed over Clara as a desert wind passes over an oasis,
                  bringing no pleasant songs of birds, and sowing no fruitful seed. She had her born
                  ideas as to men and women, and she was seemingly incapable of receiving any
                  others. In her mind men were strong and brave, and women weak and timorous; she
                  believed that the first were good to hold on to, and that the last were good to
                  hold on; all this she held by birthright, without ever reasoning upon it or caring
                  to prove it.
               Coronado, on his part, hooted in his soul at Mrs. Stanley's whimsies, and half
                  supposed her to be of unsound mind. Nor would he have said what he did about the
                  vast superiority of the female sex, had he supposed that Clara would attach the
                  least weight to it. He knew that the girl looked upon his extravagant declarations
                  as merely so many compliments paid to her eccentric relative, equivalent to
                  bowings and scrapings and flourishes of the sombrero. Both Spaniards, they
                  instinctively comprehended each other, at least in the surface matters of
                  intercourse. Meanwhile the American strong-minded female understood herself, it is
                  to be charitably hoped, but understood herself alone.
               Coronado did not hurry his courtship, for he believed that he had a clear field
                  before him, and he was too sagacious to startle Clara by overmuch energy. Meantime
                  he began to be conscious that an influence from her was reaching his spirit He had
                  hitherto considered her a child; one day he suddenly recognized her as a woman.
                  Now a woman, a beautiful woman especially, alone with one HI the desert, is very
                  mighty. Matches are made in trains overland as easily and quickly as on sea
                  voyages or at quiet summer resorts. Coronado began—only moderately as yet—to fall
                  in love.
               But an ugly incident came to disturb his opening dream of affection, happiness,
                  wealth, and success. Toward the close of his fourth day's march, after he had got
                  well into the unsettled region beyond. San Isidoro, he discovered, several miles
                  behind the train, a party of five horsemen. He was on one summit and they on
                  another, with a deep, stony valley intervening. Without a moment's hesitation, he
                  galloped down a long slope, rejoined the creeping wagons, hurried them forward a
                  mile or so, and turned into a ravine for the night's halt.
               Whether the cavaliers were Indians or Thurstane and his four recruits he had been
                  unable to make out. They had not seen the train; the nature of the ground had
                  prevented that. It was now past sundown, and darkness coming on rapidly.
                  Whispering something about Apaches, he gave orders to lie close and light no fires
                  for a while, trusting that the pursuers would pass his hiding place.
               For a moment he thought of sending Texas Smith to ambush the party, and shoot
                  Thurstane if he should be in it, pleading afterwards that the men looked, in the
                  darkness, like Apaches. But no; this was an extreme measure; he revolted against
                  it a little. Moreover, there was danger of retribution: settlements not so far
                  off; soldiers still nearer.
               So he lay quiet, chewing a bit of grass to allay his nervousness, and talking
                  stronger love to Clara than he had yet thought needful or wise.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               LIEUTENANT THURSTANE passed the mouth of the ravine in the dusk of twilight,
                  without guessing that it contained Clara Van Diemen and her perils.
               He had with him Sergeant Weber of his own company, just returned from recruiting
                  service at St. Louis, and three recruits for the company, Kelly, Shubert, and
                  Sweeny.
               Weber, a sunburnt German, with sandy eyelashes, blue eyes, and a scar on his
                  cheek, had been a soldier from his eighteenth to his thirtieth year, and wore the
                  serious, patient, much-enduring air peculiar to veterans. Kelly, an Irishman, also
                  about thirty, slender in form and somewhat haggard in face, with the same quiet,
                  contained, seasoned look to him, the same reminiscence of unavoidable sufferings
                  silently borne, was also an old infantry man, having served in both the British
                  and American armies. Shubert was an American lad, who had got tired of clerking it
                  in an apothecary's shop, and had enlisted from a desire for adventure, as you
                  might guess from his larkish countenance. Sweeny was a diminutive Paddy, hardly
                  regulation height for the army, as light and lively as a monkey, and with much the
                  air of one.
               Thurstane had obtained orders from the post commandant to lead his party by the
                  northern route, on condition that he would investigate and report as to its
                  practicability for military and other transit. He had also been allowed to draw by
                  requisition fifty days' rations, a box of ammunition, and four mules. Starting
                  thirty-six hours after Coronado, he made in two days and a half the distance which
                  the train had accomplished in four. Now he had overtaken his quarry, and in the
                  obscurity had passed it.
               But Sergeant Weber was an old hand on the Plains, and notwithstanding the darkness
                  and the generally stony nature of the ground, he presently discovered that the
                  fresh trail of the wagons was missing. Thurstane tried to retrace his steps, but
                  starless night had already fallen thick around him, and before long he had to come
                  to a halt. He was opposite the mouth of the ravine; he was within five hundred
                  yards of Clara, and raging because he could not find her. Suddenly Coronado's
                  cooking fires flickered through the gloom; in five minutes the two parties were
                  together.
               It was a joyous meeting to Thurstane and a disgusting one to Coronado.
                  Nevertheless the latter rushed at the officer, grasped him by both hands, and
                  shouted, "All hail, Lieutenant! So, there you are at last! My dear fellow, what a
                  pleasure!"
               "Yes, indeed, by Jove!" returned the young fellow, unusually boisterous in his
                  joy, and shaking hands with everybody, not rejecting even muleteers. And then what
                  throbbing, what adoration, what supernal delight, in the moment when he faced
                  Clara
               In the morning the journey recommenced. As neither Thurstane nor Coronado had now
                  any cause for hurry, the pace was moderate. The soldiers marched on foot, in order
                  to leave the government mules no other load than the rations and ammunition, and
                  so enable them to recover from their sharp push of over eighty miles. The party
                  now consisted of twenty-five men, for the most part pretty well armed. Of the
                  other sex there were, besides Mrs. Stanley and Clara, a half-breed girl named
                  Pepita, who served as lady's maid, and two Indian women from Garcia's hacienda,
                  whose specialties were cooking and washing. In all thirty persons, a nomadic
                  village.
               At the first halt Sergeant Weber approached Thurstane with a timorous air,
                  saluted, and asked, "Leftenant, can we leafe our knabsacks in the vagons? The
                  gentleman has gifen us bermission."
               "The men ought to learn to carry their knapsacks," said Thurstane. "They will have
                  to do it in serious service."
               "It is drue, Leftenant," replied Weber, saluting again and moving off without a
                  sign of disappointment.
               "Let that man come back here," called Aunt Maria, who had overheard the dialogue.
                  "Certainly they can put their loads in the wagons. I told Mr. Coronado to tell
                  them so."
               Weber looked at her without moving a muscle, and without showing either wonder or
                  amusement. Thurstane could not help grinning good-naturedly as he said, "I receive
                  your orders, Mrs. Stanley. Weber, you can put the knapsacks in the wagons."
               Weber saluted anew, gave Mrs. Stanley a glance of gratitude, and went about his
                  pleasant business. An old soldier is not in general so strict a disciplinarian as
                  a young one.
               "What a brute that Lieutenant is!" thought Aunt Maria. "Make those poor fellows
                  carry those monstrous packs? Nonsense and tyranny! How different from Mr.
                  Coronado! He fairly jumped at my idea."
               Thurstane stepped over to Coronado and said, "You are very kind to relieve my men
                  at the expense of your animals. I am much obliged to you."
               "It is nothing," replied the Mexican, waving his hand graciously. "I am delighted
                  to be of service, and to show myself a good citizen."
               In fact, he had been quite willing to favor the soldiers; why not, so long as he
                  could not get rid of them? If the Apaches would lance them all, including
                  Thurstane, he would rejoice; but while that could not be, he might as well show
                  himself civil and gain popularity. It was not Coronado's style to bark when there
                  was no chance of biting.
               He was in serious thought the while. How should he rid himself of this rival, this
                  obstacle in the way of his well-laid plans, this interloper into his caravan? Must
                  he call upon Texas Smith to assassinate the fellow? It was a disagreeably agreeably brutal solution of the
                  difficulty, and moreover it might lead to loud suspicion and scandal, and finally
                  it might be downright dangerous. There was such a thing as trial for murder and
                  for conspiracy to effect murder. As to causing a United States officer to vanish
                  quietly, as might perhaps be done with an ordinary American emigrant, that was too
                  good a thing to be hoped. He must wait; he must have patience; he must trust to
                  the future; perhaps some precipice would favor him; perhaps the wild Indians. He
                  offered his cigaritos to Thurstane, and they smoked tranquilly in company.
               "What route do you take from here?" asked the officer.
               "Pass Washington, as you call it. Then the Moqui country. Then the San Juan."
               "There is no possible road down the San Juan and the Colorado."
               "If we find that to be so, we will sweep southward. I am, in a measure, exploring.
                  Garcia wants a route to Middle California."
               "I also have a sort of exploring leave. I shall take the liberty to keep along
                  with you. It may be best for both."
               The announcement sounded like a threat of surveillance, and Coronado's dark cheek
                  turned darker with angry blood. This stolid and intrusive brute was absolutely
                  demanding his own death. After saying, with a forced smile, "You will be
                  invaluable to us, Lieutenant," the Mexican lounged away to where Texas Smith was
                  examining his firearms, and whispered, "Well, will you do it?"
               "I ain't afeared of him,? muttered the borderer. "It's his clothes. I
                  don't like to shute at jackets with them buttons. I mought git into big trouble.
                  The army is a big thing."
               "Two hundred dollars," whispered Coronado.
               "You said that befo'," croaked Texas. "Go it some better."
               "Four hundred."
               "Stranger," said Texas; after debating his chances, "it's a big thing. But I'll do
                  it for that."
               Coronado walked away, hurried up his muleteers, exchanged a word with Mrs.
                  Stanley, and finally returned to Thurstane. His thin, dry, dusky fingers trembled
                  a little, but he looked his man steadily in the face, while he tendered him
                  another cigarito.
               "Who is your hunter?" asked the officer. "I must say he is a devilish bad-looking
                  fellow."
               "He is one of the best hunters Garcia ever had," replied the Mexican. "He is one
                  of your own people. You ought to like him."
               Further journeying brought with it topographical adventures. The country into
                  which they were penetrating is one of the most remarkable in the world for its
                  physical peculiarities. Its scenery bears about the same relation to the scenery
                  of earth in general, that a skeleton's head or a grotesque mask bears to the
                  countenance of living humanity. In no other portion of our planet is nature so
                  unnatural, so fanciful and extravagant, and seemingly the production of caprice, n
                  the great central plateau of North America.
               They had left far behind the fertile valley of the Rio Grande, and had placed
                  between it and them the barren, sullen piles of the Jemez mountains. No more long
                  sweeps of grassy plain or slope; they were amid the débris of rocks which hedge in
                  the upper heights of the great plateau; they were struggling through it like a
                  forlorn hope through chevaux-de-frise. The
                  morning sun came upon them over treeless ridges of sandstone, and disappeared at
                  evening behind ridges equally naked and arid. The sides of these barren masses,
                  seamed by the action of water in remote geologic ages, and never softened or
                  smoothed by the gentle attrition of rain, were infinitely more wild and jagged in
                  their details than ruins. It seemed as if the Titans had built here, and their
                  works had been shattered by thunderbolts.
               Many heights were truncated mounds of rock, resembling gigantic platforms with
                  ruinous sides, such as are known in this Western land as mesas or buttes. They were
                  Nature's enormous mockery of the most ambitious architecture of man, the pyramids
                  of Egypt and the platform of Baalbek. Terrace above terrace of shattered wall;
                  escarpments which had been displaced as if by the explosion of some incredible
                  mine; ramparts which were here high and regular, and there gaping in mighty
                  fissures, or suddenly altogether lacking; long sweeps of stairway, winding dizzily
                  upwards, only to close in an impossible leap: there was no end to the fantastic
                  outlines and the suggestions of destruction.
               Nor were the open spaces between these rocky mounds less remarkable. In one
                  valley, the course of a river which vanished ages ago, the power of fire had left
                  its monuments amid those of the power of water. The sedimentary rock of sandstone,
                  shales, and marl, not only showed veins of ignitible lignite, but it was pierced
                  by the trap which had been shot up from earth's flaming recesses. Dikes of this
                  volcanic stone crossed each other or ran in long parallels, presenting forms of
                  fortifications, walls of buildings, ruined lines of aqueducts. The sandstone and
                  marl had been worn away by the departed river, and by the delicately sweeping,
                  incessant, tireless wings of the afreets of the air, leaving the iron-like trap in
                  bold projection.
               Some of these dikes stretched long distances, with a nearly uniform height of four
                  or five feet, closely resembling old field-walls of the solidest masonry. Others,
                  not so extensive, but higher and pierced with holes, seemed to be fragments of
                  ruined edifices, with broken windows and shattered portals. As the trap is
                  columnar, and the columns are horizontal in their direction, the joints of the
                  polygons show along the surface of the ramparts, causing them to look like the
                  work of Cyclopean builders. The Indians and Mexicans of the expedition, deceived
                  by the similarity between these freaks of creation and the results of human
                  workmanship, repeatedly called out, "Casas Grandes! Casas de Montezuma!"
               It would seem, indeed, as if the ancient peoples of this country, in order to
                  arrive at the idea of a large architecture, had only to copy the grotesque
                  rock-work of nature. Who knows but that such might have been the germinal idea of
                  their constructions? Mrs. Stanley was quite sure of it. In fact, she was disposed
                  to maintain that the trap walls were really human masonry, and the production of
                  Montezuma, or of the Amazons invented by Coronado.
               "Those four-sided and six-sided stones look altogether too regular to be
                  accidental," was her conclusion. Notwithstanding her belief in a superintending
                  Deity, she had an idea that much of this world was made by hazard, or perhaps by
                  the Old Harry.
               In one valley the ancient demon of water-force had excelled himself in
                  enchantments. The slopes of the alluvial soil were dotted with little buttes of
                  mingled sandstone and shale, varying from five to twenty feet in height, many of
                  them bearing a grotesque likeness to artificial objects. There were columns, there
                  were haystacks, there were enormous bells, there were inverted jars, there were
                  junk bottles, there were rustic seats. Most of these fantastic figures were
                  surmounted by a flat capital, the remnant of a layer of stone harder than the rest
                  of the mass, and therefore less worn by the water erosion
               
               One fragment looked like a monstrous gymnastic club standing upright, with a broad
                  button to secure the grip. Another was a mighty centre-table, fit for the halls of
                  the Scandinavian gods, consisting of a solid prop or pedestal twelve feet high,
                  swelling out at the top into a leaf fifteen feet across. Another was a stone hat,
                  standing on its crown, with a brim two yards in diameter. Occasionally there was a
                  figure which had lost its capital, and so looked like a broken pillar, a sugar
                  loaf, a pear. Imbedded in these grotesques of sandstone were fossils of wood, of
                  fresh-water shells, and of fishes.
               It was a land of extravagances and of wonders. The marvellous adventures of the
                  "Arabian Nights" would have seemed natural in it. It reminded you after a vague
                  fashion of the scenery suggested to-the imagination by some of its details or
                  those of the "Pilgrim's Progress." Sindbad the Sailor carrying the Old Man of the
                  Sea; Giant Despair scowling from a make-believe window in a fictitious castle of
                  eroded sandstone; a roc with wings eighty feet long, poising on a giddy pinnacle
                  to pounce upon an elephant; pilgrim Christian advancing with sword and buckler
                  against a demon guarding some rocky portal, would have excited no astonishment
                  here.
               Of a sudden there came an adventure which gave opening for knight-errantry. As
                  Thurstane, Coronado, and Texas Smith were riding a few hundred yards ahead of the
                  caravan, and just emerging from what seemed an enormous court or public square,
                  surrounded by ruined edifices of gigantic magnitude, they discovered a man running
                  toward them in a style which reminded the Lieutenant of Timorous and Mistrust
                  flying from the lions. Impossible to see what he was afraid of; there was a broad,
                  yellow plain, dotted with monuments of sandstone; no living thing visible but this
                  man running.
               He was an American; at least he had the clothes of one. As he approached, he
                  appeared to be a lean, lank, narrow-shouldered, yellow-faced, yellow-haired
                  creature, such as you might expect to find on Cape Cod or thereabouts.
                  Hollow-chested as he was, he had a yell in him which was quite surprising. From
                  the time that he sighted the three horsemen he kept up a steady screech until he
                  was safe under their noses. Then he fell flat and gasped for nearly a minute
                  without speaking. His first words were, "That's pooty good sailin' for a man who
                  ain't used to't."
               "Did you run all the way from Down East?" asked Thurstane.
               "All the way from that bewt there—the one that looks most like a haystack."
               "Well, who the devil are you?"
               "I'm Phineas Glover—Capm Phineas Glover from Fair Haven, Connecticut. I'm goin' to
                  Californy after gold. Got lost out of the caravan among the mountings. Was comin'
                  along alone, 'n' run afoul of some Injuns. They're hidin' behind that bewt, 'n'
                  they've got my mewl."
               "Indians! How many are there?"
               "Only three. 'N' I expect they a'nt the real wild kind, nuther. Sorter half Injun,
                  half engineer, like what come round in the circuses. Didn't make much of 'n offer
                  towards carvin' me. But I judged best to quit, the first boat that put off. Ah,
                  they're there yit, 'n' the mewl tew."
               "You'll find our train back there," said Thurstane. "You had better make for it.
                  We'll recover your property."
               He dashed off at a full run for the butte, closely followed by Texas Smith and
                  Coronado. The Mexican had the best horse, and he would soon have led the other
                  two; but his saddle-girth burst, and in spite of his skill in riding he was nearly
                  thrown. Texas Smith pulled up to aid his employer, but only for an instant, as
                  Coronado called, "Go on."
               The borderer now spurred after Thurstane, who had got a dozen rods the lead of
                  him. Coronado rapidly examined his saddle-bags and then his pockets without
                  finding the cord or strap which he needed. He swore a little at this, but not with
                  any poignant emotion, for in the first place fighting was not a thing that he
                  yearned for, and in the second place he hardly anticipated a combat. The robbers,
                  he felt certain, were only vagrant rancheros, or the cowardly Indians of some
                  village, who would have neither the weapons nor the pluck to give battle.
               But suddenly an alarming suspicion crossed his mind. Would Texas Smith seize this
                  chance to send a bullet through Thurstane's head from behind? Knowing the
                  cutthroat's recklessness and his almost insane thirst for blood, he feared that
                  this might happen. And there was the train in view; the deed would probably be
                  seen, and, if so, would be seen as murder; and then would come pursuit of the
                  assassin, with possibly his seizure and confession. It would not do; no, it would
                  not do here and now; he must dash forward and prevent it.
               Swinging his saddle upon his horse's back, he vaulted into it without touching
                  pommel or stirrup, and set off at full speed to arrest the blow which he desired.
                  Over the plain flew the fiery animal, Coronado balancing himself in his unsteady
                  seat with marvellous ease and grace, his dark eyes steadily watching every
                  movement of the bushwhacker. There were sheets of bare rock here and there; there
                  were loose slates and detached blocks of sandstone. The beast dashed across the
                  first without slipping, and cleared the others without swerving; his rider bowed
                  and swayed in the saddle without falling.
               Texas Smith was now within a few yards of Thurstane, and it could be seen that he
                  had drawn his revolver. Coronada asked himself in horror whether the man had
                  understood the words "Go on" as a command for murder. He was thinking very fast;
                  he was thinking as fast as he rode. Once a terrible temptation came upon him: he
                  might let the fatal shot be fired; then he might fire another. Thus he would get
                  rid of Thurstane, and at the same time have the air of avenging him, while ridding
                  himself of his dangerous bravo. But he rejected this plan almost as soon as he
                  thought of it. He did not feel sure of bringing down Texas at the first fire, and
                  if he did not, his own life was not worth a second's purchase. As for the fact
                  that he had been lately saved from death by the borderer, that would not have
                  checked Coronado's hand, even had he remembered it. He. must dash on at full
                  speed, and prevent a crime which would be a blunder. But already it was nearly too
                  late, for the Texan was close upon the officer. Nothing could save the doomed man
                  but Coronado's magnificent horsemanship. He seemed a part of his steed; he shot
                  like a bird over, the sheets and bowlders of rock; he was a wonder of speed and
                  grace.
               Suddenly the outlaw's pistol rose to a level, and Coronado uttered a shout of
                  anxiety and horror.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               AT the shout which Coronado uttered on seeing Texas Smith's pistol aimed at
                  Thurstane, the assassin turned his head, discovered, the train, and, lowering his
                  weapon, rode peacefully alongside of his intended victim.
               Captain Phin Glover's mule was found grazing behind the butte, in the midst of the
                  gallant Captain's dishevelled baggage, while the robbers had vanished by a magic
                  which seemed quite natural in this scenery of grotesque marvels. They had unquestionably seen or heard their pursuers;
                  but how had they got into the bowels of the earth to escape them?
               Thurstane presently solved the mystery by pointing out three crouching figures on
                  the flat cap of stone which surmounted the shales and marl of the butte. Bare feet
                  and desperation of terror could alone explain how they had reached this impossible
                  refuge. Texas Smith immediately consoled himself for his disappointment as to
                  Thurstane by shooting two of these wretches before his hand could be stayed.
               "They're nothin' but Injuns," he said, with a savage glare, when the Lieutenant
                  struck aside his revolver and called him a murdering brute.
               The third skulker took advantage of the cessation of firing to tumble down from
                  his perch and fly for his life. The indefatigable Smith broke away from Thurstane,
                  dashed after the pitiful fugitive, leaned over him as he ran, and shot him
                  dead.
               "I have a great mind to blow your brains out, you beast," roared the disgusted
                  officer, who had followed closely. "I told you not to shoot that man." And here he
                  swore heartily, for which we must endeavor to forgive him, seeing that he belonged
                  to the army.
               Coronado interfered. "My dear Lieutenant I after all, they were robbers, They
                  deserved punishment." And so on.
               Texas Smith looked less angry and more discomfited than might have been expected,
                  considering his hardening life and ferocious nature.
               "Didn't s'p'ose you really keered much for the cuss," he said, glancing
                  respectfully at the imperious and angry face of the young officer.
               "Well, never mind now," growled Thurstane. "It's done, and can't be undone. But,
                  by Jove, I do hate useless massacre. Fighting is another thing."
               Sheathing his fury, he rode off rapidly toward the wagons, followed in silence by
                  the others. The three dead vagabonds (perhaps vagrants from the region of Abiquia)
                  remained where they had fallen, one on the stony plain and two on the cap of the
                  butte. The train, trending here toward the northwest, passed six hundred yards to
                  the north of the scene of slaughter; and when Clara and Mrs. Stanley asked what
                  had happened, Coronado told them with perfect glibness that the robbers had got
                  away.
               The rescued man, delighted at his escape and the recovery of his mule and luggage,
                  returned thanks right and left, with a volubility which further acquaintance
                  showed to be one of his characteristics. He was a profuse talker; ran a stream
                  every time you looked at him; it was like turning on a mill-race.
               "Yes, capm, out of Fair Haven," he said. "Been in the coastin' 'n' Wes' Injy
                  trade. Had 'n unlucky time out las' few years. Had a schuner burnt in. port, 'n'
                  lost a brig at sea. Pooty much broke me up. Wife 'n' dahter gone into th'
                  oyster-openin' business, Thought I'd try my han' at openin' gold mines in
                  Californy. Jined a caravan at Fort Leavenworth, 'n' lost my reckonin's back here a
                  ways"
               We must return to love matters. However amazing it may be that a man who has no
                  conscience should nevertheless have a heart, such appears to have been the case
                  with that abnormal creature Coronado. The desert had made him take a strong liking
                  to Clara, and now that he had a rival at hand he became impassioned for her. He
                  began to want to marry her, not alone for the sake of her great fortune, but also
                  for her own sake. Her beauty unfolded and blossomed wonderfully before his ardent
                  eyes; for he was under that mighty glamour of the emotions which enables us to see
                  beauty in its completeness; he was favored with the greatest earthly second-sight
                  which is vouchsafed to mortals.
               Only in a measure, however; the money still counted for much with him. He had
                  already decided what he would do with the Muñoz fortune when he should get it. He
                  would go to New York and lead a life of frugal extravagance, economical in
                  comforts (as we understand them) and expensive in pleasures. New York, with its
                  adjuncts of Saratoga and Newport, was to him what Paris is to many Americans. In
                  his imagination it was the height of grandeur and happiness to have a box at the
                  opera, to lounge in Broadway, and to dance at the hops of the Saratoga hotels. New
                  Mexico! he would turn his back on it; he would never set eyes on its dull poverty
                  again. As for Clara? Well, of course she would share in his gayeties; was not that
                  enough for any reasonable woman?
               But here was this stumbling-block of a Thurstane. In the presence of a handsome
                  rival, who, moreover, had started first in the race, slow was far from being sure.
                  Coronado had discovered, by long experience in flirtation and much intelligent
                  meditation upon it, that, if a man wants to win a woman, he must get her head full
                  of him. He decided, therefore, that at the first chance he would give Clara
                  distinctly to understand how ardently he was in love with her, and so set her to
                  thinking especially of him, and of Him alone. Meantime, he looked at her
                  adoringly, insinuated compliments, performed little services, walked his horse
                  much by her side, did his best in conversation, and in all ways tried to outshine
                  the Lieutenant.
               He supposed that he did outshine him. A man of thirty always believes that he
                  appears to better advantage than a man of twenty-three or four. He trusts that he
                  has more ideas, that he commits fewer absurdities, that he carries more weight of
                  character than his juvenile rival. Coronado was far more fluent than Thurstane;
                  had a greater command over his moods and manners, and a larger fund of animal
                  spirits; knew more about such social trifles as women like to hear of; and was, in
                  short, a more amusing prattler of small talk. There was a steady seriousness about
                  the young officer—something of the earnest sentimentality of the great Teutonic
                  race—which the mercurial Mexican did not understand nor appreciate, and which he
                  did not imagine could be fascinating to a woman, Knowing well how magnetic passion
                  is in its guise of Southern, fervor, he did not know that it is also potent under
                  the cloak of Northern solemnity.
               Unluckily for Coronado, Clara was half Teutonic, and could comprehend the tone of
                  her father's race. Notwithstanding Thurstane's shyness and silences, she
                  discovered his moral weight and gathered his unspoken meanings. There was more in
                  this girl than appeared on the surface. Without any power of reasoning concerning
                  character, and without even a disposition to analyze it, she had an instinctive
                  perception of it. While her talk was usually as simple as a child's, and her
                  meditations on men and things were not a bit systematic or logical, her decisions
                  and actions were generally just what they should be.
               Some one may wish to know whether she was clever enough to see through the
                  character of Coronado. She was clever enough, but not corrupt enough. Very pure
                  people cannot fully understand people who are very impure. It is probable that
                  angels are considerably in the dark concerning the nature of the devil, and derive
                  their disagreeable impression of him mainly from a consideration of his actions.
                  Clara, limited to a narrow circle of good intentions and conduct, might not divine
                  the wide regions of wickedness through which roved the soul of Coronado, and must wait to see his works
                  before she could fairly bring him to judgment.
               Of course she perceived that in various ways he was insincere. When he prattled
                  compliments and expressions of devotion, whether to herself or to others, she made
                  Spanish allowance. It was polite hyperbole; it was about the same as saying
                  good-morning; it was a cheerful way of talking that they had in Mexico; she knew
                  thus much from her social experience. But while she cared little for his
                  adulations, she did not because of them consider him a scoundrel, nor necessarily
                  a hypocrite.
               Coronado found and improved opportunities to talk in asides with Clara. Thurstane,
                  the modest, proud, manly youngster, who had no meannesses or trickeries by nature,
                  and had learned none in his honorable profession, would not allow himself to break
                  into these dialogues if they looked at all like confidences. The more he suspected
                  that Coronado was courting Clara, the more resolutely and grimly he said to
                  himself, "Stand back!" The girl should be perfectly free to choose between them;
                  she should be influenced by no compulsions and no stratagems of his; was he not
                  "an officer and a gentleman"?
               "By Jove! I am miserable for life," he thought when he suspected, as he sometimes
                  did, that they two were in love. "I'll get myself killed in my next fight. I can't
                  bear it. But I won't Interfere. I'll do my duty as an honorable man. Of course she
                  understands me."
               But just at this point Clara failed to understand him. It is asserted by some
                  philosophers that women have less conscience about "cutting each other out,"
                  breaking up engagements, etc., than men have in such matters. Love-making and its
                  results form such an all-important part of their existence, that they must
                  occasionally allow success therein to overbear such vague, passionless ideas as
                  principles, sentiments of honor, etc. It is, we fear, highly probable that if
                  Clara had been in love with Ralph, and had seen her chance of empire threatened by
                  a rival, she would have come out of that calm innocence which now seemed to enfold
                  her whole nature, and would have clone such things as girls may do to avert
                  catastrophes of the affections. She now thought to herself, If he cares for me,
                  how can he keep away from me when he sees Coronado making eyes at me? She was a
                  little vexed with him for behaving so, and was consequently all the sweeter to his
                  rival. This when Ralph would have risked his commission for a smile, and would
                  have died to save her from a sorrow!
               Presently this slightly coquettish, yet very good and lovely little being—this
                  seraph from one of Fra Angelica's pictures, endowed with a frailty or two of
                  humanity—found herself the heroine of a trying scene. Coronado hastened it; he
                  judged her ready to fall into his net; he managed the time and place for the
                  capture. The train had been ascending for some hours, and had at last reached a
                  broad plateau, a nearly even floor of sandstone, covered with a carpet of thin
                  earth, the whole noble level bare to the eye at once, without a tree or a thicket
                  to give it detail. It was a scene of tranquillity and monotony; no rains ever
                  disturbed or remoulded the tabulated surface of soil; there, as distinct as if
                  made yesterday, were the tracks of a train which had passed a year before.
               "Shall we take a gallop?" said Coronado. "No danger of ambusnes here."
               Clara's eyes sparkled with youth's love of excitement, and the two horses sprang
                  off at speed toward the centre of the plateau. After a glorious flight of five
                  minutes, enjoyed for the most part in silence, as such swift delights usually are,
                  they dropped into a walk two miles ahead of the wagons.
               "That was magnificent," Clara of course said, her face flushed with pleasure and
                  exercise.
               "You are wonderfully handsome," observed Coronado, with an air of thinking aloud,
                  which disguised the coarse directness of the flattery. In fact, he was so dazzled
                  by her brilliant color, the sunlight in her disordered curls, and the joyous
                  sparkling of her hazel eyes, that he spoke with an ingratiating honesty.
               Clara, who was in one of her unconscious and innocent moods, simply replied, "I
                  suppose people are always handsome enough when they are happy."
               "Then I ought to be lovely," said Coronado. "I am happier than I ever was
                  before."
               "Coronado, you look very well," observed Clara, turning her eyes on him with a
                  grave expression which rather puzzled him. "This out-of-door life has done you
                  good."
               "Then I don't look very well indoors?" he smiled.
               "You know what I mean, Coronado. Your health has improved, and your face shows
                  it."
               Fearing that she was not in an emotional condition to be bewildered and fascinated
                  by a declaration of love, he queried whether he had not better put off his
                  enterprise until a more susceptible moment. Certainly, if he were without a rival;
                  but there was Thurstane, ready any and every day to propose; it would not do to
                  let himhave the first word, and cause the first heart-beat. Coronado
                  believed that to make sure of winning the race he must take the lead at the start.
                  Yes, he would offer himself now; he would begin by talking her into a receptive
                  state of mind; that clone, he would say with all his eloquence, "I love you."
               We must not suppose that the declaration would be a pure fib, or anything, like it
                  The man had no conscience, and he was almost incomparably selfish, but he was
                  capable of loving, and he did love. That is to say, he was inflamed by this girl's
                  beauty and longed to possess it. It is a low species of affection, but it is
                  capable of great violence in a man whose physical nature is ardent, and Coronado's
                  blood could take a heat like lava. Already, although he had not yet developed his
                  full power of longing, he wanted Clara as he had never wanted any woman before. We
                  can best describe his kind of sentiment by that hungry, carnal word
                     wanted.
               
               After riding in silent thought for a few rods, he said, "I have lost my good looks
                  now, I suppose."
               "What do you mean, Coronado?"
               "They depend on my happiness, and that is gone."
               "Coronado, you are playing riddles."
               "This table-land reminds me of my own life. Do you see that it has no verdure? I
                  have been just as barren of all true happiness. There has been no fruit or blossom
                  of true affection for me to gather. You know that I lost my excellent father and
                  my sainted mother when I was a child. I was too young to miss them; but for all
                  that the bereavement was the same; there was the less love for me. It seems as if
                  there had been none."
               "Garcia has been good to you—of late," suggested Clara, rather puzzled to find
                  consolation for a man whose misery was so new to her.
               Remembering what a scoundrel Garcia was, and what a villainous business Garcia had
                  sent him upon, Coronado felt like smiling. He knew that the old man had no
                  sentiments beyond egotism, and a family pride which mainly, if not entirely,
                  sprang from it. Such a heart as Garcia's, what a place to nestle in! Such a
                  creature as Coronado seeking comfort in such a breast as his uncle's was very much
                  like a rattlesnake warming himself in a hole of a rock.
               
               "Ah, yes!" sighed Coronado. "Admirable old gentleman! I should not have forgotten
                  him. However, he is a solace which comes rather late. It is only two years since
                  he perceived that he had done me injustice, and received me into favor. And his
                  affection is somewhat cold. Garcia is an old man laden with affairs. Moreover, men
                  in general have little sympathy with men. When we are saddened, we do not look to
                  our own sex for cheer. We look to yours."
               Almost every woman responds promptly to a claim for pity.
               "I am sorry for you, Coronado," said Clara, in her artless way, "I am, truly."
               "You do not know, you cannot know, how you console me."
               Satisfied with the results of his experiment in boring for sympathy, he tried
                  another, a dangerous one, it would seem, but very potent when it succeeds.
               "This lack of affection has had sad results. I have searched everywhere for it,
                  only to meet with disappointment. In my desperation I have searched where I should
                  not. I have demanded true love of people who had no true love to give. And for
                  this error and wrong I have been terribly punished. The mere failure of hope and
                  trust has been hard enough to bear. But that was not the half. Shame,
                  self-contempt, remorse have been an infinitely heavier burden. If any man was ever
                  cured of trusting for happiness to a wicked world, it is Coronado."
               In spite of his words and his elaborately penitent expression, Clara only
                  partially understood him. Some kind of evil life he was obviously confessing, but
                  what kind she only guessed in the vaguest fashion. However, she comprehended
                  enough to interest her warmly: here was a penitent sinner who had forsaken ways of
                  wickedness; here was a struggling soul which needed encouragement and tenderness.
                  A woman loves to believe that she can be potent over hearts, and especially that
                  she can be potent for good. Clara fixed upon Coronado's face a gaze of compassion
                  and benevolence which was almost superhuman. It should have shamed him into
                  honesty; but he was capable of trying to deceive the saints and the Virgin; he
                  merely decided that she was in a fit frame to accept him.
               "At last I have a faint hope of a sure and pure happiness," be said. "I have found
                  one who I know can strengthen me and comfort me, if she will. I am seeking to be
                  worthy of her. I am worthy of her so far as adoration can make me. I am ready to
                  surrender my whole life—all that I am and that I can be—to her."
               Clara had begun to guess his meaning; the quick blood was already flooding her
                  cheek; the light in her eyes was tremulous with agitation.
               "Clara, you must know what I mean," continued Coronado, suddenly reaching his hand
                  toward her, as if to take her captive. "You are the only person I ever loved. I
                  love you with all my soul. Can your heart ever respond to mine? Can you ever bring
                  yourself to be my wife?"
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               WHEN Coronado proposed to Clara, she was for a moment stricken dumb with
                  astonishment and with something like terror.
               Her first idea was that she must take him; that the mere fact of a man asking for
                  her gave him a species of right over her; that there was no such thing possible as
                  answering, No. She sat looking at Coronado with a helpless, timorous orous air,
                  very much as a child looks at his father, when the father, switching his rattan,
                  says, "Come with me."
               On recovering herself a little, her first words—uttered slowly, in a tone of
                  surprise and of involuntary reproach—were, "Oh, Coronado! I did not expect
                  this."
               "Can't you answer me?" he asked in a voice which was honestly tremulous with
                  emotion. "Can't you say yes?"
               "Oh, Coronado!" repeated Clara, a good deal touched by his agitation.
               "Can't you?" he pleaded. Repetitions, in such cases, are so natural and so
                  potent.
               "Let me think, Coronado," she implored. "I can't answer you now. You have taken me
                  so by surprise!"
               "Every moment that you take to think is torture to me," he pleaded, as he
                  continued to press her.
               Perhaps she was on the point of giving way before his insistence. Consider the
                  advantages that he had over her In this struggle of wills for the mastery. He was
                  older by ten years; he possessed both the adroitness of self-command and the
                  energy of passion; he had a long experience in love matters, while she had none.
                  He was the proclaimed heir of a man reputed wealthy, and could therefore, as she
                  believed, support her handsomely. Since the death of her father she considered
                  Garcia the head of her family in New Mexico; and Coronado had had the face to tell
                  her that he made his offer with the approval of Garcia. Then she was under
                  supposed obligations to him, and he was to be her protector across the desert.
               She was as it were reeling in her saddle, when a truly Spanish idea saved her.
               "Muñoz!" she exclaimed. "Coronado, you forget my grandfather. He should know of
                  this."
               Although the man was unaccustoned to start, he drew back as if a ghost had
                  confronted him; and even when he recovered from his transitory emotion, he did not
                  at first know how to answer her. It would not do to say, "Muñoz is dead," and much
                  less to add, "You are his heir."
               "We are Americans," he at last argued. "Spanish customs are dead and buried. Can't
                  you speak for yourself on a matter which concerns you and me alone?"
               "Coronado, I think it would not be right," she replied, holding firmly to her
                  position. "It is probable that my grandfather would be better pleased to have this
                  matter referred to him. I ought to consider him, and you must let me do so."
               "I submit," he bowed, seeing that there was no help for it, and deciding to make a
                  grace of necessity. "It pains me, but I submit. Let me hope that you will not let
                  this pass from your mind. Some day, when it is proper, I shall speak again."
               He was not wholly dissatisfied, for he trusted that henceforward her head would be
                  full of him, and he had not much hoped to gain more in a first effort.
               "I shall always be proud and gratified at the compliment you have paid me," was
                  her reply to his last request.
               "You deserve many such compliments," he said, gravely courteous and quite
                  sincere.
               Then they cantered back in silence to meet the advancing train.
               Yes, Coronado was partly satisfied. He believed that he had gained a firmer footing among the girl's thoughts and
                  emotions than had been gained by Thurstane. In a degree he was right. No
                  sensitive, and pure, and good girl can receive her first offer without being much
                  moved by it. The man who has placed himself at her feet will affect her strongly.
                  She may begin to dread him, or begin to like him more than before; but she cannot
                  remain utterly indifferent to him. The probability is that, unless subsequent
                  events make him disagreeable to her, she will long accord him a measure of esteem
                  and gratitude.
               For two or three days, while Clara was thinking much of Coronado, he gave her less
                  than usual of his society. Believing that her mind was occupied with him, that she
                  was wondering whether he were angry, unhappy, etc., he remained a good deal apart,
                  wrapped himself in sadness, and trusted that time would do much for him. Had there
                  been no rival, the plan would have been a good one; but Ralph Thurstane being
                  present, it was less successful.
               Ralph had already become more of a favorite than any one knew, even the young lady
                  herself; and now that he found chances for long talks and short gallops with her,
                  he got on better than ever. He was just the kind of youngster a girl of eighteen
                  would naturally like to have ride by her side. He was handsome; at any rate, he
                  was the handsomest man she had seen in the desert, and the desert was just then
                  her sphere of society. You could see in his figure how strong he was, and in his
                  face how brave he was. He was a good fellow, too; "tendir and trew" as the Douglas
                  of the ballad; sincere, frank, thoroughly truthful and honorable. Every way he
                  seemed to be that being that a woman most wants, a potential and devoted
                  protector. Whenever Clara looked in his face her eyes said, without her knowledge,
                  "I trust you."
               Now, as we have already stated, Thurstane's eyes were uncommonly fine and
                  expressive. Of the very darkest blue that ever was seen in anybody's head, and
                  shaded, moreover, by remarkably long chestnut lashes, they had the advantages of
                  both blue eyes and black ones, being as gentle as the one and as fervent as the
                  other. Accordingly, a sort of optical conversation commenced between the two young
                  people. Every time that Clara's glance said, "I trust you," Thurstane's responded,
                  "I will die for you." It was a perilous sort of dialogue, and liable to involve
                  the two souls which looked out from these sparkling, transparent windows. Before
                  long the Lieutenant's modest heart took courage, and his stammering tongue began
                  to be loosed somewhat, so that he tittered things which frightened both him and
                  Clara. Not that the remarks were audacious in themselves, but he was conscious of
                  so much unexpressed meaning behind them, and she was so ready to guess that there
                  might be such a meaning!
               It seems ridiculous that a fellow who could hold his head straight up before a
                  storm of cannon shot, should be positively bashful. Yet so it was. The boy had
                  been through West Point, to be sure; but he had studied there, and not flirted;
                  the Academy had not in any way demoralized him. On the whole, in spite of swearing
                  under gross provocation, and an inclination toward strictness in discipline, he
                  answered pretty well for a Bayard.
               His bashfulness was such, at least in the presence of Clara, that he trembled to
                  the tips of his fingers in merely making this remark: "Miss Van Diemen, this
                  journey is the pleasantest thing in my whole life."
               Clara blushed until she dazzled him and seemed to burn herself. Nevertheless she
                  was favored with her usual childlike artlessness of speech, and answered, "I am
                  glad you find it agreeable."
               Nothing more from Ralph for a minute; he was recovering his breath and
                  self-possession.
               "You cannot think how much safer I feel because you and your men are with as,"
                  said Clara.
               Thurstane unconsciously gripped the handle of his sabre, with a feeling that he
                  could and would massacre all the Indians of the desert, if it were necessary to
                  preserve her from harm.
               "Yes, you may rely upon my men, too," he declared. "They have a sort of adoration
                  for you."
               "Have they?" asked Clara, with a frank smile of pleasure. "I wonder at it. I
                  hardly notice them. I ought to, they seem so patient and trusty."
               "Ah, a lady!" said Thurstane. "A good soldier will die any time for a lady."
               Then he wondered how she could have failed to guess that she must be worshipped by
                  these rough men for her beauty.
               "I have overheard them talking about you," he went on, gratified at being able to
                  praise her to her face, though in the speech of others. "Little Sweeny says, in
                  his Irish brogue, 'I can march twic't as fur for the seein' av her!'"
               "Oh! did he?" laughed Clara. "I must carry Sweeny's musket for him some time."
               "Don't, if you please," said Thurstane, the disciplinarian rising in him. "You
                  would spoil him for the service."
               "Can't I send him a dish from our table?"
               "That would just suit his case. He hasn't got broken to hard-tack yet."
               "Miss Van Diemen," was his next remark, "do you know what you are to do, if we are
                  attacked?"
               "I am to get into a wagon."
               "Into which wagon?"
               "Into my aunt's."
               "Why into that one?"
               "So as to have all the ladies together."
               "When you have got into the wagon, what next?"
               "Lie down on the floor to protect myself from the arrows."
               "Very good," laughed Thurstane. "You say your tactics well."
               This catechism had been put and recited every day since he had joined the train.
                  The putting of it was one of the Lieutenant's duties and pleasures; and,
                  notwithstanding its prophecy of peril, Clara enjoyed it almost as much as he.
               Well, we have heard these two talk, and much in their usual fashion. Not great
                  souls as yet: they may indeed become such some day; but at present they are only
                  mature in moral power and in capacity for mighty emotions. Information, mental
                  development, and conversational ability hereafter.
               In one way or another two or three of these tête-à-têtes were brought about every
                  day. Thurstane wanted them all the time; would have been glad to make life tone
                  long dialogue with Miss Van Diemen; found an aching void in every moment spent
                  away from her. Clara, too, in spite of maidenly struggles with herself, began to
                  be of this way of feeling. Wonderful place the Great American Desert for falling
                  in love!
               Coronado soon guessed, and with good reason, that the seed which he had sown in
                  the girl's mind was being replaced by other germs, and that he had blundered in
                  trusting that she would think of him while she was talking with Thurstane. The
                  fear of losing her increased his passion for her, and made him hate his rival with
                  correlative fervor.
               "Why don't you find a chance at that fellow?" he muttered to his bravo, Texas
                  Smith.
               
               "How the h—I kin I do it?" growled the bushwhacker, feeling that his intelligence
                  and courage were unjustly called in question. "He's allays around the train, an'
                  his sojers allays handy. I hain't had nary chance."
               "Take him off on a hunt."
               "He ain't a gwine. I reckon he knows himself. I'm afeard to praise hunt-in' much
                  to him; he might get on my trail Tell you these army chaps is resky. I never
                  wanted to meddle with them kind o' close. You know I said so. I said so, fair an'
                  square, I did."
               "You might manage it somehow, if you had the pluck."
               "Had the pluck!" repeated Texas Smith. His sallow, Haggard face turned dusky with
                  rage, and his singularly black eyes flamed as if with hell-fire. A Malay, crazed
                  with opium and ready to run amok, could not
                  present a more savage spectacle than this man did as he swayed in his saddle,
                  grinding his teeth, clutching his rifle, and glaring at Coronado. What chiefly
                  infuriated him was that the insult should come from one whom he considered a
                  "greaser," a man of inferior race. He, Texas Smith, an American, a white
                     man, was treated as if he were an "Injun" or a "nigger." Coronado was
                  thoroughly alarmed, and smoothed his ruffled feathers at once.
               "I beg your pardon," he said, promptly. "My dear Mr. Smith, I was entirely wrong.
                  Of course I know that you have courage. Everybody knows it. Besides, I am under
                  the greatest obligations to you. You saved my life. By heavens, I am horribly
                  ashamed of my injustice."
               A minute or so of this fluent apologizing calmed the bushwhacker's rage and
                  soothed his injured feelings.
               "But you oughter be keerful how you talk that way to a white man," he said. "No
                  white man, if he's a gentleman, can stan' being told he hain't got no pluck."
               "Certainly," assented Coronado. "Well, I have apologized. What more can I do?"
               "Square, you're all right now," said the forgiving Texan, stretching out his bony,
                  dirty hand and grasping Coronado's. "But don't say it agin. White men can't stan'
                  sech talk. Well, about this feller—I'll see, I'll see. Square, I'll try to do
                  what's right."
               As Coronado rode away from this interview, he ground his teeth with rage and
                  mortification, muttering, "A white man! a white man! So
                  I am a black man. Yes, I am a greaser. Curse this whole race of English-speaking
                  people!"
               After a while he began to think to the purpose. He too must work; he must not
                  trust altogether to Texas Smith; the scoundrel might flinch, or might fail.
                  Something must be done to separate Clara and Thurstane. What should it be? Here we
                  are almost ashamed of Coronado. The trick that he hit upon was the stalest, the
                  most threadbare, the most commonplace and vulgar that one can imagine. It was
                  altogether unworthy of such a clever and experienced conspirator. His idea was
                  this: to get lost with Clara for one night; in the morning to, rejoin the train.
                  Thurstane would be disgusted, and would unquestionably give up the girl entirely
                  when Coronado should say to him, "It was a very unlucky accident, but I have done
                  what a gentleman should, and we are engaged."
               This coarse, dastardly, and rather stupid stratagem he put into execution as
                  quickly as possible. There were some dangers to be guarded against, as for
                  instance Apaches, and the chance of getting lost in reality.
               "Have an eye upon me to-day," he suggested to Texas. "If I leave the train with
                  any one, follow me and keep a lookout for Indians. Only stay out of sight."
               Now for an opportunity to lead Clara astray. The region was favorable; they were
                  in an and land of ragged sandstone spurs and buttes; it would be necessary to
                  march until near sunset, in order to find water and pasturage. Con. sequently
                  there was both time and scenery for his project. Late in the afternoon the train
                  crossed a narrrow mesa or plateau, and
                  approached a sublime terrace of rock which was the face of a second table-land.
                  This terrace was cleft by several of those wonderful grooves which are known as
                  cañons, and which were wrought by that mighty water-force, the sculpturer of the
                  American desert. In one place two of these openings were neighbors: the larger was
                  the route and the smaller led nowhere.
               "Let the train pass on," suggested Coronado to Clara. "If you will ride with me up
                  this little cañon, you will find some of the most exquisite scenery imaginable. It
                  rejoins the large one further on. There is no danger."
               Clara would have preferred not to go, or would have preferred to go with
                  Thurstane.
               "My dear child, what do you mean?" urged Aunt Maria, looking out of her wagon.
                  "Mr. Coronado, I'll ride there with you myself."
               The result of the dialogue which ensued was that, after the train had entered the
                  gorge of the larger cañon, Coronado and Clara turned back and wandered up the
                  smaller one, followed at a distance by Texas Smith. In twenty minutes they were
                  separated from the wagons by a barrier of sandstone several hundred feet high, and
                  culminating in a sharp ridge or frill of rocky points, not unlike the spiny back
                  of a John Dory. The scenery, although nothing new to Clara, was such as would be
                  considered in any other land amazing. Vast walls on either side, consisting mainly
                  of yellow sandstone, were variegated with white, bluish, and green shales, with
                  layers of gypsum of the party-colored marl series, with long lines of white
                  limestone so soft as to be nearly earth, and with red and green foliated limestone
                  mixed with blood-red shales. The two wanderers seemed to be amid the landscapes of
                  a Christmas drama as they rode between these painted precipices toward a crimson
                  sunset.
               It was a perfect solitude. There was not a breath of life besides their own in
                  this gorgeous valley of desolation. The ragged, crumbling battlements, and the
                  loftier points of harder rock, would not have furnished subsistence for a goat or
                  a mouse. Color was everywhere and life nowhere: it was such a region as one might
                  look for in the moon; it did not seem to belong to an inhabited planet.
               Before they had ridden half an hour the sun went down suddenly behind serrated
                  steeps, and almost immediately night hastened in with his obscurities. Texas
                  Smith, riding hundreds of yards in the rear and concealing himself behind the
                  turning points of the cañon, was obliged to diminish his distance in order to keep
                  them under his guard. Clara had repeatedly expressed her doubts as to the road,
                  and Coronado had as often asserted that they would soon see the train. At last the
                  ravine became a gully, winding up a breast of shadowy mountain cumbered with loose
                  rocks, and impassable to horses.
               "We are lost," confessed Coronado, and then proceeded to console her. The train
                  could not be far off; their friends would undoubtedly seek them; at all events,
                  would not go on without them. They must bivouac there as well as might be, and in
                  the morning rejoin the caravan.
               He had been forethoughted enough to bring two blankets on his saddle, and he now
                  spread them out for her, insisting that she should try to sleep. Clara cried
                  frankly and heartily, and begged him to lead her back through the cañon. No; it
                  could not be traversed by night, he asserted; they would certainly break their necks among the bowlders. At last
                  the girl suffered herself to be wrapped in the blankets, and made an endeavor to
                  forget her wretchedness and vexation in slumber.
               Meantime, a few hundred yards down the ravine, a tragedy was on the verge of
                  action. Thurstane, missing Coronado and Clara, and learning what direction they
                  had taken, started with two of his soldiers to find them, and was now picking his
                  way on foot along the cañon. Behind a detached rock at the base of one of the
                  sandstone walls Texas Smith lay in ambush, aiming his rifle first at one and then
                  at another of this stumbling trio, and cursing the starlight because it was so dim
                  that he could not positively distinguish which was the officer.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               FOR the second time within a week, Texas Smith found himself upon the brink of
                  opportunity, without being able (as he had phrased it to Coronado) to do what was
                  right.
               He levelled at Thurstane, and then it did not seem to be Thurstane; he had a dead
                  sure sight at Kelly, and then perceived that that was an error; he drew a bead on
                  Shubert, and still he hesitated. He could distinguish the Lieutenant's voice, but
                  he could not fix upon the figure which uttered it.
               It was exasperating. Never had an assassin been better ambuscaded. He was kneeling
                  behind a little ridge of sandstone; about a foot below its edge was an orifice
                  made by the rains and winds of bygone centuries; through this, as through an
                  embrasure, he had thrust his rifle. Not a chance of being hit by a return shot
                  while after the enemy's fire had been drawn he could fly clown the ravine,
                  probably without discovery and certainly without recognition. His horse was
                  tethered below, behind another rock; and he felt positive that these men 'had not
                  come upon it. He could mount, drive their beasts before him into the plain, and
                  then return to camp. No need of explaining his absence; he was the head hunter of
                  the expedition; it was his business to wander.
               All this was so easy to do, if he could only take the first step. But he dared not
                  fire lest he should merely kill a soldier, and so make an uproar and rouse
                  suspicions without the slightest profit. It was not probable that Coronado would
                  pay him for shooting the wrong man, and setting on foot a dangerous investigation.
                  So the desperado continued to peer through the dim night, cursing his stars and
                  everybody's stars for not shining better, and seeing his opportunity slip rapidly
                  away. After Thurstane and the others had passed, after the chance of murder had
                  stalked by hint like a ghost and vanished, he left his ambush, glided down the
                  ravine to his horse, waked him up with a vindictive kick, leaped into the saddle,
                  and hastened to camp. To inquiries about the lost couple he replied in his sullen,
                  brief way that he had not seen them; and when urged to go to their rescue, he of
                  course set off in the wrong direction and travelled but a short distance.
               Meantime Ralph had found the captives of the cañon. Clara, wrapped in her
                  blankets, was lying at the foot of a rock, and crying while she pretended to
                  sleep. Coronado, unable to make her talk, irritated by the faint sobs which he
                  overheard, but stubbornly resolved on carrying out his stupid plot, had retired In
                  a state of ill-humor unusual with him to another rock, and was consoling himself
                  by smoking cigarito after cigarito. The two horses, tied together neck and
                  crupper, were fasting near by. As Coronado had forgotten to bring food with him,
                  Clara was also lasting.
               Think of Apaches, and imagine the terror with which she caught the sounds of
                  approach, the heavy, stumbling steps through the darkness. Then imagine the joy
                  with which she recognized Thurstane's call and groped to meet him. In the
                  dizziness of her delight, and amid the hiding veils of the obscurity, it did not
                  seem wrong nor unnatural to fall against his arm and be supported by: it for a
                  moment. Ralph received this touch, this shock, as if it had been a ball; and his
                  nature bore the impress of it as long as if it had made a scar. In his whole
                  previous life he had not felt such a thrill of emotion; it was almost too powerful
                  to be adequately described as a pleasure.
               Next came Coronado, as happy as a disappointed burglar whose cue it is to
                  congratulate the rescuing policeman. "My dear Lieutenant! You are heaven's' own
                  messenger. You have saved us from a horrible night. But it is prodigious; it is
                  incredible. You must have come here by enchantment. How in God's name could you
                  find your way up this fearful cañon?"
               "The cañon is perfectly passable on foot," replied the young officer, stiffly and
                  angrily. "By Jove, sir! I don't see why you didn't make a start to get out. This
                  is a pretty place to lodge Miss Van Diemen."
               Coronado took off his hat and made a bow of submission and regret, which. was lost
                  in the darkness.
               "I must say," Thurstane went on grumbling, "that, for a man who claims to know
                  this country, your management has been very singular."
               Clara, fearful of a quarrel, slightly pressed his arm and checked this volcano
                  with the weight of a feather.
               "We are not all like you, my dear Lieutenant," said Coronado, in a tone which
                  might have been either apologetical or ironical. "You must make allowance for
                  ordinary human nature."
               "I beg pardon," returned Thurstane, who was thinking now chiefly of that pressure
                  on his arm. "The truth is, I was alarmed for your safety. I can't help feeling
                  responsibility on this expedition, although it is your train. My military
                  education runs me into it, I suppose. Well, excuse my excitement. Miss Van Diemen,
                  may I help you back through the gully?"
               In leaning on him, being guided by him, being saved by him, trusting in him, the
                  girl found a pleasure which was irresistible, although it seemed audacious and
                  almost sinful. Before the cañon was half traversed she felt as if she could go on
                  with him through the great dark valley of life, confiding in his strength and
                  wisdom to lead her aright and make her happy. It was a temporary wave of emotion,
                  but she remembered it long after it had passed.
               Around the fires, after a cup of hot coffee, amid the odors of a plentiful supper,
                  recounting the evening's adventure to Mrs. Stanley, Coronado was at his best. How
                  he rolled out the English language! Our mother tongue hardly, knew itself, it ran
                  so fluently and sounded so magniloquently and lied so naturally. He praised
                  everybody but himself; he praised Clara, Thurstane, and the two soldiers and the
                  horses; he even said a flattering word or two for Divine Providence, Clara
                  especially, and the whole of her heroic, more than human sex, demanded his
                  enthusiastic admiration. How she had borne the terrors of the night and the
                  desert! "Ah, Mrs. Stanley! only you women are capable of such efforts."
               Aunt Maria's Olympian head nodded, and her cheerful face, glowing with tea and the
                  camp" fires, confessed "Certainly!"
               
               "What nonsense, Coronado!" said Clara. "I was horribly frightened, and you know
                  it."
               Aunt Maria frowned with surprise and denial. "Absurd, child! You were not
                  frightened at all. Of course you were not. Why, even if you had been slightly
                  timorous, you had your cousin to protect you."
               "Ah, Mrs. Stanley, I am a poor knight-errant," said Coronado. "We Mexicans are no
                  longer formidable. One man of your Anglo-Saxon blood is supposed to be a better
                  defence than a dozen of us. We have been subdued; we must submit to depreciation.
                  I must confess, in fact, that I had my fears. I was greatly relieved on my
                  cousin's account when I heard the voice of our military chieftain here."
               Then came more flattery for Ralph, with proper rations for the two privates. Those
                  faithful soldiers—he must show his gratitude to them; he had forgotten them in the
                  basest manner. "Here, Pedronillo, take these cigaritos to privates Kelly and
                  Shubert, with my compliments. Begging your permission, Lieutenant.
                     Thank you."
               "Pooty tonguey man, that Seenor," observed Captain Phineas Glover to Mrs. Stanley,
                  when the Mexican went off to his blankets.
               "Yes; a very agreeable and eloquent gentleman," replied the lady, wishing to
                  correct the skipper's statement while seeming to assent to it.
               "Jess so," admitted Glover. "Ruther airy. Big talkin' man. Don't raise no sech our
                  way."
               Captain Glover was not fully aware that he himself had the fame of possessing an
                  imagination which was almost too much for the facts of this world.
               "S'pose it's in the breed," he continued. "Or likely the climate has suthin' to do
                  with it: kinder thaws out the words 'n' sets the idees a-bilin'. Niggers is pooty
                  much the same. Most niggers kin talk like a line runnin' out, 'n' tell lies 's
                  fast's our Fair Haven gals open oysters—a quart a minute."
               "Captain Glover, what do you mean?' frowned Aunt Maria. "Mr. Coronado is a friend
                  of mine."
               "Oh, I was speakin' of niggers," returned the skipper promptly. "Forgot we begun'
                  about the Seenor. Sho! niggers was what I was talkin' of. B' th' way, that puts me
                  in mind 'f one I had for cook once. Jiminy! how that man would cook! He'd cook a
                  slice of halibut so you wouldn't know it from beefsteak."
               "Dear me! how did he do it?' asked Aunt Maria, who had a fancy for kitchen
                  mysteries.
               "Never could find out," said Glover, stepping adroitly out of his difficulty.
                  "Don't s'pose that nigger would a let on how he did it for ten dollars."
               "I should think the receipt would be worth ten dollars," observed Aunt Maria
                  thoughtfully.
               "Not 'xactly here," returned the captain, with one of his dried smiles, which had
                  the air of having been used a great many times before. "Halibut too skurce. Wal, I
                  was goin' to tell ye 'bout this nigger. He come to be the cook he was because he
                  was a big eater. We was wrecked once, 'n' had to live three days on old shoes 'n'
                  that sort 'f truck. Wal, this nigger was so darned ravenous he ate up a pair o'
                  long boots in the time it took me to git down one 'f the straps."
               "Ate up a pair of boots!" exclaimed Aunt Maria, amazed and almost incredulous.
               "Yes, by thunder!" insisted the captain, "grease, nails, 'n' all. An' then went at
                  the patent leather forepiece 'f his cap."
               "What privations!" said Aunt Maria, staring fit to burst her spectacles.
               "Oh, that's nothin'," chuckled Glover. "I'll tell ye suthin' some time that 'll
                  astonish ye. But jess now I'm sleepy, 'n' I guess I'll turn in."
               "Mr. Cluvver, it is your durn on card do-night," interposed Meyer, the German
                  sergeant, as the captain was about to roll himself in his blankets.
               "So 'tis, returned Glover in well feigned astonishment. "Don't forgit a feller, do
                  ye, Sergeant? How 'n the world do ye keep the 'count so straight? Oh, got a little
                  book there, hey, with all our names down, Wal, that's shipshape. You'd make a
                  pooty good mate, Sergeant. When does my watch begin?"
               "Right away. You're always on the virst relief. You'll fall in down there at the
                  gorner of the vagon bark."
               "Wal—yes—s'pose I will," sighed the skipper, as he rolled up his blankets and
                  prepared for two hours' sentry duty.
               Let us look into the arrangements for the protection of the caravan. With
                  Coronado's consent Thurstane had divided the eighteen Indians and Mexicans, four
                  soldiers, Texas Smith, and Glover, twenty-four men in all, into three equal
                  squads, each composed of a sergeant, corporal, and six privates. Meyer was
                  sergeant of one squad, the Irish veteran Kelly had another, and Texas Smith the
                  third. Every night a detachment went on duty in three reliefs, each relief
                  consisting of two men, who stood sentry for two hours, at the end of which time
                  they were relieved by-two others.
               The six wagons were always parked in an oblong square, one at each end and two on
                  each side; but in order to make the central space large enough for camping
                  purposes, they were placed several feet apart; the gaps being closed with lariats,
                  tied from wheel to wheel, to pen in the animals and keep out charges of Apache
                  cavalry. On either flank of this enclosure, and twenty yards or so distant from
                  it, paced a sentry. Every two hours, as we have said, they were relieved, and in
                  the alternate hours the posts were visited by the sergeant or corporal of the
                  guard, who took turns in attending to this service. The squad that came off duty
                  in the morning was allowed during the day to take naps in the wagons, and was not
                  put upon the harder camp labor, such as gathering firewood, going for water,
                  etc.
               The two ladies and the Indian women slept at night in the wagons, not only because
                  the canvas tops protected them from wind and dew, but also because the wooden
                  sides would shield them from arrows. The men who were not on guard lay under the
                  vehicles so as to form a cordon around the mules. Thurstane and Coronado, the two
                  chiefs of this armed migration, had their alternate nights of command, each when
                  off duty sleeping in a special wagon known as "headquarters," but holding himself
                  ready to rise at once in case of an alarm.
               The cooking fires were built away from the park, and outside the beats of the
                  sentries. The object was twofold: first, to keep sparks from lighting on the wagon
                  covers; second, to hide the sentries from prowling archers. At night you can see
                  everything between yourself and a fire, but nothing beyond it As long as the wood
                  continued to blaze, the most adroit Indian skulker could not, approach the camp
                  without exposing himself, while the guards and the garrison were veiled from his
                  sight by a wall of darkness behind a dazzle of light.
               Such were the bivouac arrangements, intelligent, systematic, and military. Not
                  only had our Lieutenant devised them, but he saw to it that they were kept in
                  working order. He was zealously and faithfully seconded by his men, and especially
                  by his two veterans. There is no human machine more accurate and trustworthy than
                  an old soldier, who has had year on year of the discipline and drill of a regular service, and who has learned to
                  carry out instructions to the letter.
               The arrangements for the march were equally thorough and judicious. Texas Smith,
                  as the Nimrod of the party, claimed the right of going where he pleased; but while
                  he hunted, he of course served also as a scout to nose out danger. The six
                  Mexicans, who were nominally cattle-drivers, but really Coronado's minor bravos,
                  were never suffered to ride off in a body, and were expected to keep on both sides
                  of the train, some in advance and some in rear. The drivers and muleteers remained
                  steadily with their wagons and animals. The four soldiers were also at hand,
                  trudging close in front or in rear, accoutrements always on and muskets always
                  loaded.
               In this fashion the expedition had already journeyed over two hundred and twenty
                  miles. Following Colonel Washington's trail, it had crossed the ranges of
                  mountains immediately west of Abiquia, and, striking the Rio de Chaco, had tracked
                  its course for some distance with the hope of reaching the San Juan. Stopped by a
                  cañon, a precipitous gully hundreds of feet deep, through which the Chaco ran like
                  a chased devil, the wagons had turned westward, and then had been forced by
                  impassable ridges and lack of water into a southwest direction, at last gaining
                  and crossing Pass Washington.
               It was now on the western side of the Sierra de Chusca, in the rude, barren
                  country over which Fort Defiance stands sentry. Ever since the second day after
                  leaving San Isidoro it had been on the. great western slope of the continent,
                  where every drop of water tends toward the Pacific. The pilgrims would have had
                  cause to rejoice could they have travelled as easily as the drops of water, and
                  been as certain of their goal. But the rivers had made roads for themselves, and
                  man had not yet had time to do likewise.
               The great central plateau of North America is a Mer de Glace in stone. It is a
                  continent of rock, gullied by furious rivers; plateau on plateau of sandstone,
                  with sluiceways through which lakes have escaped; the whole surface gigantically
                  grotesque with the carvings of innumerable waters. What is remarkable in the
                  scenery is, that its sublimity is an inversion of the sublimity of almost al!
                  other grand scenery. It is not so much the heights that are prodigious as the
                  abysses. At certain points in the course of the Colorado of the West you can drop
                  a plumb line six thousand feet before it will reach the bosom of the current; and
                  you can only gain the water level by turning backward for scores of miles and
                  winding laboriously down some subsidiary cañon, itself a chasm of awful
                  grandeur.
               Our travellers were now amid wild labyrinths of ranges, and buttes, and cañons,
                  which were not so much a portion of the great plateau as they were the débris that constituted its flanks. Although thousands
                  of feet above the level of the sea, they still had thousands of feet to ascend
                  before they could dominate the desert. Wild as the land was, it was thus far
                  passable, while toward the north lay the untraversable. What course should be
                  taken? Coronado, who had crimes to commit and to conceal, did not yet feel that he
                  was far enough from the haunts of man. As soon as possible he must again venture a
                  push northward.
               But not immediately. The mules were fagged with hard work, weak with want of
                  sufficient pasture, and had suffered much from thirst. He resolved to continue
                  westward to the pueblas of the Moquis, that interesting lace of agricultural and
                  partially civilized Indians, perhaps the representatives of the architects of the
                  Casas Grandes if not also descended from the mound-builders of the Mississippi
                  valley. Having rested and refitted there, he might start anew for the San
                  Juan.
               Thus far they had seen no Indians except the vagrants who had robbed Phineas
                  Glover. But they might now expect to meet them; they were in a region which was
                  the raiding ground of four great tribes: the Utes on the north, the Navajos on the
                  west, the Apaches on the south, and the Comanches on the east. The peaceful and
                  industrious Moquis, with their gay and warm blankets, their fields of corn and
                  beans, and their flocks of sheep, are the quarry which attracts this ferocious
                  cavalry of the desert, these Tartars and Bedouin of America.
               Thurstane took more pains than ever with the guard duty. Coronado, unmilitary
                  though he was, and heartily as he abominated the Lieutenant, saw the wisdom of
                  submitting to the hitter's discipline, and made all his people submit. A
                  practical-minded man, he preferred to owe the safety of his carcass to his rival
                  rather than have it impaled on Apache lances. Occasionally, however, he made a
                  suggestion.
               "It is very well, this night-watching," he once observed, "but what we have most
                  to fear is the open daylight. These mounted Indians seldom attack in the
                  darkness."
               Thurstane knew all this, but he did not say so; for he was a wise, considerate
                  commander already, and he had learned not to chill an informant. He looked at
                  Coronado inquiringly, as if to say, What do you propose?
               "Every cañon ought to be explored before we enter it," continued the Mexican.
               "It is a good hint," said Ralph. "Suppose I keep two of your cattle-drivers
                  constantly in advance. You had better instruct them yourself. Tell them to fire
                  the moment they discover an ambush. I don't suppose they will hit anybody, but we
                  want the warning."
               With two horsemen three or four hundred yards to the front, two more an equal
                  distance in the rear, and, when the ground permitted, one on either flank, the
                  train continued its journey. Every wagon-driver and muleteer had a weapon of sonic
                  sort always at hand. The four soldiers marched a few rods in advance, for the
                  ground behind had already been explored, while that ahead might contain enemies.
                  The precautions were extraordinary; but Thurstane constantly trembled for Clara.
                  He would have thought a regiment hardly sufficient to guard such a treasure.
               "How timorous these men are," sniffed Aunt Maria, who, having seen no hostile
                  Indians, did not believe there were any. "And it seems to me that soldiers are
                  more easily scared than anybody else," she added, casting a depreciating glance at
                  Thurstane, who was reconnoitring the landscape through his field glass.
               Clara believed in men, and especially in soldiers, and more particularly in
                  lieutenants. Accordingly she replied, "I suppose they know the dangers and we
                  don't."
               "Pshaw!" said Aunt Maria, an argument which carried great weight with her. "They
                  don't know half what they claim to. It is a clever man who knows one-tenth of his
                  own business." (She was right there.) "They don't know so much, I verily and
                  solemnly believe, as the women whom they pretend to despise."
               This peaceful and cheering conversation was interrupted by a shot ringing out of a
                  cañon which opened into a range of rock some three hundred yards ahead of the
                  caravan. Immediately on the shot came a yell as of a hundred demons mons, a furious trampling of the feet of many
                  horses, and a cloud of the Tartars of the American desert.
               In advance of the rush flew the two Mexican vedettes, screaming "Apaches!
                  Apaches!
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               WHEN the Apache tornado burst out of the cañon upon the train, Thurstane's first
                  thought was, "Clara!"
               "Get off!" he shouted to her, seizing and holding her startled horse. "Into the
                  wagon, quick! Now lie down, both of you."
               He thundered all this out as sternly as if he were commanding troops. Because he
                  was a man, Clara obeyed him; and notwithstanding he was a man, Mrs. Stanley obeyed
                  him. Both were so bewildered with surprise and terror as to be in a kind of animal
                  condition of spirit, knowing just enough to submit at once to the impulse of an
                  imperious voice. The riderless horse, equally frightened and equally subordinate,
                  was hurried to the rear of the leading wagon and handed over to a muleteer.
               By the time this work was done the foremost riders of the assailants were within
                  two hundred yards of the head of the train, letting drive their arrows at the
                  flying Mexican vedettes and uttering yells fit to raise the dead, while their
                  comrades behind, whooping also, stormed along under a trembling and flickering of
                  lances. The little, lean, wiry horses were going at full speed, regardless of
                  smooth faces of rock and beds of loose stones. The blackguards were over a hundred
                  in number, all lancers and archers of the first quality.
               The vedettes never pulled up until they were in rear of the hindermost wagon,
                  while their countrymen on the flanks and rear made for the same poor shelter. The
                  drivers were crouching almost under their seats, and the muleteers were hiding
                  behind their animals. Thus it was evident that the entire brunt of the opening
                  struggle would fall upon Thurstane and his people; that, if there was to be any
                  resistance at all, these five men must commence it, and, for a while at least, "go
                  it alone."
               The little squad of regulars, at this moment a few yards in front of the foremost
                  wagon, was drawn up in line and standing steady, precisely as if it were a company
                  or a regiment. Sergeant Meyer was on the right, veteran Kelly on. the left, the
                  two recruits in the centre, the pieces at a shoulder, the bayonets fixed. As
                  Thurstane rode up to this diminutive line of battle, Meyer was shouting forth his
                  sharp and decisive orders. They were just the right orders; excited as the young
                  officer was, he comprehended that there was nothing to change; moreover, he had
                  already learned how men are disconcerted in battle by a multiplicity of
                  directions. So he sat quietly on his horse, revolver in hand, his blue-black eyes
                  staring angrily at the coming storm.
               "Kelly, reserfe your fire!" yelled Meyer. "Recruits, ready—bresent—aim—aim
                  low—fire!"
               Simultaneously with the report a horse in the leading group of charging savages
                  pitched headlong on his nose and rolled over, sending his rider straight forward
                  into a rubble of loose shales, both lying as they fell, without movement. Half a
                  dozen other animals either dropped on their haunches or sheered violently to the
                  right and left, going off in wild plunges and caracolings. By this one casualty
                  the head of the attacking column was opened and its seemingly resistless sistless
                  impetus checked and dissipated, almost before Meyer could shout, "Recruits, load
                  at will, load!"
               A moment previous this fiery cavalry had looked irresistible. It seemed to have in
                  it momentum, audacity, and dash enough to break a square of infantry or carry a
                  battery of artillery. The horses fairly flew; the riders had the air of centaurs,
                  so firm and graceful was their seat; the long lances were brandished as easily as
                  if by the hands of footmen; the bows were managed and the arrows sent with
                  dazzling dexterity. It was a show of brilliant equestrianism, surpassing the feats
                  of circus riders. But a single effective shot into the centre of the column had
                  cleft it as a rock divides a torrent. It was like the breaking of a
                  water-spout.
               The attack, however, had only commenced. The Indians who had swept off to right
                  and left went scouring along the now motionless train, at a distance of sixty or
                  eighty yards, rapidly enveloping it with their wild caperings, keeping in constant
                  motion so as to evade gunshots, threatening with their lances or discharging
                  arrows, and yelling incessantly. Their main object so far was undoubtedly to
                  frighten the mules into a stampede and thus separate the wagons. They were not
                  assaulting; they were watching for chances.
               "Keep your men together, Sergeant," said Thurstane. "I must get those Mexicans to
                  work."
               He trotted deliberately to the other end of the train, ordering each driver as he
                  passed to move up abreast of the leading wagon, directing the first to the right,
                  the second to the left, and so on. The result of this movement would of course be
                  to bring the train into a compact mass and render it more defensible. The Indians
                  no sooner perceived the advance than they divined its object and made an effort to
                  prevent it. Thurstane had scarcely reached the centre of the line of vehicles when
                  a score or so of yelling horsemen made a caracoling, prancing charge upon him,
                  accompanying it with a flight of arrows. Our young hero presented his revolver,
                  but they apparently knew the short range of the weapon, and came plunging,
                  curveting onward. Matters were growing serious, for an arrow already stuck in his
                  saddle, and another had passed through his hat. Suddenly there was a bang, bang of
                  firearms, and two of the savages went down.
               Meyer had observed the danger of his officer, and had ordered Kelly to fire,
                  blazing away too himself. There was a headlong, hasty scramble to carry off the
                  fallen warriors, and then the assailants swept back to a point beyond accurate
                  musket shot. Thurstane reached the rear of the train unhurt, and found the six
                  Mexican cattle-drivers there in a group, pointing their rifles at such Indians as
                  made a show of charging, but otherwise doing nothing which resembled fighting.
                  They were obviously panic-stricken, one or two of them being of an ashy-yellow,
                  their nearest possible approach to pallor. There, too, was Coronado, looking not
                  exactly scared, but irresolute and helpless.
               "What does this mean?" Thurstane stormed in Spanish. "Why don't you shoot the
                  devils?"
               "We are reserving our fire," stammered Coronado, half alarmed, half ashamed.
               Thurstane swore briefly, energetically, and to the point. "Damned pretty
                  fighting!" he went on. "If we had reserved our fire, we should all
                  have been lanced by this time. Let drive!"
               The cattle-drivers carried short rifles, of the then United States regulation
                  pattern, which old Garcia had somehow contrived to pick up during the war perhaps
                  buying them of drunken soldiers. Supported by Thurstane's pubnacious cious presence and hurried up by his vehement
                  orders, they began to fire. They were shaky; didn't aim very well; hardly aimed at
                  all, in fact; blazed away at extraordinary elevations; behaved as men do who have
                  become demoralized. However, as the pieces had a range of several hundred yards,
                  the small bullets hissed venomously over the heads of the Indians, and one of
                  them, by pure accident, brought down a horse. There was an immediate scattering, a
                  multitudinous glinting of hoofs through the light dust of the plain, and then a
                  rally in prancing groups, at a safe distance.
               "Hurrah!" shouted Thurstane, cheering the Mexicans. "That's very well. You see how
                  easy it is. Now don't let them sneak up again; and at the same time don't waste
                  powder."
               Then turning to one who was near him, and who had just reloaded, he said in a
                  calm, strong, encouraging tone—that voice of the thoroughly good officer which
                  comes to the help of the shaken soldier like a reinforcement—"Now, my lad,
                  steadily. Pick out your man; take your time and aim sure. Do you see him?"
               "Si, señor," replied the herdsman. His coolness restored by this steady utterance
                  and these plain, common-sense directions, he selected a warrior in helmet-shaped
                  cap, blue shirt, and long boots, brought his rifle slowly to a level, took sight,
                  and fired. The Indian bent forward, caught the mane of his plunging pony, hung
                  there for a second or two, and then rolled to the ground, amid a yell of surprise
                  and dismay from his comrades. There was a hasty rush to secure the body, and then
                  another sweep backward of the loose array.
               "Good!" called Thurstane, nodding and smiling at the successful marksman. "That is
                  the way to do it. You are a match for half a dozen of them as long as you will
                  keep cool."
               The besieged travellers could now look about quietly and see how matters stood
                  with them. The six wagons were by this time drawn up in two ranks of three each,
                  so as to form a compact mass. As the one which contained the ladies had been the
                  leader and the others had formed on it to right and left, it was in the centre of
                  the first rank, and consequently pretty well protected by its neighbors. The
                  drivers and muleteers had recovered their self-possession, and were all sitting or
                  standing at their posts, with their miscellaneous arms ready for action. Not a
                  human being had been hit as yet, and only three of the mules wounded, none of them
                  seriously. The Apaches were all around the train, but none of them nearer than two
                  hundred yards, and doing nothing but canter about and shout to each other.
               "Where is Texas Smith?" demanded Thurstane, missing that mighty hunter, and
                  wondering if he were a coward and had taken refuge in a wagon.
               "He went off shutin' an hour ago," explained Phineas Glover. "Reckon he's astern
                  somewhere."
               Glover, by the way, had been useful. In the beginning of the affray he had brought
                  his mule alongside of the headmost wagon, and there he had done really valuable
                  service by blazing away alarmingly, though quite innocuously, at the gallopading
                  enemy.
               "It's a bad lookout for Texas," observed the Lieutenant. "I shouldn't want to bet
                  high on his getting back to us."
               Coronado looked gloomy, fearing lest his trusted assassin was lost, and not
                  knowing where he could pick up such another.
               "And how are the ladies?" asked Thurstane, turning to Glover.
               "Safe's a bug in a rug," was the reply. "Seen to that little job myself. Not a
                  bugger in the hull crew been nigh 'em."
               Thurstane cantered around to the front of the wagon which contained the two women,
                  and called, "How are you?"
               At the sound of his voice there was a rustle inside, and Clara showed her face
                  over the shoulder of the driver.
               "So you were not hurt?" laughed the young officer. "Ah! that's bully."
               With a smile which was almost a boast, she answered, "And I was not very
                  frightened."
               At this, Aunt Maria struggled from between two rolls of bedding into a sitting
                  posture and ejaculated, "Of course not!"
               "Did they hit you?" asked Clara, looking eagerly at Thurstane.
               "How brave you are!" he replied, admiring her so much that he did not notice her
                  question.
               "But I do hope it is over," added the girl, poking her head out of the wagon. "Ah!
                  what is that?"
               With this little cry of dismay she pointed at a group of savages who had gathered
                  between the train and the mouth of the cañon ahead of it.
               "They are the enemy," said Thurstane. "We may have another little tussle with
                  them. Now lie down and keep close."
               "Acquit yourselves like—men!" exhorted Aunt Maria, dropping back into her
                  stronghold among the bedding.
               Sergeant Meyer now approached Thurstane, touched his cap, and said, "Leftenant,
                  here is brifate Sweeny who has not fired his beece once. I cannot make him
                  fire."
               "How is that, Sweeny?" demanded the officer, putting on. the proper grimness. "Why
                  haven't you fired when you were ordered?"
               Sweeny was a little wizened shaving of an Irishman. He was not only quite short,
                  but very slender and very lean. He had a curious teetering gait, and he took
                  ridiculously short steps in marching, as if he were a monkey who had not learned
                  to feel at ease on his hind legs. His small, wilted, wrinkled face, and his
                  expression of mingled simplicity and shrewdness, were also monkey-like. At
                  Thurstane's reprimand he trotted close up to him with exactly the air of a circus
                  Jocko who expects a whipping, but who hopes to escape it by grinning.
               "Why haven't you fired?" repeated his commander.
               "Liftinint, I dasn't," answered Sweeny, in the rapid, jerking, almost inarticulate
                  jabber which was his usual speech.
               Now it is not an uncommon thing for recruits to dread to discharge their arms in
                  battle. They have a vague idea that, if they bang away, they will attract the
                  notice of some antagonist who will immediately single them out for
                  retaliation.
               "Are you afraid anybody will hit you?" asked Thurstane.
               "No, I ain't, Liftinint," jabbered Sweeny. "I ain't afeard av them niggers a hit.
                  They may shoot their bow arreys at me all day if they want to. I'm afeard of me
                  gun, Liftinint. I fired it wonst, an' it kicked me to blazes."
               "Come, come! That won't do. Level it now. Pick out your man. Aim. Fire."
               Thus constrained, Sweeny brought his piece down to an inclination of forty-five
                  degrees, shut his eyes, pulled trigger, and sent a ball clean over the most
                  distant Apaches. The recoil staggered him, but he recovered himself without going
                  over, and instantly roared out a horse-laugh.
               "Ho! ho! ho!" he shouted, "That time I reckon I fetched won av 'em.
               
               "Sweeny," said Thurstane, "you must have hit either the sun or the moon, I don't
                  know which."
               Sweeny looked discomfited; the next breath he bethought himself of a saving joke;
                  "Liftinint, it 'ud sarve erry won av 'em right;" then another neigh of
                  laughter.
               "I ain't afeard av the ball," he hastened to asseverate; "it's the kick av it that
                  murthers me. Liftinint, why don't they put the britch to the other end av the gun?
                  They do in the owld counthry."
               "Load your beece," ordered Sergeant Meyer, "and go to your bost again, to the left
                  of Shupert."
               The fact of Sweeny's opening fire did not cause a resumption of the close
                  fighting. Quiet still continued, and the leaders of the expedition took advantage
                  of it to discuss their situation, while the Indians gathered into little groups
                  and seemed also to be holding council.
               "There are over a hundred warriors," said Thurstane.
               "Apaches," added one of the Mexican herdsmen.
               "What band?"
               "Manga Colorada or Delgadito."
               "I supposed they were in Bernalillo."
               "That was three weeks ago," put in Coronado.
               He was in profound thought. These fellows, who had agreed to harry Bernalillo, and
                  who had for a time carried out their bargain, why had they come to intercept him
                  in the Moqui country, a hundred and twenty miles away? Did they want to extort
                  more money, or were they ignorant that this was his train? And, supposing he
                  should make himself known to them, would they spare him personally and such others
                  as he might wish to save, while massacring the rest of the party? It would be a
                  bold step; he could not at once decide upon it; he was pondering it.
               We must do full justice to Coronado's coolness and readiness. This atrocious idea
                  had occurred to him the instant he heard the charging yell of the Apaches; and it
                  had done far more than any weakness of nerves to paralyze his fighting ability. He
                  had thought, "Let them kill the Yankees; then I will proclaim myself and save
                     her; then she will be mine." And because of these thoughts he had
                  stood irresolute, aiming without firing, and bidding his Mexicans do the same. The
                  result was that six good shots and superb horsemen, who were capable of making a
                  gallant fight under worthy leadership, had become demoralized, and, but for the
                  advent of Thurstane, might have been massacred like sheep.
               Now that three or four Apaches had fallen, Coronado had less hope of making his
                  arrangement. He considered the matter carefully and judiciously, but at last he
                  decided that he could not trust the vindictive devils, and he turned his mind
                  strenuously toward resistance. Although not pugnacious, he had plenty of the
                  desperate courage of necessity, and his dusky black eyes were very resolute as he
                  said to Thurstane, "Lieutenant, we trust to you."
               The young veteran had already made up his mind as to what must be done.
               "We will move on," he said. "We can't camp here, in an open plain, without grass
                  or water. We must get into the cañon so as to have our flanks protected. I want
                  the wagons to advance in double file so as to shorten the train. Two of my men in
                  front and two in rear; three of your herdsmen on one flank and three on the other;
                  Captain Glover alongside the ladies, and you and I everywhere; that's the
                  programme. If we are all steady, we can do it, sure."
               "They are collecting ahead to stop us," observed Coronado.
               "Good!" said Thurstane. "All I want is to have them get in a heap. It is this
                  attacking on all sides which is dangerous. Suppose you give your drivers and
                  muleteers a sharp lecture. Tell them they must fight if the Indians charge, and
                  not skulk inside and under the wagons. Tell them we are going to shoot the first
                  man who skulks, Pitch into them heavy. It's a devilish shame that a dozen
                  tolerably well-armed men should be so helpless. It's enough to justify the old
                  woman's contempt for our sex.
               Coronado rode from wagon to wagon, delivering his reproofs, threats, and
                  instructions in the plainest kind of Spanish. At the signal to march, the drivers
                  must file off two abreast, commencing on the right, and move at the fastest trot
                  of the mules toward the cañon. If any scoundrel skulked, quitted his post,, or
                  failed to fight, he would be pistolled instanter by him, Coronado sangre de Dios, etc.!
               While he was addressing Aunt Maria's coachman, that level-headed lady called out,
                  "Mr. Coronado, your very voice is cheering."
               "Mrs. Stanley, you are an example of heroism to our sex," replied the Mexican,
                  with an ironical grin.
               "What a brave, noble, intelligent man?" thought Aunt Maria. "If they were only all
                  like him!"
               This business took up five minutes. Coronado had just finished his round when a
                  loud yell was raised by the Apaches, and twenty or thirty of them started at full
                  speed down the trail by which the caravan had come. Looking for the cause of this
                  stampede, the emigrants beheld, nearly half a mile away, a single horseman rushing
                  to encounter a score. It was Texas Smith, making an apparently hopeless rush to
                  burst through the environment of Parthians and reach the train.
               "Shall we make a sally to save him?" demanded Coronado, glancing at Thurstane.
               The officer hesitated; to divide his small army would be perilous; the Apaches
                  would attack on all sides and with advantage.
               But the sight of one man so overmatched was too much for him. and with a great
                  throb of chivalrous blood in his heart, he shouted, "Charge!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               AN hour before the attack Texas Smith had ridden off to stalk a deer; but the
                  animal being in good racing condition in consequence of the thin fare of this
                  sterile region, the hunting bout had miscarried; and our desperado was
                     returning ing unladen toward the train
                  when he heard the distant charging yell of the Apaches.
               Scattered over the plateau which he was traversing, there were a few thickets of
                  mesquite, with here and there a fantastic butte of sandstone. By dodging from one
                  of these covers to another, he arrived undiscovered at a point whence lie could
                  see the caravan and the curveting mêlée which surrounded it. He was nearly half a
                  mile from his comrades and over a quarter of a mile from his nearest enemies.
               What should he do? If he made a rush, he would probably be overpowered and either
                  killed instantly or carried off for torture. If he waited until night for a chance
                  to sneak into camp, the wandering redskins would be pretty apt to surprise him in
                  the darkness, and there would be small chance indeed of escaping with his hair. It
                  was a nasty situation; but Texas, accustomed to perils, was as brave as he was
                  wicked; and he looked his darkling fate in the face with admirable coolness and
                  intelligence. His decision was to wait a favorable moment, and when it came,
                  charge for life.
               When he perceived that the mass of the Indians had gathered on the trail between
                  the wagons and the cañon, he concluded that his chance had arrived; and with teeth
                  grimly set, rifle balanced across his saddle-bow, revolver siting to his wrist, he
                  started in silence and at full speed on his almost hopeless rush. If you will
                  cease to consider the man as a modern bushwhacker, and invest him temporarily with
                  the character, ennobled by time, of a borderer of the Scottish marches, you will
                  be able to feel some sympathy for him in his audacious enterprise.
               He was mounted on an American horse, a half-blood gray, larger-boned and powerful,
                  who could probably have traversed the half-mile in a minute had there been no
                  impediment, and who was able to floor with a single shock two or three of the
                  little animals of the Apaches. He was a fine spectacle as he thundered alone
                  across the plain, upright and easy in his seat, balancing his heavy rifle as if it
                  were a rattan, his dark and cruel face settled for fight and his fierce black eyes
                  blazing.
               Only a minute's ride, but that minute life or death. As he had expected, the
                  Apaches discovered him almost as soon as he left the cover of his butte, and all
                  the outlying members of the horde swarmed toward him with a yell, brandishing
                  their spears and getting ready their bows as they rode. It would clearly be
                  impossible for him to cut his way through thirty warriors unless he received
                  assistance from the train. Would it come? His evil conscience told him, without
                  the least reason, that Thurstane would not help. But from Coronado, whose life he
                  had saved and whose evil work he had undertaken to do—from this man, "greaser" as
                  he was, he did expect a sally. If it did not come, and if he should escape by some
                  rare chance, he, Texas Smith, would murder the Mexican the first time he found him
                  alone, so help him God!
               While he thought and cursed he flew. But his goal was still five hundred yards
                  away, and the nearest redskins were within two hundred yards, when he saw a
                  rescuing charge shoot out from the wagons. Coronado led it. In this foxy nature
                  the wolf was not wanting, and under strong impulse he could be somewhat of a
                  Pizarro. He had no starts of humanity nor of real chivalry, but he had family
                  pride and personal vanity, and he was capable of the fighting fury. When Thurstane
                  had given the word to advance, Coronado had put himself forward gallantly.
               "Stay here," he said to the officer; "guard the train with your infantry. I am a
                  caballero, and I will do a caballero's work," he added, rising proudly in his
                  stirrups. "Come on, you villains!" was his order to the six Mexicans. All abreast,
                  spread out like a skirmish line, the seven horsemen clattered over the plain,
                  making for the point where Texas Smith was about to plunge among the whirling and
                  caracoling Apaches.
               Now came the crisis of the day. The moment the sixty or seventy Apaches near the
                  mouth of the cañon saw Coronado set out on his charge, they raised a yell of joy
                  over the error of the emigrants in dividing their forces, and plunged straight at
                  the wagons. In half a minute two wild, irregular, and yet desperate combats were
                  raging.
               Texas Smith had begun his battle while Coronado was still a quarter of a mile
                  away. Aiming his rifle at an Apache who was riding directly upon him, instead of
                  dodging and wheeling in the usual fashion of these cautious fighters, he sent the
                  audacious fellow out of his saddle with a bullet-hole through the lungs. But this
                  was no salvation; the dreaded long-range firearm was now empty; the savages
                  circled nearer and began to use their arrows. Texas let his rifle hang from the
                  pommel and presented his revolver. But the bowshots were more than its match. It
                  could not be trusted to do execution at forty yards, and at that distance the
                  Indian shafts are deadly. Already several had hissed close by him, one had gashed
                  the forehead of his horse, and another had pierced his clothing.
               All that Texas wanted, however, was time. If he could pass a half minute without a
                  disabling wound, he would have help. He retreated a little, or rather he edged
                  away toward the right, wheeling and curveting after the manner of the Apaches, in
                  order to present an unsteady mark for their archery. To keep them at a distance he
                  fired one barrel of his revolver, though without effect Meantime he dodged
                  incessantly, now throwing himself forward and backward in the saddle, now hanging
                  over the side of his horse and clinging to his neck. It was hard and perilous
                  work, but he was gaining seconds, and every second was priceless. Notwithstanding
                  his extreme peril, he calculated his chances with perfect coolness and with a
                  sagacity which was admirable.
               But this intelligent savage had to do with savages as clever as himself. The
                  Apaches saw Coronado coming up on their rear, and they knew that they must make
                  short work of the hunter, or must let him escape. While a score or so faced about
                  to meet the Mexicans, a dozen charged with screeches and brandished lances upon
                  the Texan. Now came a hand-to-hand struggle which looked as if it must end in the
                  death of Smith and perhaps of several of his assailants. Hut cavalry fights are
                  notoriously bloodless in comparison to their apparent fury; the violent and
                  perpetual movement of the combatants deranges aim and renders most of the blows
                  futile; shots are fired at a yard distance without hitting, and strokes are
                  delivered which only wound the air.
               One spear stuck in Smith's saddle; another pierced his jacket-sleeve and tore its way out; only one of the sharp,
                  quickly-delivered points drew blood. He felt a slight pain in his side, and he
                  found afterward that a lance-head had raked one of his ribs, tearing up the skin
                  and scraping the bone for four or five inches. Meantime he shot a warrior through
                  the head, sent another off with a hole in the shoulder, and fired one barrel
                  without effect. He had but a single charge left (saving this for himself in the
                  last extremity), when he burst through the prancing throng of screeching,
                  thrusting ragamuffins, and reached the side of Coronado.
               Here another hurly-burly of rearing and plunging combat awaited him. Coronado,
                  charging as an old Castilian hidalgo might have charged upon the Moors, had
                  plunged directly into the midst of the Apaches who awaited him, giving them little
                  time to use their arrows, and at first receiving no damage. The six rifles of his
                  Mexicans sent two Apaches out of their saddles, and then came a capering, plunging
                  joust of lances, both parties using the same weapon. Coronado alone had sabre and
                  revolver; and he handled them both with beautiful coolness and dexterity; he rode,
                  too, as well as the best of all these other centaurs. His superb horse whirled and
                  reared under the guidance of a touch of the knees, while the rider plied firearm
                  with one hand and sharply-ground blade with the other. Thurstane, an infantryman,
                  and only a fair equestrian, would not have been half so effective in this combat
                  of caballeros.
               Coronado's first bullet knocked a villainous-looking tatterdemalion clean into the
                  happy hunting grounds, Then came a lance thrust; he parried it with his sabre and
                  plunged within range of the point; there was a sharp, snake-like hiss of the
                  light, curved blade; down went Apache number two. At this rate, providing there
                  were no interruptions, he could finish the whole twenty. He went at his job with a
                  handy adroitness which was almost scientific, it was so much like surgery, like
                  dissection. His mind was bent, with a sort of preternatural calmness and
                  cleverness, upon the business of parrying lance thrusts, aiming his revolver, and
                  delivering sabre cuts. It was a species of fighting intellection, at once prudent
                  and destructive. It was not the headlong, reckless, pugnacious rage of the old
                  Anglo-Saxon and Scandinavian berserker. It was the practical, ready, rational
                  furor of the Latin race.
               Presently he saw that two of his rancheros had been lanced, and that there were
                  but four left. A thrill of alarm, a commencement of panic, a desire to save
                  himself at all hazards, crisped his heart and half paralyzed his energy.
                  Remembering with perfect distinctness that four of his barrels were empty, he
                  would perhaps have tried to retreat at the risk of being speared in the back, had
                  he not at this critical moment been joined by Texas Smith.
               That instinctive, ferocious, and tireless fighter, while seeming to be merely
                  circling and curveting among his assailants, contrived to recharge two barrels of
                  his revolver, and was once more ready for business, Down went one Apache; then the
                  horse of another fell to reeling and crouching in a sickly way; then a charge of
                  half a dozen broke to right and left in irresolute prancings. At sight of this
                  friendly work Coronado drew a fresh breath of courage, and executed his greatest
                  feat yet of horsemanship and swordsmanship. Spurring after and then past one of
                  the wheeling braves, he swept his sabre across the fellow's bare throat with a
                  drawing stroke, and half detached the scowling, furious, frightened head from the
                  body.
               There was a wide space of open ground before him immediately. The Apaches know
                  nothing of sabre work; not one of those present had ever before seen such a blow
                  or such an effect; they were not only panic-stricken, but horror-stricken
                  ror-stricken. For one moment, right between the staring antagonists, a bloody
                  corpse sat upright on a rearing horse, with its head fallen on one shoulder and
                  hanging by a gory muscle. The next moment it wilted, rolled downward with
                  outstreched arms, and collapsed upon the gravel, an inert mass.
               Texas Smith uttered a loud scream of tigerish delight. He had never, in all his
                  pugnacious and sanguinary life, looked upon anything so fascinating. It seemed to
                  him as if his heaven—the savage Walhalla of his Saxon or Danish
                  berserker race—were opened before him. In his ecstasy he waved his dirty, long
                  lingers toward Coronado, and shouted, "Bully for you, old hoss!"
               But he had self-possession enough, now that his hand was free for an instant from
                  close battle, to reload his rifle and revolver. The four rancheros who still
                  retained their saddles mechanically and hurriedly followed his example. The
                  contest here was over; the Apaches knew that bullets would soon be humming about
                  their ears, and they dreaded them; there was a retreat, and this retreat was a run
                  of an eighth of a mile.
               "Hurrah for the waggins!" shouted Texas, and dashed away toward the train.
                  Coronado stared; his heart sank within him; the train was surrounded by a mob of
                  prancing savages; there was more fighting to be done when he had already done his
                  best. But not knowing where else to go, he followed his leader toward this new
                  battle, loading his revolver as he rode, and wishing that he were in Santa Fé, or
                  anywhere in peace.
               We must go back a little. As already stated, the main body of the Apaches had
                  perceived the error of the emigrants in separating, and had promptly availed
                  themselves of it to charge upon the train. To attack it there were seventy
                  ferocious and skilful warriors; to defend it there were twelve timorous, muleteers
                  and drivers, four soldiers, and Ralph.
               "Fall back!" shouted the Lieutenant to his regulars when he saw the equestrian
                  avalanche coming. "Each man take a wagon and hold it."
               The order was obeyed in a hurry. The Apaches, heartened by what they supposed to
                  be a panic, swarmed along at increased speed, and gave out their most diabolical
                  screeches, hoping no doubt to scare men into helplessness, and beasts into a
                  stampede. But the train was an immovable fortress, and the fortress was well
                  garrisoned. Although the mules winced and plunged a good deal, the drivers
                  succeeded in holding them to their places, and the double column of carriages,
                  three in each rank, preserved its formation. In every vehicle there was a
                  muleteer, with hands free for fighting, bearing something or other in the shape of
                  a firelock, and inspired with what courage there is in desperation. The four
                  flankers, necessarily the most exposed to assault, had each a United States
                  regular, with musket, bayonet, and forty rounds of buck and ball. In front of the
                  phalanx, directly before the wagon which contained the two ladies, sat as brave an
                  officer as there was in the American army.
               The Apaches had also committed their tactical blunder. They should all have
                  followed Coronado, made sure of destroying him and his Mexicans, and then attacked
                  the train. But either there was no sagacious military spirit among them, or the
                  love of plunder was too much for judgment and authority, and so flown they came on
                  the wagons.
               As the swarthy swarm approached, it spread out until it covered the front of the
                  train and overlapped its flanks, ready to sweep completely around it and fasten
                  upon any point which should seem feebly or timorously defended. The first man
                  endangered was the lonely officer who sat his horse in front of the line of
                  kicking and plunging mules. Fortunately for him, he now had a weapon of longer range than his revolver; he had
                  remembered that in one of the wagons was stored a peculiar rifle belonging to
                  Coronado; he had just had time to drag it out and strap its cartridge box around
                  his waist.
               He levelled at the centre of the clattering, yelling column. It fluctuated; the
                  warriors who were there did not like to be aimed at; they began to zigzag,
                  caracole, and diverge to right or left; several halted and commenced using their
                  bows. At one of these archers, whose arrow already trembled on the string,
                  Thurstane let fly. sending him out of the saddle. Then he felt a quick, sharp pain
                  in his left arm, and perceived that a shaft had passed clean through it.
               There is this good thing about the arrow, that it has not weight enough to break
                  bones, nor tearing power enough to necessarily paralyze muscle. Thurstane could
                  still manage a revolver with his wounded arm, while his right was good for almost
                  any amount of slashing work. Letting the rifle drop and swing from the pommel, he
                  met the charge of two grinning and scowling lancers. One thrust he parried with
                  his sabre; from the other he saved his neck by stooping; but it drove through his
                  coat collar, and nearly unseated him. For a moment our bleeding and hampered young
                  gladiator seemed to be in a bad way, But he was strong; he braced himself in his
                  stirrups, and he made use of both his hands. The Indian whose spear was still free
                  caught a bullet through the shoulder, dropped his weapon, and circled away
                  yelling. Then Thurstane plunged at the other, reared his tall horse over him.
                  broke the lance-shaft with a violent twist, and swung his long cavalry sabre. It
                  was in vain that the Apache crouched, spurred, and skedaddled; he got away alive,
                  but it was with a long bloody gash down his naked back; the last seen of him lie
                  was going at full speed, holding by his pony's mane. The Lieutenant remained
                  master of the whole front of the caravan.
               Meantime there was a busy popping along the flankers and through the hinder
                  openings in the second line of wagons. The Indians skurried, wheeled, pranced, and
                  yelled, let fly their arrows from a distance, dashed up here and there with their
                  lances, and as quickly retreated before the threatening muzzles. The muleteers,
                  encouraged by the presence of the soldiers, behaved with respectable firmness and
                  blazed away rapidly, though not effectively. The regulars reserved their fire for
                  close quarters, and then delivered it to bloody purpose.
               Around Sweeney, who garrisoned the left-hand wagon of the rearmost line, the fight
                  was particularly noisy. The Apaches saw that he was little, and perhaps they saw
                  that he was afraid of his gun. They went for him; they were after him with their
                  sharpest sticks; they counted on Sweeney. The speck of a man sat on the front seat
                  of the wagon, outside of the driver, and fully exposed to the tribulation. He was
                  in a state of the highest Paddy excitement. Me grinned and bounced like a caravan
                  of monkeys. But he was not much scared; he was mainly in a furious rage. Pointing
                  his musket first at one and then at another, he returned yell for yell, and was in
                  fact abusive.
               "Oh, fire yer bow-arreys!" he screamed. "Ye can't hit the side av a waggin. Ah, ye
                  bloody, murtherin' nagers! go 'way wid yer long poles. I'd fight a hundred av the
                  loikes av ye wid ownly a shillelah."
               One audacious thrust of a lance he parried very dexterously with his bayonet, at
                  the same time screeching defiantly and scornfully in the face of his hideous
                  assailant. But this fellow's impudent approach was too much to be endured, and
                  Sweeney proceeded at once to teach him to keep at a more civil distance.
               "Oh, ye pokin' blaggard!" he shouted, and actually let drive with his musket. The
                  ball missed, but by pure blundering one of the buck-shot took effect. and the
                  brave retreated out of the mêlée with a sensation as if his head had been split.
                  Some time later he was discovered sitting up doggedly on a rock, while a comrade
                  was trying to dig the buckshot out of his thick skull with an arrow-point.
               "I'll tache 'em to moind their bizniss," grinned Sweeney triumphantly, as he
                  reloaded. "The nasty, hootin' nagers! They've no rights near a white man,
                  anyhow."
               On the whole, the attack lingered. The Apaches had done some damage. One driver
                  had been lanced mortally. One muleteer had been shot through the heart with an
                  arrow. Another arrow had scraped Shubert's ankle. Another, directed by the
                  whimsical genius of accident, had gone clean through the drooping cartilage of
                  Phineas Glover's long nose, as if to prepare him for the sporting of jewelled
                  decorations. Two mules were dead, and several wounded. The sides of the wagons
                  bristled with shafts, and their canvas tops were pierced with line holes. But, on
                  the other hand, the Apaches had lost a dozen horses, three or four warriors
                  killed, and seven or eight wounded.
               Such was the condition of affairs around the train when Coronado, Texas Smith, and
                  the four surviving herdsmen came storming back to it.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               THE Apaches were discouraged by the immovability of the train and by the steady
                  and deadly resistance of its defenders. From first to last some twenty-five or
                  twenty-seven of their warriors had been hit, of whom probably one third were
                  killed or mortally wounded.
               At the approach of Coronado those who were around the wagons swept away in a
                  panic, and never paused in their flight until they were a good half mile distant.
                  They carried off, however, every man, whether dead or injured, except one alone. A
                  few rods from the train lay a mere boy, certainly not over fifteen years old, his
                  forehead gashed by a bullet, and life apparently extinct. There was nothing
                  strange in the fact of so young a lad taking part in battle, for the military age
                  among the Indians is from twelve to thirty-six, and one third of their fighters
                  are children.
               "What did they leave that fellow for?" said Coronado in surprise, riding up to the
                  senseless figure.
               "I'll fix him," volunteered Texas Smith, dismounting and drawing his hunting
                  knife. "Reckon he hain't been squarely finished."
               "Stop!" ordered Coronado. "He is not an Apache; He is some pueblo Indian. See how
                  much he is hurt."
               "Skull ain't broke," replied Texas, fingering the wound as roughly as if it had
                  been in the flesh of a beast. "Reckon he'll flop round. May do mischief, if we
                  don't fix him."
               Anxious to stick his knife into the defenceless young throat, he nevertheless
                  controlled his sentiments and looked up for instructions. Since the splendid
                  decapitation which Coronado had performed, Texas respected him as he had never
                  heretofore hoped to respect a "greaser."
               "Perhaps we can get information out of him," said Coronado, "Suppose you lay him
                  in a wagon."
               Meanwhile preparations had been made for an advance. The four dead or badly
                  wounded draft mules were disentangled from the harness, and their places supplied
                  with the four army mules, whose packs were thrown into the wagons. These animals, by the way, had escaped injury,
                  partly because they had been tethered between the two lines of vehicles, and
                  partly because they had been well covered by their loads, which were plentifully
                  stuck with arrows.
               "We are ready to march," said Thurstane to Coronado. "I am sorry we can't try to
                  recover your men back there."
               "No use," commented Texas Smith. "The Patchies have been at 'em. They're chuck
                  full of spear holes by this time."
               Coronado shouted to the drivers to start. Commencing on the right, the wagons
                  filed off two by two toward the mouth of the cañon, while the Indians, gathered in
                  a group half a mile away, looked on without a yell or a movement. The instant that
                  the vehicle which contained the ladies had cleared itself of the others, Thurstane
                  and Coronado rode alongside of it.
               "So! you are safe!" said the former. "By Heavens, if they had hurt
                  you!"
               "And you?" asked Clara, very quickly and eagerly, while scanning him from head to
                  foot.
               Coronado saw that look, anxious for Thurstane alone; and, master of dissimulation
                  though he was, his face showed both pain and anger.
               "Ah—oh—oh dear!" groaned Mrs. Stanley, as she made her appearance in the front of
                  the vehicle. "Well! this is rather more than I can bear. This is just as much as a
                  woman can put up with. Dear me! what is the matter with your arm, Lieutenant?"
               "Just a pin prick," said Thurstane.
               Clara began to get out of the wagon, with the purpose of going to him, her eyes
                  staring and her face pale.
               "Don't!" he protested, motioning her back. "It is nothing."
               And, although the lacerated arm hurt him and was not easy to manage, he raised it
                  over his head to show that the damage was trifling.
               "Do get in here and let us take care of you," begged Clara.
               "Certainly!" echoed Aunt Maria, who was a compassionate woman at heart, and who
                  only lacked somewhat in quickness of sympathy, perhaps by reason of her
                  strong-minded notions.
               "I will when I need it," said Ralph, flattered and gratified. "The arm will do
                  without dressing till we reach camp. There are other wounded. Everybody has
                  fought. Mr. Coronado here has done deeds worthy of his ancestors."
               "Ah, Mr. Coronado!" smiled Aunt Maria, delighted that her favorite had
                  distinguished himself.
               "Captain Glover, what's the matter with your nose?" was the lady's next
                  outcry.
               "Wal, it's been bored," replied Glover, tenderly fingering his sore proboscis.
                  "It's been, so to speak, eyelet-holed. I'm glad I hadn't but one. The more noses a
                  feller kerries in battle, the wuss for him. I hope the darned rip 'll heal up.
                  I've no 'casion to hev a line rove through it 'n' be towed, that I know of."
               "How did it feel when it went through?" asked Aunt Maria, full of curiosity and
                  awe.
               "Felt 's though I'd got the dreadfullest influenzee thet ever snorted. Twitched
                  'n' tickled like all possessed."
               "Was it an arrow?" inquired the still unsatisfied lady.
               "Reckon 'twas. Never see it. But it kinder whished, 'n' I felt the feathers. Darn
                  'em! When I felt the feathers, tell ye I was 'bout half scairt. Hed 'n idee 'f th?
                  angel 'f death, 'n' so on."
               Of course Aunt Maria and Clara wanted to do much nursing immediately. but there
                  were no conveniences and there was no time; and so benevolence was postponed.
               "So you are hurt?" said Thurstane to Texas Smith, noticing his torn and bloody
                  shirt.
               "It's jest a scrape," grunted the bushwhacker. "Mought 'a' been worse."
               "It was bad generalship trying to save you. We nearly paid high for it."
               "That's so. Cost four greasers, as 'twas. Well, I'm worth four greasers."
               "You're a devil of a fighter," continued the Lieutenant, surveying the ferocious
                  face and sullen air of the cutthroat with a soldier's admiration for whatever
                  expresses pugnacity.
               "Bet yer pile on it," returned Texas, calmly conscious of his character. "So be
                  you."
               The savage black eyes and the imperious blue ones stared into each other without
                  the least flinching and with something like friendliness.
               Coronado rode up to the pair and asked. "Is that boy alive yet?"
               "It's about time for him to flop round," replied Texas indifferently. "Reckon
                  you'll find him in the off hind wagon. I shoved him in thar."
               Coronado cantered to the off hind wagon, peeped through the rear opening of its
                  canvas cover, discovered the youth lying on a pile of luggage, addressed him in
                  Spanish, and learned his story. He belonged to a hacienda in Bernalillo, a hundred
                  miles or more west of Santa Fé. The Apaches had surprised the hacienda and
                  plundered it, carrying him off because, having formerly been a captive among them,
                  he could speak their language, manage the bow, etc.
               For all this Coronado cared nothing; he wanted to know why the band had left
                  Bernalillo; also why it had attacked his train. The boy explained that the raiders
                  had been driven off the southern route by a party of United States cavalry, and
                  that, having lost a number of their braves in the fight, they had sworn vengeance
                  on Americans.
               "Did you hear them say whose train this was?" demanded Coronado.
               "No, Señor."
               "Do you think they knew?"
               "Señor, I think not."
               "Whose band was this?"
               "Manga Colorado's."
               "Where is Delgadito?"
               "Delgadito went the other side of the mountain. They were both going to fight the
                  Moquis."
               "So we shall find Delgadito in the Moqui valley?"
               "I think so, Señor."
               After a moment of reflection Coronado added, "You will stay with us and take care
                  of mules. I will do well by you."
               "Thanks, Señor. Many thanks."
               Coronado rejoined Thurstane and told his news. The officer looked grave; there
                  might be another combat in store for the train: it might be an affair with both
                  bands of the Apaches.
               Well," he said, "we must keep our eyes open. Every one of us must do his very
                  utmost. On the whole, I can't believe they can beat us."
               "Nombre de Dios!" thought Coronado. "How will this accursed job end? I wish I were
                  out of it."
               They were now traversing the cañon from which they had been so. long debarred barred. It was a peaceful solitude; no,
                  life but their own stirred within its sandstone ramparts; and its windings soon
                  carried them out of sight of their late assailants. For four hours they slowly
                  threaded it, and when night came on they were still in it, miles away from their
                  expected camping ground. No water and no grass; the animals were drooping with
                  hunger, and all suffered with thirst; the worst was that the hurts of the wounded
                  could not be properly dressed. But progress through this labyrinth of stones in
                  the darkness was impossible, and the weary, anxious, fevered travellers bivouacked
                  as well as might be.
               Starting at dawn, they finished the cañon in about an hour, traversed an uneven
                  plateau which stretched beyond its final sinuous branch gullies, and found
                  themselves on the brow of a lofty terrace, overlooking a sublime panorama. There
                  was an immense valley, not smooth and verdurous, but a gigantic nest of savage
                  buttes and crags and hills, only to be called a valley because it was enclosed by
                  what seemed a continuous line of eminences. On the north and east rose long ranges
                  and elevated table-lands; on the west, the savage rolls and precipices of the
                  Sierra del Carrizo; and on the south, a more distant bordering of hazy mountains,
                  closing to the southwest, a hundred miles away, in the noble snowy peaks of Monte
                  San Francisco.
               With his field-glass, Thurstane examined one after another of the mesas and buttes
                  which diversified this enormous depression. At last his attention settled on an
                  isolated bluff or mound, with a flattened surface three or four miles in length,
                  the whole mass of which seemed to be solid and barren rock. On this truncated
                  pyramid he distinguished, or thought he distinguished, one or more of the pueblos
                  of the Moquis. He could not be quite sure, because the distance was fifteen miles,
                  and the walls of these villages are of the same stone with the buttes upon which
                  they stand.
               "There is our goal, if I am not mistaken," he said to Coronado. "When we get there
                  we can rest."
               The train pushed onward, slowly descending the terrace, or rather the succession
                  of terraces. After reaching a more level region, and while winding between stony
                  hills of a depressing sterility, it came suddenly, at the bottom of a ravine, upon
                  fresh green turf and thickets of willows, the environment of a small spring of
                  clear water. There was a halt; all hands fell to digging a trench across the
                  gully; when it had filled, the animals were allowed to drink; in an hour more they
                  had closely cropped all the grass. This was using up time perilously, but it had
                  to be done, for the beasts were tottering.
               Moving again; five miles more traversed; another spring and patch of turf
                  discovered; a rough ravine through a low sandstone ridge threaded; at last they
                  were on one of the levels of the valley. Three of the Moqui towns were now about
                  eight miles distant, and with his glass Thurstane could distinguish the horizontal
                  lines of building. The trail made straight for the pueblos, but it was almost
                  impassable to wagons, and progress was very slow. It was all the slower because of
                  the weakness of the mules, which throughout all this hair-brained journey had been
                  severely worked, and of late had been poorly fed.
               Presently the travellers turned the point of a naked ridge which projected
                  laterally into the valley. There they came suddenly upon a wide-spread sweep of
                  turf, contrasting so brilliantly with the bygone infertilities that it seemed to
                  them a paradise, and stretching clear on to the bluff of the pueblos.
               There, too, with equal suddenness, they came upon peril. Just beyond the nose of
                  the sandstone promontory there was a bivouc of half-naked, dark-skinned horsemen,
                  recognizable at a glance as Apaches. It was undoubtedly the band of Delgadito.
               The camp was half a mile distant. The Indians, evidently surprised at the
                  appearance of the train, were immediately in commotion. There was a rapid
                  mounting, and in five minutes they were all on horseback, curveting in circles,
                  and brandishing their lances, but without advancing.
               "Manga Colorada hasn't reached here yet," observed Thurstane.
               "That's so," assented Texas Smith. "They hain't heerd from the cuss, or they'd a
                  bushwhacked us somewhar. Seein' he dasn't follow our trail, he had to make a big
                  turn to git here. But he'll be droppin' along, an' then we'll hev a fight. I
                  reckon we'll hev one any way. Them cusses ain't friendly. If they was, they'd a
                  piled in helter-skelter to hev a talk an' ask fur whiskey."
               "We must, keep them at a distance," said Thurstane.
               "You bet! The first Injun that conies nigh us, I'll shute him. They mustn't be
                  'lowed to git among us. First you know you'd hear a yell, an' find yourself
                  speared in the lack. An' them that's speared right off is the lucky ones."
               "Not one of us must fall into their hands," muttered the officer, thinking of
                  Clara.
               "Cap, that's so," returned Texas grimly. "When I fight Injuns, I never empty my
                  revolver. I keep one barl for myself, You'd better do the same. Furthermore, thar
                  oughter be somebody detailed to shute the women folks when it comes to the last
                  pinch. I say this as a friend."
               As a friend! It was the utmost stretch of Texas Smith's humanity and sympathy.
                  Obviously the fellow had a soft side to him.
               The fact is that he had taken a fancy to Thurstane since he had learned his
                  fighting qualities, and would rather have done him a favor than murder him. At all
                  events his hatred to "Injuns" was such that he wanted the lieutenant to kill a
                  great many of them before his own turn came.
               "So you think we'll have a tough job of it?" inferred Ralph.
               "Cap, we ain't so many as we was. An' if Manga Colorada comes up, thar'll be a
                  pile of red-skins. It may be they'll outlast us; an' so I say as a friend, save
                  one shot; save it for yourself Cap."
               But the Apaches did not advance, They watched the train steadily; they held a long
                  consultation which evidently referred to it; at last they seemed to decide that it
                  was in too good order to fall an easy prey; there was some wild capering along its
                  flanks, at a safe distance; and then, little by little, the gang resettled in its
                  bivouac. It was like a swarm of hornets, which should sally out to reconnoitre an
                  enemy, buzz about threateningly for a while, and sail back to their nest.
               The plain, usually dotted with flocks of sheep, was now a solitude. The Moquis had
                  evidently withdrawn their woolly wealth either to the summit of the bluff, or to
                  the partially sheltered pasturage around its base. The only objects which varied
                  the verdant level were scattered white rocks, probably gypsum or oxide of
                  manganese, which glistened surprisingly in the sunlight, reminding one of pearls
                  sown on a mantel of green velvet. Rut already the travellers could see the peach
                  orchards of the Moquis, and the sides of the lofty butte laid out in gardens
                  supported by terrace-walis of dressed stone, the whole mass surmounted by the
                  solid ramparts of the pueblos.
               At this moment, while the train was still a little over two miles from the foot of
                  the bluff, and the Apache camp more than three miles to the rear, Texas Smith
                  shouted, "The cusses hev got the news."
               It was true; the foremost riders, or perhaps only the messengers, of Manga
                  Colorada had reached Delgadito; and a hundred warriors were swarming after the
                  train to avenge their fallen comrades.
               
               Now ensued a race for life, the last pull of the mules being lashed out of them,
                  and the Indians riding at the topmost speed of their wiry ponies.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               WHEN the race for life and death commenced between the emigrants and the Apaches,
                  it seemed as if the former would certainly be able to go two miles before the
                  latter could cover six.
               But the mules were weak, and the soil of the plain was a thin loam into which the
                  wheels sank easily, so that the heavy wagons could not be hurried beyond a trot,
                  and before long were reduced to a walk. Thus, while the caravan was still half a
                  mile from its city of refuge, the foremost hornets of Delgadito's swarm were
                  already circling around it.
               The chief could not charge at once, however, for the warriors whom he had in hand
                  numbered barely a score, and their horses, blown with a run of over five miles,
                  were unfit for sharp fighting work. For a few minutes nothing happened, except
                  that the caravan continued its silent, sullen retreat, while the pursuers cantered
                  yelling around it at a safe distance. Not a shot was fired by the emigrants; not a
                  brave dashed up to let fly his arrows. At last there were fifty Apaches; then
                  there was a hurried council; then a furious rush. Evidently the savages were
                  ashamed to let their enemies escape for lack of one audacious assault.
               This charge was led by a child. A boy not more than fourteen years of age,
                  screaming like a little demon and discharging his arrows at full speed with wicked
                  dexterity, rode at the head of this savage hourra of the
                  Cossacks of the American desert. As the fierce child came on, Coronado saw him and
                  recognized him with a mixture of wonder, dread, and hate. Here was the son of the
                  false-hearted savage who had accepted his money, agreed to do his work, and then
                  turned against him. Should he kill him? It would open an account of blood between
                  himself and the father. Never mind; vengeance is sweet; moreover, the youngster
                  was dangerous.
               Coronado raised his revolver, steadied it across his left arm, took a calm aim,
                  and fired. The handsome, headlong, terrible boy swayed forward, rolled slowly over
                  the pommel of his saddle, and fell to the ground motionless. In the next moment
                  there was a general rattle of firearms from the train, and the mass of the
                  charging column broke up into squads which went off in aimless caracolings.
                  Barring a short struggle by half a dozen braves to recover the young chiefs body,
                  the contest was over; and in two minutes more the Apaches were half a mile
                  distant, looking on in sulky silence while the train crawled toward the protecting
                  bluff.
               "Hurrah!" shouted Thurstane. "That was quick work. Delgadito doesn't take his
                  punishment well."
               "Reckon they see we had friends," observed Captain Glover. "Jest look at them
                  critters pile down the mounting. Darned if they don't skip like nanny-goats."
               Down the huge steep slope, springing along rocky, sinuous paths, or over the walls
                  of the terraces, came a hundred or a hundred and fifty men, running with a speed
                  which, considering the nature of the footing, was marvellous. Before many in the
                  train were aware of their approach, they were already among the wagons, rushing up
                  to the travellers with outstretched hands, the most cordial, cheerful, kindly-eyed
                  people that Thurstane had seen in New Mexico. Good features, too; that is, they
                  were handsomer than the usual Indian type; some even had, physiognomies which
                  reminded one of Italians. Their hair was fine and glossy for men of their race;
                  and, stranger still, it bore an appearance of careful combing. Nearly all wore
                  loose cotton trousers or drawers reaching to the knee, with a kind of blouse of
                  woollen or cotton, and over the shoulders a gay woollen blanket tied around the
                  waist. In view of their tidy raiment and their general air of cleanliness, it
                  seemed a mistake to, class them as Indians. These were the Moquis, a remnant of
                  one of the semi-civilizations of America, perhaps a colony left behind by the
                  Aztecs in their migrations, or possibly by the temple-builders of Yucatan.
               Impossible to converse with them. Not a person in the caravan spoke the Moqui
                  tongue, and not a Moqui spoke or understood a word of Spanish or English. But it
                  was evident from their faces and gestures that they were enthusiastically
                  friendly, and that they had rushed down from their fastness to aid the emigrants
                  against the Apaches. There was even a, little sally into the plain, the Moquis
                  running a quarter of a mile with amazing agility, spreading out into a loose
                  skirmishing line of battle, brandishing their bows and defying the enemy to
                  battle. But this ended in nothing; the Apaches sullenly cantered away; the others
                  soon checked their pursuit.
               Now came the question of encampment. To get the wagons up the bluff, eight hundred
                  feet or so in height, along a path which had been cut in the rock or built up with
                  stone, was obviously impossible. Would there be safety where they were, just at
                  the base of the noble slope? The Moquis assured them by signs that the plundering
                  horse-Indians never came so near the pueblos. Camp then; the wagons were parked as
                  usual in a hollow square; the half-starved animals were unharnessed and allowed to
                  fly at the abundant grass; the cramped and wearied travellers threw themselves on
                  the ground with delight.
               "What a charming people these Monkeys are!" said Aunt Maria, surveying the neat
                  and Smiling villagers with approval.
               "Moquis," Coronado corrected her, with a bow.
               "Oh, Mo-kies," repeated Aunt Maria, this time catching the sound exactly. "Well, I
                  propose to see as much of them as possible. Why shouldn't the women and the
                  wounded sleep in the city?"
               "It is an excellent idea," assented Coronado, although he thought with distaste
                  that this would bring Clara and Thurstane together, while he would be at a
                  distance.
               "I suppose we shall get an idea from it of the ancient city of Mexico, as
                  described by Prescott," continued the enthusiastic lady.
               "You will discover a few deviations in the ground plan," returned Coronado, for
                  once ironical.
               Aunt Maria's suggestion with regard to the women and the wounded was adopted. The
                  Moquis seemed to urge it; so at least they were understood. Within a couple of
                  hours after the halt a procession of the feebler folk commenced climbing the
                  bluff, accompanied by a crowd of the hospitable Indians. The winding and difficult
                  path swarmed for a quarter of a mite with people in the gayest of blankets, some
                  ascending with the strangers and some coming down to greet them.
               "I should think we were going up to the Temple of the Sun to be sacrified," said
                  Clara, who had also read Prescott.
               "To be worshipped," ventured Thurstane, giving her a look which made her blush,
                  the boldest look that he had yet ventured.
               
               The terraces, as we have stated, were faced with partially dressed stone. They
                  were in many places quite broad, and were cultivated everywhere with admiral le
                  care, presenting long green lines of corn fields or of peach orchards. Half-way up
                  the ascent was a platform of more than ordinary spaciousness which contained a
                  large reservoir, built of chipped stone strongly cemented, and brimming with
                  limpid water. From this cistern large earthen pipes led off in various directions
                  to irrigate the terraces below.
               "It seems to me that we are discovering America," exclaimed Aunt Maria, her face
                  scarlet with exercise and enthusiasm.
               Presently she asked, in full faith that she was approaching a metropolis, "What is
                  the name of the city?"
               "This must be Tegua," replied Thurstane. "Tegua is the most eastern of the Moqui
                  pueblos. There are three on this bluff. Mooshaneh and two others are on a butte to
                  the west. Oraybe is further north."
               "What a powerful confederacy!" said Aunt Maria. "The United States of the
                  Moquis!"
               After a breathless ascent of at least eight hundred feet, they reached the
                  undulated, barren, rocky surface of a plateau. Here the whole population of Tegua
                  had collected; and for the first time the visitors saw Moqui women and children.
                  Aunt Maria was particularly pleased with the specimens of her own sex; she went
                  into ecstasies over their gentle physiognomies and their well-combed, carefully
                  braided, glossy hair; she admired their long gowns of black woollen, each with a
                  yellow stripe around the waist and a border of the same at the bottom.
               "Such a sensible costume!" she said. "So much more rational and convenient than
                  our fashionable fripperies!"
               Another fact of great interest was that the Moquis were lighter complexioned than
                  Indians in general. And when she discovered a woman with fair skin, blue eyes, and
                  yellow hair—one of those albinos who are found among the inhabitants of the
                  pueblos—she went into an excitement which was nothing less than ethnological.
               "These are white people." she cried, losing sight of all the brown faces. "They
                  are some European race which colonized America long before that modern upstart,
                  Columbus. They are undoubtedly the descendants of the Northmen who built the old
                  mill at Newport and sculptured the Dighton Rock."
               "There is a belief," said Thurstane, "that some of these pueblo people,
                  particularly those of Zuni, are Welsh. A Welsh prince named Madoc, flying before
                  the Saxons, is said to have reached America. There are persons who hold that the
                  descendants of his followers built the mounds in the Mississippi Valley, and that
                  some of them became the white Mandans of the upper Missouri, and that others
                  founded this old Mexican civilization. Of course it is all guess-work. There's
                  nothing about it in the Regulations."
               "I consider it highly probable," asserted Aunt Maria, forgetting her Scandinavian
                  hypothesis. "I don't see how you can doubt that that flaxen-haired girl is a
                  descendant of Medoc, Prince of Wales."
               "Madoc," corrected Thurstane.
               "Well, Madoc then," replied Aunt Maria rather pettishly, for she was dreadfully
                  tired, and moreover she didn't like Thurstane.
               A few minutes' walk brought them to the rampart which surrounded the pueblo. Its
                  foundation was a solid blind wall, fifteen feet or so in height, and built of hewn
                  stone laid in clay cement. Above was a second wall, rising from the first as one
                  terrace rises from another, and surmounted by a third, which was also in terrace
                  fashion. The ground tier of this stair-like structure contained the storerooms of
                  the Moquis, while the upper tiers were composed of their two-story houses, the
                  entire mass of masonry being upward of thirty feet high, and forming a continuous
                  line of fortification. This rampart of dwellings was in the shape of a rectangle,
                  and enclosed a large square or plaza containing a noble reservoir. Compact and
                  populous, at once a castle and a city, the place could defy all the horse Indians
                  of North America.
               "Bless me! this is sublime but dreadful," said Aunt Maria when she learned that
                  she must ascend to the landing of the lower waif by a ladder. "No gate? Isn't
                  there a window somewhere that I could crawl through? Well, well! Dear me! But it's
                  delightful to see how safe these excellent people have made themselves."
               So with many tremblings, and with the aid of a lariat fastened around her waist
                  and vigorously pulled from above by two Moquis, Aunt Maria clutched and scraped
                  her way to the top of the foundation terrace.
               "I shall never go down in the world," she remarked with a shuddering glance
                  backward. "I shall pass the rest of my days here."
               From the first platform the travellers were led to the second and third by stone
                  stairways. They were now upon the inside, of the rectangle, and could see two
                  stories of doors lacing the plaza and the reservoir in its centre, the whole scene
                  cheerful with the gay garments and smiling faces of the Moquis.
               "Beautiful!" said Aunt Maria. "That court is absolutely swept and dusted. One
                  might give a ball there. I should like to hear Lucretia Mott speak in it."
               Her reflections were interrupted by the courteous gestures of a middle-aged,
                  dignified Moqui, who was apparently inviting the party to enter one of the
                  dwellings.
               Pepita and the other two Indian women, with the wounded muleteers, were taken to
                  another house. Aunt Maria, Clara, Thurstane, and Phineas Glover entered the
                  residence of the chief, and found themselves in a room six or seven feet high,
                  fifteen feet in length and ten in breadth. The floor was solid, polished clay; the
                  walls were built of the large, sunbaked bricks called adobes; the ceilings were of
                  beams, covered by short sticks, with adobes over all. Skins, bows and arrows,
                  quivers, antlers, blankets, articles of clothing, and various simple ornaments
                  hung on pegs driven into the walls or lay packed upon shelves.
               "They are a musical nice, I see," observed Aunt Maria, pointing to a pair of
                  painted drumsticks tipped with gay feathers, and a reed wind-instrument with a
                  bell-shaped mouth like a clarionet. "Of course they are. The Welsh were always
                  famous for their bards and their harpers. Does anybody in our party speak Welsh?
                  What a pity we are such ignoramuses! We might have an interesting conversation
                  with these people, f should so like to hear their traditions about the voyage
                  across the Atlantic and the old mill at Newport."
               Her remarks were interrupted by a short speech from the chief, whom she at first
                  understood as relating the adventures of his ancestors, but who finally made it
                  clear that he was asking them to take seats. After they were arranged on a row of
                  skins spread along the wall, a shy, meek, and pretty Moqui woman passed around a
                  vase of water for drinking and a tray which contained something not unlike a
                  bundle of blue wrapping paper.
               "Is this to wipe our hands on?" inquired Aunt Maria, bringing her spectacles to
                  bear on the contents of the tray.
               "It smells like corn bread," said Clara.
               
               So it was. The corn of the Moquis is blue, and grinding does not destroy the
                  color. The meal is stirred into a thin gruel and cooked by pouring over smooth,
                  flat, heated stones, the light shining tissues being rapidly taken off and folded,
                  and subsequently made up in bundles.
               The party made a fair meal off the blue wrapping paper. Then the meek-eyed woman
                  reappeared, removed the dishes, returned once more, and looked fixedly at
                  Thurstane's bloody sleeve.
               "Certainly!" said Aunt Maria. "Let her dress your arm, I have no doubt that
                  unpretending woman knows more about surgery than all the men doctors in New York
                  city. Let her dress it."
               Thurstane partially threw off his coat and rolled up his shirt sleeve. Clara gave
                  one glance at the huge white arm with the small crimson hole in it, and turned
                  away with a thrill which was new to her. The Moqui woman washed the wound, applied
                  a dressing which looked like chewed leaves, and put on a light bandage.
               "Does it feel any better?" asked Aunt Maria eagerly.
               "It feels cooler," said Thurstane.
               Aunt Maria looked as if she thought him very ungrateful for not saying that he was
                  entirely well.
               "An' my nose," suggested Glover, turning up his lacerated proboscis.
               "Yes, certainly; your poor nose," assented Aunt Maria. "Let the lady cure it."
               The female surgeon fastened a poultice upon the tattered cartilage by passing a
                  bandage around the skipper's sandy and bristly head.
               "Works like a charm 'n' smells like peach leaves," snuffled the patient. "It's
                  where it's handy to sniff at—that's a comfort."
               After much dumb show, arrangements were made for the night. One of the inner rooms
                  was assigned to Mrs. Stanley and Clara, and another to Thurstane and Glover.
                  Bedding, provisions, and some small articles as presents for the Moquis were sent
                  up from the train by Coronado.
               But would the wagons, the animals, and the human members of the party below be
                  safe during the night? Young as he was, and wounded as he was, Thurstane was so
                  badgered by his army habit of incessant responsibility that he could not lie clown
                  to rest until he had visited the camp and examined personally into probabilities
                  of attack and means of defence. As he descended the stony path which scored the
                  side of the butte, his anxiety was greatly increased by the appearance of a party
                  of armed Moquis rushing like deer down the steep slope, as if to repel an
                  attack.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THURSTANE found the caravan in excellent condition, the mules being tethered at
                  the reservoir half-way up the acclivity, and the wagons parked and guarded as
                  usual, with Weber for officer of the night.
               "We are in no tanger, Leftenant," said the sergeant. "A large barty of these
                  bueplo beeble has shust gone to the vront They haf daken atfandage of our bresence
                  to regover a bortion of the blain. I haf sent Kelly along to look after them a
                  leetle und make them keep a goot watch. We are shust as safe as bossible. Und
                  to-morrow we will basture the animals. It is a goot blace for a gamp, Leftenant,
                  und we shall pe all right in a tay or two."
               "Does Shubert's leg need attention?"
               "No. It is shust nothing. Shupert is for tuty."
               "And you feel perfectly able to take care of yourselves here?"
               "Berfectly, Leftenant."
               "Forty rounds apiece!"
               "They are issued, Leftenant."
               "If you are attacked, fire heavily; and if the attack is sharp, retreat to the
                  bluff. Never mind the wagons; they can be recovered."
               "I will opey your instructions, Leftenant."
               Thurstane was feverish and exhausted; he knew that Weber was as good a soldier as
                  himself; and still he went back to the village with an anxious heart; such is the
                  tenderness of the military conscience as duty.
               
               By the time he reached the upper landing of the wall of the pueblo it was sunset,
                  and he paused to gaze at a magnificent landscape, the replica of the one which he
                  had seen at sunrise. There were buttes, valleys, and cañons, the vast and lofty
                  plateaus of the north, the ranges of the Navajo country, the Sierra del Carrizo,
                  and the ice peaks of Monte San Francisco. It was sublime, savage, beautiful,
                  horrible. It seemed a revelation from some other world. It was a nightmare of
                  nature.
               Clara met him on the landing with the smile which she now often gave him. "I was
                  anxious about you," she said. "You were too weak to go down there. You look very
                  tired. Do come and eat, and then rest. You will make yourself sick. I was quite
                  anxious about you."
               It was a delightful repetition. How his heart and his eyes thanked her for being
                  troubled for his sake! He was so cheered that in a moment he did not seem to be
                  tired at all. He could have watched all that night, if it had been necessary for
                  her safety, or even for her comfort. The soul certainly has a great deal to do
                  with the body.
               While our travellers sleep, let us glance at the singular people among whom they
                  have found refuge.
               It is said hesitatingly, by scholars who have not yet made comparative studies of
                  languages, that the Moquis are not red men, like the Algonquins, the
                  Iroquois, the Lenni Lenape, the Sioux, and in general those whom we know as
                     Indians. It is said, moreover, that they are of the same generic
                  stock with the Aztecs of Mexico, the ancient Peruvians, and all the other
                  city-building peoples of both North and South America.
               
               It was an evil day for the brown race of New Mexico when horses strayed from the
                  Spanish settlements into the desert, and the savage red tribes became cavalry.
                  This feeble civilization then received a more cruel shock than that which had been
                  dealt it by the storming columns of the conquistadors. The horse transformed the
                  Utes, Apaches, Comanches, and Navajos from snapping-turtles into condors.
                  Thenceforward, instead of crawling in slow and feeble bands to tease the dense
                  populations of the pueblos, they could come like a tornado, and come in a swarm.
                  At no time were the Moquis and their fellow agriculturists and herdsmen safe from
                  robbery and slaughter. Such villages as did not stand upon buttes inaccessible to
                  horsemen, and such as did not possess fertile lands immediately under the shelter
                  of their walls, were either abandoned or depopulated by slow starvation.
               It is thus that we may account for many of the desolate cities which are now found
                  in Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah. Not of course for all; some, we know, were
                  destroyed by the early Spaniards; others may have been forsaken because their
                  tillable lands became exhausted; others doubtless fell during wars between
                  different tribes of the brown race. But the cavalry of the desert must necessarily
                  have been a potent instrument of destruction.
               It is a pathetic spectacle, this civilization which has perished, or is perishing,
                  without the poor consolation of a history to record its sufferings. It comes near
                  to being a repetition of the silent death of the flint and bronze races, the
                  mound-raisers, and cave-diggers, and cromlech-builders of Europe.
               Captain Phineas Glover, rising at an early hour in the morning, and having had his
                  nosebag of medicament refilled and refitted, set off on an appetizer around the
                  ramparts of the pueblo, and came back marvelling.
               "Been out to shake hands with these clever critters," he said. "Best be-havin' 'n'
                  meekest lookin' Injuns I ever see. Put me in mind o' cows 'n' lambs. An' neat!
                  'Most equal to Amsterdam Dutch, Seen a woman sweepin' up her husband's tobacco
                  ashes 'n' carryin', 'em out to throw over the wall. Jest what they do in Broek.
                  Ever been in Broek? Tell ye 'bout it some time. But how d'ye s'pose this town was
                  built? I didn't see no stun up here that was fit for quarryin'. So I
                  put it to a lot of fellers where they got their buildin' m'ter'ls. Wal, after
                  figurin' round a spell, 'n' makin' signs by the schuner load, found out the hull
                  thing. Every stun in this place was whittled out 'f the ruff-scuff at the bottom
                  of the mounting, 'n' fetched up here in blankets on men's shoulders. All the mud,
                  too, to make their bricks, was backed up in the same way. Feller off with his
                  blanket 'n' showed me how they did it. Beats all. Wust of it was, couldn't find
                  out how long it took 'em, nor how the job was lotted out to each one."
               "I suppose they made their women do it," said Aunt Maria grimly. "Men usually put
                  all the hard work on women."
               "Wal, women folks do a heap," admitted Glover, who never contradicted anybody.
                  "But there's reason to entertain a hope that they didn't take the brunt of it
                  here. I looked over into the gardens down b'low the town, 'n' see men plantin'
                  corn, 'n' tendin' peach trees, but didn't see no women at it. The women was all in
                  the houses, spinnin', weavin', sewin', 'n' fixin' up generally."
               "Remarkable people!" exclaimed Aunt Maria. "They are at least as civilized as we.
                  Very probably more so. Of course they are. I must learn whether the women vote, or
                  in any way take part in the government. If so, these Indians are vastly our
                  superiors, and we must sit humbly at their feet."
               During this talk the worn and wounded Thurstane had been lying asleep. He now
                  appeared from his dormitory, nodded a hasty good-morning, and pushed for the
                  door.
               "Train's all right," said Glover. "Jest took a squint at it. Peaceful's a ship
                  becalmed. Not a darned Apache in sight."
               "You are sure?" demanded the young officer.
               "Better get some more peach-leaf pain-killer on your arm 'n' set straight clown to
                  breakfast."
               "If the Apaches have vamosed, Coronado might join us," suggested Thurstane.
               "Never!" answered Mrs. Stanley with solemnity. "His ancestor stormed Cibola and
                  ravaged this whole country. If these people-should hear his name pronounced, and
                  suspect his relationship to their oppressor, they might massacre him."
               "That was three hundred years ago," smiled the wretch of a lieutenant.
               "It doesn't matter," decided Mrs. Stanley.
               And so Coronado, thanks to one of his splendid inventions, was not invited up to
                  the pueblo.
               The travellers spent the clay in resting, in receiving a succession of pleasant,
                  tidy visitors, and in watching the ways of the little community. The weather was
                  perfect, for while the season was the middle of May, and the latitude that of
                  Algeria and Tunis, they were nearly six thousand feet above the level of the sea,
                  and the isolated butte was wreathed with breezes. It was delightful to sit or
                  stroll on the landings of the ramparts, and overlook the flourishing landscape
                  near at hand, and the peaceful industry which caused it to bloom.
               Along the hillside, amid the terraced gardens of corn, pumpkins, guavas, and
                  peaches, many men and children were at work, with here and there a woman.
               The scene had not only its charms, but its marvels. Besides the grand environment
                  of plateaus and mountains in the distance, there were near at hand freaks of
                  nature such as one might look for in the moon. Nowhere perhaps has the great water
                  erosion of bygone æons wrought more grotesquely and fantastically than in the
                  Moqui basin. To the west rose a series of detached buttes, presenting forms of
                  castles, towers, and minarets, which looked more like the handiwork of man than
                  the pueblo itself. There were piles of variegated sandstone, some of them four
                  hundred feet in height, crowned by a hundred feet of sombre trap. Internal tire
                  had found vent here; its outflowings had crystallized into columnar trap; the trap
                  had protected the underlying sandstone from cycles of water-flow; thus had been
                  fashioned these sublime donjons and pinnacles.
               They were not only sublime but beautiful. The sandstone, reduced by ages to a
                  crumbling marl, was of all colors. There were layers, of green, reddish-brown,
                  drab, purple, red, yellow, pinkish, slate, light-brown, orange, white, and banded.
                  Nature, not contented with building enchanted palaces, had frescoed them. At this
                  distance, indeed, the separate tints of the strata could not be discerned, but
                  their general effect of variegation was distinctly visible, and the result was a
                  landscape of the Thousand and One Nights.
               To the south were groups of crested mounds, some of them resembling the spreading
                  stumps of trees, and others broad-mouthed bells, all of vast magnitude. These were
                  of sandstone marl, the caps consisting of hard red and green shales, while the
                  swelling boles, colored by gypsum, were as white as loaf-sugar. It was another
                  specimen of the handiwork of deluges which no man can number.
               Far away to the southwest, and yet faintly seen through the crystalline
                  atmosphere, were the many-colored knolls and rolls and cliffs of the Painted
                     Desert. Marls, shales, and sandstones,
                  of all tints, were strewn and piled into a variegated vista of sterile splendor.
                  Here surely enchantment and glamour had made undisputed abode.
               All day the wounded and the women reposed, gazing a good deal, but sleeping more.
                  During the afternoon, however, our wonder-loving Mrs. Stanley roused herself from
                  her lethargy and rushed into an adventure such as only she knew how to find. In
                  the morning she had noticed, at the other end of the pueblo from her quarters, a
                  large room which was frequented by men alone. It might be a temple; it might be a
                  hall for the transaction of public business; such were the diverse guesses of the
                  travellers. Into the mysteries of this apartment Aunt Maria resolved to poke.
               She reached it; nobody was in it; suspicious circumstance! Aunt Maria put an end
                  to this state of questionable solitude by entering. A dark room; no light except
                  from a trap door; a very proper place for improper doings. At one end rose a
                  large, square block of red sandstone, on which was carved a round face environed
                  by rays, probably representing the sun. Aunt Maria remembered the sacrificial
                  altars of the Aztecs, and judged that the old sanguinary religion of Tenochtitlan
                  was not yet extinct. She became more convinced of this terrific fact when she
                  discovered that the red tint of the stone was deepened in various places by stains
                  which resembled blood.
               Three or four horrible suggestions arose in succession to jerk at her
                  heartstrings. Were these Moquis still in the habit of offering human sacrifices?
                  Would a woman answer their purpose, and particularly a white woman? If they should
                  catch her there, in the presence of their deity, would they consider it a leading
                  of Providence? Aunt Maria, notwithstanding her curiosity and courage, began to
                  feel a desire to retreat.
               Her reflections were interrupted and her emotions accelerated by darkness.
                  Evidently the door had been shut; then she heard a rustling of approaching feet
                  and an awful whispering; then projected hands impeded her gropings toward safety.
                  While she stood still, too completely blinded to fly and too frightened to scream,
                  a light gleamed from behind the altar and presently rose into a flame. The sacred
                  fire!—she knew it as soon as she saw it; she remembered Prescott, and recognized
                  it at a glance.
               By its flickering rays she perceived that the apartment was full of men, all robed
                  in blankets of ebony blackness, and all gazing at her in solemn silence. Two of
                  them, venerable elders with long white hair, stood in front of the others, making
                  genuflexions and signs of adoration toward the carved face on the altar. Presently
                  they advanced to her, one of them suddenly seizing her by the shoulders and
                  pinioning her arms behind her, while the other drew from beneath his robe a long
                  sharp knife of the glassy flint known as obsidian.
               At this point the horrified Aunt Maria found her voice, and uttered a piercing
                  scream.
               At the close of her scream she by a supreme effort turned on her side, raised her
                  hands to her face, rubbed her eyes open, staled at Clara, who was lying near her,
                  and mumbled, "I've had an awful nightmate."
               That was it. There was no altar, nor holy fire, nor high priest, nor flint lancet.
                  She hadn't been anywhere, and she hadn't even screamed, except in imagination. She
                  was on her blanket, alongside of her niece, in the house of the Moqui chief, and
                  as safe as need be.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               BUT the visionary terror had scarcely gone when a real one came. Coronado
                  appeared—Coronado, the descendant of the great Vasquez—Coronado, whom the Moquis
                  would destroy if they heard his name—of whom they would not leave two limbs or two
                  fingers together. From her dormitory she saw him walk into the main room of the
                  house in his airiest and cheeriest manner, bowing and smiling to right, bowing and
                  smiling to left, winning Moqui hearts in a moment, a charmer of a Coronado. He
                  shook hands with the chief; he shook hands with all the head men; next a hand to
                  Thurstane and another to Glover. Mrs. Stanley heard him addressed as Coronado; she
                  looked to see him scattered in rags on the floor; she tried to muster courage to
                  rush to his rescue.
               There was no outcry of rage at the sound of the fatal name, and she could not
                  perceive that a Moqui countenance smiled the less for it.
               Coronado produced a pipe, filled it, lighted it, and handed it to the chief That
                  dignitary took it, bowed gravely to each of the four points of the compass,
                  exhaled a few whiffs, and passed it to his next blanketed neighbor, who likewise
                  saluted the four cardinal points, smoked a little, and sent it on. Mrs. Stanley
                  drew a sigh of relief; the pipe of peace had been used, and there would be no
                  bloodshed; she saw the whole bearing of her favorite's audacious manœuvre at a
                  glance.
               Coronado now glided into the obscure room where she and Clara were sitting on
                  their blankets and skins. He kissed his hand to the one and the other, and rolled
                  out some melodious congratulations.
               "You reckless creature!" whispered Aunt Maria. "How dared you come up here?"
               "Why so?" asked the Mexican, for once puzzled.
               "Your name! Your ancestor!"
               "Ah!!" and Coronado smiled mysteriously. "There is no danger. We are under the
                  protection of the American eagle. Moreover, hospitalities have been
                  interchanged."
               Next the experiences of the last twenty-four hours, first Mrs. Stanley's version
                  and then Coronado's, were related. He had little to tell: there had been a quiet
                  night and much slumber; the Moquis had stood guard and been every way friendly;
                  the Apaches had left the valley and gone to parts unknown.
               The truth is that he had slept more than half of the time. Journeying, fighting,
                  watching, and anxiety had exhausted him as well as every one else, and enabled him
                  to plunge into slumber with a delicious consciousness of it as a restorative and a
                  luxury.
               Now that he was himself again, he wondered at what he had been. For two days he
                  had faced death, fighting like a legionary or a knight-errant, and in short
                  playing the hero. What was there in his nature, or what had there been in his
                  selfish and lazy life, that was akin to such fine frenzies? As he remembered it
                  all, he hardly knew himself for the same old Coronado.
               Well, being safe again, he was a devoted lover again, and he must get on with his
                  courtship. Considering that Clara and Thurstane, if left much together here in the
                  pueblo, might lead each other into the temptation of a betrothal, he decided that
                  he must be at hand to prevent such a catastrophe; and so here he was. Presently he
                  began to talk to the girl in Spanish; then he begged the aunt's pardon for
                  speaking what was to her an unknown tongue; but he had, he said, some family matters for his cousin's ear;
                  would Mrs. Stanley be so good as to excuse him?
               "Certainly," returned that far-sighted woman, guessing what the family matters
                  might be, and approving them. "By the way, I have something to do," she added. "I
                  must attend to it immediately."
               By this time she remembered all about her nightmare, and she was in a state of
                  inflammation as to the Moqui religion. If the dream were true, if the Moquis were
                  in the habit of sacrificing strong-minded women or any kind of women, she must
                  know it and put a stop to it. Stepping into the central room, where Thurstane and
                  Glover were smoking with a number of Indians, she said in her prompt, positive
                  way, "I must look into these people's religion. Does anybody know whether they
                  have any?"
               The Lieutenant had a spark or two of information on the subject. Through the
                  medium of a Navajo who had strolled into the pueblo, and who spoke a little
                  Spanish and a good deal of Moqui, he had been catechising the chief as to manners,
                  customs, etc.
               "I understand," he said, "that they have a sacred fire which they never suffer to
                  go out. They are believed to worship the sun, like the ancient Aztecs, The sacred
                  fire seems to confirm the suspicion."
               "Sacred fire! vestal virgins, too, I suppose! can they be Romans?" reasoned Aunt
                  Maria, beginning to doubt Prince Madoc.
               "The vestal virgins here are old men," replied Ralph, wickedly pleased to get a
                  joke on the lady.
               "Oh! The Moquis are not Romans," decided Mrs Stanley. "Well, what do these old men
                  do?"
               "Keep the fire burning."
               "What if it should go out? What would happen?"
               "I don't know," responded the sub-acid Thurstane.
               "I didn't suppose you did," said Aunt Maria pettishly. "Captain Glover, I want you
                  to come with me."
               Followed by the subservient skipper, she marched to the other end of the pueblo.
                  There was the mysterious apartment; it was not really a temple, but a sort of
                  public hall and general lounging place; such rooms exist in the Spanish-speaking
                  pueblos of Zuni and Laguna, and are there called estufas. The explorers soon discovered that the only entrance into
                  the estufa was by a trapdoor and a ladder. Now Aunt Maria hated ladders: they were
                  awkward for skirts, and moreover they made her giddy; so she simply got on her
                  knees and peeped through the trap-door. But there was a fire directly below, and
                  there was also a pretty strong smell of pipes of tobacco, so that she saw nothing
                  and was stifled and disgusted. She sent Glover down, as people lower a dog into a
                  mine where gases are suspected. After a brief absence the skipper returned and
                  reported.
               "Pooty sizable room. Dark 's a pocket 'n' hot 's a footstove. Three or four Injuns
                  talkin' 'n' smokin'. Scrap 'f a fire smoulderin' in a kind 'f standee fireplace
                  without any top."
               "That's the sacred fire," said Aunt Maria. "How many old men were watching
                  it?"
               "Didn't see any."
               "They must have been there. Did you put the fire out?"
               "No water handy," explained the prudent Glover.
               "You might have—expectorated on it."
               "Reckon I didn't miss it," said the skipper, who was a chewer of tobacco and a
                  dead shot with his juice.
               "Of course nothing happened."
               "Nary."
               "I knew there wouldn't," declared the lady triumphantly. "Well, now let us go
                  back. We know something about the religion of these people. It is certainly a very
                  interesting study."
               "Didn't appear to me much l'k a temple," ventured Glover. "Sh'd say t'was a kind
                  'f gineral smokin' room 'n' jawin' place. Git together there 'n' talk crops 'n'
                  'lections 'n' the like."
               "You must be mistaken," decided Aunt Maria. "There was the sacred fire."
               She now led the willing captain (for he was as inquisitive as a monkey) on a round
                  of visits to the houses of the Moquis. She poked smiling through their kitchens
                  and bedrooms, and gained more information than might have been expected concerning
                  their spinning and weaving, cheerfully spending ten minutes in signs to obtain a
                  single idea.
               "Never shear their sheep till they are dead!" she exclaimed when that fact had
                  been gestured into her understanding. "Absurd! There's another specimen of
                  masculine stupidity. I'll warrant you, if the women had the management of things,
                  the good-for-nothing brutes would be sheared every day."
               "Jest as they be to hum," slily suggested Glover, who knew better.
               "Certainly," said Aunt Maria, aware that cows were milked daily.
               The Moquis were very hospitable; they absolutely petted the strangers. At nearly
                  every house presents were offered, such as gourds full of corn, strings of dried
                  peaches, guavas as big as pomegranates, or bundles of the edible wrapping paper,
                  all of which Aunt Maria declined with magnanimous waves of the hand and copious
                  smiles. Curious and amiable faces peeped at the visitors from the landings and
                  doorways.
               "How mild and good they all look!" said Aunt Maria. "They put me in mind somehow
                  of Shenstone's pastorals. How humanizing a pastoral life is, to be sure! On the
                  whole, I admire their way of not shearing their sheep alive, It isn't stupidity,
                  but goodness of heart. A most amiable people!"
               "Jest so," assented Glover. "How it must go ag'in the grain with 'em to take a
                  skelp when it comes in the way of dooty! A man oughter feel willin' to be skelped
                  by sech tender-hearted critters."
               "Pshaw!" said Aunt Maria. "I don't believe they ever scalp anybody—unless it is in
                  self-defence."
               "Dessay. Them fellers that went clown to fight the Apaches was painted up 's
                  savage 's meat-axes. Probably though 'twas to use up some 'f their paint that was
                  a wastin', Equinomical, I sh'd say."
               Mrs. Stanley did not see her way clear to comment either upon the fact or the
                  inference. There were times when she did not understand Glover, and this was one
                  of the times. He had queer twistical ways of reasoning which often proved the
                  contrary of what he seemed to want to prove; and she had concluded that he was n.
                  dark-minded man who did not always know what he was driving at; at all events, a
                  man not invariably comprehensible by clear intellects.
               Her attention was presently engaged by a stir in the pueblo. Great things were
                  evidently at hand; some spectacle was on the point of presentation; what was it?
                  Aunt Maria guessed marriage, and Captain Glover guessed a war-dance; but they had
                  no argument, for the skipper gave in. Meantime the Moquis, men, women, and children, all dressed in their gayest
                  raiment, were gathering in groups on the landings and in the square. Presently
                  there was a crowd, a thousand or fifteen hundred strong; at last appeared the
                  victims, the performers, or whatever they were.
               "Dear me!" murmured Aunt Maria. "Twenty weddings at once! I hope divorce is
                  frequent."
               Twenty men and twenty women advanced to the centre of the plaza in double file and
                  faced each other.
               The dance began; the performers furnished their own music; each rolled out a deep
                     aw aw aw under his visor.
               "Sounds like a swarm of the biggest kind of blue-bottle flies inside 'f the
                  biggest kind 'f a sugar hogset," was Glover's description.
               The movement was as monotonous as the melody. The men and women faced each other
                  without changing positions; there was an alternate lifting of the feet, in time
                  with the aw aw and the rattling of the gourds; now and then there was
                  a simultaneous about face.
               After a while, open ranks; then rugs and blankets were brought; the maidens sat
                  down and the men danced at them; trot trot, aw aw, and rattle rattle.
               Every third girl now received a large empty gourd, a grooved board, and the dry
                  shoulder-bone of a sheep. Laying the board on the gourd, she drew the bone sharply
                  across the edges of the wood, thus producing a sound like a watchman 's
                  rattle.
               They danced once on each side of the square; then retired to a house and rested
                  fifteen minutes; then recommenced their trot. Meanwhile maidens with large baskets
                  ran about among the spectators, distributing meat, roasted ears of corn, sheets of
                  bread, and guavas.
               So the gayety went on until the sun and the visitors alike withdrew.
               "After all, I think it is more interesting than our marriages," declared Aunt
                  Maria. "I wonder if we ought to make presents to the wedded couples. There are a
                  good many of them."
               She was quite amazed when she learned that this was not a wedding, but a
                  rain-dance, and that the maidens whom she had admired were boys dressed up in
                  female raiment, the customs of the Moquis not allowing women to take part in
                  public spectacles.
               "What exquisite delicacy!" was her consolatory comment. "Well, well, this is the
                  golden age, truly."
               When further informed that in marriage among the Moquis it is woman who takes the
                  initiative, the girl pointing out the young man of her heart and the girl's father
                  making the offer, which is never refused, Mrs. Stanley almost shed tears of
                  gratification. Here was something like woman's rights; here was a flash of the
                  glorious dawn of equality between the sexes; for when she talked of equality she
                  meant female preëminence.
               "And divorces?" she eagerly asked.
               "They are at the pleasure of the parties," explained Thurstane, who had been,
                  catechising the chief at great length through his Navajo.
               "And who, in case of a divorce, cares for the children?"
               "The grandparents."
               Aunt Maria came near clapping her hands. This was better than Connecticut or
                  Indiana. A woman here might successively marry all the men whom she might
                  successively fancy, and thus enjoy a perpetual gush of the affections and an
                  unruffled current of happiness.
               To such extreme views had this excellent creature been led by brooding over what
                  she called the wrongs of her sex and the legal tyranny of the other.
               But we must return to Coronado and Clara. The man had come up to the pueblo on
                  purpose to have a plain talk with the girl and learn exactly what she meant to do
                  with hi in. It was now more than a week since he had offered himself, and in that
                  time she had made no sign, which indicated her purpose. He had looked at her and
                  sighed at her without getting a response of any sort. This could not go on; he
                  must know how she felt towards him; he must know how much she cared for Thurstane.
                  How else could he decide what to do with her and with him?
               
               Thus, while the other members of the party were watching the Moqui dances,
                  Coronado and Clara were talking matters of the heart, and were deciding, unawares
                  to her, questions of life and death.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               IT must be remembered that when Mrs. Stanley carried off skipper Glover to help
                  her investigate the religion of the Moquis, she left Coronado alone with Clara in
                  one of the interior rooms of the chiefs house.
               Thurstane, to be sure, was in the next room and in sight; but he had with him the
                  chief, two other leading Moquis, and his chance Navajo interpreter; they were
                  making a map of the San Juan country by scratching with an arrow-point on the clay
                  floor; everybody was interested in the matter, and there was a pretty smart
                  jabbering. Thus Coronado could say his say without being overheard or
                  interrupted.
               For a little while he babbled commonplaces. The truth is that the sight of tire
                  girl had unsettled his resolutions a little. While he was away from her, he could
                  figure to himself how he would push her into taking him at once, or how, if she
                  refused him, he would let loose upon her the dogs of fate. But once face to face
                  with her, he found that his resolutions had dispersed like a globule of mercury
                  under a hammer, and that he needed a few moments to scrape them together again. So
                  he prattled nothings while he meditated; and you would have thought that he cared
                  for the nothings. He had that faculty; he could mentally ride two horses at once;
                  he would have made a good diplomatist.
               His mind glanced at the past while it peered into the future. What a sinuous
                  underground plot the superficial incidents of this journey covered! To his
                  fellow-travellers it was a straight line; to him it was a complicated and endless
                  labyrinth. How much more he had to think of than they! Only he knew that Pedro
                  Muñoz was dead, that Clara Van Dieman was an heiress, that she was in danger of
                  being abandoned to the desert, that Thurstane was in danger of assassination.
                  Nothing that he had set out to do was yet done, and some of it he must absolutely
                  accomplish, and that shortly. How much? That depended upon this girl. If she
                  accepted him, his course would be simple, and he would be spared the perils of
                  crime.
               Meantime, he looked at Clara even more frankly and calmly than she looked at him.
                  He showed no guilt or remorse in his face, because he felt none in his heart. It
                  must be understood distinctly that the man was almost as destitute of a conscience
                  as it is possible for a member of civilized society to be. He knew what the world
                  called right and wrong; but the mere opinion of the world had no weight with him; that is, none as against
                  his own opinion. His rule of life was to do what he wanted to do, providing he
                  could accomplish it without receiving a damage. You can hardly imagine a being
                  whose interior existence was more devoid of complexity and of mixed motives than
                  was Coronado's. Thus he was quite able to contemplate the possible death of Clara,
                  and still look her calmly in the face and tell her that he loved her.
               The girl returned his gaze tranquilly, because she had no suspicions of his
                  profound wickedness. By nature confiding and reverential, she trusted those who
                  professed friendship, and respected those who were her elders, especially if they
                  belonged in any manner to her own family. Considering herself under obligations to
                  Coronado, and not guessing that he was capable of doing her a harm, she was truly
                  grateful to him and wished him well with all her heart If her eye now and then
                  dropped under his, it was because she feared a repetition of his offer of
                  marriage, and hated to pain him with a refusal.
               The commonplaces lasted longer than the man had meant, for he could not bring
                  himself promptly to take the leap of fate. But at last came the dance; the chief
                  and his comrades led Thurstane away to look at it; now was the time to talk of
                  this fateful betrothal.
               "Something is passing outside," observed Clara. "Shall we go to see?"
               "I am entirely at your command," replied Coronado, with his charming air of gentle
                  respect. "But if you can give me a few minutes of your time, I shall be very
                  grateful."
               Clara's heart beat violently, and her cheeks and neck flushed with spots of red,
                  as she sank back upon her seat. She guessed what was coming; she had been a good
                  deal afraid of it all the time; it was her only cause of dreading Coronado.
               "I venture to hope that you have been good enough to think of what I said to you a
                  week ago," he went on. "Yes, it was a week ago. It seems to me a year."
               "It seems a long time," stammered Clara. So it did, for the days since had been
                  crammed with emotions and events, and they gave her young mind an impression of a
                  long period passed.
               "I have been so full of anxiety!" continued Coronado. "Not about our dangers," he
                  asserted with a little bravado. "Or, rather, not about mine. For you I have been
                  fearful. The possibility that you might fall into the hands of the Apaches was a
                  horror to me. But, after all, my chief anxiety was to know what would be your
                  final answer to me. Yes, my beautiful and very clear cousin, strange as it may
                  seem under our circumstances, this thought has always outweighed with me all our
                  dangers."
               Coronado, as we have already declared, was really in love with Clara. It seems
                  incredible, at first glance, that a man who had no conscience could have a heart.
                  But the assertion is not a fairy story; it is founded in solid philosophy. It is
                  true that Coronado's moral education had been neglected or misdirected; that he
                  was either born indifferent to the idea of duty, or had become indifferent to it;
                  and that he was an egotist of the first water, bent solely upon favoring and
                  gratifying himself. But while his nature was somewhat chilled by these things, he
                  had the hottest of blood in his veins, he possessed a keen perception of the
                  beautiful, and so he could desire with fury. His love could not be otherwise than
                  selfish; but it was none the less capable of ruling him tyrannically.
               Just at this moment his intensity of feeling made him physically imposing and
                  almost fascinating. It seemed to remove a veil from his usually filmy black eyes,
                  and give him power for once to throw out all of truth that there was in his soul.
                  It communicated to his voice a tremor which made it eloquent. He exhaled, as it
                  were, an aroma of puissant emotion which was intoxicating, and which could hardly
                  fail to act upon the sensitive nature of woman. Clara was so agitated by this
                  influence, that for the moment she seemed to herself to know no man in the world
                  but Coronado. Even while she tried to remember Thurstane, he vanished as if
                  expelled by some enchantment, and left her alone in life with her tempter. Still
                  she could not or would not answer; though she trembled, she remained
                  speechless.
               "I have asked you to be my wife," resumed Coronado, seeing that he must urge her.
                  "I venture now to ask you again. I implore you not to refuse me. I cannot be
                  refused. It would make me utterly wretched. It might perhaps bring wretchedness
                  upon you. I hope not, I could not wish you a pain, though you should give me many.
                  My very dear Clara, I offer you the only love of my life, and the only love that I
                  shall ever offer to any one. Will you take it?"
               Clara was greatly moved. She could not doubt his sincerity; no one who heard him
                  could have doubted it; he was sincere. To her, young, tenderhearted,
                  capable of loving earnestly, beginning already to know what love is, it seemed a
                  horrible thing to spurn affection. If it had not been for Thurstane, she would
                  have taken Coronado for pity.
               "Oh, my cousin!" she sighed, and stopped there.
               Coronado drew courage from the kindly title of relationship, and, leaning gently
                  towards her, attempted to take her hand. It was a mistake; she was strangely
                  shocked by his touch; she perceived that she did not like him, and she drew away
                  from him.
               "Thank you for that word," he whispered. "Is it the kindest that you can give me?
                  Is there——?"
               "Coronado!" she interrupted. "This is all an error. See here. I am not an
                  independent creature. I am a young girl. I owe some duty somewhere. My father and
                  mother are gone, but I have a grandfather. Coronado, he is the head of my family,
                  and I ought not to marry without his permission. Why can you not wait until we are
                  with Muñoz?"
               There she suddenly dropped her head between the palms of her hands. It struck her
                  that she was hypocritical; that even with the consent of Muñoz she would not marry
                  Coronado; that it was her duty to tell him so.
               "My cousin, I have not told the whole truth," she added, after a terrible
                  struggle. "I would not marry any one without first laying the case before my
                  grandfather. But that is not all. Coronado, I cannot—no, I cannot marry you."
               The man without a conscience, the man who was capable of planning and ordering
                  murder, turned pale under this announcement.
               Notwithstanding its commonness, notwithstanding that it has been described until
                  the subject is hackneyed, notwithstanding that it has become a laughing stock for
                  many, even including poets and novelists, there is probably no heart-pain keener
                  than disappointment in love. The shock of it is like a deep stab; it not merely
                  tortures, but it instantly sickens; the anguish is much, but the sense of
                  helplessness is more; the lover who is refused feels not unlike the soldier who is
                  wounded to death.
               This sorrow compares in dignity and terror with the most sublime sorrows of which humanity is capable. The death
                  of a parent or child, though rendered more imposing to the spectator by the
                  ceremonies of the sepulchre, does not chill the heart more deeply than the death
                  of love. It lasts also; many a human being has carried the marks of it for life;
                  and surely duration of effect is proof of power. We are serious in making these
                  declarations, strange as they may seem to a satirical age. What we have said is
                  strictly true, notwithstanding the mockery of those who have never loved, or the
                  incredulity of those who, having loved, have never lost. But probably only the
                  wretchedly initiated will believe.
               Coronado, though selfish, infamous, and atrocious, was so far susceptible of
                  affection that he was susceptible of suffering. The simple fact of pallor in that
                  hardened face was sufficient proof of torture.
               However, it stood him in hand to recover his self-possession and plead his suit.
                  There was too much at stake in this cause for him to let it go without a struggle
                  and a vehement one. Although he had seen at once that the girl was in earnest, he
                  tried to believe that she was not so, and that he could move her.
               "My dear cousin!" he implored in a voice that was mellow with agitation, "don't
                  decide against me at once and forever. I must have some hope. Pity me."
               "Ah, Coronado! Why will you?" urged Clara, in great trouble.
               "I must! You must not stop me!" he persisted eagerly. "My life is in it I love you
                  so that I don't know how I shall end if you will not hearken to me. I shall be
                  driven to desperation. Why do you turn away from me? Is it my fault that I care
                  for you? It is your own. You are so beautiful!"
               "Coronado, I wish I were very ugly," murmured Clara, for the moment sincere in so
                  wishing.
               "Is there anything you dislike in me? I have been as kind as I knew how to
                  be."
               "It is true, Coronado. You have overwhelmed me with your goodness. I could go on
                  my knees to thank you."
               "Then—why?"
               "Ah! why will you force me to say hard things? Don't you see that it tortures me
                  to refuse you?"
               "Then why refuse me? Why torture us both?"
               "Better a little pain now than much through life."
               "Do you mean to say that you never can——?" He could not finish the question.
               "It is so, Coronado. I never could have said it myself. But you have said it. I
                  never shall love you."
               Once more the man felt a cutting and sickening wound, as of a bullet penetrating a
                  vital part. Unable for the moment to say another word, he rose and walked the room
                  in silence.
               "Coronado, you don't know how sorry I am to grieve you so," cried the girl, almost
                  sobbing. "It seems, too, as if I were ungrateful. I can only beg your pardon for
                  it, and pray that Heaven will reward you."
               "Heaven!" he returned impatiently, "You are my heaven. You are the only heaven
                  that I know."
               "Oh, Coronado! Don't say that. I am a poor, sinful, unworthy creature. Perhaps I
                  could not make any one happy long. Believe me, Coronado, I am not worthy to be
                  loved as you love me."
               "You are!" he said, turning on her passionately and advancing close to her. "You
                  are worthy of my life-long love, and you shall have it. You shall have it, whether
                  you wish it or not. You shall not escape it. I will pursue you with it wherever
                  you go and as long as you live."
               "Oh! You frighten me. Coronado, I beg of you not to talk to me in that way. I am
                  afraid of you."
               "What is the cause of this?" he demanded, hoping to daunt her into submission.
                  "There is something in my way. What is it? Who is it?"
               Clara's paleness turned in an instant to scarlet.
               "Who is it?" he went on, his voice suddenly becoming hoarse with excitement. "It
                  is some one. Is it this American? This boy of a lieutenant?"
               Clara, trembling with an agitation which was only in part dismay, remained
                  speechless.
               "Is it?" he persisted, attempting to seize her hands and looking her fiercely in
                  the eyes. "Is it?"
               "Coronado, stand back!" said Clara. "Don't you try to take my hands!"
               She was erect, her eyes flashing, her cheeks spotted with crimson, her expression
                  strangely imposing.
               The man's courage drooped the moment he saw that she had turned at bay. He walked
                  to the other side of the room, pressed his temples between his palms to quiet
                  their throbbing, and made an effort to recover his self-possession. When he
                  returned to her, after nearly a minute of silence, he spoke quite in his natural
                  manner.
               "This must pass for the present," he said. "I see that it is useless to talk to
                  you of it now."
               "I hope you are not angry with me, Coronado."
               "Let it go," he replied, waving his hand. "I can't speak more of it now."
               She wanted to say, "Try never to speak of it again;" but she did not dare to anger
                  him further, and she remained silent.
               "Shall we go to see the dance?" he asked.
               "I will, if you wish it."
               "But you would rather stay alone?"
               "If you please, Coronado."
               Bowing with an air of profound respect, he went his way alone, glanced at the
                  games of the Moquis, and hurried back to camp, meditating as he went.
               What now should be done? He was in a state of fury, full of plottings of
                  desperation, swearing to himself that he would show no mercy. Thurstane must die
                  at the first opportunity, no matter if his death should kill Clara. And she? There
                  he hesitated; he could not yet decide what to do with her; could not resolve to
                  abandon her to the wilderness.
               But to bring about any part of his projects he must plunge still deeper into the
                  untraversed. To him, by the way, as to many others who have had murder at heart,
                  it seemed as if the proper time and place for it would never be found. Not now,
                  but by and by; not here, but further on. Yes, it must be further On; they must set
                  out as soon as possible for the San Juan country; they must get into wilds never
                  traversed by civilized man.
               To go thither in wagons he had already learned was impossible. The region was a
                  mass of mountains and rocky plateaux, almost entirely destitute of water and
                  forage, and probably forever impassable by wheels. The vehicles must be left here;
                  the whole party must take saddle for the northern desert; and then must come
                  death—or deaths.
               
               But while Coronado was thus planning destruction for others, a noiseless, patient,
                  and ferocious enmity was setting its ambush for him.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               SHORTLY after the safe arrival of the train at the base of the Moqui bluff, and
                  while the repulsed and retreating warriors of Delgadito were still in sight two
                  strange Indians cantered up to the park of wagons.
               They were fine-looking fellows, with high aquiline features, the prominent
                  cheek-bones and copper complexion of the red race, and a bold, martial,
                  trooper-like expression, which was not without its wild good-humor and gayety. One
                  was dressed in a white woollen hunting-shirt belted around the waist, white
                  woollen trousers or drawers reaching to the knee, and deerskin leggins and
                  moccasins. The other had the same costume, except that his drawers were brown and
                  his hunting-shirt blue, while a blanket of red and black stripes drooped from his
                  shoulders to his heels. Their coarse black hair was done up behind in thick
                  braids, and kept out of their faces by a broad band around the temples. Each had a
                  lance eight or ten feet long in his hand, and a bow and quiver slung at his
                  waist-belt. These men were Navajos (Na-va-hos).
               Two jolly and impudent braves were these visitors. They ate, smoked, lounged
                  about, cracked jokes, and asked for liquor as independently as if the camp were a
                  tavern. Rebuffs only made them grin, and favors only led to further demands. It
                  was hard to say whether they were most wonderful for good-nature or
                  impertinence.
               Coronado was civil to them. The Navajos abide or migrate on the south, the north,
                  and the west of the Moqui pueblas. He was in a manner within their country, and it
                  was still necessary for him to traverse a broad stretch of it, especially if he
                  should attempt to reach the San Juan. Besides, he wanted them to warn the Apaches
                  out of the neighborhood and thus avert from his head the vengeance of Manga
                  Colorada. Accordingly he gave this pair of roystering troopers a plentiful dinner
                  and a taste of aguardiente. Toward sunset they departed in high good-humor,
                  promising to turn back the hoofs of the Apache horses; and when in the morning
                  Coronado saw no Indians on the plain, he joyously trusted that his visitors had
                  fulfilled their agreement.
               Somewhere or other, within the next day or two, there was a grand council of the
                  two tribes. We know little of it; we can guess that Manga Colorada must have made
                  great concessions or splendid promises to the Navajos; but it is only certain that
                  he obtained leave to traverse their country. Having secured this privilege, he
                  posted himself fifteen or twenty miles to the southwest of Tegua, behind a butte
                  which was extensive enough to conceal his wild cavalry, even in its grazings. He
                  undoubtedly supposed that, when the train should quit its shelter, it would go to
                  the west or to the south. In either case he was in a position to fall upon it.
               Did the savage know anything about Coronado? Had he attacked his wagons without
                  being aware that they belonged to the man who had paid him five hundred dollars
                  and sent him to harry Bernalillo? Or had he attacked in full knowledge of this
                  fact, because he had been beaten off the southern trail and believed that he had
                  been lured thither to be beaten? Had he learned, either from Apaches or Navajos,
                  whose hand it was that slew his boy? We can onto ask these questions.
               One thing alone is positive: there was a debt of blood to be paid. An Indian war
                  is often the result of a private vendetta. The brave is bound, not only by natural
                  affection and family pride, but still more powerfully by sense of honor and by
                  public opinion, to avenge the slaughter of a relative. Whether he wishes it or
                  not, and frequently no doubt when he does not wish it, he must black his face,
                  sing his death-song, set out alone if need be, encounter labors, hardships, and
                  dangers, and never rest until his sanguinary account is settled. The tyranny of
                  Mrs. Grundy in civilized cities and villages is nothing to the despotism which she
                  exercises among those slaves of custom, the red men of the American wildernesses.
                  Manga Colorada, bereaved and with blackened face, lay in wait for the first step
                  of the emigrants outside of their city of refuge.
               We must return to Coronado. Although Clara's rejection of his suit left him
                  vindictively and desperately eager for a catastrophe of some sort, a week elapsed
                  before he dared take his mad plunge into the northern desert. It was a hundred
                  miles to the San Juan; the intervening country was a waste of rocks, almost
                  entirely destitute of grass and water; the mules and horses must recruit their
                  full strength before they could undertake such a journey. They must not only be
                  strong enough to go, but they must have vital force left to return.
               It is astonishing what labors and dangers the man was willing to face in his vain
                  search for a spot where he might commit a crime in safety. Such a spot is as
                  difficult to discover as the Fountain of Youth or the Terrestrial Paradise. More
                  than once Coronado sickened of his seemingly hopeless and ever lengthening
                  pilgrimage, of sin. Not because it was sinful—he had little or no conscience,
                  remember—only because it was perplexing and perilous.
               It was in vain that Thurstane protested against the crazy trip northward. Coronado
                  sometimes argued for his plan; said the route improved as it approached the river;
                  hoped the party would not be broken up in this manner; declared that he could not
                  spare his clear friend the lieutenant. Another time he calmly smoked his cigarito,
                  looked at Thurstane with filmy, expressionless eyes, and said, "Of course you are
                  not obliged to accompany us."
               "I have not the least intention of quitting you," was the rather indignant reply
                  of the young fellow.
               At this declaration Coronado's long black eyebrows twitched, and his lips curled
                  with the smile of a puma, showing his teeth disagreeably.
               "My dear lieutenant, that is so like you!" he said. "I own that I expected It.
                  Many thanks."
               Thurstane's blue-black eyes studied this enigmatic being steadily and almost
                  angrily. He could not at all comprehend the fellow's bland obstinacy and
                  recklessness.
               "Very well," he said sullenly. "Let us start on our wild-goose chase. What I
                  object to is taking the women with us. As for myself, I am anxious to reach the
                  San Juan and get something to report about it."
               "The ladies will have a day or two of discomfort," returned Coronado; "but you and
                  I will see that they run no danger."
               Nine days after the arrival of the emigrants at Tegua they set out for the San
                  Juan, The wagons were left parked at the base of the butte under the care of the
                  Moquis, The expedition was reorganized as follows: On horseback, Clara, Coronado,
                  Thurstane, Texas Smith, and four Mexicans; on mules, Mrs. Stanley, Glover, the
                  three Indian women, the four soldiers, and the ten drivers and muleteers. There
                  were besides eighteen burden mules loaded with provisions ions and other baggage. In all, five women,
                  twenty-two men, and forty-five animals.
               The Moquis, to whom some stores and small presents were distributed, overflowed
                  with hospitable offices. The chief had a couple of sheep slaughtered for the
                  travellers, and scores of women brought little baskets of meal, corn, guavas, etc.
                  As the strangers left the pueblo both sexes and all ages gathered on the landings,
                  grouped about the stairways and ladders which led down the rampart, and followed
                  for some distance along the declivity of the butte. holding out their simple
                  offerings and urging acceptance. Aunt Maria was more than ever in raptures with
                  Moquis and women.
               The chief and several others accompanied the cavalcade for eight or ten miles in
                  order to set it on the right trail for the river. But not one would volunteer as a
                  guide; all shook their heads at the suggestion. "Navajos! Apaches! Comanches!"
               They had from the first advised against the expedition, and they now renewed their
                  expostulations. Scarcely any grass; no water except at long distances; a barren,
                  difficult, dangerous country: such was the meaning of their dumb show. On the
                  summit of a lofty bluff which commanded a vast view toward the north, they took
                  their leave of the party, struck off in a rapid trot toward the pueblo, and never
                  related their speed until they were out of sight.
               The adventurers now had under their eyes a large part of the region which they
                  were about to traverse. For several miles the landscape was rolling; then came
                  elevated plateaux rising in successive steps, the most remote being apparently
                  sixty miles away; and the colossal scene was bounded by isolated peaks, at a
                  distance which could not be estimated with anything like accuracy. Ranges, buttes,
                  pinnacles, monumental crags, gullies, shadowy chasms, the beds of perished rivers,
                  the stony wrecks left by unrecorded deluges, diversified this monstrous, sublime,
                  and savage picture. Only here and there, separated by vast intervals of
                  barrenness, could be seen minute streaks of verdure. In general the landscape was
                  one of inhospitable sterility. It could not be imagined by men accustomed only to
                  fertile regions. It seemed to have been taken from some planet not yet prepared
                  for human, nor even for beastly habitation. The emotion which it aroused was not
                  that which usually springs from the contemplation of the larger aspects of nature.
                  It was not enthusiasm; it was aversion and despair.
               Clara gave one look, and then drew her hat over her eyes with a shudder, not
                  wishing to see more. Aunt Maria, heroic and constant as she was or tried to be,
                  almost lost faith in Coronado and glanced at him suspiciously. Thurstane, sitting
                  bolt upright in his saddle, stared straight before him with a grim frown,
                  meanwhile thinking of Clara. Coronado's eyes were filmy and incomprehensible; he
                  was planning, querying, fearing, almost trembling; when he gave the word to
                  advance, it was without looking up. There was a general feeling that here before
                  them lay a fate which could only be met blindfold.
               Now came a long descent, avoiding precipices and impracticable slopes, winding'
                  from one stony foot-hill to another, until the party reached what had seemed a
                  plain. It was a plain because it was amid mountains; a plain consisting of rolls,
                  ridges, ravines, and gullies; a plain with hardly an acre of level land. All day
                  they journeyed through its savage interstices and struggled with its monstrosities
                  of trap and sandstone. Twice they halted in narrow valleys, where a little loam
                  had collected and a little moisture had been retained, affording ing meagre
                  sustenance to some thin grass and scattered bushes. The animals browsed, but there
                  was nothing for them to drink, and all began to suffer with thirst.
               It was seven in the evening, and the sun had already gone down behind the sullen
                  barrier of a gigantic plateau, when they reached the mouth of the cañon which had
                  once contained a river, and discovered by the merest accident that it still
                  treasured a shallow pool of stagnant water. The fevered mules plunged in headlong
                  and drank greedily; the riders were perforce obliged to slake their thirst after
                  them. There was a hastily eaten supper, and then came the only luxury or even
                  comfort of the day, the sound and delicious sleep of great weariness.
               Repose, however, was not for all, inasmuch as Thurstane had reorganized his system
                  of guard duty, and seven of the party had to stand sentry. It was Coronado's
                     tour; he had chosen to take his watch at the
                  start; there would be three nights on this stretch, and the first would be the
                  easiest. He was tired, for he had been fourteen hours in the saddle, although the
                  distance covered was only forty miles. But much as he craved rest, he kept awake
                  until midnight, now walking up and down, and now smoking his eternal cigarito.
               There was a vast deal to remember, to plan, to hope for, to dread, and to hate.
                  Once he sat down beside the unconscious Thurstane, and meditated shooting him
                  through the head as he lay, and so making an end of that obstacle. But he
                  immediately put this idea aside as a frenzy, generated by the fever of fatigue and
                  sleeplessness. A dozen times he was assaulted by a lazy or cowardly temptation to
                  give up the chances of the desert, push back to the Bernalillo route, leave
                  everything to fortune, and take disappointment meekly if it should come. When the
                  noon of night arrived, he had decided upon nothing but to blunder ahead by sheer
                  force of momentum, as if he had been a rolling bowlder instead of a clever,
                  resolute Garcia Coronado.
               The truth is, that his circumstances were too mighty for him. He had launched
                  them, but he could not steer them as he would, and they were carrying him he knew
                  not whither. At one o'clock he awoke Texas Smith, who was now his sergeant of the
                  guard; but instead of enjoining some instant atrocity upon him, as he had more
                  than once that night purposed, he merely passed the ordinary instructions of the
                  watch; then, rolling himself in his blankets, he fell asleep as quickly and calmly
                  as an infant.
               At daybreak commenced another struggle with the desert. It was still sixty miles
                  to the San Juan, over a series of savage sandstone plateaux, said to be entirely
                  destitute of water. If the animals could not accomplish the distance in two days,
                  it seemed as if the party must perish. Coronado went at his work, so to speak,
                  head foremost and with his hat over his eyes. Nevertheless, when it came to the
                  details of his mad enterprise, he managed them admirably. He was energetic,
                  indefatigable, courageous, cheerful. All day he was hurrying the cavalcade, and
                  yet watching its ability to endure. His "Forward, forward," alternated with his
                  "Carefully, carefully." Now "Adelante," and now
                     "Conjuicio."
               About two in the afternoon they reached a little nook of sparse grass, which the
                  beasts gnawed perfectly bare in half an hour. No water; the horses were uselessly
                  jaded in searching for it; beds of trap and gullies of ancient rivers were
                  explored in vain; the horrible rocky wilderness was as dry as a bone. Meanwhile,
                  the fatigue of scrambling and stumbling thus far had been enormous. It had been necessary to ascend plateau after
                  plateau by sinuous and crumbling ledges, which at a distance looked impracticable
                  to goats. More than once, in face of some beetling precipice, or on the brink of
                  some gaping chasm, it seemed as if the journey had come to an end. Long detours
                  had to be made in order to connect points which were only separated by slight
                  intervals. The whole region was seamed by the jagged zigzags of cañons worn by
                  rivers which had flowed for thousands of years, and then for thousands of years
                  more had been non-existent. If, at the commencement of one of these mighty
                  grooves, you took the wrong side, you could not regain the trail without returning
                  to the point of error, for crossing was impossible.
               A trail there was. It is by this route that the Utes and Payoches of the Colorado
                  come to trade with the Moquis or to plunder them. But, as may be supposed, it is a
                  journey which is not often made even by savages; and the cavalcade, throughout the
                  whole of its desperate push, did not meet a human being. Amid the monstrous
                  expanse of uninhabited rock it seemed lost beyond assistance, forsaken and cast
                  out by mankind, doomed to a death which was to have no spectator. Could you have
                  seen it, you would have thought of a train of ants endeavoring to cross a quarry;
                  and you would have judged that the struggle could only end in starvation, or in
                  some swifter destruction.
               The most desperate venture of the travellers was amid the wrecks of an extinct
                  volcano. It seemed here as if the genius of fire had striven to outdo the
                  grotesque extravagances of the genii of the waters. Crags, towers, and pinnacles
                  of porphyry were mingled with huge convoluted masses of light brown trachyte, of
                  tufa either pure white or white veined with crimson, of black and gray columnar
                  basalts, of red, orange, green, and black scoria, with adornments of obsidian,
                  amygdaloids, rosettes of quartz crystal and opalescent chalcedony. A thousand
                  stony needles lifted their ragged points as if to defy the lightning. The only
                  vegetation was a spiny cactus, clinging closely to the rocks, wearing their
                  grayish and yellowish colors, lending no verdure to the scene, and harmonizing
                  with its thorny inhospitality.
               As the travellers gazed on this wilderness of scorched summits, glittering in the
                  blazing sunlight, and yet drawing from it no life—as stark, still, unsympathizing,
                  and cruel as death—they seemed to themselves to be out of the sweet world of God,
                  and to be in the power of malignant genii and demons. The imagination cannot
                  realize the feeling of depression which comes upon one who finds himself
                  imprisoned in such a landscape. Like uttermost pain, or like the extremity of
                  despair, it must be felt in order to be known.
               "It seems as if Satan had chosen this land for himself," was the perfectly serious
                  and natural remark of Thurstane.
               Clara shuddered; the same impression was upon her mind; only she felt it more
                  deeply than he. Gentle, somewhat timorous, and very impressionable, she was almost
                  overwhelmed by the terrific revelations of a nature which seemed to have no pity,
                  or rather seemed full of malignity. Many times that day she had prayed in her
                  heart that God would help them. Apparently detached from earth, she was seeking
                  nearness to heaven. Her look at this moment was so awe-struck and piteous, that
                  the soul of the man who loved her yearned to give her courage.
               "Miss Van Diemen, it shall all turn out well," he said, striking his fist on the
                  pommel of his saddle.
               "Oh! why did we come here?" she groaned.
               "I ought to have prevented it," he replied, angry with himself. "But never mind.
                  Don't be troubled. It shall all be right. I pledge my life to bring, it all to a
                  good end."
               She gave him a look of gratitude which would have repaid him for immediate death.
                  This is not extravagant; in his love for her he did not value himself; he had the
                  sublime devotion of immense adoration.
               That night another loamy nook was found, clothed with a little thin grass, but
                  waterless. Some of the animals suffered so with thirst that they could not graze,
                  and uttered doleful whinneys of distress. As it was the Lieutenant's tour on
                  guard, he had plenty of time to study the chances of the morrow.
               "Kelly, what do you think of the beasts?" he said to the old soldier who acted as
                  his sergeant.
               "One more day will finish them, Leftenant."
               "We have been fifteen hours in the saddle. We have made about thirty-five miles.
                  There are twenty-five miles more to the river. Do you think we can crawl
                  through?"
               "I should say, Leftenant, we could just do it."
               At daybreak the wretched animals resumed their hideous struggle. There was a
                  plateau for them to climb at the start, and by the time this labor was
                  accomplished they were staggering with weakness, so that a halt had to be ordered
                  on the windy brink of the acclivity. Thurstane, according to his custom, scanned
                  the landscape with his field-glass, and jotted down topographical notes in his
                  journal. Suddenly he beckoned to Coronado, quietly put the glass in his hands,
                  nodded toward the desert which lay to the rear, and whispered, "Look."
               Coronado looked, turned slightly more yellow than his wont, and murmured
                  "Apaches!"
               "How far off are they?"
               "About ten miles," judged Coronado, still gazing intently.
               "So I should say. How do you know they are Apaches?"
               "Who else would follow us?" asked the Mexican, remembering the son of Manga
                  Colorada.
               "It is another race for life," calmly pronounced Thurstane, facing about toward
                  the caravan and making a signal to mount.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               YES, it was a life and death race between the emigrants and the Apaches for the
                  San Juan. Positions of defence were all along the road, but not one of them could
                  be held for a day, all being destitute of grass and water.
               
               "There is no need of telling the ladies at once," said Thurstane to Coronado, as
                  they rode side by side in rear of the caravan. "Let them be quiet as long as they
                  can be. Their trouble will come soon enough."
               "How many were there, do you think?" was the reply of a man who was much occupied
                  with his own chances. "Were there a hundred?"
               "It's hard to estimate a mere black line like that. Yes, there must be a hundred,
                  besides stragglers. Their beasts have suffered, of course, as well as ours. They
                  have come fast, and there must be a lot in the rear. Probably both bands are
                  along."
               "The devils!" muttered Coronado. "I hope to God they will all perish of thirst and
                  hunger. The stubborn, stupid devils! Why should they follow us here?"
                  he demanded, looking furiously around upon the accursed landscape.
               "Indian revenge. We killed too many of them."
               "Yes," said Coronado, remembering anew the son of the chief. "Damn them! I wish we
                  could have killed them all."
               "That is just what we must try to do," returned Thurstane deliberately.
               "The question is," he resumed after a moment of business-like calculation of
                  chances—"the question is mainly this, whether we can go twenty-five miles quicker
                  than they can go thirty-five. We must be the first to reach the river."
               "We can spare a few beasts," said Coronado. "We must leave the weakest
                  behind."
               "We must not give up provisions."
               "We can eat mules."
               "Not till the last moment. We shall need them to take us back."
               Coronado inwardly cursed himself for venturing into this inferno, the haunting
                  place of devils in human shape. Then his mind wandered to Saratoga, New York,
                  Newport, and the other earthly heavens that were known to him. He hummed an air;
                  it was the brindisi of Lucrezia Borgia; it
                  reminded him of pleasures which now seemed lost forever; he stopped in the middle
                  of it, Between the associations which it excited—the images of gayety and
                  splendor, real or feigned—a commingling of kid gloves, bouquets, velvet cloaks,
                  and noble names—between these glories which so attracted his hungry soul and the
                  present environment of hideous deserts and savage pursuers, what a contrast there
                  was! There, far away, was the success for which he longed; here, close at hand,
                  was the peril which must purchase it. At that moment he was willing to deny his
                  bargain with Garcia and the devil. His boldest desire was, "Oh that I were in
                  Santa Fé!"
               By Coronado's side rode a man who had not a thought for himself. A person who has
                  not passed years in the army can hardly imagine the sense of
                     responsibility which is ground into the character of an officer.
                  He is a despot, but a despot who is constantly accountable for the welfare of his
                  subjects, and who never passes a day without many grave thoughts of the despots
                  above him. Superior officers are in a manner his deities, and the Army Regulations
                  have for him the weight of Scripture. He never forgets by what solemn rules of
                  duty and honor he will be judged if he falls short of his obligations. This
                  professional conscience becomes a destiny to him, and guides his life to an extent
                  inconceivable by most civilians. He acquires a habit of watching and caring for
                  others; he cannot help assuming a charge which falls in his way. When he is not
                  governed by the rule of obedience, he is governed by the rule of responsibility.
                  The two make up his duty, and to do his duty is his existence.
               At this moment our young West Pointer, only twenty-three or four years old, was
                  gravely and grimly anxious for his four soldiers, for all these people whom
                  circumstance had placed under his protection, and even for his army mules,
                  provisions, and ammunition. His only other sentiment was a passionate desire to
                  prevent harm or even fear from approaching Clara Van Diemen. These two sentiments
                  might be said to make up for the present his entire character. As we have already
                  observed, he had not a thought for himself.
               Presently it occurred to the youngster that he ought to cheer on his
                  fellow-travellers.
               Trotting up with a smile to Mrs. Stanley and Clara, lie asked, "How do you bear
                  it?"
               "Oh, I am almost dead," groaned Aunt Maria. "I shall have to be tied on before
                  long."
               The poor woman, no longer youthful, it must be remembered, was indeed. badly
                  jaded. Her face was haggard; her general get-up was in something like scarecrow
                  disorder; she didn't even care how she looked. So fagged was she that she had once
                  or twice dozed in the saddle and come near falling.
               "It was outrageous to bring us here," she went on pettishly. "Ladies shouldn't be
                  dragged into such hardships."
               Thurstane wanted to say that he was not responsible for the journey; but he would
                  not, because it did not seem manly to shift all the blame upon Coronado.
               "I am very, very sorry," was his reply. "It is a frightful journey."
               "Oh, frightful, frightful!" sighed Aunt Maria, twisting her aching back.
               "But it will soon be over," added the officer. "Only twenty miles more to the
                  river."
               "The river! It seems to me that I could live if I could see a river. Oh, this
                  desert! These perpetual rocks! Not a green thing to cool one's eyes. Not a drop of
                  water. I seem to be drying up, like a worm in the sunshine."
               "Is there no water in the flasks?" asked Thurstane.
               "Yes," said Clara. "But my aunt is feverish with fatigue."
               "What I want is the sight of it—and rest," almost whimpered the elder lady.
               "Will our horses last?" asked Clara. "Mine seems to suffer a great deal."
               "They must last," replied Thurstane, grinding his teeth quite
                  privately. "Oh, yes, they will last," he immediately added. "Even if they don't,
                  we have mules enough."
               "But how they moan! It makes me cringe to hear them."
               "Twenty miles more," said Thurstane. "Only six hours at the longest. Only half a
                  day."
               "It takes less than half a day for a woman to die," muttered the nearly desperate
                  Aunt Maria.
               "Yes, when she sets about it," returned the officer. "But we haven't set about it,
                  Mrs. Stanley. And we are not going to."
               
               The weary lady had no response ready for words of cheer; she leaned heavily over
                  the pommel of her saddle and rode on in silence.
               "Ain't the same man she was," slyly observed Phineas Glover with a twist of his
                  queer physiognomy.
               Thurstane, though not fond of Mrs. Stanley, would not now laugh at her expense,
                  and took no notice of the sarcasm. Glover, fearful lest he had offended, doubled
                  the gravity of his expression and tacked over to a fresh subject.
               "Shouldn't know whether to feel proud 'f myself or not, 'f I'd made this country,
                  Capm. Depends on what 'twas meant for. If 'twas meant to live in, it's the poorest
                  outfit I ever did see. If 'twas meant to scare folks, it's jest up to the mark.
                  'Nuff to frighten a crow into fits. Capm, it fairly seems more than airthly; puts
                  me in mind 'f things in the Pilgrim's Progress—only worse. Sh'd say it was like
                  five thousin' Valleys 'f the Shadow 'f Death tangled together. Tell ye, believe
                  Christian 'd 'a' backed out 'f he'd had to travel through here. Think Mr. Coronado
                  's all right in his top hamper, Capm? Do, hey? Wal, then I'm all wrong; guess I'm
                  's crazy 's a bedbug. Wouldn't 'a' ketched me steerin' this course of my own free
                  will 'n' foreknowledge. Jest look at the land now. Don't it look like the
                  bottomless pit blowed up 'n' gone to smash? Tell ye, 'f the Old Boy himself sh'd
                  ride up alongside, shouldn't be a mite s'prised to see him. Sh'd reckon he had a
                  much bigger right to be s'prised to ketch me here."
               After some further riding, shaking his sandy head, staring about him and
                  whistling, he broke out again.
               "Tell ye, Capm, this beats my imagination. Used to think I c'd yarn it pooty
                  consid'able. But never can tell this. Never can do no manner 'f jestice to it.
                  Look a there now. There's a nateral bridge, or 'n unilateral one. There's a hole
                  blowed through a forty foot rock 's clean 's though 'twas done with Satan's own
                  field-piece, sech 's Milton tells about. An' there's a steeple higher 'n our big
                  one in Fair Haven. An' there's a church, 'n' a haystack. If the devil hain't done
                  his biggest celebratin' 'n' carpenterin' 'n' farmin' round here, d'no 's I know
                  where he has done it. Beats me, Capm; cleans me out. Can't do no
                  jestice to it. Can't talk about it. Seems to me 's though I was a fool."
               Yes, even Phineas Glover's small and sinewy soul (a psyche of the size, muscular
                  force, and agility of a flea) had been seized, oppressed, and in a manner. smashed
                  by the hideous sublimity of this wilderness of sandstone, basalt, and granite.
               Two hours passed, during which, from the nature of the ground, the travellers
                  could neither see nor be seen by their pursuers. Then came a breathless ascent up
                  another of the monstrous sandstone terraces. Thurstane ordered every man to
                  dismount, so as to spare the beasts as much as possible. He walked by the side of
                  Clara, patting, coaxing, and cheering her suffering horse, and occasionally giving
                  a heave of his solid shoulder against the trembling haunches.
               "Let me walk," the girl presently said. "I can't bear to see the poor beast so
                  worried."
               "It would be better, if you can do it," he replied, remembering that she might
                  soon have to call upon the animal for speed.
               She dismounted, clasped her hands over his arm, and clambered thus. From time to
                  time, when some rocky step was to be surmounted, he lifted her bodily up it.
               "How can you be so strong?" she said, looking at him wonderingly and
                  gratefully.
               "Miss Van Diemen, you give me strength," he could not help responding.
               At last they were at the summit of the rugged slope. The animals were trembling,
                  and covered with sweat; some of them uttered piteous whinnyings, or rather
                  bleatings, like distressed sheep; five or six lay down with hollow moans and
                  rumblings. It was absolutely necessary to take a short rest.
               Looking ahead, Thurstane saw that they had-reached the top of the tableland which
                  lies south of the San Juan, and that nothing was before them for the rest of the
                  clay but a rolling plateau seamed with meandering fissures of undiscoverable
                  depth. Traversable as the country was, however, there was one reason for extreme
                  anxiety. If they should lose the trail, if they should get on the wrong side of
                  one of those profound and endless chasms, they might reach the river at a point
                  where descent to it would be impossible, and might die of thirst within sight of
                  water. For undoubtedly the San Juan flowed at the bottom of one of those amazing
                  cañons which gully this Mer de Glace in stone.
               An error of direction once committed, the enemy would not give them time to
                  retrieve it, and they would be slaughtered like mad dogs with the foam on their
                  mouths.
               Thurstane remembered that it would be his terrible duty in the last extremity to
                  send a bullet through the heart of the woman he worshipped, rather than let her
                  fall into the hands of brutes who would only grant her a death of torture and
                  dishonor. Even his steady soul failed for a moment, and tears of desperation
                  gathered in his eyes. For the first time in years he looked up to heaven and
                  prayed fervently.
               From the unknown destiny ahead he turned to look for the fate which pursued.
                  Walking with Coronado to the brink of the colossal terrace, and sheltering himself
                  from the view of the rest of the party, he scanned the trail with his glass. The
                  dark line had now become a series of dark specks, more than a hundred and fifty in
                  number, creeping along the and floor of the lower plateau, and reminding him of
                  venomous insects.
               "They are not five miles from us," shuddered the Mexican, "Cursed beasts! Devils
                  of hell!"
               "They have this hill to climb," said Thurstane, "and, if I am not mistaken, they
                  will have to halt here, as we have done. Their ponies must be pretty well fagged
                  by this time."
               "They will get a last canter out of them," murmured Coronado. His soul was giving
                  way under his hardships, and it would have been a solace to him to weep aloud. As
                  it was, he relieved himself with a storm of blasphemies. Oaths often serve to a
                  man as tears do to a woman.
               "We must trot now," he said presently.
               "Not yet. Not till they are within half a mile of us. We must spare our wind up to
                  the last minute."
               They were interrupted by a cry of surprise and alarm. Several of the muleteers had
                  strayed to the edge of the declivity, and had discovered with their unaided
                  eyesight the little cloud of death in the distance. Texas Smith approached, looked
                  from under his shading hand, muttered a single curse, walked Kick to his horse,
                  inspected his girths, and recapped his rifle. In a minute it was known throughout
                  the train that Apaches were in the rear. Without a word of direction, and in a
                  gloomy silence which showed the general despair, the march was resumed. There was
                  a disposition to force a trot, which was promptly ly and sternly checked by Thurstane. His voice was
                  loud and firm; he had instinctively assumed responsibility and command; no one
                  disputed him or thought of it.
               Three mules which could not rise were left where they lay, feebly struggling to
                  regain their feet and follow their comrades, but falling back with hollow
                  groanings and a kind of human despair in their faces. Mile after mile the retreat
                  continued, always at a walk, but without halting. It was long before the Apaches
                  were seen again, for the ascent of the plateau lost them a considerable space, and
                  after that they were hidden for a time by its undulations. But about four in the
                  afternoon, while the emigrants were still at least five miles from the river, a
                  group of savage horsemen rose on a knoll not more than three miles behind, and
                  uttered a yell of triumph. There was a brief panic, and another attempt to push
                  the animals, which Thurstane checked with levelled pistol.
               The train had already entered a gully. As this gully advanced it rapidly broadened
                  and deepened into a cañon. It was the track of an extinct river which had once
                  flowed into the San Juan on its way to the distant Pacific. Its windings hid the
                  desired goal; the fugitives must plunge into it blindfold; whatever fate it
                  brought them, they must accept it. They were like men who should enter the cavern
                  of unknown goblins to escape from demons who were following visibly on their
                  footsteps.
               From time to time they heard ferocious yells in their rear, and beheld their
                  fiendish pursuers, now also in the cañon. It was like Christian tracking the
                  Valley of the Shadow of Death, and listening to the screams and curses of devils.
                  At every reappearance of the Apaches they had diminished the distance between"
                  themselves and their expected prey, and at last they were evidently not more than
                  a mile behind. But there in sight was the river; there, enclosed in one of its
                  bends, was an alluvial plain; rising from the extreme verge of the plain, and
                  overhanging the stream, was a bluff; and on this bluff was what seemed to be a
                  fortress.
               Thurstane sent all the horsemen to the rear of the train, took post himself as the
                  rearmost man, measured once more with his eye the space between his charge and the
                  enemy, cast an anxious glance at the reeling beast which bore Clara, and in a firm
                  ringing voice commanded a trot.
               The order and the movement which followed it were answered by the Indians with a
                  yell. The monstrous and precipitous walls of the cañon clamored back a fiendish
                  mockery of echoes which seemed to call for the prowlers of the air to arrive
                  quickly and devour their carrion.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE scene was like one of Doré's most extravagant designs of abysses and shadows.
                  The gorge through which swept this silent flight and screaming chase was not more
                  than two hundred feet wide, while it was at least fifteen hundred feet deep, with
                  walls that were mainly sheer precipices.
               As the fugitives broke into a trot, the pursuers quickened their pace to a slow
                  canter. No faster; they were too wise to rush within range of riflemen who could
                  neither be headed off nor flanked; and their hardy mustangs were nearly at the
                  last gasp with thirst and with the fatigue of this tremendous journey. Four
                  hundred yards apart the two parties emerged from the sublime portal of the cañon
                  and entered upon the little alluvial plain.
               To the left glittered the river; but the trail did not turn in that direction; it
                  led straight at the bluff in the elbow of the current. The mules and horses
                  followed it in a pack, guided by their acute scent toward the nearest water, a
                  Still invisible brooklet which ran at the base of the butte, Presently, while yet
                  a mile from the stream, they were seized by a mania. With a loud beastly cry they
                  broke simultaneously into a run, nostrils distended and quivering1, eyes bloodshot
                  and protruding, heads thrust forward with fierce eagerness, ungovernably mad after
                  water. There was no checking the frantic stampede which from this moment thundered
                  with constantly increasing speed across the plain. No order; the stronger jostled
                  the weaker; loads were flung to the ground and scattered; the riders could
                  scarcely keep their seats. Spun out over a line of twenty rods, the cavalcade was
                  the image of senseless rout.
               Of course Thurstane was furious at this seemingly fatal dispersion; and he
                  trumpeted forth angry shouts of "Steady there in front! Close up in the rear!"
               But before long he guessed the truth—water! "They will rally at the drinking
                  place," he thought. "Forward the mules!" he yelled. "Steady, you men here! Hold in
                  your horses. Keep in rear of the women. I'll shoot the man who takes the
                  lead."
               But even Spanish bits could do no more than detain the horses a rod or two behind
                  the beasts of burden, and the whole panting, snorting mob continued to rush over
                  the loamy level with astonishing swiftness.
               Meanwhile the leading Apaches, not now more than fifty in number, were swept along
                  by the same whirlwind of brute instinct. They diverged a little from the trail;
                  their object apparently was to overlap the train and either head it off or divide
                  it; but their beasts were too frantic to be governed fully. Before long there were
                  two lines of straggling flight, running parallel with each other at a distance of
                  perhaps one hundred yards, and both storming toward the still unseen rivulet. A
                  few arrows were thrown; four or five, unavailing shots were fired in return; the
                  hiss of shaft and ping of hall crossed each other in air; but no
                  serious and effective fight commenced or could commence. Both parties, guided and
                  mastered by their lolling beasts, almost without conflict and almost without
                  looking at each other, converged helplessly toward a verdant, shallow depression,
                  through the centre of which loitered a clear streamlet scarcely less calm than the
                  heaven above. Next they were all together, panting, plunging, splashing, drinking,
                  mules and horses, white men and red men, all with no other thought than to quench
                  their thirst.
               The Apaches, who had probably made their cruel journey without flasks, seemed for
                  the moment insatiable and utterly reckless. Many of them rolled off their
                  tottering ponies into the rivulet, and plunging down their heads drank like
                  beasts. There were a few minutes of the strangest peace that ever was seen, It was
                  in vain that two or three of the hardier or fiercer chiefs and braver, shouted and
                  gestured to their comrades, as if urging them to commence the attack. Manga
                  Colorada, absorbed by a thirst which was more burning than revenge, did not at
                  first see the slayer of his boy, and when he did could not move toward him because
                  of fevered mustangs, who would not budge from their drinking, or who were
                  staggering blind with hunger. Thurstane, keeping his horse beside Clara's, watched
                  the lean figure and restless, irritable face of Delgadito, not ten yards distant.
                  Mrs. Stanley had halted helplessly so near an Apache boy that he might have thrust
                  her through with his lance had he not been solely intent upon water.
               It was fortunate for the emigrants that they had reached the stream a few seconds the sooner. Their thirst was
                  first satiated; and then men and animals began to draw away from their enemies;
                  for even the mules of white men instinctively dread and detest the red warriors.
                  This movement was accelerated by Thurstane, Coronado, Texas Smith, and Sergeant
                  Meyer calling to one and another in English and Spanish, "This way! this way!"
                  There seemed to be, a chance of massing the party and getting it to some distance
                  before the Indians could turn their thoughts to blood.
               But the manœuvre was only in part accomplished when battle commenced. Little
                  Sweeny, finding that his mule was being crowded by an Apache's horse, uttered some
                  indignant yelps. "Och, ye bloody naygur! Get away wid yerself. Get over there
                  where ye b'long."
               This request not being heeded, he made a clumsy punch with his bayonet and brought
                  the blood. The warrior uttered a grunt of pain, cast a surprised angry stare at
                  the shaveling of a Paddy, and thrust with his lance. But he was probably weak and
                  faint; the weapon merely tore the uniform. Sweeny instantly fired, and brought
                  down another Apache, quite accidentally. Then, banking his mule with his heels, he
                  splashed up to Thurstane with the explanation, "Liftinant, they're the same bloody
                  naygurs. Wan av um made a poke at me, Liftinant."
               "Load your beece!" ordered Sergeant Meyer sternly, "und face the enemy."
               By this time there was a fierce confusion of plungings and outcries. Then came a
                  hiss of arrows, followed instantaneously by the scream of a wounded man, the
                  report of several muskets, a pinging of balls, more yells of wounded, and the
                  splash of an Apache in the water. The little streamlet, lately all crystal and
                  sunshine, was now turbid and bloody. The giant portals of the cañon, although more
                  than a mile distant, sent back echoes of the musketry. Another battle rendered
                  more horrible the stark, eternal horror of the desert.
               "This way!" Thurstane continued to shout. "Forward, you women; up the hill with
                  you. Steady, men. Face the enemy. Don't throw away a shot. Steady with the firing.
                  Steady!"
               The hostile parties were already thirty or forty yards apart; and the emigrants,
                  drawing loosely up the slope, were increasing the distance. Manga Colorada spurred
                  to the front of his people, shaking his lance and yelling for a Charge. Only half
                  a dozen followed him; his horse fell almost immediately under a rifle ball; one of
                  the braves picked up the chief and bore him away; the rest dispersed, prancing and
                  curveting. The opportunity for mingling with the emigrants and destroying them in
                  a series of single combats was lost.
               Evidently the Apaches, and their mustangs still more, were unfit for fight. The
                  forty-eight hours of hunger and thirst, and the prodigious burst of one hundred
                  and twenty miles up and down rugged terraces, had nearly exhausted their spirits
                  as well as their strength, and left them incapable of the furious activity
                  necessary in a cavalry battle. The most remarkable proof of their physical and
                  moral debilitation was that in all this mêlée not more than a dozen of them had
                  discharged an arrow.
               If they would not attack they must retreat, and that speedily. At fifty yards
                  range, armed only with bows and spears, they were at the mercy of riflemen and
                  could stand only to be slaughtered. There was a hasty flight, scurrying zigzag,
                  right and left, rearing and plunging, spurring the last caper out of their
                  mustangs, the whole troop spreading widely, a hundred marks and no good one.
                  Nevertheless Texas Smith's miraculous aim brought down first a warrior and then a
                  horse.
               By the time the Apaches were out of range the emigrants were well up the slope of
                  the hill which occupied the extreme elbow of the bend in the river. It was a bluff
                  or butte of limestone which innumerable years had converted into marl, and for the
                  most part into earth. A thin turf covered it; here and there were thickets; more
                  rarely trees. Presently some one remarked that the sides were terraced. It was
                  true; there were the narrow flats of soil which had once been gardens; there too
                  were the supporting walls, more or less ruinous. Curious eyes now turned toward
                  the seeming mound on the summit, querying whether it might not be the remains of
                  an antique pueblo.
               At this instant Clara uttered a cry of anxiety, "Where is Pepita?'
               The girl was gone; a hasty looking about showed that; but whither? Alas! the only
                  solution to this enigma must be the horrible word, "Apaches." It seemed the
                  strangest thing conceivable; one moment with the party, and the next vanished; one
                  moment safe, and the next dead or doomed. Of course the kidnapping must have been
                  accomplished during the frenzied riot in the stream, when the two bands were
                  disentangling amid an uproar of plungings, yells, and musket shots. The girl had
                  probably been stunned by a blow, and then either left to float down the brook or
                  dragged off by some muscular warrior.
               There was a halt, an eager and prolonged lookout over the plain, a scanning of the
                  now distant Indians through field glasses. Then slowly and sadly the train resumed
                  its march and mounted to the summit of the butte.
               Here, in this land of marvels, there was a new marvel. Incredible as the thing
                  seemed, so incredible that they had not at first believed their eyes, they were at
                  the base "of the walls of a fortress. A confused, general murmur broke forth of
                  "Ruins! Pueblos! Casas Grandes! Casas de Montezuma!"
               The architecture, unlike that of Tegua, but similar to that of the ruins of the
                  Gila, was of adobes. Large cakes of mud, four or five feet long and two feet
                  thick, had been moulded in cases, dried in the sun, and laid in regular courses to
                  the height of twenty feet. Centuries (perhaps) of exposure to weather had so
                  cracked, guttered, and gnawed this destructible material, that at a distance the
                  pile looked not unlke the natural monuments which fire and water have builded in
                  this enchanted land, and had therefore not been recognized by the travellers as
                  human handiwork.
               What they now saw was a rampart which ran along the brow of the bluff for several
                  hundred yards. Originally twenty feet high, it had been so fissured by the rains
                  and crumbled by the winds, that it resembled a series of peaks united here and
                  there in a plane surface. Some of the gaps reached nearly to the ground, and
                  through these it could be seen that the wall was five feet across, a single adobe
                  forming the entire thickness. AH along the base the dampness of the earth had
                  eaten away the clay, so that in many places the structure was tottering to its
                  fall.
               Filing to the left a few yards, the emigrants found a deep fissure through which
                  the animals stumbled one by one over mounds of crumbled adobes. Thurstane,
                  entering last, looked around him in wonder. He was inside a quadrilateral
                  enclosure, apparently four hundred yards in length by two hundred and fifty in
                  breadth, the walls throughout being the same mass of adobe work, fissured, jagged,
                  gray, solemn, and in their utter solitariness sublime.
               But this was not the whole ruin; the fortress had a citadel. In one corner of the
                  enclosure stood a tower-like structure, forty-five or fifty feet square and thirty
                  in altitude, surmounted on its outer angle by a smaller tower, also four-sided,
                  which rose some twelve or fourteen feet higher. It was not isolated, but built into an angle of the outer
                  rampart, so as to form with it one solid mass of fortification. The material was
                  adobe; but, unlike the other ruins, it was in good condition; some species of
                  roofing had preserved the walls from guttering; not a crevice deformed their gray,
                  blank, dreary faces.
               Instinctively and without need of command the emigrants had pushed on toward this
                  edifice. It was to be their fortress; in it and around it they must fight for life
                  against the Apaches; here, where a nameless people had perished, they must conquer
                  or perish also. Thurstane posted Kelly and one of the Mexicans on the exterior
                  wall to watch the movements of the savage horde in the plain below. Then he
                  followed the others to the deserted citadel.
               Two doorways, one on each of the faces which looked into the enclosure, offered
                  ingress. They were similar in size and shape, seven feet and a half in height by
                  four in breadth, and tapering toward the summit like the portals of the
                  temple-builders of Central America. Inside were solid mud floors, strewn with gray
                  dust and showing here and there a gleam of broken pottery, the whole brooded over
                  by obscurity. It was discoverable, however, that the room within was of
                  considerable height and size.
               There was a hesitation about entering. It seemed as if the ghosts of the nameless
                  people forbade it This had been the abode of men who perhaps inhabited America
                  before the coming of Columbus. Here possibly the ancestors of Montezuma had stayed
                  their migrations from the mounds of the Ohio to the pyramids of Cholula and
                  Tenochtitlan. Or here had lived the Moquis, or the Zunians, or the Lagunas, before
                  they sought refuge from the red tribes of the north upon the buttes south of the
                  Sierra del Carrizo. Here at all events had once palpitated a civilization which
                  was now a ghost.
               "This is to be our home for a little while," said Thurstane to Clara. "Will you
                  dismount? I will run in and turn out the snakes, if there are any. Sergeant, keep
                  your men and a few others ready to repel an attack. Now, fellows, off with the
                  packs."
               Producing a couple of wax tapers, he lighted them, handed one to Coronado, and led
                  the way into the silent Casa de Montezuma. They were in a hall about ten feet
                  high, fifteen feet broad, and forty feet long, which evidently ran across the
                  whole front of the building. The walls were hard-finished and adorned with
                  etchings in vermilion of animals, geometrical figures, and nondescript grotesques,
                  all of the rudest design and disposed without regard to order. A doorway led into
                  a small central room, and from that doorways opened into three more rooms, one on
                  each side.
               The ceilings of all the rooms were supported by unhewn beams, five or six inches
                  thick, deeply inserted into the adobe walls. In the ceiling of the rearmost hall
                  (the one which had no direct outlet upon the enclosure) was a trapdoor which
                  offered the only access to the stories above. A rude but solid ladder, consisting
                  of two beams with steps chopped into them, was still standing here. With a vague
                  sense of intrusion, half expecting that the old inhabitants would appear and order
                  them away, Thurstane and Coronado ascended. The second story resembled the first,
                  and above was another of the same pattern. Then came a nearly flat roof; and here
                  they found something remarkable. It was a solid sheathing or tiling, made of
                  slates of baked and glazed pottery, laid with great exactness, admirably cemented
                  and projecting well over the eaves. This it was which had enabled the adobes
                  beneath to endure for years, and perhaps for centuries, in spite of the lapping of
                  rains and the gnawing of winds.
               On the outermost corner of the structure, overlooking the eddying, foaming bend of
                  the San Juan, rose the isolated tower. It contained a single room, walled with
                  hard-finish and profusely etched with figures in vermilion. No furniture anywhere,
                  nor utensils, nor relics, excepting bits of pottery, precisely such as is made now
                  by the Moquis, various in color, red, white, grayish, and black, much of it
                  painted inside as well as out, and all adorned with diamond patterns and other
                  geometrical outlines.
               "I have seen Casas Grandes in other places," said Coronado, "but nothing like
                  this. This is the only one that I ever found entire. The others are in ruins, the
                  roofs fallen in, the beams charred, etc."
               "This was not taken," decided the Lieutenant, after a tactical meditation. "This
                  must have been abandoned by its inhabitants. Pestilence, or starvation, or
                  migration."
               "We can beat off all the Apaches in New Mexico," observed Coronado, with something
                  like cheerfulness.
               "We can whip everything but our own stomachs," replied Thurstane.
               "We have as much food as those devils."
               "But water?" suggested the forethoughted West Pointer.
               It was a horrible doubt, for if there was no water in the enclosure, they were
                  doomed to speedy and cruel death, unless they could beat the Indians in the field
                  and drive them away from the rivulet.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               WHEN Thurstane came out of the Casa Grande he would have given some years of his
                  life to know that there was water in the enclosure.
               Yet so well disciplined was the soul of this veteran of twenty-three, and so
                  thoroughly had he acquired the wise soldierly habit of wearing a mask of cheer
                  over trouble, that he met Clara and Mrs. Stanley with a smile and a bit of small
                  talk.
               "Ladies, can you keep house?" he said. "There are sixteen rooms ready for you. The
                  people who moved out haven't left any trumpery. Nothing wanted but a little
                  sweeping and dusting and a stair carpet."
               "We will keep house," replied Clara with a laugh, the girlish gayety of which
                  delighted him.
               Assuming a woman's rightful empire over household matters, she began to direct
                  concerning storage, lodgment, cooking, etc. Sharp as the climbing was, she went
                  through all the stories and inspected every room, selecting the chamber in the
                  tower for herself and Mrs. Stanley.
               "I never can get up in this world," declared Aunt Maria, staring in dismay at the
                  rude ladder. "So this is what Mr. Thurstane meant by talking about a stair carpet!
                  It was just like him to joke on such a matter. I tell you I never can go up."
               "Av coorse ye can get up," broke in little Sweeny impatiently. "All ye've got to
                  do is to put wan fut above another an' howld on wid yer ten fingers."
               "I should like to see you do it," returned Aunt Maria, looking
                  indignantly at the interfering Paddy.
               Sweeny immediately shinned up the stepped beam, uttered a neigh of triumphant
                  laughter from the top, and then skylarked down again.
               "Well, you are a man," observed the strong-minded lady, somewhat
                  discomfited.
               
               "Av coorse I'm a man," yelped Sweeny, "Who said I wasn't? He's a lying informer.
                  Ha ha, hoo hoo, ho ho!"
               Thus incited, pulled at moreover from above and boosted from below, Aunt Maria
                  mounted ladder after ladder until she stood on the roof of the Casa Grande.
               "If I ever go down again, I shall have to drop," she gasped. "I never expected
                  when I came on this journey to be a sailor and climb maintops."
               "Lieutenant Thurstane is waving his hand to us," said Clara, with a smile like
                  sunlight.
               "Let him wave," returned Mrs. Stanley, weary, disconsolate, and out of patience
                  with everything. "I must say it's a poor place to be waving hands."
               Meantime Thurstane had beckoned a couple of muleteers to follow him, and set oft
                  to beat the enclosure for a spring, or for a spot where it would be possible to
                  sink a well with good result. Although the search seemed absurd on such an
                  isolated hill, he had some hopes; for in the first place, the old inhabitants must
                  have had a large supply of water, and they could not have brought it up a steep
                  slope of two hundred feet without great difficulty; in the second place, the butte
                  was of limestone, and in a limestone region water makes for itself strange
                  reservoirs and outlets.
               His trust was well-grounded. In a sharply indented hollow, twenty feet below the
                  general surface of the enclosure, and not more than thirty yards from the Casa
                  Grande, he found a copious spring. About it were traces of stone work, forming a
                  sort of ruinous semicircle, as though a well had been dug, the neighboring earth
                  scooped out, and the sides of the opening fenced up with masonry. By the way, he
                  was not the first to discover the treasure, for the acute senses of the mules had
                  been beforehand with him, and a number of them were already there drinking.
               Calling Meyer, he said, "Sergeant, get a fatigue party to work here. I want a
                  transverse trench cut below the spring for the animals, and a guard at the spring
                  itself to keep it clear for the people."
               Next he hurried away to the spot where he had posted Kelly to watch the
                  Apaches.
               Climbing the wall, he looked about for the Apaches, and discovered them about half
                  a mile distant, bivouacked on the bank of the rivulet.
               "They have been reinforced, sir," said Kelly. "Stragglers are coming up every few
                  minutes."
               "So I perceive. Have you seen anything of the girl Pepita?"
               "There's a figure there, sir, against that sapling, that hasn't moved for half an
                  hour. I've an idea it's the girl, sir, tied to the sapling."
               Thurstane adjusted his glass, took a long steady look, and said sombrely, It's the
                  girl. Keep an eye on her. If they start to do anything with her, let me know.
                  Signal with your cap."
               As he hurried back to the Casa Grande he tried to devise some method of saving
                  this unfortunate. A rescue was impossible, for the savages were numerous,
                  watchful, and merciless, and in case they were likely to lose her they would brain
                  her. But she might be ransomed: blankets, clothing, and perhaps a beast or two
                  could be spared for that purpose; the gold pieces that he had in his waist-belt
                  should all go of course. The great fear was lest the brutes should find all bribes
                  poor compared with the joys of a torture dance. Querying how he could hide this
                  horrible affair from Clara, and shuddering at the thought that but for favoring
                  chances she might have shared the fate of Pepita, he ran on toward the Casa,
                  waving his hand cheerfully to the two women on the roof.
               Meantime Clara had been attending to her housekeeping and Mrs. Stanley had been
                  attending to her feelings. The elder lady (we dare not yet call her an old lady)
                  was in the lowest spirits. She tried to brace herself; she crossed her hands
                  behind her back, man-fashion; she marched up and down the roof man-fashion. All
                  useless; the transformation' didn't work; or, if she was a man, she was a scared
                  one.
               She could not help feeling like one of the spirits in prison as she glanced at the
                  awful solitude around her. Notwithstanding the river, there still was the desert.
                  The little plain was but an oasis. Two miles to the east the San Tuan burst out of
                  a defile of sandstone, and a mile to the west it disappeared in a similar chasm.
                  The walls of these gorges rose abruptly two thousand feet above the hurrying
                  waters. All around were the monstrous, arid, herbless, savage, cruel ramparts of
                  the plateau. No outlook anywhere; the longest reach of the eye was not five miles;
                  then came towering precipices. The travellers were like ants gathered on an inch
                  of earth at the bottom of a fissure in a quarry. The horizon was elevated and
                  limited, resting everywhere on harsh lines of rock which were at once near the
                  spectator and far above him. The overhanging plateaux strove to shut him out from
                  the sight of heaven.
               What variety there was in the grim monotony appeared in shapes that were horrible
                  to the weary and sorrowful. On the other side of the San Juan towered an
                  assemblage of pinnacles which looked like statues; but these statues were a
                  thousand feet above the stream, and the smallest of them was at least four hundred
                  feet high. To a lost wanderer, and especially to a dispirited woman, such
                  magnitude was not sublime, but terrifying. It seemed as if these shapes were gods
                  who had no mercy, or demons who were full of malevolence. Still higher, on a
                  jutting crag which overhung the black river, was a castle a hundred fold huger
                  than man ever built, with ramparts that were dizzy precipices and towers such as
                  no daring could scale. It faced the horrible group of stony deities as if it were
                  their pandemonium.
               The whole landscape was a hideous Walhalla, a fit abode for the savage giant gods
                  of the old Scandinavians. Thor and Woden would have been at home in it The Cyclops
                  and Titans would have been too little for it. The Olympian deities could not be
                  conceived of as able or willing to exist in such a hideous chaos. No creature of
                  the Greek imagination would have been a suitable inhabitant for it except
                  Prometheus alone. Here his eternal agony and boundless despair might not have been
                  out of place.
               There was no comfort in the river. It came out of unknown and inhospitable
                  mystery, and went into a mystery equally unknown and inhospitable. To what fate it
                  might lead was as uncertain as whence it arrived. A sombre flood, reddish brown in
                  certain lights, studded with rocks which raised, ghosts of unmoving foam, flowing
                  with a speed which perpetually boiled and eddied, promising nothing to the voyager
                  but thousand-fold shipwreck, a breathless messenger from the mountains to the
                  ocean, it wheeled incessantly from stony portal to stony portal, a brief gleam of
                  power and cruelty. The impression which it produced was in unison with the sublime
                  malignity and horror of the landscape.
               Depressed by fatigue, the desperate situation of the party, and the menace of the
                  frightful scene around her, Mrs. Stanley could not and would not speak to
                  Thurstane when he mounted the roof, and turned away to hide the tears in her
                  eyes.
               "You see I am housekeeping," said Clara with a smile. "Look how clean the room in
                  the tower has been swept. I had some brooms made of tufted grass. There are our beds in the corners. These
                  hard-finished walls are really handsome."
               She stopped, hesitated a moment, looked at him anxiously, and then added, "Have
                  you seen Pepita?"
               "Yes," he replied, deciding to be frank. "I think I have discovered her tied to a
                  tree."
               "Oh! to be tortured!" exclaimed Clara, wringing her hands and beginning to
                  cry.
               "We will ransom her," he hurried on. "I am going down to hold a par ley with the
                  Apaches."
               "You!" exclaimed the girl, catching his arm. "Oh no! Oh, why did we
                  come here!"
               Fearing lest he should be persuaded to evade what he considered his duty, he
                  pressed her hand fervently and hurried away. Yes, he repeated, it was his duty; to
                  parley with the Apaches was a most dangerous enterprise; he did not feel at
                  liberty to order any other to undertake it.
               Finding Coronado, he said to him, "I am going down to ransom Pepita. You know the
                  Indians better than I do. How many people shall I take?"
               A gleam of satisfaction shot across the dark face of the Mexican as he replied,
                  "Go alone."
               "Certainly," he insisted, in response to the officer's stare of surprise. "If you
                  take a party, they'll doubt you. If you go alone, they'll parley. But, my dear
                  Lieutenant, you are magnificent. This is the finest moment of your life. Ah! only
                  you Americans are capable of such impulses. We Spaniards haven't the nerve."
               "I don't know their scoundrelly language."
               "Manga Colorada speaks Spanish. I dare say you'll easily come to an understanding
                  with him. As for ransom, anything that we have, of course, excepting food, arms,
                  and ammunition. I can furnish a hundred dollars or so. Go, my dear Lieutenant; go
                  on your noble mission. God be with you."
               "You will see that I am covered, if I have to run for it."
               "I'll see to everything. I'll line the wall with sharpshooters."
               "Post your men. Good-by."
               "Good-by, my clear Lieutenant."
               Coronado did post his men, and among them was Texas Smith. Into the ear of this
                  brute, whom he placed quite apart from the other watchers, he whispered a few
                  significant words.
               "I told ye, to begin with, I didn't want to shute at brass buttons," growled
                  Texas. "The army's a big thing. I never wanted to draw a bend on that man, and I
                  don't want to now more 'n ever. Them army fellers hunt together. You hit one, an'
                  you've got the rest after ye; an' four to one 'sa mighty slim chance."
               "Five hundred dollars down," was Coronado's only reply.
               After a moment of sullen reflection the desperado said, "Five hundred dollars!
                  Wal, stranger, I'll take yer bet."
               Coronado turned away trembling and walked to another part of the wall. His
                  emotions were disordered and disagreeable; his heart throbbed, his head was a
                  little light, and he felt that he was pale; he could not well bear any more
                  excitement, and he did not want to see the deed done. Rifle in hand, he was
                  pretending to keep watch through a fissure, when he observed Clara following the
                  line of the wall with the obvious purpose of finding a spot whence she could see
                  the plain. It seemed to him that he ought to stop her, and then it seemed to him
                  that he had better not. With such a horrible drumming in h sears how could he
                  think clearly and decide wisely?
               Clara disappeared; he did not notice where she went; did not think of looking.
                  Once he thrust his head through his crevice to watch the course of Thurstane, but
                  drew it back again on discovering that the brave lad had not yet reached the
                  Apaches, and after that looked no more. His whole strength seemed to be absorbed
                  in merely listening and waiting. We must remember that, although Coronado had
                  almost no conscience, he had nerves.
               Let us see what happened on the plain through the anxious eyes of Clara.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               IN the time-eaten wall Clara had found a fissure through which she could watch the
                  parley between Thurstane and the Apaches. She climbed into it from a mound of
                  disintegrated adobes, and stood there, pale, tremulous, and breathless, her whole
                  soul in her eyes.
               Thurstane, walking his horse and making signs of amity with his cap, had by this
                  time reached the low bank of the rivulet, and halted within four hundred yards of
                  the savages. There had been a stir immediately on his appearance: first one
                  warrior and then another had mounted his pony; a score of them were now prancing
                  hither and thither. They had left their lances stuck in the earth, but they still
                  carried their bows and quivers.
               When Clara first caught sight of Thurstane he was beckoning for one of the Indians
                  to approach. They responded by pointing to the summit of the hill, as if
                  signifying that they feared to expose themselves to rifle shot from the ruins. He
                  resumed his march, forded the shallow stream, and pushed on two hundred yards.
               "O Madre de Dios!" groaned Clara, falling into the language of her childhood. "He
                  is going clear up to them."
               She was on the point of shrieking to him, but she saw that he was too far oft to
                  hear her, and she remained silent, just staring and trembling.
               Thurstane was now about two hundred yards from the Apaches. Except the twenty who
                  had first mounted, they were sitting on the ground or standing by their ponies,
                  every face set towards the solitary white man and every figure as motionless, as a
                  statue. Those on horseback, moving slowly in circles, were spreading out gradually
                  on either side of the main body, but not advancing. Presently a warrior in full
                  Mexican costume, easily recognizable as Manga Colorada himself, rode straight
                  towards Thurstane for a hundred yards, threw his bow and quiver ten feet from him,
                  dismounted and lifted both hands. The officer likewise lifted his hands, to show
                  that he too was without arms, moved forward to within thirty feet of the Indian,
                  and thence advanced on foot, leading his horse by the bridle.
               Clara perceived that the two men were conversing, and she began to hope that all
                  might go well, although her heart still beat suffocatingly. The next moment she
                  was almost paralyzed with horror. She saw Manga Colorada spring at Thurstane; she
                  saw his dark arms around him, the two interlaced and reeling; she heard the
                  triumphant yell of the Indian, and the response of his fellows; she saw the
                  officer's startled horse break loose and prance away. In the same instant the
                  mounted Apaches, sending forth their war-whoop and unslinging their bows, charged
                  at full speed toward the combatants.
               Thurstane had but five seconds in which to save his life. Had he been a man of slight or even moderate physical
                  and moral force, there would not nave been the slightest chance for him. But he
                  was six feet high, broad in the shoulders, limbed like a gladiator, solidified by
                  hardships and marches, accustomed to danger, never losing his head in it, and
                  blessed with lots of pugnacity. He was pinioned; but with one gigantic effort he
                  loosened the Indian's lean sinewy arms, and in the next breath he laid him out
                  with a blow worthy of Heenan.
               Thurstane was free; now for his horse. The animal was frightened and capering
                  wildly; but he caught him and flung himself into the saddle without minding
                  stirrups; then he was riding for life. Before he had got fairly under headway the
                  foremost Apaches were within fifty paces of him. jelling like demons and letting
                  fly their arrows. But every weapon is uncertain on horseback, and especially every
                  missile weapon, the bow as well as the rifle. Thus, although a score of shafts
                  hissed by the fugitive, he still kept his seat; and as his powerful beast soon
                  began to draw ahead of the Indian ponies, escape seemed probable.
               He had, however, to run the gauntlet of another and even a greater peril. In a
                  crevice of the ruined wall which crested the hill crouched a pitiless assassin and
                  an almost unerring shot, waiting the right moment to send a bullet through his
                  head. Texas Smith did not like the job; but he had said "You bet," and had thus
                  pledged his honor to do the murder; and moreover, he sadly wanted the five hundred
                  dollars. If he could have managed it, he would have preferred to get the officer
                  and some "Injun" in a line, so as to bring them down together. But that was
                  hopeless; the fugitive was increasing his lead; now was the time to fire—now or
                  never.
               When Clara beheld Manga Colorada seize Thurstane, she had turned instinctively and
                  leaped into the enclosure, with a feeling that, if she did not see the tragedy, it
                  would not be. In the next breath she was wild to know what was passing, and to be
                  as near to the officer and his perils as possible. A little further along the wall
                  was a fissure which was lower and broader than the one she had just quitted. She
                  had noticed it a minute before, but had not gone to it because a man was there.
                  Towards this man she now rushed, calling out, "Oh, do save him!"
               Her voice and the sound of her footsteps were alike drowned by a rattle of
                  musketry from other parts of the ruin. She reached the man and stood behind him;
                  it was Texas Smith, a being from whom she had hitherto shrunk with instinctive
                  aversion; but now he seemed to her a friend in extremity. He was aiming; she
                  glanced over his shoulder along the levelled rifle; in one breath she saw
                  Thurstane and saw that the weapon was pointed at him. With a shriek
                  she sprang forward against the kneeling assassin, and flung him clean through the
                  crevice upon the earth outside the wall, the rifle exploding as he fell and
                  sending its ball at random.
               Texas Smith was stupefied and even profoundly disturbed. After rolling over twice,
                  he picked himself up, picked up his gun also, and while hastily reloading it
                  clambered back into his lair, more than ever confounded at seeing no one. Clara,
                  her exploit accomplished, had instantly turned and fled along the course of the
                  wall, not at all with the idea of escaping from the bushwhacker, but merely to
                  meet Thurstane. She passed a dozen men, but not one of them saw her, they were all
                  so busy in popping away at the Apaches. Just as she reached the large gap in the
                  rampart, her hero cantered through it, erect, unhurt, rosy, handsome, magnificent.
                  The impassioned gesture of joy with which she welcomed him was a something, a
                  revelation perhaps, which the youngster saw and understood afterwards better than
                  he did then. For the present he merely waved her towards the Casa, and then turned
                  to take a hand in the fighting.
               But the fighting was over. Indeed the Apaches had stopped their pursuit as soon as
                  they found that the fugitive was beyond arrow shot, and were now prancing slowly
                  back to their bivouac. After one angry look at them from the wall, Thurstane
                  leaped down and ran after Clara.
               "Oh!" she gasped, out of breath and almost faint, "Oh, how it has frightened
                  me!"
               "And it was all of no use," he answered, passing her arm into his and supporting
                  her.
               "No. Poor Pepita! Poor little Pepita! But oh, what an escape you had!"
               "We can only hope that they wilt adopt her into the tribe," he said in answer to
                  the first phrase, while he timidly pressed her arm to thank her for the
                  second.
               Coronado now came up, ignorant of Texas Smith's misadventure, and puzzled at the
                  escape of Thurstane, but as fluent and complimentary as usual.
               "My dear Lieutenant! Language is below my feelings. I want to kneel down and
                  worship you. You ought to have a statue—yes, and an altar, If your humanity has
                  not been successful, it has been all the same glorious."
               "Nonsense," answered Thurstane. "Every one of us has done well in his turn! It was
                  my tour of duty to-day. Don't praise me. I haven't accomplished anything."
               "Ah, the scoundrels!" declaimed Coronado. "How could they violate a truce! It is
                  unknown, unheard of. The miserable traitors! I wish you could have killed Manga
                  Colorada."
               From this dialogue he hurried away to find and catechise Texas Smith, The
                  desperado told his story: "Jest got a bead on him—had him sure pop—never, see a
                  squarer mark—when somebody mounted me—pitched me clean out of my hole."
               "Who?" demanded Coronado, a rim of white showing clear around his black
                  pupils.
               "Dunno. Didn't see nobody. 'Fore I could reload and git in it was gone."
               "What the devil did you stop to reload for?"
               "Stranger, I allays reload."
               Coronado flinched under the word stranger and the stare which
                  accompanied it.
               "It was a woman's yell," continued Texas.
               Coronado felt suddenly so weak that he sat down on a mouldering heap of adobes. He
                  thought of Clara; was it Clara? Jealous and terrified, he for an instant, only for
                  an instant, wished she were dead.
               "See here," he said, when he had restrung his nerves a little. "We must separate.
                  If there is any trouble, call on me. I'll stand by you."
               "I reckon you'd better," muttered Smith, looking at Coronado as if he were already
                  drawing a bead on him.
               Without further talk they parted. The Texan went off to rub down his horse, mend
                  his accoutrements, squat around the cooking fires, and gamble with the drivers.
                  Perhaps he was just a bit more fastidious than usual about having his weapons in
                  perfect order and constantly handy; and perhaps too he looked over his shoulder a
                  little oftener than common while at his work or his games; but on the whole he was
                  a masterpiece of strong, serene, ferocious self-possession. Coronado also, as
                  unquiet at heart as the devil, was outwardly as calm as Greek art. They were
                  certainly a couple of almost sublime scoundrels.
               
               It was now nightfall; the clay closed with extraordinary abruptness; the sun went
                  down as though he had been struck dead; it was like the fall of an ox under the
                  axe of the butcher. One minute he was shining with an intolerable, feverish
                  fervor, and the next he had vanished behind the lofty ramparts of the plateau.
               It was Sergeant Meyer's tour as officer of the day, and he had prepared for the
                  night with the thoroughness of an old soldier. The animals were picketed in the
                  innermost rooms of the Casa Grande, while the spare baggage was neatly piled along
                  the walls of the central apartment. Thurstane's squad was quartered in one of the
                  two outer rooms, and Coronado's squad in the other, each man having his musket
                  loaded and lying beside him, with the butt at his feet and the muzzle pointing
                  toward the wall. One sentry was posted on the roof of the building, and one on the
                  ground twenty yards or so from its salient angle, while further away were two
                  fires which partially lighted up the great enclosure. The sergeant and such of his
                  men as were not on post slept or watched in the open air at the corner of the
                  Casa.
               The night passed without attack or alarm. Apache scouts undoubtedly prowled around
                  the enclosure, and through its more distant shadows, noting avenues and chances
                  for forlorn hopes. But they were not ready as yet to do any nocturnal spearing,
                  and if ever Indians wanted a night's rest they wanted it. The garrison was equally
                  quiet. Texas Smith, too familiar with ugly situations to lie awake when no good
                  was to be got by it, chose his corner, curled up in his blanket and slept the
                  sleep of the just. Overwhelming fatigue soon sent Coronado off in like manner.
                  Clara, too; she was querying how much she should tell Thurstane; all of a sudden
                  she was dreaming.
               When broad daylight opened her eyes she was still lethargic and did not know where
                  she was. A stretch; a long wondering stare about her; then she sprang up, ran to
                  the edge of the roof, and looked over. There was Thurstane, alive, taking off his
                  hat to her and waving her back from the brink. It was a second and more splendid
                  sun-rising; and for a moment she was full of happiness.
               At dawn Meyer had turned out his squad, patrolled the enclosure, made sure that no
                  Indians were in or around it, and posted a single sentry on the southeastern angle
                  of the ruins, which commanded the whole of the little plain. He discovered that
                  the Apaches, fearful like all cavalry of a night attack, had withdrawn to a spot
                  more than a mile distant, and had taken the precaution of securing their retreat
                  by garrisoning the mouth of the cañon. Having made his dispositions and his
                  reconnoissance, the sergeant reported to Thurstane.
               "Turn out the animals and let them pasture," said the officer, waking up promptly
                  to the situation, as a soldier learns to do. "How long will the grass in the
                  enclosure last them?"
               "Not three days, Leftenant."
               "To-morrow we will begin to pasture them on the slope. How about fishing?"
               "I cannot zay, Leftenant."
               "Take a look at the Buchanan boat and see if it can be put together. We may find a
                  chance to use it."
               "Yes, Leftenant."
               The Buchanan boat, invented by a United States officer whose name it bears, is a
                  sack of canvas with a frame of light sticks; when put together it is about twelve
                  feet long by five broad and three deep, and is capable of sustaining a weight of
                  two tons. Thurstane, thinking that he might have rivers to cross in his
                  explorations, had brought one of these coracles. At present it was a bundle,
                  weighing one hundred and fifty pounds, and forming the load of a single mule.
                  Meyer got it out, bent it on to its frame, and found it in good condition.
               "Very good," said Thurstane. "Roll it up again and store it safely. We may want it
                  to-morrow."
               Meantime Clara had thought out her problem. In her indignation at Texas Smith she
                  had contemplated denouncing him before the whole party, and had found that she had
                  not the courage. She had wanted to make a confidant of her relative, and had
                  decided that nothing could be more, unwise. Aunt Maria was good, but she lacked
                  practical sense; even Clara, girl as she was, could see the one fact as well as
                  the other. Her final and sagacious resolve was to tell the tale to Thurstane
                  alone.
               Mrs. Stanley, still jaded through with her forced march, fell asleep immediately
                  after breakfast. Clara went to the brink of the roof, caught the officer's eye,
                  and beckoned him to come to her.
               "We must not be seen," she whispered when he was by her side. "Come inside the
                  tower. There has been something dreadful. I must tell you."
               Then she narrated how she had surprised and interrupted Texas Smith in his attempt
                  at murder; for the time she was all Spanish in feeling, and told the story with
                  fervor, with passion; and the moment she had ended it she began to cry. Thurstane
                  was so overwhelmed by her emotion that he no more thought of the danger which he
                  had escaped than if it had been the buzzing of a mosquito. He longed to comfort
                  her; he dared to put his hand upon her waist; rather, we should say, he could not
                  help it. If she noticed it she had no objection to it, for she did not move; but
                  the strong and innocent probability is that she really did not notice it.
               "Oh, what can it mean?" she sobbed. "Why did he do it? What will you do?"
               "Never mind," he said, his voice tender, his blue-black eyes full of love, his
                  whole face angelic with affection. "Don't be troubled. Don't be anxious. I will do
                  what is right. I will put him under arrest and try him, if it seems best. But I
                  don't want you to be troubled. It shall all come put right. I mean to live till
                  you are safe."
               After a time he succeeded in soothing her, and then there came a moment in which
                  she seemed to perceive that his arm was around her waist, for she drew a little
                  away from him, coloring splendidly. But he had held her too long to be able to let
                  her go thus; he took her hands and looked in her face with the solemnity of a love
                  which pleads for life.
               "Will you forgive me?" he murmured. "I must say it. I cannot help it. I love you
                  with all my soul. I dare not ask you to be my wife. I am not fit for you. But have
                  pity on me. I couldn't help telling you."
               He just saw that she was not angry; yes, he was so shy and humble that he could
                  not see more; but that little glimpse of kindliness was enough to lure him
                  forward. On he went, hastily and stammeringly, like a man who has but a moment in
                  which to speak, only a moment before some everlasting farewell.
               "Oh, Miss Van Diemen! Is there—can there ever be—any hope for me?"
               It was one of the questions which arise out of great abysses from men who in their
                  hopelessness still long for heaven. No prisoner at the bar, faintly trusting that
                  in the eyes of his judge he might find mercy, could be more anxious than was
                  Thurstane at that moment. The lover who does not yet know that he will be loved is
                  a figure of tragedy.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               ALTHOUGH Thurstane did not perceive it, his question was answered the instant it
                  was asked. The answer started like lightning from Clara's heart, trembled through
                  all her veins, flamed in her cheeks, and sparkled in her eyes.
               Such a moment of agitation and happiness she had never before known, and had never
                  supposed that she could know. It was altogether beyond her control. She could have
                  stopped her breathing ten times easier than she could have quelled her terror and
                  her joy. She was no more master of the power and direction of her feelings, than
                  the river below was master of its speed and course. One of the mightiest of the
                  instincts which rule the human race had made her entirely its own. She was not
                  herself; she was Thurstane; she was love. The love incarnate is itself, and hot
                  the person in whom it is embodied.
               There was but one answer possible to Clara. Somehow, either by look or word, she
                  must say to Thurstane, "Yes." Prudential considerations might come afterward-might
                  come too late to be of use; no matter. The only thing now to be done, the only
                  thing which first or last must be done, the only thing which fate insisted should
                  be done, was to say "Yes."
               It was said. Never mind how. Thurstane heard it and understood it. Clara also
                  heard it, as if it were not she who uttered it, but some overruling power, or some
                  inward possession, which spoke for her. She heard it and she acquiesced in it. The
                  matter was settled. Her destiny had been pronounced. The man to whom her heart
                  belonged had his due.
               Clara passed through a minute which was in some respects like a lifetime, and in
                  some respects like a single second. It was crowded and encumbered with emotions
                  sufficient for years; it was, the scholastic needle-point on which stood a
                  multitude of angels. It lasted, she could not say how long; and then of a sudden
                  she could hardly remember it. Hours afterwards she had not fully disentangled from
                  this minute and yet monstrous labyrinth a clear recollection of what he had said
                  and what she had answered. Only the splendid exit of it was clear to her, and that
                  was that she was his affianced wife.
               "But oh, my friend—one thing!" she whispered, when she had a little regained her
                  self-possession. "I must ask Muñoz."
               "Your grandfather? Yes."
               "But what if he refuses?" she added, looking anxiously in his eyes. She was
                  beginning to lay her troubles on his shoulders, as if he were already her
                  husband.
               "I will try to please him," replied the young fellow, gazing with almost equal
                  anxiety at her. It was the beautiful union of the man-soul and woman-soul, asking
                  courage and consolation the one of the other, and not only asking but
                  receiving.
               "Oh! I think you must please him," said Clara, forgetting how Muñoz had driven out
                  his daughter for marrying an American. "He can't help but like you."
               "God bless you, my darling!" whispered Thurstane, worshipping her for worshipping
                  him.
               After a while Clara, thought of Texas Smith, and shuddered out, "But oh, how many
                  dangers! Oh, my friend, how will you be safe?"
               "Leave that to me," he replied, comprehending her at once. "I will take care of
                  that man."
               "Do be prudent."
               "I will. For your sake, my dear child, I promise it. Well, now we
                  must part. I must rouse no suspicions."
               "Yes. We must be prudent."
               He was about to leave her when a new and terrible thought struck him, and made him
                  look at her as though they were about to part forever.
               "If Muñoz leaves you his fortune," he said firmly, "you shall be free."
               She stared; after a moment she burst into a little laugh; then she shook her
                  finger in his face and said, blushing, "Yes, free to be—your wife."
               He caught the finger, bent his head over it and kissed it, ready to cry upon it.
                  It was the only kiss that he had given her; and what a world-wide event it was to
                  both! Ah, these lovers! They find a universe where others see only. trifles; they
                  are gifted with the second-sight and live amid miracles.
               "Do be careful, oh my dear friend!" was the last whisper of Clara as Thurstane
                  quitted the tower. Then she passed the day in ascending and descending between
                  heights of happiness and abysses of anxiety. Her existence henceforward was a
                  Jacob's ladder, which had its foot on a world of crime and sorrow, and its top in
                  heavens passing description.
               As for Thurstane, he had to think and act, for something must be done with Texas
                  Smith. He queried whether the fellow might not have seen Clara when she pushed him
                  out of the crevice, and would not seize the first opportunity to kill her. Angered
                  by this supposition, he at first resolved to seize him, charge him with his prime,
                  and turn him loose in the desert to take his chance among the Apaches. Then it
                  occurred to him that it might be possible to change this enemy into a partisan.
                  While he was pondering these matters his eye fell upon the man. His army habit of
                  authority and of butting straight at the face of danger immediately got the better
                  of his wish to manage the matter delicately, and made him forget his promises to
                  be prudent, Beckoning Texas to follow him, he marched out of the plaza through the
                  nearest gap, faced about upon his foe with an imperious stare, and said abruptly,
                  "My man, do you want to be shot?"
               Texas Smith had his revolver and long hunting-knife in his waist-belt. He thought
                  of drawing both at once and going at Thurstane, who was certainly in no better
                  state for battle, having only revolver and sabre. But the chance of combat was
                  even; the certainty of being slaughtered after it by the soldiers was depressing;
                  and, what was more immediately to the point, he was cowed by that stare of
                  habitual authority.
               "Capm——I don't," he said, watching the officer with the eye of a lynx, for,
                  however unwilling to fight as things were, he meant to defend himself.
               "Because I could have you set up by my sergeant and executed by my privates,"
                  continued Thurstane.
               "Capm, I reckon you're sound there," admitted Texas, with a slight flinch in his
                  manner.
               "Now, then, do you want to fight a duel?" broke out the angry youngster, his
                  pugnacity thoroughly getting the better of his wisdom. "We both have pistols."
               "Capm," said the bravo, and then came to a pause—"Capm, I ain't a gentleman," he
                  resumed, with the sulky humility of a bulldog who is beaten by his master. "I own
                  up to it, Capm. I ain't a gentleman."
               
               He was a "poor white" by birth; he remembered still the "high-toned gentlemen" who
                  used to overawe his childhood; he recognized in Thurstane that unforgotten air of
                  domination, and he was thoroughly daunted by it. Moreover, there was his acquired
                  and very rational fear of the army—a fear which had considerably increased upon
                  him since he had joined this expedition, for he had noted carefully the
                  disciplined obedience of the little squad of regulars, and had been much struck
                  with its obvious potency for offence and defence.
               "You won't fight?" said the officer. "Well, then, will you stop hunting me?"
               "Capm, I'll go that much."
               "Will you pledge yourself not to harm any one in this party, man or woman?"
               "I'll go that much, too."
               "I don't want to get any tales out of you. You can keep your secrets, Damn your
                  secrets!"
               "Capm, you're jest the whitest man I ever see."
               "Will you pledge yourself to keep dark about this talk that we've had?"
               "You bet!" replied Texas Smith, with an indescribable air of humiliation. "I'm,
                  outbragged. I shan't tell of it."
               "I shall give orders to my men. If anything queer happens, you won't live the day
                  out."
               "The keerds is stocked agin me, Capm. I pass. You kin play it alone."
               "Now, then, walk back to the Casa, and keep quiet during the rest of this
                  journey."
               The most humbled bushwhacker and cutthroat between the two oceans, Texas Smith
                  stepped out in front of Thurstane and returned to the cooking-fire, not quite
                  certain as he marched that he would not get a pistol-ball in the back of his head,
                  but showing no emotion in his swarthy, sallow, haggard countenance.
               Although Thurstane trusted that danger from that quarter was over, he nevertheless
                  called Meyer aside and muttered to him, "Sergeant, I have some confidential orders
                  for you. If murder happens to me, or to any other person in this party, have that
                  Texan shot immediately."
               "I will addend to it, Leftenant," replied Meyer with perfect calmness and with his
                  mechanical salute.
               "You may give Kelly the same instructions, confidentially."
               "Yes, Leftenant."
               Texas Smith, fifteen or twenty yards away, watched this dialogue with an interest
                  which even his Indian-like stoicism could hardly conceal. When the sergeant
                  returned to the cooking-fire, he gave him a glance which was at once watchful and
                  deprecatory, made place for him to sit down on a junk of adobe, and offered him a
                  corn-shuck cigarito. Meyer took it, saying, "Thank you, Schmidt," and the two
                  smoked in apparently amicable silence.
               Nevertheless, Texas knew that his doom was sealed if murder should occur in the
                  expedition; for, as to the protection of Coronado, he did not believe that that
                  could avail against the uniform; and as to finding safety in flight, the cards
                  there were evidently "stocked agin him." Indeed, what had quelled him more than
                  anything else was the fear lest he should be driven out to take his luck among the
                  Apaches. Suppose that Thurstane had taken a fancy to swap him for that girl
                  Pepita? What a bright and cheerful fire there would have been for him before
                  sundown! How thoroughly the skin would have been peeled off his muscles! What neat
                  carving at his finger joints and toe joints! Coarse, unimaginative, hardened, and
                  beastly as Texas Smith was, his flesh crawled a little at the thought of it.
                  Presently it struck him that he had better do some thing to propitiated man who
                  could send him to encounter such a fate.
               "Sergeant," he said in his harsh, hollow croak of a voice.
               "Well, Schmidt?"
               "Them creeturs oughter browse outside."
               "So. You are right, Schmidt."
               "If the Capm 'll let me have three good men, I'll take 'em out."
               Meyer's light-blue eyes, twinkling from under his sandy eyelashes, studied the
                  face of the outlaw.
               "I should zay it was a goot blan, Schmidt," he decided. "I'll mention it to the
                  leftenant."
               Thurstane, on being consulted, gave his consent. Meyer detailed Shubert and two of
                  the Mexican cattle-drivers to report to Smith for duty. The Texan mounted his men
                  on horses, separated one-third of the mules from the others, drove them out of the
                  enclosure, and left them on the green hillside, while he pushed on a quarter of a
                  mile into the plain and formed his line of four skirmishers. When a few of the
                  Apaches approached to see what was going on, he levelled his rifle, knocked over
                  one of the horses, and sent the rest off capering. After four or five hours he
                  drove in his mules and took out another set. The Indians could only interrupt his
                  pastoral labors by making a general charge; and that would expose them to a fire
                  from the ruin, against which they could not retaliate. They thought it wise to
                  make no trouble, and all day the foraging went on in peace.
               Peace everywhere. Inside the fortress sleeping, cooking, mending of equipments,
                  and cleaning of arms. Over the plain mustangs filling themselves with grass and
                  warriors searching for roots. Not a movement worth heeding was made by the Apaches
                  until the herders drove in their first relay of mules, when a dozen hungry braves
                  lassoed the horse which Smith had shot, dragged him away to a safe distance, and
                  proceeded to cut him up into steaks. On seeing this, the Texan cursed himself to
                  all the hells that were known to him.
               "It's the last time they'll catch me butcherin' for 'em," he growled. "If I can't
                  hit a man, I won't shute."
               One more night in the Casa de Montezuma, with Thurstane for officer of the guard.
                  His arrangements were like Meyer's: the animals in the rear rooms of the Casa';
                  Coronado's squad in one of the outer rooms, and Meyer's in the other; a sentry on
                  the roof, and another in the plaza. The only change was that, owing to scarcity of
                  fuel, no watch-fires were built. As Thurstane expected an attack, and as Indian
                  assaults usually take place just before daybreak, he chose the first half of the
                  night for his tour of sleep. At one he was awakened by Sweeny, who was sergeant of
                  his squad, Kelly being with Meyer and Shubert with Coronado.
               "Well, Sweeny, anything stirring?" he asked.
               "Divil a stir, Liftinant."
               "Did nothing happen during your guard?"
               "Liftinant," replied Sweeny, searching his memory for an incident which should
                  prove his watchfulness—"the moon went down."
               "I hope you didn't interfere."
               "Liftinant, I thought it was none o' my bizniss."
               "Send a man to relieve the sentry on the roof, and let him come down here."
               "I done it, Liftinant, before I throubled ye. Where shall we slape? Jist by the
                  corner here?"
               
               "No. I'll change that. Two just inside of one doorway and two inside the Other.
                  I'll stay at the angle myself."
               Three hours passed as quietly as the wool-clad footsteps of the Grecian Fate.
                  Then, stealing through the profound darkness, came the faintest rustle imaginable.
                  It was not the noise of feet, but rather that of bodies slowly dragging through
                  herbage, as if men were crawling or rolling toward the Casa. Thurstane, not quite
                  sure of his hearing, and unwilling to disturb the garrison without cause, cocked
                  his revolver and listened intently.
               Suddenly the sentry in the plaza fired, and, rushing in upon him, fell motionless
                  at his feet, while the air was filled in an instant with the whistling of arrows,
                  the trampling of running men, and the horrible quavering of the war-whoop.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               AT the noise of the Apache charge Thurstane sprang in two bounds to Coronado's
                  entrance, and threw himself inside of it with a shout of "Indians!"
               It must be remembered that, while a doorway of the Casa was five feet in depth, it
                  was only four feet wide at the base and less than thirty inches at the top, so
                  that it was something in the way of a defile and easily defensible. The moment
                  Thurstane was inside, he placed himself behind one of the solid jambs of the
                  opening, and presented both sabre and revolver.
               Immediately after him a dozen running Indians reached the portal, some of them
                  plunging into it and the others pushing and fowling close around it. Three
                  successive shots and as many quick thrusts, all delivered in the darkness, but
                  telling at close quarters on naked chests and faces, cleared the passage in half a
                  minute. By this time Texas Smith, Coronado, and Shubert had leaped up, got their
                  senses about them, and commenced a fire of rifle shot, pistol shot, and
                  buck-and-ball. In another half minute nothing remained in the doorway but two or
                  three corpses, while outside there were howls as of wounded. The attack here was
                  repulsed, at least for the present.
               But at the other door matters had gone differently, and, as it seemed, fatally
                  ill. There had been no one fully awakened to keep the assailants at bay until the
                  other defenders could rouse themselves and use their weapons. Half a dozen
                  Apaches, holding their lances before them like pikes, rushed over the sleeping
                  Sweeny and burst clean into the room before Meyer and his men were fairly on their
                  feet. In the profound darkness not a figure could be distinguished; and there was
                  a brief trampling and yelling, during which no one was hurt. Lances and bows were
                  useless in a room fifteen feet by ten, without a ray of light. The Indians threw
                  down their long weapons, drew their knives, groped hither and thither, struck out
                  at random, and cut each other. Nevertheless, they were masters of the ground.
                  Meyer and his people, crouching in corners, could not see and dared not fire.
                  Sweeny, awakened by a kneading of Apache boots, was so scared that he lay
                  perfectly still, and either was not noticed or was neglected as dead. His Mexican
                  comrade had rushed along with the assailants, got ahead of them, gained the inner
                  rooms, and hastened up to the roof. In short, it was a completely paralyzed
                  defence.
               Had the mass of the Apaches promptly followed their daring leaders, the garrison
                  would have been destroyed. But, as so often happens in night attacks, there was a
                  pause of caution and investigation. Fifty warriors halted around the doorway, some
                  whooping or calling, and others listening, while the five or six within, probably
                  fearful of being hit if they spoke, made no answer. The sentinel on the roof fired
                  down without seeing any one, and had arrows sent back at him by men who were as
                  blinded as himself. The darkness and mystery crippled the attack almost as
                  completely as the defence.
               Sweeny was the first to break the charm. A warrior who attempted to enter the
                  doorway struck his boot against a pair of legs, and stooped down to feel if they
                  were alive. By a lucky intuition of scared self-defence, the little Paddy made a
                  furious kick into the air with both his solid army shoes, and sent the invader
                  reeling into the outer darkness. Then he fired his gun just as it lay, and brought
                  down one of the braves inside with a broken ankle. The blaze of the discharge
                  faintly lighted up the room, and Meyer let fly instantly, killing another of the
                  intruders. But the Indians also had been able to see. Those who survived uttered
                  their yell and plunged into the corners, stabbing with their knives. There was a
                  wild, blind, eager scuffling, mixed with another shot or two, oaths, whooping,
                  screams, tramplings, and aimless blows with musket-butts.
               Reinforcements arrived for both parties, four or five more Apaches stealing into
                  the room, while Thurstane and Shubert came through from Coronado's side. Hitherto,
                  it did not seem that the garrison had lost any killed except the sentry who had
                  fallen outside; but presently the lieutenant heard Shubert cry out in that tone of
                  surprise, pain, and anger, which announces a severe wound.
               The scream was followed by a fall, a short, scuffle, repeated stabbings, and
                  violent breathing mixed with low groans. Thurstane groped to the scene of combat,
                  put out his left hand, felt a naked back, and drove his sabre strongly and cleanly
                  into it. There was a hideous yell, another fall, and then silence.
               After that he stood still, not knowing whither to move. The trampling of feet, the
                  hasty breathing of struggling men, the dull sound of blows upon living bodies, the
                  yells and exclamations and calls, had all ceased at once. It seemed to him as if
                  everybody in the room had been killed except himself. He could not hear a sound in
                  the darkness besides the beating of his own heart, and an occasional feeble moan
                  rising from the floor. In all his soldierly life he had never known a moment that
                  was anything like so horrible.
               At last, after what seemed minutes, remembering that it was his duty as an officer
                  to be a rallying point, he staked his life on his very next breath and called out
                  firmly, "Meyer!"
               "Here!" answered the sergeant, as if he were at roll-call.
               "Where are you?"
               "I am near the toorway, Leftenant. Sweeny is with me."
               "'Yis I be," interjected Sweeny.
               Thurstane, feeling his way cautiously, advanced to the entrance and found the two
                  men standing on one side of it.
               "Where are the Indians?" he whispered.
               "I think they are all out, except the tead ones, Leftenant."
               Thurstane gave an order: "All forward to the door."
               Steps of men stealing from the inner room responded to this command.
               "Call the roll, Sergeant," said Thurstane.
               In a low voice Meyer recited the names of the six men who belonged to his squad,
                  and of Shubert. All responded except the last.
               "I am avraid Shupert is gone, Leftenant," muttered the sergeant; and the officer
                  replied, "I am afraid so."
               All this time there had been perfect silence outside, as if the Indians also were in a state of suspense and
                  anxiety. But immediately after the roll-call had ceased, a few arrows whistled
                  through the entrance and struck with short sharp spats into the hard-finished
                  partition within.
               "Yes, they are all out," said Thurstane. "But we must keep quiet till
                  daybreak."
               There followed a half hour which seemed like a month. Once Thurstane Stole softly
                  through the Casa to Coronado's room, found all safe there, and returned, stumbling
                  over bodies both going and coming. At last the slow dawn came and sent a faint,
                  faint radiance through the door, enabling the benighted eyes within to discover
                  one dolorous object after another. In the centre of the room lay the boy Shubert,
                  perfectly motionless and no doubt dead. Here and there, slowly revealing
                  themselves through the diminishing darkness, like horrible waifs left uncovered by
                  a falling river, appeared the bodies of four Apaches, naked to the breechcloth and
                  painted black, all quiet except one which twitched convulsively. The clay floor
                  was marked by black pools and stains which were undoubtedly blood. Other fearful
                  blotches were scattered along the entrance, as if grievously wounded men had
                  tottered through it, or slain warriors had been dragged out by their comrades.
               While the battle is still in suspense a soldier looks with but faint emotion, and
                  almost without pity, upon the dead and wounded. They are natural; they belong to
                  the scene; what else should he see? Moreover, the essential sentiments of the time
                  and place are, first, a hard egoism which thinks mainly of self-preservation, and
                  second, a stern sense of duty which regulates it. In the fiercer moments of the
                  conflict even these feelings are drowned in a wild excitement which may be either
                  exultation or terror. Thus it is that the ordinary sympathies of humanity for the
                  suffering and for the dead are suspended.
               Looking at Shubert, our lieutenant simply said to himself, "I have lost a man. My
                  command is weakened by so much." Then his mind turned with promptness to the still
                  living and urgent incidents of the situation. Could he peep out of the doorway
                  without getting an arrow through the head? Was the roof of the Casa safe from
                  escalade? Were any of his people wounded?
               This last question he at once put in English and Spanish. Kelly replied,
                  "Slightly, sir," and pointed to his left shoulder, pretty smartly laid open by the
                  thrust of a knife. One of the Indian muleteers, who was sitting propped up in a
                  corner, faintly raised his head and showed a horrible gash in his thigh. At a sign
                  from Thurstane another muleteer bound up the wound with the sleeve of Shubert's
                  shirt, which he slashed off for the purpose. Kelly said, "Never mind me, sir; it's
                  no great affair, sir."
               "Two killed and two wounded," thought the lieutenant. "We are losing more than our
                  proportion."
               As soon as it was light enough to distinguish objects clearly, a lively fire
                  opened from the roof of the Casa. Judging that the attention of the assailants
                  would be distracted by this, Thurstane cautiously edged his head forward and
                  peeped through the doorway. The Apaches were still in the plaza; he discovered
                  something like fifty of them; they were jumping about and firing arrows at the
                  roof. He inferred that this could not last long; that they would soon be driven
                  away by the musketry from above; that, in short, things were going well.
               After a time, becoming anxious lest Clara should expose herself to the missiles,
                  he went to Coronado's room, sent one of the Mexicans to reinforce Meyer, and then
                  climbed rapidly to die tower, taking along sabre, rifle, and revolver. He was
                  ascending the last of the stepped sticks, and had the trap-door of the isolated
                  room just above him, when he heard a shout, "Come up here, somebody!"
               It was the snuffling utterance of Phineas Glover, who slept on, the roof as
                  permanent guard of the ladies. Tumbling into the room, Thurstane found the skipper
                  and two muleteers defending the doorway against five Apaches, who had reached the
                  roof, three of them already on their feet and plying their arrows, while the two
                  others were clambering over the ledge. Clara and Mrs. Stanley were crouched on
                  their beds behind the shelter of the wall.
               The young man's first desperate impulse was to rush out and fight hand to hand.
                  But remembering the dexterity of Indians in single combat, he halted just in time
                  to escape a flight of missiles, placed himself behind the jamb of the doorway, and
                  fired his rifle. At that short distance Sweeny would hardly have missed; and the
                  nearest Apache, leaning forward with outspread arms, fell dead. Then the revolver
                  came into play, and another warrior dropped his bow, his shoulder shattered.
                  Glover and the muleteers, steadied by this opportune reinforcement, reloaded and
                  resumed their file-firing. Guns were too much for archery; three Indians were soon
                  stretched on the roof; the others slung themselves over the eaves and
                  vanished.
               "Damed if they didn't reeve a tackle to git up," exclaimed Glover in
                  amazement.
               It appeared that the savages had twisted lariats into long cords, fastened rude
                  grapples to the end of them, flung them from the wall below the Casa, and so made
                  their daring escalade.
               "Look out!" called Thurstane to the investigating Yankee. But the warning came too
                  late; Glover uttered a yell of surprise, pain, and rage; this time it was not his
                  nose, but his left ear.
               "Reckon they'll jest chip off all my feeturs 'fore they git done with me," he
                  grinned, feeling of the wounded part. "Git my figgerhead smooth all round."
               To favor the escalade, the Apaches in the plaza had renewed their war-whoop, sent
                  flights of arrows at the Casa, and made a spirited but useless charge on the
                  doorways. Its repulse was the signal for a general and hasty flight. Just as the
                  rising sun spread his haze of ruddy gold over the east, there was a despairing
                  yell which marked the termination of the conflict, and then a rush for the gaps in
                  the wall of the enclosure. In one minute from the signal for retreat the top of
                  the hill did not contain a single painted combatant. No vigorous pursuit; the
                  garrison had had enough of fighting; besides, ammunition was becoming precious.
                  Texas Smith alone, insatiably bloodthirsty and an independent fighter, skulked
                  hastily across the plaza, ambushed himself in a crevice of the ruin, and took a
                  couple of shots at the savages as they mounted their ponies at the foot of the
                  hill and skedaddled loosely across the plain.
               When he returned he croaked out, with an unusual air of excitement, "Big
                  thing!"
               "What is a pig ding?" inquired Sergeant Meyer.
               "Never see Injuns make such a fight afore."
               "Nor I," assented Meyer.
               "Stranger, they fowt first-rate," affirmed Smith, half admiring the Apaches. "How
                  many did we save?"
               "Here are vour in our room, und the leftenant says there are three on the roof,
                  und berhabs we killed vour or vive outside."
               "A dozen!" chuckled Texas, "besides the wounded. Let's hev a look at the dead
                  uns."
               
               Going into Meyer's room, he found one of the Apaches still twitching, and
                  immediately cut his throat. Then he climbed to the roof, gloated over the three
                  bodies there, dragged them one by one to the ledge, and pitched them into the
                  plaza.
               "That'll settle 'em," he remarked with a sigh of intense satisfaction, like that
                  of a baby when it has broken its rattle. Coming down again, he looked all the
                  corpses over again, and said with an air of disappointment which was almost
                  sentimental, "On'y a dozen!"
               "I kin keer for the Injuns," he volunteered when the question came up of burying
                  the dead. "I'd rather keer for 'em than not."
               Before Thurstane knew what was going on, Texas had finished his labor of love. A
                  crevice in the northern wall of the enclosure looked out upon a steep slope of
                  marl, almost a precipice, which slanted sheer into the boiling flood of the San
                  Juan. To this crevice Texas dragged one naked carcass after another, bundled it
                  through, launched it with a vigorous shove, and then watched it with a pantherish
                  grin, licking his chops as it were, as it rolled down the steep, splashed into the
                  river, and set out on its swift voyage toward the Pacific.
               "I s'pose you'll want to dig a hole for him," he said, coming into
                  the Casa and looking wistfully at the body of poor young Shubert.
               Sergeant Meyer motioned him to go away. Thurstane was entering in his journal an
                  inventory of the deceased soldier's effects having already made a minute of the
                  date and cause of his death. These with other facts, such as name, age, physical
                  description, birthplace, time of service, amount of pay due, balance of
                  clothing-account and stoppages, must be more or less repeated on various records,
                  such as the descriptive book of the company, the daily return, the monthly return,
                  the quarterly return, the muster-roll from which the name would be dropped, and
                  the final statements which were to go to the Adjutant-General and the
                  Paymaster-General. Even in the desert the monstrous accountability system of the
                  army lived and burgeoned.
               Nothing of importance happened until about noon, when the sentinel on the outer
                  wall announced that the Apaches were approaching in force, and Thurstane gave
                  orders to barricade one of the doors of the Casa with some large blocks of adobe,
                  saying to himself, "I ought to have done it before."
               This work well under way, he hastened to the brow of the hill and reconnoitred the
                  enemy.
               "They are not going to attack," said Coronado. "They are going to torture the girl
                  Pepita."
               Thurstane turned away sick at heart, observing, "I must keep the women in the
                  Casa."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               WHEN Thurstane, turning his back on the torture scene, had ascended to the roof of
                  the Casa, he found the ladies excited and anxious.
               "What is the matter?" asked Clara at once, taking hold of his sleeve with the tips
                  of her fingers, in a caressing, appealing way, which was common with her when
                  talking to those she liked.
               Ordinarily our officer was a truth-teller; indeed, there was nothing which came
                  more awkwardly to him than deception; he hated and despised it as if it were a
                  personage, a criminal, an Indian. But here was a case where he must stoop to
                  falsification, or at least to concealment.
               "The Apaches are just below," he mumbled. "Not one of you women must venture out.
                  I will see to everything. Be good now."
               She gave his sleeve a little twitch, smiled confidingly in his face, and sat down
                  to do some much-needed mending.
               Having posted Sweeny at the foot of the ladders, with instructions to let none of
                  the women descend, Thurstane hastened back to the exterior wall, drawn by a
                  horrible fascination. With his field-glass he could distinguish every action of
                  the tragedy which was being enacted on the plain. Pepita, entirely stripped of her
                  clothing, was already bound to the sapling which stood by the side of the rivulet,
                  and twenty or thirty of the Apaches were dancing around her in a circle, each one
                  approaching her in turn, howling in her ears and spitting in her face. The young
                  man had read and heard much of the horrors of that torture-dance, which stamps the
                  American Indian as the most ferocious of savages; but he had not understood at all
                  how large a part insult plays in this ceremony of deliberate cruelty; and,
                  insulting a woman! he had not once dreamed it. Now, when he saw it done, his blood
                  rushed into his head and he burst forth in choked incoherent curses.
               "I can't stand this," he shouted, advancing upon Coronado with clenched fists. "We
                  must charge."
               The Mexican shook his head in a sickly, scared way, and pointed to the left. There
                  was a covering party of fifty or sixty warriors; it was not more than a quarter of
                  a mile from the eastern end of the enclosure; it was in position to charge either
                  upon that, or upon the flank of any rescuing sally.
               "We can do it," insisted the lieutenant, who felt as if he could fight twenty
                  men.
               "We can't," replied Coronado. "I won't go, and my men shan't go."
               Thurstane thought of Clara, covered his face with his hands, and sobbed aloud.
                  Texas Smith stared at him with a kind of contemptuous pity, and offered such
                  consolation as it was in his nature to give.
               "Capm, when they've got through this job they'll travel."
               The hideous prelude continued for half an hour. The Apaches in the dance were
                  relieved by their comrades in the covering party, who came one by one to take
                  their turns in the round of prancing, hooting, and spitting. Then came a few
                  minutes of rest; then insult was followed by outrage.
               The girl was loosed from the sapling and lifted until her head was even with the
                  lower branches, three warriors holding her while two others extended her arms and
                  fixed them to two stout limbs. What the fastenings were Thurstane could guess from
                  the fact that he saw blows given, and heard the long shrill scream of a woman in
                  uttermost agony. Then there was more hammering around the sufferer's feet, and
                  more shrill wailing. She was spiked through the palms and the ankles to the tree.
                  It was a crucifixion.
               "By ——!" groaned Thurstane, "I never will spare an Indian as long as I live."
               "Capm, I'm with you," said Texas Smith. "I seen my mother fixed like that. I seen
                  it from the bush whar I was a hidin'. I was a boy then. I've killed every Injun I
                  could sence."
               Now the dance was resumed. The Apaches pranced about their victim to the music of
                  her screams. The movement quickened; at last they ran around the tree in a
                  maddened crowd; at every shriek they, stamped, gestured, and yelled demoniacally.
                  Now and then one of them climbed the girl's body and appeared to stuff something
                  into her mouth. Then the lamentable outcries sank to a gasping and sobbing which could only be
                  imagined by the spectators on the hill.
               "Can't you hit some of them?" Thurstane asked Texas Smith.
               "Better let 'em finish," muttered the borderer. "The gal can't be helped, She's as
                  good as dead, Capm."
               After another rest came a fresh scene of horror. Several of the Apaches, no doubt
                  chiefs or leading braves, caught up their bows and renewed the dance. Running in a
                  circle at full speed about the tree, each one in turn let fly an arrow at the
                  victim, the object being to send the missile clear through her.
               "That's the wind-up," muttered Texas Smith. "It's my turn now."
               He leaped from the wall to the ground, ran sixty or eighty yards down the hill,
                  halted, aimed, and fired. One of the warriors, a fellow in a red shirt who had
                  been conspicuous in the torture scene, rolled over and lay quiet. The Apaches, who
                  had been completely absorbed by their frantic ceremony, and who had not looked for
                  an attack at the moment, nor expected death al such a distance, uttered a cry of
                  surprise and dismay. There was a scramble of ten or fifteen screaming horsemen
                  after the audacious borderer. But immediately on firing he had commenced a rapid
                  retreat, at the same time reloading. He turned and presented his rifle; just then,
                  too, a protecting volley burst from the rampart; another Apache fell, and the rest
                  retreated.
               "Capm, it's all right," said Texas, as he reascended the ruin. "We're squar with
                  'em."
               "We might have broken it up," returned Thurstane sullenly.
               "No, Capm. You don't know 'em. They'd got thar noses p'inted to torture that gal.
                  If they didn't do it thar, they'd a done it a little furder off. They was bound to
                  do it. Now it's done, they'll travel."
               Warned by their last misadventure, the Indians presently retired to their usual
                  camping ground, leaving their victim attached to the sapling.
               "I'll fotch her up," volunteered Texas, who had a hyena's hankering after dead
                  bodies. "Reckon you'd like to bury her."
               He mounted, rode slowly, and with prudent glances to right and left, down the
                  hill, halted under the tree, stood up in his saddle and worked there for some
                  minutes. The Apaches looked on from a distance, uttering yells of exultation and
                  making opprobrious gestures. Presently Texas resumed his seat and cantered gently
                  back to the ruins, bearing across his saddle-bow a fearful burden, the naked body
                  of a girl of eighteen, pierced with more than fifty arrows, stained and streaked
                  all over with blood, the limbs shockingly mangled, and the mouth stuffed with
                  rags.
               While nearly every other spectator turned away in horror, he glared steadily and
                  calmly at the corpse, repeating, "That's Injin fun, that is. That's what they brag
                  on, that is."
               "Bury her outside the wall," ordered Thurstane, with averted face. "And listen,
                  all you people, not a word of this to the women."
               "We shall be catechised," said Coronado.
               "You must do the lying," replied the officer. He was so shaken by what he had
                  witnessed that he did not dare to face Clara for an hour afterward, lest his
                  discomposure should arouse her suspicions. When he did at last visit the tower,
                  she was quiet and smiling, for Coronado had done his lying, and done it well.
               "So there was no attack," she said. "I am so glad!"
               "Only a little skirmish. You heard the firing, of course."
               "Yes. Coronado told us about it. What a horrible howling the Indians made! There
                  were some screams that were really frightful."
               "It was their last demonstration. They will probably be gone in the morning."
               "Poor Pepita! She will be carried off," said Clara, a tear or two stealing down
                  her cheek.
               "Yes, poor Pepita!" sighed Thurstane.
               The muleteer who had been killed in the assault was already buried. At sundown
                  came the funeral of the soldier Shubert. The body, wrapped in a blanket, was borne
                  by four Mexicans to the grave which had been prepared for it, followed by his
                  three comrades with loaded muskets, and then by all the other members of the
                  party, except Mrs. Stanley, who looked down from her roof upon the spectacle.
                  Thurstane acted as chaplain, and read the funeral service from Clara's
                  prayer-book, amidst the weeping of women and the silence of men. The dead young
                  hero was lowered into his last resting-place. Sergeant Meyer gave the order:
                  "Shoulder arms—ready—present—aim—fire!" The ceremony was ended; the muleteers
                  filled the grave; a stone was placed to mark it; so slept a good soldier.
               Now came another night of anxiety, but also of quiet. In the morning, when, eager
                  eyes looked through the yellow haze of dawn over the plain, not an Apache was to
                  be seen.
               "They are gone," said Coronado to Thurstane, after the two had made the tour of
                  the ruins and scrutinized every feature of the landscape. "What next?"
               Thurstane swept his field-glass around once more, searching for some outlet
                  besides the horrible cañon, and searching in vain.
               "We must wait a day or so for our wounded," he said. "Then we must start back on
                  our old trail. I don't see anything else before us."
               "It is a gloomy prospect," muttered Coronado, thinking of the hundred miles of
                  rocky desert, and of the possibility that Apaches might be ambushed at the end of
                  it.
               He had been so anxious about himself for a few days that he had cared for little
                  else. He had been humble, submissive to Thurstane, and almost entirely indifferent
                  about Clara.
               "We ought at least to try something in the way of explorations," continued the
                  lieutenant. "To begin with, I shall sound the river. I shall be thought a devil of
                  a failure if I don't carry back some information about the topography of this
                  region."
               "Can you paddle your boat against the current?" asked Coronado.
               "I doubt it. But we can make a towing cord of lariats and let it out from the
                  shore; perhaps swing it clear across the river in that way-with some paddling, you
                  know."
               "It is an excellent plan," said Coronado.
               The day passed without movement, excepting that Texas Smith and two Mexicans
                  explored the cañon for several miles, returning with a couple of lame ponies and a
                  report that the Apaches had undoubtedly gone southward. At night, however, the
                  animals were housed and sentries posted as usual, for Thurstane feared lest the
                  enemy might yet return and attempt a surprise.
               The next morning, all being quiet, the Buchanan boat was launched. A couple of
                  fairish paddles were chipped out of bits of driftwood, and a towline a hundred
                  feet long was made of lariats. Thurstane further provisioned the cockleshell with
                  fishing tackle, a sounding line, his own rifle, Shubert's musket and
                  accoutrements, a bag of hard bread, and a few pounds of jerked beef.
               "You are not going to make a voyage!" stared Coronado.
               
               "I am preparing for accidents. We may get carried down the river."
               "I thought you proposed to keep fast to the shore."
               "I do. But the lariats may break."
               Coronado said no more. He lighted a cigarito and looked on with an air of dreamy
                  indifference. He had hit upon a plan for getting rid of Thurstane.
               The next question was, who could handle a boat? The lieutenant wanted two men to
                  keep it out in the current while he used the sounding line and recorded
                  results.
               "Guess I'll do 's well's the nex' hand," volunteered Captain Glover. "Got a sore
                  ear, 'n' a hole in my nose, but reckon I'm 'n able-bodied seaman for all that.
                     Hev rowed some in my time. Rowed forty mile after a whale onct,
                  'n' caught the critter-fairly rowed him down. Current's putty lively. Sh'd say 't
                  was tearin' off 'bout five knots an hour. But guess I'll try it. Sh'd kinder like
                  to feel water under me agin."
               "Captain, you shall handle the ship," smiled Thurstane. "I'll mention you by name
                  in my report. Who next?"
               "Me," yelped Sweeny.
               "Can you row, Sweeny?"
               "I can, Liftinant."
               "You may try it."
               "Can I take me gun, Liftinant?" demanded Sweeny, who was extravagantly fond and
                  proud of his piece, all the more perhaps because he held it in awe.
               "Yes, you can take it, and Glover can have Shubert's. Though, 'pon my honor, I
                  don't know why we should carry firearms. It's old habit, I suppose. It's a way we
                  have in the army."
               The lieutenant had no sort of anxiety on the score of his enterprise. His plan was
                  to swing out into the current, and, if the boat proved perfectly manageable, to
                  cut loose from the towline and paddle across, sounding the whole breadth of the
                  channel. It seemed easy enough and safe enough. When he left the Casa Grande after
                  breakfast he contrived to kiss Clara's hand, but it did not once occur to him that
                  it would be proper to bid her farewell. He was very far indeed from guessing that
                  in the knot of the lariat which was fast to the bow of his coracle there was a
                  fatal gash. It was not suspicion of evil, but merely a habit of precaution, a
                  prudential tone of mind which he had acquired in service, that led him at the last
                  moment to say (making Coronado tremble in his boots), "Mr. Glover, have you
                  thoroughly overhauled the cord?"
               "Give her a look jest before we went up to breakfast," replied the skipper.
                  "She'll hold."
               Coronado, who stood three feet distant, blew a quiet little whiff of smoke through
                  his thin purple lips, meanwhile dreamily contemplating the speaker.
               "Git in, you paddywhack," said Glover to Sweeny. "Grab yer paddle. T'other end;
                  that's the talk. Now then. All aboard that's goin'. Shove off."
               In a few seconds, impelled from the shore by the paddles, the boat was at the full
                  length of the towline and in the middle of the boiling current.
               "Will it never break?" thought Coronado, smoking a little faster than usual, but
                  not moving a muscle.
               Yes. It had already broken. At the first pause in the paddling the mangled lariat
                  had given way.
               In spite of the renewed efforts of the oarsmen, the boat was flying down the San
                  Juan.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               WHEN Thurstane perceived that the towline had parted and that the boat was gliding
                  down the San Juan, he called sharply, "Paddle!"
               He was in no alarm as yet. The line, although of rawhide, was switching on the
                  surface of the rapid current; it seemed easy enough to recover it and make a new
                  fastening. Passing from the stern to the bow, he knelt down and dipped one hand in
                  the water, ready to clutch the end of the lariat.
               But a boat five feet long and twelve feet broad, especially when made of canvas on
                  a frame of light sticks, is not handily paddled against swift water; and the
                  Buchanan (as the voyagers afterward named it) not only sagged awkwardly, but
                  showed a strong tendency to whirl around like an egg-shell as it was. Moreover,
                  the loose line almost instantly took the direction of the stream, and swept so
                  rapidly shoreward that by the time Thurstane was in position to seize it, it was
                  rods away.
               "Row for the bank," he ordered. But just as he spoke there came a little noise
                  which was to these three men the crack of doom. The paddle of that most unskilful
                  navigator, Sweeny, snapped in two, and the broad blade of it was instantly out of
                  reach. Next the cockle-shell of a boat was spinning on its keel-less bottom, and
                  whirling broadside on, bow foremost, stern foremost, any way, down the San
                  Juan.
               'Paddle away!" shouted Thurstane to Glover. "Drive her in shore! Pitch her
                  in!"
               The old coaster sent a quick, anxious look down the river, and saw at once that
                  there was no chance of reaching the bank. Below them, not three hundred yards
                  distant, was an archipelago of rocks, the débris
                  of fallen precipices and pinnacles, through which, for half a mile or more, the
                  water flew in whirlpools and foam. They were drifting at great speed toward this
                  frightful rapid, and, if they entered it, destruction was sure and instant. Only
                  the middle of the stream showed a smooth current; and there was less than half a
                  minute in which to reach it. Without a word Glover commenced paddling as well as
                  he could away from the bank.
               "What are you about?" yelled Thurstane, who saw Clara on the roof of the Casa
                  Grande, and was crazed at the thought of leaving her there. She would suspect that
                  he had abandoned her; she would be massacred by the Apaches; she would starve in
                  the desert, etc.
               Glover made no reply. His whole being was engaged in the struggle of evading
                  immediate death.
               One more glance, one moment of manly, soldierly reflection, enabled Thurstane to
                  comprehend the fate which was upon him, and to bow to it with resignation. Turning
                  his back upon the foaming reefs which might the next instant be his executioners,
                  he stood up in the boat, took off his cap, and waved a farewell to Clara. He was
                  so unconscious of anything but her and his parting from her that for some time he
                  did not notice that the slight craft had narrowly shaved the rocks, that it had
                  barely crawled into the middle current, and that he was temporarily safe. He kept
                  his eyes fixed upon the Casa and upon the girl's motionless tionless figure until a monstrous, sullen precipice
                  slid in between. He was like one who breathes his last with straining gaze settled
                  on some loved face, parting from which is worse than death. When he could see her
                  no longer, nor the ruin which sheltered her, and which suddenly seemed to him a
                  paradise, he dropped his head between his hands, utterly unmanned.
               "'Twon't dew to give it up while we float, Major," said Glover, breveting the
                  lieutenant by way of cheering him.
               "I don't give it up," replied Thurstane; "but I had a duty to do there, and now I
                  can't do it."
               "There's dooties to be 'tended to here, I reckon," suggested Glover.
               "They will be done," said the officer, raising his head and settling his face.
                  "How can we help you?"
               "Don't seem to need much help. The river doos the paddlin'; wish it' didn't. No
                  'casion to send anybody aloft. I'll take a seat in the stern 'n' mind the helium.
                  Guess that's all they is to be done."
               "You dum paddywhack," he presently reopened, "what d'ye break yer paddle for?"
               "I didn't break it," yapped Sweeny indignantly. "It broke itself."
               "Well, what d'ye say y' could paddle for, when y' couldn't?"
               "I can paddle. I paddled as long as I had anythin' but a sthick."
               "Oh, you dum landlubber!" smirked Glover. "What if I should order ye to the
                  masthead?"
               "I wouldn't go," asseverated Sweeny. "I'll moind no man who isn't me suparior
                  officer. I've moindin' enough to do in the arrmy. I wouldn't go onless the
                  liftinint towld me. Thin I'd go."
               "Guess y' wouldn't now."
               "Yis I wud."
               "But they an't no mast."
               "I mane if there was one."
               This kind of babble Glover kept up for some minutes, with the sole object of
                  amusing and cheering Thurstane, whose extreme depression surprised and alarmed
                  him. He knew that the situation was bad, and that it would take lots of pluck to
                  bring them through it.
               "Capm, where d'ye think we're bound?" he presently inquired. "Whereabouts doos
                  this river come out?"
               "It runs into the Colorado of the West, and that runs into the head of the Gulf of
                  California."
               "Californy! Reckon I'll git to the diggins quicker 'n I expected. Goin' at this
                  rate, we'll make about a hundred 'n' twenty knots a day. What's the distance to
                  Californy?"
               "By the bends of the river it can't be less than twelve hundred miles to the
                  gulf."
               "Whew!" went Glover. "Ten days' sailin'. Wal, smooth water all the way?"
               "The San Juan has never been navigated. So far as I know, we are the first persons
                  who ever launched a boat on it."
               "Whew! Why, it's like discoverin' Ameriky. Wal, what d'ye guess about the water?
                  Any chance 'f its bein' smooth clear through?"
               "The descent to the gulf must be two or three thousand feet, perhaps more. We can
                  hardly fail to find rapids. I shouldn't be astonished by a cataract."
               Glover gave a long whistle and fell into grave meditation. His conclusion was:
                  "Can t navigate nights, that's a fact. Have to come to anchor. That makes twenty
                  days on't. Wal, Capm, fust thing is to fish up a bit 'f driftwood 'n' whittle out
                  'nother paddle. Want a boat-pole, too, like thunder. We're awful short 'f spars
                  for a long voyage."
               His lively mind had hardly dismissed this subject before he remarked: "Dum cur'ous
                  that towline breaking. I overhauled every foot on't. I'd a bet my bottom fo'pence
                  on its drawin' ten ton. Haul in the slack end 'n' let's hev a peek at it."
               The tip of the lariat, which was still attached to the boat, being handed to him,
                  he examined it minutely, closed his eyes, whistled, and ejaculated, "Sawed!"
               "What?" asked Thurstane.
               "Sawed," repeated Glover. "That leather was haggled in tew with a jagged knife or
                  a sharp flint or suthin 'f that sort. Done a purpose, 's sure 's I'm a
                  sinner."
               Thurstane took the lariat, inspected the breakage carefully, and scowled with
                  helpless rage.
               "That infernal Texan!" he muttered.
               "Sho!" said Glover. "That feller? Anythin' agin ye? Wal, Capm, then all I've got
                  to say is, you come off easy. That feller 'd cut a sleepin' man's throat. I sh'd
                  say thank God for the riddance. Tell ye I've watched that cuss. Been blastedly
                  afeard 'f him. Hev so, by George! The further I git from him the safer I
                  feel."
               "Not a nice man to leave there," muttered Thurstane, whose anxiety
                  was precisely not for himself, but for Clara. The young fellow could not be got to
                  talk much; he was a good deal upset by his calamity. The parting from Clara was an
                  awful blow; the thought of her dangers made him feel as if he could jump
                  overboard; and, lurking deep in his soul, there was an ugly fear that Coronado
                  might now win her. He was furious moreover at having been tricked, and meditated
                  bedlamite plans of vengeance. For a time he stared more at the mangled lariat than
                  at the amazing scenery through which he was gliding.
               And yet that scenery, although only a prelude, only an overture to the
                  transcendent oratorios of landscape which were to follow, was in itself a horribly
                  sublime creation. Not twenty minutes after the snapping of the towline4 the boat
                  had entered one of those stupendous cañons which form the distinguishing
                  characteristic of the great American table-land, and make it a region unlike any
                  other in the world.
               Remember that the cañon is a groove chiselled out of rock by a river. Although a
                  groove, it is never straight for long distances. The river at its birth was
                  necessarily guided by the hollows of the primal plateau; moreover, it was tempted
                  to labor along the softest surfaces. Thus the cañon is a sinuous gully, cut down
                  from the hollows of rocky valleys, and following their courses of descent from
                  mountain-chain toward ocean.
               In these channels the waters have chafed, ground, abraded, eroded for centuries
                  which man cannot number. Like the Afreets of the Arabian Nights, they have been
                  mighty slaves, subject to a far mightier master. That potent magician whose lair
                  is in the centre of the earth, and whom men have vaguely styled the attraction of
                  gravitation, has summoned them incessantly toward himself, In their struggle to
                  render him obedience, they have accomplished results which make all the works of
                  man insignificant by comparison.
               To begin with, vast lakes, which once swept westward from the bases of the Rocky
                  Mountains, were emptied into the Pacific. Next the draining currents transformed into rivers, cut their way
                  through the soil which formerly covered the table-lands and commenced their
                  attrition upon the underlying continent of sandstone. It was a grinding which
                  never ceased; every pebble and every bowlder which lay in the way was pressed into
                  the endless labor; mountains were used up in channelling mountains.
               The central magician was insatiable and pitiless; he demanded not only the waters,
                  but whatever they could bring; he hungered after the earth and all that covered
                  it. His obedient Afreets toiled on, denuding the plateaux of their soil, washing
                  it away from every slope and peak, pouring it year by year into the cañons, and
                  whirling it on to the ocean. The rivers, the brooklets, the springs, and the rains
                  all joined in this eternal robbery. Little by little an eighth of a continent was
                  stripped of its loam, its forests, its grasses, its flowers, its vegetation of
                  every species, What had been a land of fertility became an arid and rocky
                  desert.
               Then the minor Afreets perished of the results of their own obedience. There being
                  no soil, the fountains disappeared; there being no evaporation, the rains
                  diminished. Deprived of sustenance, nearly all the shorter streams dried up, and
                  the channels which they had hewn became arid gullies. Only those rivers continued
                  to exist which drew their waters from the snowy slopes of the Rocky Mountains or
                  from the spurs and ranges which intersect the plateaux. The ages may come when
                  these also will cease to flow, and throughout all this portion of the continent
                  the central magician will call for his Afreets in vain.
               For some time we must attend much to the scenery of the desert thus created. It
                  has become one of the individuals of our story, and interferes with the fate of
                  the merely human personages. Thurstane could not long ignore its magnificent,
                  oppressive, and potent presence. Forgetting somewhat his anxieties about the loved
                  one whom he had left behind, he looked about him with some such amazement as if he
                  had been translated from earth into regions of super-nature.
               The cañon through which he was flying was a groove cut in solid sandstone, less
                  than two hundred feet wide, with precipitous walls of fifteen hundred feet, from
                  the summit of which the rock sloped away into buttes and peaks a thousand feet
                  higher. On every side the horizon was half a mile above his head. He was in a
                  chasm, twenty-five hundred feet below the average surface of the earth, the floor
                  of which was a swift river.
               He seemed to himself to be traversing the abodes of the Genii. Although lie had
                  only heard of "Vathek," he thought of the Hall of Eblis. It was such an abyss as
                  no artist has ever hinted, excepting Doré in his picturings of Dante's "Inferno."
                  Could Dante himself have looked into it, he would have peopled it with the most
                  hopeless of his lost spirits. The shadow, the aridity, the barrenness, the
                  solemnity, the pitilessness, the horrid cruelty of the scene, were more than might
                  be received into the soul. It was something which could not be imagined, and which
                  when seen could not be fully remembered. To gaze on it was like beholding the
                  mysterious, wicked countenance of the father of all evil. It was a landscape which
                  was a fiend.
               The precipices were not bare and plain faces of rock, destitute of minor finish
                  and of color. They had their horrible decorations; they showed the ingenuity and
                  the artistic force of the Afreets who had fashioned them; they were wrought and
                  tinted with a demoniac splendor suited to their magnitude. It seemed as if some
                  goblin Michel Angelo had here done his carving and frescoing at the command of the
                  lords of hell. Layers of brown, gray, and orange sandstone, alternated from base
                  to summit; and these tints were laid on with a breadth of effect which was
                  prodigious; a hundred feet hi height and miles in length at a stroke of the
                  brush.
               The architectural and sculptural results were equally monstrous. There were
                  lateral shelves twenty feet in width, and thousands of yards in length. There were
                  towers, pilasters, and formless caryatides, a quarter of a mile in height. Great
                  bulks projected, capped by gigantic mitres or diadems, and flanked by cavernous
                  indentations. In consequence of the varying solidity of the stone, the river had
                  wrought the precipices into a series of innumerable monuments, more or less
                  enormous, commemorative of combats. There had been interminable strife here
                  between the demons of earth and the demons of water, and each side had set up its
                  trophies. It was the Vatican and the Catacombs of the Genii; it was the museum and
                  the mausoleum of the forces of nature.
               At various points tributary gorges, the graves of fluvial gods who had perished
                  long ago, opened into the main cañon. In passing these the voyagers had momentary
                  glimpses of sublimities and horrors which seemed like the handiwork of that
                  "anarch old," who wrought before the shaping of the universe. One of these
                  sarcophagi was a narrow cleft, not more than eighty feet broad, cut from surface
                  to base of a bed of sandstone one-third of a mile in depth. It was inhabited by an
                  eternal gloom which was like the shadow of the blackness of darkness. The
                  stillness, the absence of all life whether animal or vegetable, the dungeon-like
                  closeness of the monstrous walls, were beyond language.
               Another, gorge was a ruin. The rock here being of various degrees of density, the
                  waters had essayed a thousand channels. All the softer veins had been scooped out
                  and washed away, leaving the harder blocks and masses piled in a colossal
                  grotesque confusion. Along the sloping sides of the gap stood bowlders, pillars,
                  needles, and strange shapes of stone, peering over each other's heads into the
                  gulf below. It was as if an army of misshapen monsters and giants had been
                  petrified with horror, while staring at some inconceivable desolation and ruin.
                  There was no hope for this concrete despair; no imaginable voice could utter for
                  it a word of consolation; the gazer, like Dante amid the tormented, could only
                  "look and pass on."
               At one point two lateral cañons opened side by side upon the San Juan. The
                  partition was a stupendous pile of rock fifteen hundred feet in altitude, but so
                  narrow that it seemed to the voyagers below like the single standing wall of some
                  ruined edifice. Although the space on its summit was broad enough for a cathedral,
                  it did not appear to them that it would afford footing to a man, while the
                  enclosing fissures looked narrow enough to be crossed at a bound. On either side
                  of this isolated bar of sandstone a plumb-line might have been dropped straight to
                  the level of the river. The two chasms were tombs of shadow, where nothing ever
                  stirred but winds.
               The solitude of this continuous panorama of precipices was remarkable. It was a
                  region without man, or beast, or bird, or insect The endless rocks, not only
                  denuded, but eroded and scraped by the action of bygone waters; could furnish no
                  support for animal life. A beast of prey, or even a mountain goat, would have
                  starved here. Could a condor of the Andes have visited it, he would have spread
                  his wings at once to leave it.
               Yet horrible as the scene was, it was so sublime that it fascinated. For hours,
                  gazing at lofty masses, vast outlines, prodigious assemblages of rocky imagery,
                  endless strokes of natural frescoing, the three adventurers either exchanged changed rare words of astonishment, or
                  lay in reveries which transported them beyond earth. What Thurstane felt he could
                  only express by recalling random lines of the "Paradise Lost." It seemed to him as
                  if they might at any moment emerge upon the lake of burning marl, and float into
                  the shadow of the walls of Pandemonium. He would not have felt himself carried
                  much beyond his present circumstances, had he suddenly beheld Satan, 
                     
                        High on a throne of royal state, which far
                        Outshone the wealth of Ormus and of Ind.
                     
                  
               
               He was roused from his dreams by the quick, dry, grasshopper-like voice of Phineas
                  Glover, asking, "What's that?"
               A deep whisper came up the chasm. They could hardly distinguish it when they
                  stretched their hearing to the utmost. It seemed to steal with difficulty against
                  the rushing flood, and then to be swept down again. It sighed threateningly for a
                  moment, and instantaneously became silence. One might liken it to a ghost trying
                  to advance through some castle hall, only to be borne backward by the fitful
                  night-breeze, or by some mysterious ban. Was the desert inhabited, and by
                  disembodied demons?
               After a further flight of half a mile, this variable sigh changed to a continuous
                  murmur. There was now before the voyagers a straight course of nearly two miles,
                  at the end of which lay hid the unseen power which gave forth this solemn menace.
                  The river, perfectly clear of rocks, was a sheet of liquid porphyry, an arrow of
                  dark-red water slightly flecked with foam. The walls of the cañon, scarcely fifty
                  yards apart and more stupendous than ever, rose in precipices without a
                  landing-place or a foothold. So far as eye could pierce into the twilight of the
                  sublime chasm, there was not a spot where the boat could be arrested in its
                  flight, or where a swimmer could find a shelf of safety.
               "It is a rapid," said Thurstane. "You did well, Captain Glover, to get another
                  paddle."
               "Lord bless ye!" returned the skipper impatiently, "it's lucky I was. whittlin'
                  while you was thinkin'. If we on'y had a boat-hook!"
               From moment to moment the murmur came nearer and grew louder. It was smothered and
                  then redoubled by the reverberations of the cañon, so that sometimes it seemed the
                  tigerish snarl of a rapid, and sometimes the leonine roar of a cataract. A bend of
                  the chasm at last brought the voyagers in sight of the monster, which was frothing
                  and howling to devour them. It was a terrific spectacle. It was like Apollyon
                  "straddling quite across the way." to intercept Christian in the Valley of the
                  Shadow of Death. 'From one dizzy rampart to the other, and as far down the echoing
                  cavern as eye could reach, the river was white with an arrowy rapid storming
                  though a labyrinth of rocks.
               Sweeny, evidently praying, moved his lips in silence. Glover's face had the keen,
                  anxious, watchful look of the sailor affronting shipwreck; and Thurstane's the
                  set, enduring rigidity of the soldier who is tried to his utmost by cannonade.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE three adventurers were entering the gorge of an impassable rapid.
               Here had once been the barrier of a cataract; the waters had ground through it,
                  tumbled it down, and gnawed it to tatters; the scattered bowlders which showed
                  through the foam were the remnants of the Cyclopean feast.
               There appeared to be no escape from death. Any one of those stones would rend the
                  canvas boat from end to end, or double it into a wet rag; and if a swimmer should
                  perchance reach the bank, he would drown there, looking up at precipices; or, if
                  he should find a footing, it would only be to starve.
               "There is our chance," said Thurstane, pointing to a bowlder as large as a house
                  which stood under the northern wall of the cañon, about a quarter of a mile above
                  the first yeast of the rapid.
               He and Glover each took a paddle. They had but one object: it was to get under the
                  lee of the bowlder, and so stop their descent; after that they would see what more
                  could be clone. Danger and safety were alike swift here; it was a hurry as of
                  battle or tempest. Almost before they began to hope for success, they were
                  circling in the narrow eddy, very nearly a whirlpool, which wheeled just below the
                  isolated rock. Even here the utmost caution was necessary, for while the Buchanan
                  was as light as a bubble, it was also as fragile.
               Sounding the muddy water with their paddles, they slowly glided into the angle
                  between the bowlder and the precipice, and jammed the fragment of the towline in a
                  crevice. For the first time in six hours, and in a run of thirty miles, they were
                  at rest. Wiping the sweat of labor and anxiety from their brows, they looked about
                  them, at first in silence, querying what next?
               "I wish I was on an iceberg," said Glover in his despair.
               "An' I wish I was in Oirland," added Sweeny. "But if the divil himself was to want
                  to desart here, he couldn't."
               Thurstane believed that he had seen Clara for the last time, even should she
                  escape her own perils. Through his field-glass he surveyed the whole gloomy scene
                  with microscopic attention, searching for an exit out of this monstrous man-trap,
                  and searching in vain. It was as impossible to descend the rapid as it was to
                  scale the walls of the cañon. He had just heard Sweeny say, "I wish I was bein'
                  murthered by thim naygurs," and had smiled at the utterance of desperation with a
                  grim sympathy, when a faint hope dawned upon him.
               Not more than a yard above the water was a ledge or shelf in the face of the
                  precipice. The layer of sandstone immediately over this shelf was evidently softer
                  than the general mass; and in other days (centuries ago), when it had formed one
                  level with the bed of the river, it had been deeply eroded. This erosion had been
                  carried along the cañon on an even line of altitude as far as the softer layer
                  extended, Thurstane could trace it with his glass for what seemed to him a mile,
                  and there was of course a possibility that it reached below the foot of the rapid.
                  The groove was everywhere about twenty feet high, while its breadth varied from a
                  yard or so to nearly a rod.
               Here, then, was a road by which they might perhaps turn the obstacle. The only
                  difficulty was that while the bed of the river descended rapidly, the shelf kept
                  on at the same elevation, so that eventually the travellers would come to a
                  jumping-off place. How high would it be? Could they get down it so as to regain
                  the stream and resume their navigation? Well, they must try it; there was no other
                  road. With one eloquent wave of his hand Thurstane pointed out this slender chance
                  of escape to his comrades.
               "Hurray!" shouted Glover, after a long stare, in which the emotions succeeded each
                  other like colors in a dolphin.
               "Can we make the jump at the other end?" asked the lieutenant.
               "Reckon so," chirruped Glover. "Look a here."
               He exhibited a pile of unpleasant-looking master which proved to be a mass of
                  strips of fresh hide.
               "Hoss skin," he explained. "Peeled off a mustang. Borrowed it from that Texan
                  cuss. Thought likely we might want to splice our towline. 'Bout ten fathom, I reckon; 'n' there's the lariat, two
                  fathom more. All we've got to dc is to pack up, stick our backs under, 'n'
                  travel.
               It was three o'clock in the afternoon when they commenced their preparations for
                  making this extraordinary portage. Sunk as they were twenty-five hundred feet in
                  the bowels of the earth, the sun had already set for them; but they were still
                  favored with a sort of twilight radiance, and they could count upon it for. a
                  couple of hours longer. Carefully the guns, paddles, and stores were landed on the
                  marvellous causeway; and then, with still greater caution, the boat was lifted to
                  the, same support and taken to pieces. The whole mass of material, some two
                  hundred pounds in weight, was divided into three portions, Each shouldered his
                  pack, and the strange journey commenced.
               "Sweeny, don't you fall off," said Glover. "We can't spare them sticks."
               "If I fall off, ye may shute me where I stand," returned Sweeny. "I know better 'n
                  to get drowned and starved to death in wan. I can take care av meself. I've sailed
                  this a way many a time in th' ould counthry."
               The road was a smooth and easy one, barring a few cumbering bowlders. To the left
                  and below was the river, roaring, hissing, and foaming through its chevaux de frise of rocks. In front the cañon
                  stretched on and on until its walls grew dim with shadow and distance. Above were
                  overhanging precipices and a blue streak of sunlit sky.
               It was quite dusk with the wanderers before they reached a point where the San
                  Juan once more flowed with an undisturbed current.
               "We can't launch by this light," said Thurstane. "We will sleep here,"
               "It'll be a longish night," commented Glover. "But don't see's we can shorten it
                  by growlin'. When fellahs travel in the bowels 'f th' earth, they've got to follow
                  the customs 'f th' country. Puts me in mind of Jonah in the whale's belly. Putty
                  short tacks, Capm. Nine hours a day won't git us along any too fast. But can't
                  help it. Night travellin' ain't suited to our boat. Suthin' like a bladder
                  football: one pin-prick 'd cowallapse it. Wal, so we'll settle. Lucky we wanted
                  our blankets to set on. 'Pears to me this rock's a beetle harder'n a common deck
                  plank. Unroll the boat, Capm? Wal, guess we'd better. Needs dryin' a speck. Too
                  much soakin' an't good for canvas. Better dry it out, 'n' fold it up, 'n' sleep
                  on't. This passageway that we're in, sh'd say it might git up a smart draught.
                  What d'ye say to this spot for campin'? Twenty foot breadth of beam here. Kind of
                  a stateroom, or bridal chamber. No need of fallin' out. Ever walk in yer sleep,
                  Sweeny? Better cut it right square off to-night. Five fathom down to the river,
                  sh'd say. Splash ye awfully, Sweeny,"
               Thus did Captain Glover prattle in his cheerful way while the party made its
                  preparations for the night.
               They were like ants lodged in some transverse crack of a lofty wall. They were in
                  a deep cut of the shelf, with fifteen hundred or two thousand feet of sandstone
                  above, and the porphyry-colored river thirty feet below. The narrow strip of sky
                  far above their heads was darkening rapidly with the approach of night, and with
                  an accumulation of clouds. All of a sudden there was a descent of muddy water,
                  charged with particles of red earth and powdered sandstone, pouring by them down
                  the overhanging precipice.
               "Liftinant!" exclaimed Sweeny, "thim naygurs up there is washin' their dirty hides
                  an' pourin' the suds down on us."
               "It's the rain, Sweeny. There's a shower on the plateau above."
               "The rain, is it? Thin all nate people in that counthry must stand in great nade
                  of ombrellys."
               The scene was more marvellous than ever. Not a drop of rain fell in the river; the
                  immense façade opposite them was as dry as a skull; yet here was this muddy
                  cataract. It fell for half an hour, scarcely so much as spattering them in their
                  recess, Hut plunging over them into the torrent beneath. By the time it ceased
                  they had eaten their supper of hard bread and harder beef, and lighted their pipes
                  to allay their thirst. There was a laying of plans to regain the river to-morrow,
                  a grave calculation as to how long their provisions would last, and in general
                  much talk about their chances.
               "Not a shine of a lookout for gittin' back to the Casa?" queried Captain Glover.
                  "Knowed it," he added, when the lieutenant sadly shook his head. "Fool for talkin'
                  'bout it. How 'bout reachin' the trail to the Moqui country?"
               "I have been thinking of it all day," said Thurstane. "We must give it up. Every
                  one of the branch cañons on the other bank trends wrong. We couldn't cross them;
                  we should have to follow them; it's an impassable hell of a country. We might by
                  bare chance reach the Moqui pueblos; but the probability is that we should die in
                  the desert of thirst. We shall have to run the river. Perhaps we shall have to run
                  the Colorado too. If so, we had better keep on to Diamond creek, and from there
                  push by land to Cactus Pass. Cactus Pass is on the trail, and we may meet
                  emigrants there, I don't know what better to suggest."
               "Dessay it's a tiptop idee," assented Glover cheeringly. "Anyhow, if we take on
                  down the river, it seems like follyin' the guidings of Providence."
               In spite of their strange situation and doubtful prospects, the three adventurers
                  slept early and soundly. When they awoke it was daybreak, and after chewing the
                  hardest, dryest, and rawest of breakfasts, they began their preparations to reach
                  the river. To effect this, it was necessary to find a cleft in the ledge where
                  they could fasten a cord securely, and below it a footing at the water's edge
                  where they could put their boat together and launch it. It would not do to go far
                  down the cañon, for the bed of the stream descended while the shelf retained its
                  level, and the distance between them was already sufficiently alarming. After an
                  anxious search they discovered a bowlder lying in the river beneath the shelf,
                  with a flat surface perfectly suited to their purpose. There, too, was a cleft,
                  but a miserably small one.
               "We can't jam a cord in that," said Glover; "nor the handle of a paddle
                  nuther."
               "It 'll howld me bagonet," suggested Sweeny.
               "It can be made to hold it," decided Thurstane. "We must drill away till it does
                  hold it."
               An hour's labor enabled them to insert the bayonet to the handle and wedge it with
                  spikes split off from the precious wood of the paddles. When it seemed firm enough
                  to support a strong lateral pressure, Glover knotted on to it, in his deft sailor
                  fashion, a strip of the horse hide, and added others to that until he had a cord
                  of some forty feet. After testing every inch and every knot, he said: "Who starts
                  first?"
               "I will try it," answered Thurstane.
               "Lightest first, I reckon," observed Glover.
               Sweeny looked at the precipice, skipped about the shelf uneasily, made a struggle
                  with his fears, and asked, "Will ye let me down aisy?"
               "Jest 's easy 's rollin' off a log."
               
               "That's aisy enough. It's the lightin' that's har-rd. If it comes to rowlin' down.
                  I'll let ye have the first rowl. I've no moind to git ahead of me betthers."
               "Try it, my lad," said Thurstane. "The real danger comes with the last man. He
                  will have to trust to the bayonet alone."
               "An' what'll I do whin I get down there?"
               "Take the traps off the cord as we send them down, and pile them on the rock."
               "I'm off," said Sweeny, after one more look into the chasm. While the others held
                  the cord to keep the strain from coming on the bayonet, he gripped it with both
                  hands, edged stern foremost over the precipice, and slipped rapidly to the
                  bowlder, whence he sent up a hoot of exultation. The cord was drawn back; the boat
                  was made up in two bundles, which were lowered in succession; then the provisions,
                  paddles, arms, etc. Now came the question whether Thurstane or Glover should
                  remain last on the ledge.
               "Lightest last," said the lean skipper. "Stands to reason."
               "It's my duty to take the hot end of the poker," replied the officer.
               "Loser goes first," said Glover, producing a copper. "Heads or tails?"
               "Heads," guessed Thurstane.
               "It's a tail. Catch hold, Capm. Slow 'n' easy till you get over."
               The cord holding firm, Thurstane reached the bowlder, and was presently joined by
                  Glover.
               "Liftinant, I want me bagonet," cried Sweeny. "Will I go up afther it?"
               "How the dickens 'd you git down again?" asked Glover. "Guess you'll have to leave
                  your bayonet where it sticks. But, Capm, we want that line. Can't you shute it
                  away, clost by th' edge?"
               The third shot was a lucky one, and brought down the precious cord. Then came the
                  work of putting the boat into shape, launching it, getting in the stores, and
                  lastly the voyagers.
               "Tight's a drum yit," observed Glover, surveying the coracle admiringly. "Fust
                  time I ever sailed on canvas. Great notion. Don't draw more'n three
                  inches. Might sail acrost country with it. Capm, it's the only boat ever invented
                  that could git down this blasted river."
               Glover and Sweeny, two of the most talkative creatures on earth, chattered much to
                  each other. Thurstane sometimes listened to them, sometimes lost himself in
                  reveries about Clara, sometimes surveyed the scenery of the cañon.
               The abyss was always the same, yet with colossal variety: here and there yawnings
                  of veined precipices, followed by cavernous closings of the awful sides; breakings
                  in of subsidiary cañons, some narrow clefts, and others gaping shattered mouths;
                  the walls now presenting long lines of rampart, and now a succession of peaks. But
                  still, although they had now traversed the chasm for seventy or eighty miles, they
                  found no close and no declension to its solemn grandeur.
               At last came another menace, a murmur deeper and hoarser than that of the rapid,
                  steadily swelling as they advanced until it was a continuous thunder. This time
                  there could be no doubt that they were entering upon a scene of yet undecided
                  battle between the eternal assault of the river and the immemorial resistance of
                  the mountains.
               The quickening speed of the waters, and the ceaseless bellow of their charging
                  trumpets as they tore into some yet unseen abyss, announced one of those struggles
                  of nature in which man must be a spectator or a victim.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               AS Thurstane approached the cataract of the San Juan he thought of the rapids
                  above Niagara, and of the men who had been whirled down them, foreseeing their
                  fate and struggling against it, but unable to escape it.
               "We must keep near one wall or the other," he said. "The middle of the river is
                  sure death."
               Paddling to ward, the northern bank, simply because it had saved them in their
                  former peril, they floated like a leaf in the shadows of the precipices, watching
                  for some footway by which to turn the lair of the monster ahead.
               The scenery here did not consist exclusively of two lofty ramparts fronting each
                  other. Before the river had established its present channel it had tried the
                  strength of the plateau in various directions, slashing the upper strata into a
                  succession of cañons, which were now lofty and arid gullies, divided from each
                  other by every conceivable form of rocky ruin. Rotundas, amphitheatres,
                  castellated walls, cathedrals of unparalleled immensity, façades of palaces huge
                  enough to be the abodes of the principalities and powers of the air,
                  far-stretching semblances of cities tottering to destruction, all fashions of
                  domes, towers, minarets, spires, and obelisks, with a population of misshapen
                  demons and monsters, looked clown from sublime heights upon the voyagers. At every
                  turn in the river the panorama changed, and they beheld new marvels of this
                  Titanic architecture. There was no end to the gigantic and grotesque variety of
                  the commingling outlines. The vastness, the loneliness, the stillness, the
                  twilight sombreness, were awful. And through all reverberated incessantly the
                  defiant clarion of the cataract.
               The day was drawing to that early death which it has always had and must always
                  have in these abysses. Knowing how suddenly darkness would fall, and not daring to
                  attempt the unknown without light, the travellers looked for a mooring spot. There
                  was a grim abutment at least eighteen hundred feet high; at its base two rocks,
                  which had tumbled ages ago from the summit, formed a rude breakwater; and on this
                  barrier had collected a bed of coarse pebbles, strewn with driftwood. Here they
                  stopped their flight, unloaded the boat and beached it. The drift-wood furnished
                  them a softer bed than usual, and materials for a fire.
               Night supervened with the suddenness of a death which has been looked for, but
                  which is at last a surprise. Shadow after shadow crept down the walls of the
                  chasm, blurred its projections, darkened its faces, and, crowded its recesses. The
                  line of sky, seen through the jagged and sinuous opening above, changed slowly to
                  gloom and then to blackness. There was no light in this rocky intestine of the
                  earth except the red flicker of the camp-fire. It fought feebly with the powers of
                  darkness; it sent tremulous despairing flashes athwart the swift ebony river; it
                  reached out with momentary gleams to the nearer façades of precipice; it reeled,
                  drooped, and shuddered as if in hopeless horror. Probably, since the world began,
                  no other fire lighted by man had struggled against the gloom of this tremendous
                  amphitheatre. The darknesses were astonished at it, but they were also
                  uncomprehending and hostile. They refused to be dissipated, and they were
                  victorious.
               After two hours a change came upon the scene; The moon rose, filled the upper air
                  with its radiance, and bathed in silver the slopes of the mountains, The narrow
                  belt of visible sky resembled a milky way. The light continued to descend and work miracles. Isolated turrets, domes,
                  and pinnacles came out in gleaming relief against the dark-blue background of the
                  heavens. The opposite crest of the cañon shone with a broad illumination. All the
                  uncouth demons and monsters of the rocks awoke, glaring and blinking, to menace
                  the voyagers in the depths below." The contrast between this supereminent
                  brilliancy and the sullen obscurity of the subterranean river made the latter
                  seem, more than ever like Styx or Acheron.
               The travellers were awakened in the morning by the trumpeting of the cataract.
                  They embarked and dropped down the stream, hugging the northern rampart and
                  watching anxiously. Presently there was a clear sweep of a mile; the clamor now
                  came straight up to them with redoubled vehemence; a ghost of spray arose and
                  waved threateningly, as if forbidding further passage. It was the roar and smoke
                  of an artillery which had thundered for ages, and would thunder for ages to come.
                  It was a voice and signal which summoned reinforcements of waters, and in
                  obedience to which the waters charged eternally.
               The boat had shudders. Every spasm jerked it onward a little faster. It flew with
                  a tremulous speed which was terrible. Thurstane, a good soldier, able to obey as
                  well as to direct, knowing that if Glover could not steer wisely no one could,
                  sat, paddle in hand, awaiting orders. Sweeny fidgeted, looked from one to another,
                  looked at the mist ahead, cringed, wanted to speak, and said nothing. Glover,
                  working hard with his paddle, and just barely keeping the coracle bows on, peered
                  and grinned as if he were facing a hurricane. There was no time to have a care for
                  sunken bowlders, reaching up to rend the thin bottom. The one giant danger of the
                  cataract was enough to fill the mind and bar out every minor terror. Its deafening
                  threats demanded the whole of the imagination. Compared with the probability of
                  plunging down an unknown depth into a boiling hell of waters, all other peril
                  seemed too trifling to attract notice. Such a fate is an enhancement of the
                  horrors of death.
               "Liftinant, let's go over with a whoop," called Sweeny. "It's much aisier."
               "Keep quiet, my lad," replied the officer. "We must hear orders."
               "All right, Liftinant," said Sweeny, relieved by having spoken.
               At this moment Glover shouted cheerfully, "We ain't dead yit. There's a
                  ledge."
               "I see it," nodded Thurstane.
               "Where there's a ledge there's an eddy," screamed Glover, raising his voice to
                  pierce the hiss of the rapid and the roar of the cascade.
               Below them, jutting out from the precipitous northern bank, was a low bar of rock
                  over which the river did not sweep. It was the remnant of a once lofty barrier;
                  the waters had, as it were, gnawed it to the bone, but they had not destroyed it.
                  In two minutes the voyagers were beside it, paddling with all their strength
                  against the eddy which whirled along its edge toward the cataract, and tossing
                  over the short, spiteful ripples raised by the sudden turn of the current. With a
                  "Hooroo!" Sweeny tumbled ashore, lariat in hand, and struck his army shoes into
                  the crevices of the shattered sandstone. In five minutes more the boat was
                  unloaded and lifted upon the ledge.
               The travellers did not go to look at the cataract; their immediate and urgent need
                  was to get by it. Making up their bundles as usual, they commenced a struggle with
                  the intricacies and obstacles of the portage. The eroded, disintegrated plateau
                  descended to the river in a huge confusion of ruin, and they had to pick their way
                  for miles through a labyrinth of cliffs, needles, towers, and bowlders. Reaching
                  the river once more, they found themselves upon a little plain of moderately
                  fertile earth, the first plain and the first earth which they had seen since
                  entering the cañon. The cataract was invisible; a rock cathedral several hundred
                  feet high hid it; they could scarcely discern its lofty ghost of spray.
               Two miles away, in the middle of the' plain, appeared a ruin of adobe walls,
                  guttered and fissured by the weather. It was undoubtedly a monument of that
                  partially civilized race, Aztec, Toltec, or Moqui, which centuries ago dotted the
                  American desert with cities, and passed away without leaving other record. With
                  his field-glass Thurstane discovered what he judged to be another similar
                  structure crowning a distant butte. They had no time to visit these remains, and
                  they resumed their voyage.
               After skirting the plain for several miles, they reëntered the cañon, drifted two
                  hours or more between its solemn wails, and then came out upon a wide sweep of
                  open country. The great cañon of the San Juan had been traversed nearly from end
                  to end in safety. When the adventurers realized their triumph they rose to their
                  feet and gave nine hurrahs.
               "It's loike a rich man comin' through the oye av a needle," observed Sweeny.
               "Only this haint much the air 'f the New Jerusalem," returned Glover, glancing at
                  the arid waste of buttes and ranges in the distance.
               "We oughter look up some huntin'," he continued. "Locker 'll begin to show bottom
                  before long. Sweeny, wouldn't you like to kill suthin?"
               "I'd like to kill a pig," said Sweeny.
               "Wal, guess we'll probably come acrost one. They's a kind of pigs in these
                  deestricks putty nigh's long 's this boat."
               "There ain't," returned Sweeny.
               "Call 'em grizzlies when they call 'em at all," pursued the sly Glover.
               "They may call 'em what they plaze if they won't call 'em as long as this
                  boat."
               Fortune so managed things, by way of carrying out Glover's joke, that a huge
                  grizzly just then showed himself on the bank, some two hundred yards below the
                  boat.
               After easily slaughtering one bear, the travellers had a far more interesting
                  season with another, who was allured to the scene by the smell of jerking meat,
                  and who gave them a very lively half hour of it, it being hard to say which was
                  the most hunted, the bruin or the humans.
               "Look a' that now!" groaned Sweeny, when the victory had been secured, "The baste
                  has chawed up me gun barrl loike it was a plug o' tobacky."
               "Throw it away," ordered Thurstane, after inspecting the twisted and lacerated
                  musket.
               Tenderly and tearfully Sweeny laid aside the first gun that he had ever carried,
                  went again and again to look at its mangled form as if it were a dead relative,
                  and in the end raised a little mausoleum of cobble-stones over it.
               "If there was any whiskey, I'd give um a wake," he sighed. "I'm a pratty soldier
                  now, without a gun to me back."
               "I'll let ye carry mine when we come to foot it," suggested Glover.
               "Yis, an' ye may carry me part av the boat," retorted Sweeny.
               The bear meat was tough and musky, but it could be eaten, must be eaten, and was
                  eaten. During the time required for jerking a quantity of it, Glover made a boat
                  out of the two hides, scraping them with a hunting knife, sewing them with a
                  sailor's needle and strands of the sounding-line, and stretching them on a frame of green saplings, the
                  result being a craft six feet long by nearly four broad, and about the shape of a
                  half walnut-shell. The long hair was left on, as a protection against the rocks of
                  the river, and the seams were filled and plastered with bear's grease.
               "It's a mighty bad-smellin' thing," remarked Sweeny. "An who's goin' to back it
                  over the portages?"
               "Robinson Crusoe!" exclaimed Glover. "I never thought of that, Wal, let's see. Oh,
                  we kin tow her astarn in plain sailin', 'n' when we come to a cataract we can put
                  Sweeny in an' let her slide."
               "No ye can't," said Sweeny. "It's big enough, an yet it won't howld um, no more'n
                  a tayspoon 'll howld a flay."
               "Wal, we kin let her slide without a crew, 'n' pick her up arterwards," decided
                  Glover.
               We must hasten over the minor events of this remarkable journey. The travellers,
                  towing the bearskin boat behind the Buchanan, passed the mouth of Cañon Bonito,
                  and soon afterward beheld the San Juan swallowed up in the Grand River, a far
                  larger stream which rises in the Rocky Mountains east of Utah. They swept by the
                  horrible country of the Utes and Payoches, without holding intercourse with its
                  squalid and savage inhabitants. Here and there, at the foot of some monstrous
                  precipice, in a profound recess surrounded by a frenzy of rocks, they saw hamlets
                  of a few miserable wigwams, with patches of starveling corn and beans. Sharp wild
                  cries, like the calls of malicious brownies, or the shrieks of condemned spirits,
                  were sent after them, without obtaining response.
               "They bees only naygurs," observed Sweeny. "Niver moind their blaggard ways."
               After the confluence with the Grand River came solitude. The land had been swept
                  and garnished: swept by the waters and garnished with horrors; a land of cañons,
                  plateaux, and ranges, all arid; a land of desolation and the shadow of death.
                  There was nothing on which man or beast could support life; nature's power of
                  renovation was for the time suspended, and seemed, extinct. It was a desert which
                  nothing could restore to fruitfulness except the slow mysterious forces of a
                  geologic revolution.
               Beyond the Sierra de Lanterna the Grand River was joined by the Green River,
                  streaming down through gullied plateaux from the deserts of Utah and the mountains
                  which tower between Oregon and Nebraska. Henceforward, still locked in Titanic
                  defiles or flanked by Cyclopean débris, they
                  were on the Colorado of the West.
               Thurstane meditated as to what course he should follow. Should he strike southward
                  by land for the Bernalillo trail, risking a march through a wide, rocky, lifeless,
                  and perhaps waterless wilderness? Or should he attempt to descend a river even
                  more terrible to navigate than the San Juan? It seemed to him that the hardships
                  and dangers of either plan were about the same.
               But the Colorado route would be the swiftest; the Colorado would take him quickest
                  to Clara. For he trusted that she had long before this got back to the Moqui
                  country and resumed her journey across the continent. He could not really fear
                  that any deadly harm would befall her. He had the firmness of a soldier and the
                  faith of a lover.
               At last, silently and solemnly, through a portal thousands of feet in height, the
                  voyagers glided into the perilous mystery of the Great Cañon of the Colorado, the
                  most sublime and terrible waterway of this planet.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               THURSTANE had strange emotions as he swept into the "caverns measureless to man"
                  of the. Great Cañon of the Colorado.
               It seemed like a push of destiny rather than a step of volition. An angel or a
                  demon impelled him into the unknown; a supernatural portal had opened to give him
                  passage; then it had closed behind him forever.
               The cañon, with all its two hundred and forty miles of marvels and perils,
                  presented itself to his imagination as a unity. The first step within it placed
                  him under an enchantment from which there was no escape until the whole circuit of
                  the spell should be completed. He was like Orlando in the magic garden, when the
                  gate vanished immediately upon his entrance, leaving hint no choice but to press
                  on from trial to trial. He was no more free to pause or turn back than Grecian
                  ghosts sailing down Acheron toward the throne of Radamanthus.
               Direct statement, and even the higher speech of simile, fail to describe the Great
                  Cañon and the emotion which it produces. Were its fronting precipices organs, with
                  their mountainous columns and pilasters for organ-pipes, they might produce a
                     de profundis worthy of the scene and of its
                  sentiments, its inspiration. This is not bombast; so far from exaggerating it does
                  not even attain to the subject; HO words can so much as outline the effects of
                  eighty leagues of mountain sculptured by a great river.
               Let us venture one comparison. Imagine a groove a foot broad and twenty feet deep,
                  with a runnel of water trickling at the bottom of it and a fleck of dust floating
                  down the rivulet. Now increase the dimensions until the groove is two hundred- and
                  fifty feet in breadth by five thousand feet in depth, and the speck a boat with
                  three voyagers. You have the Great Cañon of the Colorado and Thurstane and his
                  comrades seeking its issue.
               "Do you call this a counthry?" asked Sweeny, after an awe-stricken silence. "I'm
                  thinkin' we're gittin' outside av the worrld like."
               "An' I'm thinkin' we're gittin' too fur inside on't," muttered Glover. "Look's 's
                  though we might slip clean under afore long. Most low-spirited hole I ever rolled
                  into. 'Minds me 'f that last ditch people talk of dyin' in. Must say I'd rather be
                  in the trough 'f the sea."
               "An' what kind av a trough is that?" inquired Sweeny, inquisitive even in his
                  dumps.
               "It's the trough where they feed the niggers out to the sharks."
               "Faix, an? I'd loike to see it at feedin' time," answered Sweeny with a feeble
                  chuckle.
               Nature as it is is one image; nature as it appears is a thousand; or rather it is
                  infinite. Every soul is a mirror, reflecting what faces it; but the reflections,
                  differ as do the souls that give them. To the three men who now gazed on the Great
                  Cañon it was far from being the same object.
               Sweeny surveyed it as an old Greek or Roman might, with simple distaste and
                  horror. Glover, ignorant and limited as he was, received far more of its
                  inspiration. Even while "chirking up" his companions with trivial talk and
                     jests he was in his secret soul
                  thinking of Bunyan's Dark Valley and Milton's Hell, the two sublimest landscapes
                  that had ever been presented to his imagination. Thurstane, gifted with much of
                  the sympathy of the great Teutonic race for nature, was far more profoundly
                  affected. The overshadowing altitudes and majesties of the chasm moved him as
                  might oratorios or other solemn music. Frequently he forgot hardships, dangers,
                  isolation, the hard luck of the past, the ugly prospects of the future in reveries
                  which were a succession of such emotions as wonder, worship, and love.
               No doubt the scenery had the more power over him because, by gazing at it day
                  after day while his heart was full of Clara, he got into a way of animating it
                  with her. Far away as she was, and divided from him perhaps forever, she haunted
                  the cañon, transformed it and gave it grace. He could see her face everywhere; he
                  could see it even without shutting his eyes; it made the arrogant and malignant
                  cliffs seraphic. By the way, the vividness of his memory with regard to that fair,
                  sweet, girlish countenance was wonderful, only that such a memory, the memory of
                  the heart, is common. There was not one of her expressions which was not his
                  property. Each and all, he could call them up at will, making them pass before him
                  in heavenly procession, surrounding himself with angels. It was the power of the
                  ring which is given to the slaves of love.
               He had some vagaries (the vagaries of those who are subjugated by a strong and
                  permanent emotion) which approached insanity. For instance, he selected a gigantic
                  column of sandstone as bearing some resemblance to Clara, and so identified it
                  with her that presently he could see her face crowning it, though concealed by the
                  similitude of a rocky veil. This image took such possession of him that he watched
                  it with fascination, and when a monstrous cliff slid between it and him he felt as
                  if here were a new parting; as if he were once more bidding her a speechless,
                  hopeless farewell.
               During the greater part of this voyage he was a very uninteresting companion. He
                  sat quiet and silent; sometimes he slightly moved his lips; he was whispering a
                  name. Glover and Sweeny, who had only known him for a month, and supposed that he
                  had always been what they saw him, considered him an eccentric.
               "Naterally not quite himself," judged the skipper. "Some folks is born knocked on
                  the head."
               "May be officers is always that a way." was one of Sweeny's suggestions. "It must
                  be mighty dull bein' an officer."
               We must not forget the Great Cañon. The voyagers were amid magnitudes and
                  sublimities of nature which oppressed as if they were powers and principalities of
                  supernature. They were borne through an architecture of aqueous and plutonic
                  agencies whose smallest fantasies would be belittled by comparisons with
                  coliseums, labyrinths, cathedrals, pryamids, and stonehenges.
               For example, they circled a bend of which the extreme delicate angle was a jutting
                  pilaster-five hundred feet broad and a mile high, its hend towering in a sharp
                  tiara far above the brow of the plateau, and its sides curved into extravagances
                  of dizzy horror. It seemed as if it might be a pillar of confinement and
                  punishment for some Afreet who had defied Heaven. On either side of this monster
                  fissures a thousand feet deep wrinkled the forehead of the precipice. Armies might
                  have been buried in their abysses; yet they scarcely deformed the line of the
                  summits. They ran back for many miles; they had once been the channels of streams
                  which helped to drain the plateau; yet they were merely superficial cracks in the
                  huge mass of sandstone and limestone; they were scarcely noticeable features of
                  the Titanic landscape.
               From this bend forward the beauty of the cañon was sublime, horrible, satanic.
                  Constantly varying, its transformations were like those of the chief among demons,
                  in that they were always indescribably magnificent and always indescribably
                  terrible. Now it was a straight, clean chasm between even hedges of cliff which
                  left open only a narrow line of the beauty and mercy of the heavens. Again, where
                  it was entered by minor cañons, it became a breach through crowded pandemoniums of
                  ruined architectures and forsaken, frowning imageries. Then it led between
                  enormous pilasters, columns, and caryatides, mitred with conical peaks which had
                  once been ranges of mountains. Juttings and elevations, which would have been
                  monstrous in other landscapes, were here but minor decorations.
               Something like half of the strata with which earth is sheathed has been cut
                  through by the Colorado, beginning at the top of the groove with hundreds of feet
                  of limestone, and closing at the bottom with a thousand feet of granite. Here,
                  too, as in many other wonder-spots of the American desert, nature's sculpture is
                  rivalled by her painting. Bluish-gray limestone, containing corals; mottled
                  limestone, charged with slates, Hint, and chalcedony; red, brown, and blue
                  limestone, mixed with red, green, and yellow shales; sandstone of all tints,
                  white, brown; ochry, dark red, speckled and foliated; coarse silicious sandstone,
                  and red quartzose sandstone beautifully veined with purple; layers of
                  conglomerate, of many colored shales, argillaceous iron, and black oxide
                  manganese; massive black and white granite, traversed by streaks of quartz and of
                  red sienite; coarse red felspathic granite, mixed with large plates of silver
                  mica; such is the masonry and such the frescoing.
               Through this marvellous museum our three spectators wandered in hourly peril of
                  death. The Afreets of the waters and the Afreets of the rocks, guarding the
                  gateway which they had jointly builded, waged incessant warfare with the
                  intruders. Although the current ran five miles an hour, it was a lucky day when
                  the boat made forty miles. Every evening the travellers must find a beach or shelf
                  where they could haul up for the night. Darkness covered destruction, and light
                  exposed dangers. The bubble-like nature of the boat afforded at once a possibility
                  of easy advance and of instantaneous foundering. Every hour that it floated was a
                  miracle, and so they grimly and patiently understood it.
               A few days in the cañon changed the countenances of these men. They looked like
                  veterans of many battles. There was no bravado in their faces. The expression
                  which lived there was a resigned, suffering, stubborn courage. It was the "silent
                  berserker rage" which Carlyle praises. It was the speechless endurance which you
                  see in portraits of the Great Frederick, Wellington, and Grant.
               They relieved each other. The bow was guard duty; the steering was light duty; the
                  midships off duty. It must be understood that, the great danger being sunken
                  rocks, one man always crouched in the bow, with a paddle plunged below the
                  surface, feeling for ambushes of the stony bushwhackers. Occasionally all three
                  had to labor, jumping into shallows, lifting the boat over beds of pebbles,
                  perhaps lightening it of arms and provisions, perhaps carrying all ashore to seek
                  a portage.
               "It's the best canew 'n' the wust canew I ever see for sech a voyage," observed
                  Glover. "Navigatin' in it puts me in mind 'f angels settin' on a cloud. The cloud
                  can go anywhere; but what if ye should slump through?"
               "Och! ye're a heretic, 'n' don't belave angels can fly," put in Sweeny.
               
               "Can't ye talk without takin' out yer paddle?" called Glover. "Mind yer
                  soundings."
               Glover was at the helm just then, while Sweeny was at the bow. Thurstane, sitting
                  cross-legged on the light wooden flooring of the boat, was entering topographical
                  observations in his journal. Hearing the skipper's warning, he looked up sharply;
                  but both the call and the glance came too late to prevent a catastrophe. Just in
                  that instant the boat caught against some obstacle, turned slowly around before
                  the push of the current, swung loose with a jerk and floated on, the water
                  bubbling through the flooring. A hole had been torn in the canvas, and the
                  cockle-shell was foundering.
               "Sound!" shouted Thurstane to Sweeny; then, turning to Glover, "Haul up the
                  Grizzly!"
               The tub-boat of bearskin was dragged alongside, and Thurstane instantly threw the
                  provisions and arms into it.
               "Three foot," squealed Sweeny.
               "Jump overboard," ordered the lieutenant.
               By the time they were on their feet in the water the Buchanan was half full, and
                  the swift current was pulling at it like a giant, while the Grizzly, floating
                  deep, was almost equally unmanageable. The situation had in one minute changed
                  from tranquil voyaging to deadly peril. Sweeny, unable to swim, and staggering in
                  the rapid, made a plunge at the bearskin boat, probably with an idea of getting
                  into it. But Thurstane, all himself from the first, shotted In that brazen voice
                  of military command which is so secure of obedience, "Steady, man! Don't climb in.
                  Cut the lariat close up to the Buchanan, and then hold on to the Grizzly."
               Restored to his self-possession, Sweeny laboriously wound the straining lariat
                  around his left arm and sawed it in two with his jagged pocket-knife. Then came a
                  doubtful fight between him and the Colorado for the possession of the heavy and
                  clumsy tub.
               Meantime Thurstane and Glover, the former at the bow and the latter at the stern
                  of the Buchanan, were engaged in a similar tussle, just barely holding on and no
                  more.
               "We can't stand this," said the officer. "We must empty her."
               "Jest so," panted Glover. "You're up stream. Can you raise your eend? We mustn't
                  capsize her; we might lose the flooring."
               Thurstane stooped slowly and cautiously until he had got his shoulder under the
                  bow.
               "Easy!" called Glover. "Awful easy! Don't break her back. Don't upset
                     me."
               Gently, deliberately, with the utmost care, Thurstane straightened himself until
                  he had lifted the bow of the boat clear of the current.
               "Now I'll hoist," said the skipper. "You turn her slowly—jest the least mite.
                  Don't capsize her."
               It was a Herculean struggle. There was still a ponderous weight of water in the
                  boat. The slight frame sagged and the flexible siding bulged. Glover with
                  difficulty kept his feet, and he could only lift the stern very slightly.
               "You can't do it," decided Thurstane. "Don't wear yourself out trying it Hold
                  steady where you are, while I let down."
               When the boat was restored to its level it floated higher than before, for some of
                  the water had drained out.
               "Now lift slowly," directed Thurstane. "Slow and sure. She'll clear little by
                  little."
               A quiet, steady lift, lasting perhaps two or three minutes, brought the floor of
                  the boat to the surface of the current.
               "It's wearing," said the lieutenant, cheering his worried fellow-laborer with a
                  smile. "Stand steady for a minute and try to rest. You, Sweeny, move in toward the
                  bank. Hold on to your boat like the devil. If the water deepens, sing out."
               Sweeny, gripping his lariat desperately; commenced a staggering march over the
                  cobble-stone bottom, his anxious nose pointed toward a beach of bowlders beneath
                  the southern precipice.
               "Now then," said Thurstane to Glover, "we must get her on our heads and follow
                  Sweeny. Are you ready? Up with her!"
               A long, reeling hoist set the Buchanan on the heads of the two men, one standing
                  under the bow and one under the stern, their arms extended and their hands
                  clutching the sides. The beach was forty yards away; the current was swift and as
                  opaque as chocolate; they could not see what depths might gape before them; but
                  they must do the distance without falling, or perish.
               "Left foot first," shouted the officer. "Forward—march!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               WHEN the adventurers commenced their tottering march toward the shore of the
                  Colorado, Sweeny, dragging the clumsy bearskin boat, was a few yards in advance of
                  Thurstane and Glover, bearing the canvas boat.
               Every one of the three had as much as he could handle. The Grizzly, pulled at by
                  the furious current, bobbed up and down and hither and thither, nearly capsizing
                  Sweeny at every other step. The Buchanan, weighing one hundred and fifty pounds
                  when dry, and now somewhat heavier because of its thorough wetting, made a heavy
                  load for two men who were hip deep in swift water.
               "Slow and sure," repeated Thurstane. "It's a five minutes job. Keep your courage
                  and your feet for five minutes. Then we'll live a hundred years."
               "Liftinant, is this soldierin'?" squealed Sweeny.
               "Yes, my man, this is soldiering."
               "Thin I'll do me dooty if I pull me arrms off."
               But there was not much talking. Pretty nearly all their breath was needed for the
                  fight with the river. Glover, a slender and narrow-shouldered creature, was
                  particularly distressed; and his only remark during the pilgrimage shoreward was,
                  "I'd like to change hosses."
               Sweeny, leading the way, got up to his waist once and yelled, "I'll drown."
               Then he backed a little, took a new direction, found shallower water, and tottled
                  onward to victory. The moment he reached the shore he gave a shrill hoot of
                  exultation, went at his bearskin craft with both hands, dragged it clean out of
                  the water, and gave it a couple of furious kicks.
               "Take that!" he yelped. "Ye're wickeder nor both yer fathers. But I've bate ye.
                  Oh, ye blatherin', jerkin', bogglin' baste, ye!"
               Then he splashed into the river, joined his hard-pressed comrades, got his head
                  under the centre of the Buchanan, and lifted sturdily. In another minute the
                  precious burden was safe on a large flat rock, and the three men were stretched
                  out panting beside it. Glover was used up; he was trembling from head to foot with
                  fatigue; he had reached shore just in time to fall on it instead of into the
                  river.
               "Ye'd make a purty soldier," scoffed Sweeny, a habitual chaffer, like most
                  Irishmen.
               
               "It was the histin' that busted me," gasped the skipper. "I can't handle a ton o'
                  water."
               "Godamighty made ye already busted, I'm a thinkin'," retorted Sweeny.
               As soon as Glover could rise he examined the Buchanan. There was a ragged rent in
                  the bottom four inches long, and the canvas in other places had been badly rubbed.
                  The voyagers looked at the hole, looked at the horrible chasm which locked them
                  in, and thought with a sudden despair of the great Environment of desert.
               The situation could hardly be more gloomy. Having voyaged for five days in the
                  Great Cañon, they were entangled in the very centre of the folds of that monstrous
                  anaconda. Their footing was a lap of level not more than thirty yards in length by
                  ten in breadth, strewn with pebbles and bowlders, and showing not one spire of
                  vegetation. Above them rose a precipice, the summit of which they could not see,
                  but which was undoubtedly a mile in height. Had there been armies or cities over
                  their heads, they could not have discovered it by either eye or ear.
               At their feet was the Colorado, a broad rush of liquid porphyry, swift and
                  pitiless. By its color and its air of stoical cruelty it put one in mind of the
                  red race of America, from whose desert mountains it came and through whose
                  wildernesses it hurried. On the other side of this grim current rose precipices
                  five thousand feet high, stretching to right and left as far as the eye could
                  pierce. Certainly never before did shipwrecked men gaze upon such imprisoning
                  immensity and inhospitable sterility.
               Directly opposite them was horrible magnificence. The face of the fronting rampart
                  was gashed a mile deep by the gorge of a subsidiary cañon. The fissure was not a
                  clean one, with even sides. The strata had been torn, ground, and tattered by the
                  river, which had first raged over them and then through them. It was a Petra of
                  ruins, painted with all stony colors, and sculptured into a million outlines. On
                  one of the boldest abutments of the ravine perched an enchanted castle with towers
                  and spires hundreds of feet in height. Opposite, but further up the gap, rose a
                  rounded mountain-head of solid sandstone and limestone. Still higher and more
                  retired, towering as if to look into the distant cañon of the Colorado, ran the
                  enormous terrace of one of the loftier plateaus, its broad, bald forehead wrinkled
                  with furrows that had once held cataracts. But language has no charm which can
                  master these sublimities and horrors. It stammers; it repeats the same words over
                  and over; it can only begin to tell the monstrous truth.
               "Looks like we was in our grave," sighed Glover.
               "Liftinant," jerked out Sweeny, "I'm thinkin' we're dead. We ain't living',
                  Liftinant. We've been buried. We've no business trying to walk."
               Thurstane had the same sense of profound depression; but he called up his courage
                  and sought to cheer his comrades.
               "We must do our best to come to life," he said. "Mr. Glover, can nothing be done
                  with the boat?"
               "Can't fix it," replied the skipper, fingering the ragged hole. "Nothin' to patch
                  it with."
               "There are the bearskins," suggested Thurstane.
               Glover slapped his thigh, got up, danced a double shuffle, and sat down again to
                  consider his job. After a full minute Sweeny caught the idea also and set up a
                  haw-haw of exultant laughter, which brought back echoes from the other side of the
                  cañon, as if a thousand Paddies were holding revel there.
               "Oh! yees may laugh," retorted Sweeny, "but yees can't laugh us out av it."
               "I'll sheath the whole bottom with bearskin," said Glover. "Then we can let her
                  grind. It'll be an all day's chore, Capm—perhaps two days."
               They passed thirty-six hours in this miserable bivouac. Glover worked during every
                  moment of daylight. No one else could do anything. A green hand might break a
                  needle, and a needle broken was a step toward death. From dawn to dusk he planned,
                  cut, punctured, and sewed with the patience of an old sailor, until he had covered
                  the rent with a patch of bearskin which fitted as if it had grown there. Finally
                  the whole bottom was doubled with hide, the long, coarse fur still on it, and the
                  grain running from stem to stern so as to aid in sliding over the sand and pebbles
                  of the shallows.
               While Glover worked the others slept, lounged, cooked, waited. There was no food,
                  by the way, but the hard, leathery, tasteless jerked meat of the grizzly bears,
                  which had begun to pall upon them so they could hardly swallow it. Eating was
                  merely a duty, and a disagreeable one.
               When Glover announced that the boat was ready for launching, Sweeny uttered a yelp
                  of joy, like a dog who sees a prospect of hunting.
               "Ah, you paddywhack!" growled the skipper. "All this work for you. Punch another
                  hole, 'n' I'll take yer own hide to patch it."
               "I'll give ye lave," returned Sweeny. "Wan bare skin 's good as another. Only I
                  might want me own back agin for dress-parade."
               Once more on the Colorado. Although the boat floated deeper than before,
                  navigation in it was undoubtedly safer, so that they made bolder ventures and
                  swifter progress. Such portages, however, as they were still obliged to traverse,
                  were very severe, inasmuch as the Buchanan was now much above its original weight.
                  Several times they had to carry one half of their materials for a mile or more,
                  through a labyrinth of rocks, and then trudge back to get the other half.
               Meantime their power of endurance was diminishing. The frequent wettings, the
                  shivering nights, the great changes of temperature, the stale and wretched food,
                  the constant anxiety, were sapping their health and strength. On the tenth day of
                  their wanderings in the Great Cañon Glover began to complain of rheumatism.
               "These cussed draughts!" he groaned. "It's jest like travellin' in a bellows
                  nozzle."
               "Wid the divil himself at the bellys," added Sweeny. "Faix, an' I wish he'd blow
                  us clane out intirely. I'm gittin' tired o' this same, I am. I didn't lisht to
                  sarve undher ground."
               "Patience, Sweeny," smiled Thurstane. "We must be nearly through the cañon."
               "An' where will we come out, Liftinant? Is it in Ameriky? Bedad, we ought to be
                  close to the Chaynees by this time. Liftinant, what sort o' paple lives up atop of
                  us, annyway?"
               "I don't suppose anybody lives up there," replied the officer, raising his eyes to
                  the dizzy precipices above. "This whole region is said to be a desert."
               "Be gorry, an' it 'll stay a desert till the ind o' the worrld afore I'll
                  poppylate it. It wasn't made for Sweenys. I haven't seen sile enough in tin days
                  to raise wan pataty. As for livin' on dried grizzly, I'd like betther for the
                  grizzlies to live to me. Liftinant, I niver see sich harrd atin'. It tires the top
                  av me head off to chew it."
               About noon of the twelfth day in the Great Cañon this perilous and sublime
                  navigation came to a close. The walls of the chasm suddenly spread out into a considerable opening, which absolutely
                  seemed level ground to the voyagers, although it was encumbered with mounds or
                  buttes of granite and sandstone. This opening was produced by the entrance into
                  the main channel of a subsidiary one, coming from the south. At first they did not
                  observe further particulars, for they were in extreme danger of shipwreck, the
                  river being studded with rocks and running like a mill-race. But on reaching the
                  quieter water below the rapid, they saw that the branch cañon contained a rivulet,
                  and that where the two streams united there was a triangular basin, offering a
                  safe harbor.
               "Paddle!" shouted Thurstane, pointing to the creek. "Don't let her go by. This is
                  our place."
               A desperate struggle dragged the boat out of the rushing Colorado into the
                  tranquillity of the basin. Everything was landed; the boat itself was hoisted on
                  to the rocks; the voyage was over.
               "Think ye know yer way, Capm?" queried Glover, squinting doubtfully up the arid
                  recesses of the smaller cañon.
               "Of course I maybe mistaken. But even if it is not Diamond Creek, it will take us
                  in our direction. We have made westing enough to have the Cactus Pass very nearly
                  south of us."
               As there was still a chance of returning to the river, the boat was taken to
                  pieces, rolled up, and hidden under a pile of stones and driftwood. The small
                  remnant of jerked meat was divided into three portions. Glover, on account of his
                  inferior muscle and his rheumatism, was relieved of his gun, which was given to
                  Sweeny. Canteens were filled, blankets slung, ammunition belts buckled, and the
                  march commenced.
               Arrived at a rocky knoll which looked up both waterways, the three men halted to
                  take a last glance at the Great Cañon, the scene of a pilgrimage that had been a
                  poem, though a terrible one. The Colorado here was not more than fifty yards wide,
                  and only a few hundred yards of its course were visible either way, for the
                  confluence was at the apex of a bend. The dark, sullen, hopeless, cruel current
                  rushed out of one mountain-built mystery into another. The walls of the abyss rose
                  straight from the water into dizzy abutments, conical peaks, and rounded masses,
                  beyond and above which gleamed the distant sunlit walls of a higher terrace of the
                  plateau.
               "Come along wid ye," said Sweeny to Glover, "It's enough to give ye the rheumatiz
                  in the oyes to luk at the nasty black hole. I'm thinkin' it's the divil's own
                  place, wid the fires out."
               The Diamond Creek Cañon, although far inferior to its giant neighbor, was
                  nevertheless a wonderful excavation, striking audaciously into sombre mountain
                  recesses, sublime with precipices, peaks, and grotesque masses. The footing was of
                  the ruggedest, a débris of confused and eroded
                  rocks, the pathway of an extinct river. One thing was beautiful: the creek was a
                  perfect contrast to the turbid Colorado; its waters were as clear and bright as
                  crystal. Sweeny halted over and over to look at it, his mouth open and eyes
                  twinkling like a pleased dog.
               "An' there's nothing nagurish about that now," he chuckled. "A pataty ud laugh to
                  be biled in it."
               After slowly ascending for a quarter of a mile, they turned a bend and came upon a
                  scene which seemed to them like a garden. They were in a broad opening, made by
                  the confluence of two cañons. Into this gigantic rocky nest had been dropped an
                  oasis of turf and of thickets of green willows. Through the centre of the verdure
                  the Diamond Creek flowed dimpling over a pebbly bed, or shot in sparkles between
                  barring bowlders, or plunged over shelves in toy cascades. The travellers had seen
                  nothing so hospitable in nature since leaving the country of the Moquis weeks
                  before.
               Sweeny screamed like a delighted child. "Oh! An' that's just like ould Oirland.
                  Oh, luk at the turrf! D'ye iver see the loikes o' that, now? The blessed turrf!
                  Here ye be, right in the divil's own garden. Liftinant, if ye'll let me build a
                  fort here, I'll garrison it. I'll stay here me whole term of sarvice."
               "Halt," said Thurstane. "We'll eat, refill canteens, and inspect arms. If this is
                  Diamond Cañon, and I think there is no doubt of it, we may expect to find Indians
                  soon."
               "I'll fight 'em," declared Sweeny. "An' if they've got anythin' betther nor dried
                  grizzly, I'll have it."
               "Wait for orders," cautioned Thurstane. "No firing without orders."
               After cleaning their guns and chewing their tough and stale rations, they resumed
                  their march, leaving the rivulet and following the cañon, which led toward the
                  southwest. As they were now regaining the level of the plateau, their advance was
                  a constant and difficult ascent, sometimes struggling through labyrinths of
                  detached rocks, and sometimes climbing steep shelves which had once been the
                  leaping-places of cataracts: The sides of the chasm were two thousand feet high,
                  and it was entered by branch ravines of equal grandeur.
               The sun had set for them, although he was still high above the horizon of upper
                  earth, when Thurstane halted and whispered, "Wigwams!"
               Perched among the rocks, some under projecting strata and others in shadowy niches
                  between huge buttresses, they discovered at first three or four, then a dozen, and
                  finally twenty wretched cabins. They scarcely saw before they were seen; a hideous
                  old squaw dropped a bundle of fuel and ran off screeching; in a moment the whole
                  den was in an uproar. Startling yells burst from lofty nooks in the mountain
                  flanks, and scarecrow figures dodged from ambush to ambush of the sombre gully. It
                  was as if they had invaded the haunts of the brownies.
               The Hualpais, a species of Digger Indians, dwarfish, miserable, and degraded,
                  living mostly on roots, lizards, and the like, were nevertheless conscious of
                  scalps to save. In five minutes from the discovery of the strangers they had
                  formed a straggling line of battle, squatting along a ledge which crossed the
                  cañon. There were not twenty warriors, and they were no doubt wretchedly armed,
                  but their position was formidable.
               Sweeny, looking like an angry rat, his nose twitching and eyes sparkling with
                  rage, offered to storm the rampart alone, shouting, "Oh, the nasty, lousy, nagurs!
                  Let'em get out of our way."
               "Guess we'd better talk to the cusses," observed Glover. "Tain't the handiest
                  place I ever see for fightin'; an' I don't keer 'bout bavin' my ears 'n' nose
                  bored any more at present."
               "Stay where you are," said Thurstane. "I'll go forward and parley with them."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               THURSTANE had no great difficulty in making a sort of let-me-alone-and-I'll
                  let-you-alone treaty with the embattled Hualpais.
               After some minutes of dumb show they came down from their stronghold and dispersed to their dwellings. They
                  seemed to be utterly without curiosity; the warriors put aside their bows and lay
                  down to sleep; the old squaw hurried off to pick up her bundle of fuel; even the
                  papooses were silent and stupid. It was a race lower than the Hottentots or the
                  Australians. Short, meagre, badly built, excessively ugly, they were nearly naked,
                  and their slight clothing was rags of skins. Thurstane tried to buy food of them,
                  but either they had none to spare or his buttons seemed to them of no value. Nor
                  could he induce any one to accompany him as a guide.
               "Do ye think Godamighty made thim paple?" inquired Sweeny.
               "Reckon so," replied Glover.
               "I don't belave it," said.Sweeny. "He'd be in more rispactable bizniss, It's me
                  opinyin the divil made um for a joke on the rest av us. Aa' it's me opinyin he
                  made this whole counthry for the same rayson."
               "The priest 'll tell ye God made all men, Sweeny."
               "They ain't min at all. Thim crachurs ain't min. They're nagurs, an' a mighty poor
                  kind at that. I hate um. I wish they was all dead. I've kilt some av um, an' I'm
                  goin' to kill slathers more, God willin'. I belave it's part av the bizniss av
                  white min to finish off the nagurs."
               Profound and potent sentiment of race antipathy! The contempt and hatred of white
                  men for yellow, red, brown, and black men has worked all over earth, is working
                  yet, and will work for ages. It is a motive of that tremendous tragedy which
                  Spencer has entitled "the survival of the fittest," and Darwin, "natural
                  selection."
               The party continued to ascend the Cañon. At short intervals branch cañons
                  exhibited arid and precipitous gorges, more and more gloomy with twilight. It was
                  impossible to choose between one and another. The travellers could never see three
                  hundred yards in advance. To right and left they were hemmed in by walls fifteen
                  hundred feet in height. Only one thing was certain: these altitudes were gradually
                  diminishing; and hence they knew that they were mounting the plateau. At last,
                  four hours after leaving Diamond Creek, wearied to the marrow with incessant toil,
                  they halted by a little spring, stretched themselves on a scrap of starveling
                  grass, and chewed their meagre, musty supper.
               The scenery here was unearthly. Barring the bit of turf and a few willows which
                  had got lost in the desert, there was not a tint of verdure. To right and left
                  rose two huge and steep slopes of eroded and ragged rocks, tortured into every
                  conceivable form of jag, spire, pinnacle, and imagery. In general the figures were
                  grotesque; it seemed as if the misshapen gods of India and of China and of
                  barbarous lands had gathered there; as if this were a place of banishment and
                  punishment for the fallen idols of all idolatries. Above this coliseum of
                  monstrosities rose a long line of sharp, jagged needles, like a vast chevaux-de-frise. forbidding escape. Still higher,
                  lighted even yet by the setting sun, towered five cones of vast proportions. Then
                  came cliffs capped by shatters of tableland, and then the long, even, gleaming
                  ledge of the final plateau.
               Locked in this bedlam of crazed strata, unable to see or guess a way out of it,
                  the1 wanderers fell asleep. There was no setting of guards; they trusted to the
                  desert as a sentinel.
               At daylight the blind and wearisome climbing recommenced. Occasionally they found
                  patches of thin turf and clumps of dwarf cedars struggling with the rocky waste.
                  These bits of greenery were not the harbingers of a new empire of vegetation, but
                  the remnants of one whose glory had vanished ages ago, swept away by a vandalism
                  of waters. Gradually the Cañon dwindled to a ravine, narrow row, sinuous, walled
                  in by stony steeps or slopes, and interlocking continually with other similar
                  chasms. A creek, which followed the chasm, appeared and disappeared at intervals
                  of a mile or so, as if horrified at the face of nature and anxious to hide from it
                  in subterranean recesses.
               The travellers stumbled on until the ravine became a gully and the gully a
                  fissure. They stepped out of it; they were on the rolling surface of the
                  tableland; they were half a mile above the Colorado.
               Here they halted, gave three cheers, and then looked back upon the northern desert
                  as men look who have escaped an enemy. A gigantic panorama of the country which
                  they had traversed was unrolled to their vision. In the foreground stretched
                  declining tablelands, intersected by numberless ravines, and beyond these a lofty
                  line of bluffs marked the edge of the Great Cañon of the Colorado. Through one
                  wide gap in these heights came a vision of endless plateaux, their terraces
                  towering one above another until they were thousands of feet in the air, the
                  horizontal azure bands extending hundreds of miles northward, until the deep blue
                  faded into a lighter blue, and that into the sapphire of the heavens.
               "It looks a darned sight finer than it is," observed Glover.
               "Bedad, ye may say that," added Sweeny. "It's a big hippycrit av a counthry. Ye'd
                  think, to luk at it, ye could ate it wid a spoon."
               Now came a rolling region, covered with blue grass and dotted with groves of
                  cedars, the earth generally hard and smooth and the marching easy. Striking
                  southward, they reached a point where the plateau culminated in a low ridge, and
                  saw before them a long gentle slope of ten miles, then a system of rounded hills,
                  and then mountains.
               "Halt here," said Thurstane. "We must study our topography and fix on our line of
                  march."
               "You'll hev to figger it," replied Glover. "I don't know nothin' in this part o'
                  the world."
               "Ye ain't called on to know," put in Sweeny. "The liftinant 'll tell ye."
               "I think," hesitated Thurstane, "that we are about fifty miles, north of Cactus
                  Pass, where we want to strike the trail."
               "And I'm putty nigh played out," groaned Glover.
               "Och! you howld up yer crazy head," exhorted Sweeny. "It 'll do ye
                  iver so much good."
               "It's easy talkin'," sighed the jaded and rheumatic skipper.
               "It's as aisy talkin' right as talkin' wrong," retorted Sweeny. "Ye've no call to
                  grunt the curritch out av yer betthers. Wait till the liftinant says die."
               Thurstane was studying the landscape. Which of those ranges was the Cerbat, which
                  the Aztec, and which the Pinaleva? He knew that, after leaving Cactus Pass, the
                  overland trail turns southward and runs toward the mouth of the Gila, crossing the
                  Colorado hundreds of miles away. To the west of the pass, therefore, he must not
                  strike, under peril of starving amid untracked plains and ranges. On the whole, it
                  seemed probable that the snow-capped line of summits directly ahead of him was the
                  Cerbat range, and that he must follow it southward along the base of its eastern
                  slope.
               "We will move on," he said. "Mr. Glover, we must reach those broken hills before
                  night in order to find water. Can you do it?"
               "Reckon I kin jest about do it, 's the feller said when he walked to his own
                  hangin'," returned the suffering skipper.
               The failing man marched so slowly and needed so many halts that they were five hours in reaching the hills. It
                  was now nightfall; they found a bright little spring in a grassy ravine; and after
                  a meagre supper, they tried to stifle their hunger with sleep. Thurstane and
                  Sweeny took turns in watching, for smoke of fires had been seen on the mountains,
                  and, poor as they were, they could not afford to be robbed. In the morning Glover
                  seemed refreshed, and started out with some vigor.
               "Och! ye'll go round the worrld," said Sweeny, encouragingly. "Bones can march
                  furder than fat anny day. Yer as tough as me rations. Dried grizzly is nothin' to
                  ye."
               After threading hills for hours they came out upon a wide, rolling basin prettily
                  diversified by low spurs of the encircling mountains and bluish green with the
                  long grasses known as pin and grama. A few deer and
                  antelopes, bounding across the rockier places, were an aggravation to starving men
                  who could not follow them.
               "Why don't we catch some o' thim flyin' crachurs?" demanded Sweeny.
               "We hain't got no salt to put on their tails," explained Glover, grinning more
                  with pain than with his joke.
               "I'd ate 'em widout salt," said Sweeny. "If the tails was feathers, I'd ate
                  'em."
               "We must camp early, and try our luck at hunting," observed Thurstane.
               "I go for campin' airly," groaned the limping and tottering Glover.
               "Och! yees ud like to shlape an shnore an' grunt and rowl over an' shnore agin the
                  whole blissid time," snapped Sweeny, always angered by a word of discouragement.
                  "Yees ought to have a dozen o' thim nagurs wid their long poles to make a fither
                  bed for yees an' tuck up the blankets an' spat the pilly. Why didn't ye shlape all
                  ye wanted to whin yees was in the boat?"
               "Quietly, Sweeny," remonstrated Thurstane. "Mr. Glover marches with great
                  pain."
               "I've no objiction to his marchin' wid great pain or annyway Godamighty lets him,
                  if he won't grunt about it."
               "But you must be civil, my man."
               "I ax yer pardon, Liftinant. I don't mane no harrum by blatherin'. It's a way we
                  have in th' ould counthry. Mebbe it's no good in th' arrmy."
               "Let him yawp, Capm," interposed Glover. "It's a way they hev, as he says. Never
                  see two Paddies together but what they got to fightin' or pokin' fun at each
                  other. Me an' Sweeny won't quarrel. I take his clickatyclack for what it's worth
                  by the cart-load. 'Twon't hurt me. Dunno but what it's good for me."
               "Bedad, it's betther for ye nor yer own gruntin'," added the irrepressible
                  Irishman.
               By two in the afternoon they had made perhaps fifteen miles, and reached the foot
                  of the mountain which they proposed to skirt. As Glover was now fagged out,
                  Thurstane decided to halt for the night and try deer-stalking. A muddy water-hole,
                  surrounded by thickets of willows, indicated their camping ground. The sick man
                  was cached in the dense foliage; his canteen was
                  filled for him and placed by his side; there could be no other nursing.
               "If the nagurs kill ye, I'll revenge ye," was Sweeny's parting encouragement.
                  "I'll git ye back yer scallup, if I have to cut it out of um."
               Late in the evening the two hunters returned empty. Sweeny, in spite of his hunger
                  and fatigue, boiled over with stories of the hairbreadth escapes of the
                  "antyloops" that he had fired at. Thurstane also had seen game, but not near
                  enough for a shot.
               "I didn't look for such bad luck," said the wfeary and half-starved young fellow,
                  soberly. "No supper for any of us. We must save our last ration to make
                  to-morrow's march on."
               "It's a poor way of atin' two males in wan," remarked Sweeny. "I niver thought I'd
                  come to wish I had me haversack full o' dried bear."
               The next day was a terrible one. Already half famished, their only food for the
                  twenty-four hours was about four ounces apiece of bear meat, tough, illscented,
                  and innutritions, Glover was so weak with hunger and his ailments that he had to
                  be supported most of the way by his two comrades. His temper, and Sweeny's also,
                  gave out, and they snarled at each other in good earnest, as men are apt to do
                  under protracted hardships. Thurstane stalked on in silence, sustained by his
                  youth and health, and not less by his sense of responsibility. These men were here
                  through his doing; he must support them and save them if possible; if not, he must
                  show them how to die bravely; for it had come to be a problem of life and death.
                  They could not expect to travel two days longer without food. The time was
                  approaching when they would fall down with faintness, not to rise again in this
                  world.
               In the morning their only provision was one small bit of meat which Thurstane had
                  saved from his ration of the day before. This he handed to Glover, saying with a
                  firm eye and a cheerful smile, "My dear fellow, here is your breakfast."
               The starving invalid looked at it wistfully, and stammered, with a voice full of
                  tears, "I can't eat when the rest of ye don't."
               Sweeny, who had stared at the morsel with hungry eyes, now broke out, "I tell ye,
                  ate it. The liftinant wants ye to."
               "Divide it fair," answered Glover, who could hardly restrain himself from
                  sobbing.
               "I won't touch a bit av it," declared Sweeny. "It's the liftinant's own grub."
               "We won't divide it," said Thurstane. "I'll put it in your pocket, Glover. When
                  you can't take another step without it, you must go at it."
               "Bedad, if ye don't, we'll lave yees," added Sweeny, digging his fists into his
                  empty stomach to relieve its gnawing.
               Very slowly, the well men sustaining the sick one, they marched over rolling hills
                  until about noon, accomplishing perhaps ten miles. They were now on a slope
                  looking southward; above them the wind sighed through a large grove of cedars; a
                  little below was a copious spring of clear, sweet water. There they halted,
                  drinking and filling their canteens, but not eating. The square inch of bear meat
                  was still in Glover's pocket, but he could not be got to taste it unless, the
                  others would share.
               "Capm, I feel 's though Heaven 'd strike me if I should eat your victuals," he
                  whispered, his voice having failed him. "I feel a sort o' superstitious 'bout it.
                  I want to die with a clear conscience."
               But when they rose his strength gave out entirely, and he dropped down
                  fainting.
               "Now ate yer mate," said Sweeny, in a passion of pity and anxiety. "Ate yer mate
                  an' stand up to yer marchin'."
               Glover, however, could not eat for the fever of hunger had at last produced
                  nausea, and he pushed away the unsavory morsel when it was put to his lips.
               "Go ahead," he whispered. "No use all dyin'. Go ahead." And then he fainted
                  outright.
               
               "I think the trail can't be more than fifteen miles off," said Thurstane, when be
                  had found that his comrade still breathed. u One of us must push on to it and the
                  other stay with Glover. Sweeny, I can track the country best. You must stay."
               For the first time in this long and suffering and perilous journey Sweeny's
                  courage failed him, and he looked as if he would like to shirk his duty.
               "My lad, it is necessary," continued the officer. "We can't leave this man so. You
                  have your gun. You can try to hunt. When he comes to, you must get him along,
                  following the course you see me take. If I find help, I'll save you. If not, I'll
                  come back and die with you."
               Sitting down by the side of the insensible Glover, Sweeny covered his face with
                  two grimy hands which trembled a little. It was not till his officer had got some
                  thirty feet away that he raised his head and looked after him. Then he called, in
                  his usual quick, sharp, chattering way, "Liftinant, is this soldierin'?"
               "Yes, my lad," replied Thurstane with a sad, weary smile, thinking meantime of
                  hardships past, "this is soldiering."
               "Thin I'll do me dooty if I rot jest here," declared the simple hero.
               Thurstane came back, grasped Sweeny's hand in silence, turned away to hide his
                  shaken face, and commenced his anxious journey.
               There were both terrible and beautiful thoughts in his soul as he pushed on into
                  the desert. Would he find the trail? Would he encounter the rare chance of traders
                  or emigrants? Would there be food and rest for him and rescue for his comrades?
                  Would he meet Clara? This last idea gave him great courage; he struggled to keep
                  it constantly in his mind; he needed to lean upon it.
               By the time that he had marched ten miles he found that he was weaker than he had
                  supposed. Weeks of wretched food and three days of almost complete starvation had
                  taken the strength pretty much out of his stalwart frame. His breath was short; he
                  stumbled over the slightest obstacles; occasi6nally he could not see clear. From
                  time to time it struck him that he had been dreaming or else that his mind was
                  beginning to wander. Things that he remembered and things that he hoped for seemed
                  strangely present. He spoke to people who were hundreds of miles away; and, for
                  the most part, he spoke to them pettishly or with downright anger; for in the main
                  he felt more like a wretched, baited animal than a human being.
               It was only when he called Clara to mind that this evil spirit was exorcised, and
                  he ceased for a moment to resemble a hungry, jaded wolf. Then he would be for a
                  while all sweetness, because he was for the while perfectly happy. In the next
                  instant, by some hateful and irresistible magic, happiness and sweetness would be
                  gone, and he could not even remember them nor remember her.
               Meantime he struggled to command himself and pay attention to his route. He must
                  do this, because his starving comrades lay behind him, and he must know how to
                  lead men back to their rescue. Well, here he was; there were hills to the left;
                  there was a mountain to the right; he would stop and fix it all in his memory.
               He sat down beside a rock, leaned his back against it to steady his dizzy head,
                  had a sensation of struggling with something invincible, and was gone.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               LEAVING Thurstane in the desert, we return to Clara in the desert. It will be
                  remembered that she stood on the roof of the Casa Grande when her lover was swept
                  oarless down the San Juan.
               She was watching him; of course she was watching him; at the moment of the
                  catastrophe she saw him; she felt sure also that he was, looking at her. The boat
                  began to fly down the current; then the two oarsmen fell to paddling violently;
                  what did it mean? Far from guessing that the towline had snapped, she was not
                  aware that there was one.
               On went the boat; presently it whirled around helplessly; it was nearing the rocks
                  of the rapid; there was evidently danger. Running to the edge of the roof, Clara
                  saw a Mexican cattle-driver standing on the wall of the enclosure, and called to
                  him, "What is the matter?"
               "The lariats have broken," he replied. "They are drifting."
               Clara uttered a little gasp of a shriek, and then did not seem to breathe again
                  for a minute. She saw Thurstane led away in captivity by the savage torrent; she
                  saw him rise up in the boat and wave her a farewell; she could not lift her hand
                  to respond; she could only stand and stare. She had a look, and there was within
                  her a sensation, as if her soul were starting out of her eyes. The whole calamity
                  revealed itself to her at once and without mercy. There was no saving him and no
                  going after him; he was being taken out of her sight; he was disappearing; he was
                  gone. She leaned forward, trying to look around the bend of the river, and was
                  balked by a monstrous, cruel advance of precipices. Then, when she realized that
                  he had vanished, there was a long scream ending in unconsciousness.
               When she came to herself everybody was talking of the calamity. Coronado, Aunt
                  Maria, and others overflowed with babblings of regret, astonishment, explanations,
                  and consolation. The lariats had broken. How could it have happened! How dreadful!
                  etc.
               "But he will land," cried Clara, looking eagerly from face to face.
               "Oh, certainly," said Coronado. "Landings can be made. There are none visible, but
                  doubtless they exist."
               "And then he will march back here?" she demanded.
               "Not easily. I am afraid, my dear cousin, not very easily. There would be cañons
                  to turn, and long ones. Probably he would strike for the Moqui country."
               "Across the desert? No water!"
               Coronado shrugged his shoulders as if to say that he could not help it.
               "If we go back to-morrow," she began again, "do you think we shall overtake
                  them?"
               "I think it very probable," lied Coronado.
               "And if we don't overtake them, will they join us at the Moqui pueblos?"
               "Yes, yes. I have little doubt of it."
               "When do you think we ought to start?"
               "To-morrow morning."
               "Won't that be too early?"
               
               "Day after to-morrow then."
               "Won't that be too late?"
               Coronado nearly boiled over with rage. This girl was going to demand
                  impossibilities of him, and impossibilities that he would not perform if he could.
                  He must be here and he must be there; he must be quick enough and not a minute too
                  quick; and all to save his rival from the pit which he had just dug for him.
                  Turning his back on Clara, he paced the roof of the Casa in an excitement which he
                  could not conceal, muttering, "I will do the best I can—the best I can."
               Presently the remembrance that he had at least gained one great triumph enabled
                  him to recover his self-possession and his foxy cunning.
               "My dear cousin," he said gently, "you must not suppose that I am not greatly
                  afflicted by this accident. I appreciate the high merit of Lieutenant Thurstane,
                  and I grieve sincerely at his misfortune. What can I do? I will do the best I can
                  for all. Trusting to your good sense, I will do whatever you say. But if you want
                  my advice, here it is. We ought for our own sakes to leave here to-morrow; but for
                  his sake we will wait a day. In that time he may rejoin us, or he may regain the
                  Moqui trail. So we will set out, if you have no objection, on the morning of day
                  after to-morrow, and push for the pueblos. When we do start, we must march, as you
                  know, at our best speed."
               "Thank you, Coronado," said Clara. "It is the best you can do."
               There were not five minutes during that day and the next that the girl did not
                  look across the plain to the gorge, of the dry cañon, in the hope that she might
                  see Thurstane approaching. At other times she gazed eagerly down the San Juan,
                  although she knew that he could not stem the current. Her love and her sorrow were
                  ready to believe in miracles. How is it possible, she often thought, that such a
                  brief sweep of water should carry him so utterly away? In spite of her fear of
                  vexing Coronado, she questioned him over and over as to the course of the stream
                  and the nature of its banks, only to find that he knew next to nothing.
               "It will be hard for him to return to us," the man finally suggested, with an air
                  of being driven unwillingly to admit it. "He may have to go on a long way down the
                  river."
               The truth is that, not knowing whether the lost men could, return easily or not,
                  he was anxious to get away from their neighborhood.
               Before the second day of this suspense was over, Aunt Maria had begun to make
                  herself obnoxious. She hinted that Thurstane knew what he was about; that the
                  river was his easiest road to his station; that, in short, he had deserted. Clara
                  flamed up indignantly and replied, "I know him better."
               "Why, what has he got to do with us?" reasoned Aunt Maria. "He doesn't belong to
                  our party."
               "He has his men here. He wouldn't leave his soldiers."
               "His men! They can take care of themselves. If they can't, I should like to know
                  what they are good for. I think it highly probable he went off of his own
                  choice."
               "I think it highly probable you know nothing about it," snapped Clara, "You are
                  incapable of judging him."
               The girl was not just now herself. Her whole soul was concentrated in justifying,
                  loving, and saving Thurstane; and her manner, instead of being serenely and almost
                  lazily gentle, was unpleasantly excited, It was as if some charming alluvial
                  valley should suddenly give forth the steam and lava of a volcano.
               Finding no sympathy in Aunt Maria, and having little confidence in the good-will
                  of Coronado, she looked about her for help. There was Sergeant Meyer; he had been
                  Thurstane's right-hand man; moreover, he looked trustworthy. She seized the first
                  opportunity to beckon him up to her eerie on the roof of the Casa.
               "Sergeant, I must speak with you privately," she said at once, with the frankness
                  of necessity.
               The sergeant, a well-bred soldier, respectful to ladies, and especially to ladies
                  who were the friends of officers, raised his forefinger to his cap and stood at
                  attention.
               "How came Lieutenant Thurstane to go down the river?" she asked.
               "It was the lariat proke," replied Meyer, in a whispering, flute-like voice which
                  he had when addressing his superiors.
               "Did it break, or was it cut?"
               The sergeant raised his small, narrow, and rather piggish gray eyes to hers with a
                  momentary expression of anxiety.
               "I must pe gareful what I zay," he answered, sinking his voice still lower. "We
                  must poth pe gareful. I examined the lariat. I fear it was sawed. But we must not
                  zay this."
               "Who sawed it?" demanded Clara with a gasp.
               "It was no one in the poat," replied Meyer diplomatically.
               "Was it that man—that hunter—Smith?"
               Another furtive glance between the sandy eyelashes expressed an uneasy
                  astonishment; the sergeant evidently had a secret on his mind which he must not
                  run any risk of disclosing.
               "I do not zee how it was Schmidt" he fluted almost inaudibly. "He was watching the
                  peasts at their basture."
               "Then who did saw it?"
               "I do not know. I do not feel sore that it was sawed."
               Perceiving that, either from ignorance or caution, he would not say more on this
                  point, Clara changed the subject and asked, "Can Lieutenant Thurstane go clown the
                  river safely?"
               "I would like noting petter than to make the exbedition myself," replied Meyer,
                  once more diplomatic.
               Now came a silence, the soldier waiting respectfully, the girl not knowing how
                  much she might dare to say. Not that she doubted Meyer; on the contrary, she had a
                  perfect confidence in him; how could she fail to trust one who had been trusted by
                  Thurstane?
               "Sergeant," she at last whispered, "we must find him."
               "Yes, miss," touching his cap as if he were taking an oath by it.
               "And you," she hesitated, "must protect me."
               "Yes, miss," and the sergeant repeated his gesture of solemn affirmation.
               "Perhaps I will say more some time."
               He saluted again, and seeing that she had nothing to add, retired quietly.
               For two nights there was little sleep for Clara. She passed them in pondering
                  Thurstane's chances, or in listening for his returning footsteps. Yet when the
                  train set out for the Moqui pueblos, she seemed as vigorous and more vivacious
                  than usual. What supported her now and for days afterward was what is called the
                  strength of fever.
               The return across the desert was even more terrible than the advance, for the two
                  scant water-holes had been nearly exhausted by the Apaches, so that both beasts and human beings suffered horribly with
                  thirst. There was just this one good thing about the parched and famished
                  wilderness, that it relieved the emigrants from all fear of ambushing enemies.
                  Supernatural beings alone could have bushwhacked here. The Apaches had gone.
               Meanwhile Sergeant Meyer had a sore conscience. From the moment the boat went down
                  the San Juan he had more or less lain awake with the idea that, according to the
                  spirit of his instructions from Thurstane, he ought to have Texas Smith tied up
                  and shot. Orders were orders; there was no question about that, as a general
                  principle; the sergeant had never heard the statement disputed. But when he came
                  to consider the case now before him, he was out-generalled by a doubt. This
                  drifting of a boat down a strange river, was it murder in the sense intended by
                  Thurstane? And, supposing it to be murder, could it be charged in any way upon
                  Smith? In the whole course of his military experience Sergeant Meyer had never
                  been more perplexed. On the evening of the first day's march he could bear his
                  sense of responsibility no longer, and decided to call a council of war. Beckoning
                  his sole remaining comrade aside from the bivouac, he entered upon business.
               "Kelly, we are unter insdructions," he began in his flute-like tone;
               "I know it, sergeant," replied Kelly, decorously squirting his tobacco-juice out
                  of the corner of his mouth furthest from his superior.
               "The question is. Kelly, whether Schmidt should pe shot."
               "The responsibility lies upon you, sergeant. I will shoot him if so be such is
                  orders."
               "Kelly, the insdructions were to shoot him if murder should habben in this barty.
                  The instructions were loose."
               "They were so, sergeant—not defining murder."
               "The question is, Kelly, whether what has habbened to the leftenant is murder. If
                  it is murder, then Schmidt must go."
               The two men were sitting on a bowlder side by side, their hands on their knees and
                  their muskets leaning against their shoulders. They did not look at each other at
                  all, but kept their grave eyes on the ground. Kelly squirted his tobacco-juice
                  sidelong two or three times before he replied.
               "Sergeant," he finally said, "my opinion is we can't set this down for murder
                  until we know somebody is dead."
               "Shust so, Kelly. That is my obinion myself."
               "Consequently it follows, sergeant, if you don't see to the contrary, that until
                  we know that to be a fact, it would be uncalled for to shoot Smith."
               "What you zay, Kelly, is shust what I zay."
               "Furthermore, however, sergeant, it might be right and in the way of duty, to call
                  up Smith and make him testify as to what he knows of this business, whether it be
                  murder, or meant for murder."
               "Cock your beece, Kelly."
               Both men cocked their pieces.
               "Now I will gall Schmidt out and question him," continued Meyer. "You will stand
                  on one side and pe ready to opey my orders."
               "Very good, sergeant," said Kelly, and dropped back a little into the nearly
                  complete darkness.
               Meyer sang out sharply, "Schmidt! Texas Schmidt!"
               The desperado heard the summons, hesitated a moment, cocked the revolver in his
                  belt, loosened his knife in its sheath, rose from his blanket, and walked slowly
                  in the direction of the voice. Passing Kelly without seeing him, he confronted
                  fronted Meyer, his hand on his pistol. There was not the slightest tremor in the
                  hoarse, low croak with which he asked, "What's the game, sergeant?"
               "Schmidt, stand berfectly still," said Meyer in his softest fluting. "Kelly has
                  his beece aimed at your head. If you stir hant or foot, you are a kawn koose."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               TEXAS SMITH was too old a borderer to attempt to draw his weapons while such a man
                  as Kelly was sighting him at ten feet distance.
               "Play yer hand, sergeant," he said; "you've got the keerds."
               "You know, Schmidt, that our leftenant has been garried down the river," continued
                  Meyer.
               The bushwhacker responded with a grunt which expressed neither pleasure nor
                  sorrow, but merely assent.
               "You know," went on the sergeant, "that such things cannot habben to officers
                  without investigations."
               "He war a squar man, an' a white man," said Texas. "I didn't have nothin' to do
                  with cuttin' him loose, if he war cut loose."
               "You didn't saw the lariat yourself, Schmidt, I know that. But do you know who did
                  saw it?"
               "I dun no the first thing about it."
               "Bray to pe struck tead if you do."
               "I dunno how to pray."
               "Then holt up your hants and gurse yourself to hell if you do."
               Lifting his hands over his head, the ignorant savage blasphemed copiously.
               "Do you think you can guess how it was pusted?" persisted the soldier.
               "Look a hyer!" remonstrated Smith, "ain't you pannin' me out a leetle too fine? It
                  mought 'a' been this way, an' it mought 'a' been that. But I've no business to
                  point if I can't find. When a man's got to the bottom of his pile, you can't fo'ce
                  him to borrow. 'Sposin' I set you barkin' up the wrong tree; what good's that
                  gwine to do?"
               "Veil, Schmidt, I don't zay but what you zay right. You mustn't zay any ting you
                  don't know someting apout."
               After another silence, during which Texas continued to hold his hands above his
                  head, Meyer added, "Kelly, you may come to an order. Schmidt, you may put down
                  your hants. Will you haf a jew of topacco?"
               The three men now approached each other, took alternate bites of the sergeant's
                  last plug of pigtail, and masticated amicably.
               "You army fellers run me pootty close," said Texas, after a while, in a tone of
                  complaint and humiliation. "I don't want to fight brass buttons. They're too many
                  for me. The Capm he lassoed me, an' choked me some; an' now you're on it."
               "When things habben to officers, they must pe looked into," replied Meyer.
               "I dunno how in thunder the lariat got busted," repeated Texas. "An' if I should
                  go for to guess, I mought guess wrong."
               "All right, Schmidt; I pelieve you, If there is no more drubble, you will not pe
                  called up again."
               "Ask him what he thinks of the leftenant's chances," suggested Kelly to his
                  superior.
               
               "Reckon he'll hev to run the river a spell," returned the borderer. "Reckon he'll
                  hev to run it a hell of a ways befo' he'll be able to git across the darr
                  country."
               "Ask him what the chances be of running the river safely," added Kelly.
               "Dam slim," answered Texas; and there the talk ended. There was some meditative
                  chewing, after which the three returned to the bivouac, and either lay down to
                  sleep or took their tours at guard duty.
               At dawn the party recommenced its flight toward the Moqui country. There were
                  sixty hours more of hard riding, insufficient sleep, short rations, thirst, and
                  anxiety. Once the suffering animals stampeded after water, and ran for several
                  miles over plateaux of rock, dashing off burdens and riders, and only halting
                  when, they were plunged knee-deep in the water-hole which they had scented. One of
                  the wounded rancheros expired on the mule to which he was strapped, and was
                  carried dead for several hours, his ashy-brown face swinging to and fro, until
                  Coronado had him thrown into a crevice.
               Amid these hardships and horrors Clara showed no sign of flagging or flinching.
                  She was very thin; bad food, excessive fatigue, and anxiety had reduced her; her
                  face was pinched, narrowed, and somewhat lined; her expression was painfully set
                  and eager. But she never asked for repose, and never complained. Her mind was
                  solely fixed upon finding Thurstane, and her feverish bright eyes continually
                  searched the horizon for him. She seemed to have lost her power of sympathizing
                  with any other creature. To Mrs. Stanley's groanings and murmurings she vouchsafed
                  rare and brief condolences. The dead muleteer and the tortured, bellowing animals
                  attracted little of her notice. She was not hardhearted; she was simply almost
                  insane. In this state of abnormal exaltation she continued until the party reached
                  the quiet and safety of the Moqui pueblos.
               Then there was a change; exhausted nature required either apathy or death; and for
                  two days she lay in a sort of stupor, sleeping a great deal, and crying often when
                  awake. The only person capable of rousing her was Sergeant Meyer, who made
                  expeditions to the other pueblos for news of Thurstane, and brought her news of
                  his hopes and his failures.
               After a three days' rest Coronado decided to resume his journey by moving
                  southward toward the Bernalillo trail. Freed from Thurstane, he no longer
                  contemplated losing Clara in the desert, but meant to marry her, and trusted that
                  he could do it, Two of his wagons he presented to the Moquis, who were, of course,
                  delighted with the acquisition, although they had no more use for wheeled vehicles
                  than for gunboats. With only four wagons, his animals were more than sufficient,
                  and the train made tolerably rapid progress, in spite of the roughness of the
                  country.
               The land was still a wonder. The water wizards of old had done their grotesque
                  Utmost here. What with sculpturing and frescoing, they had made that most
                  fantastic wilderness the Fainted Desert. It looked like a mirage. The travellers
                  had an impression that here was some atmospheric illusion. It seemed as if it
                  could not last five minutes if the sun should shine upon it. There were crowding
                  hills so variegated and gay as to put one in mind of masses of soap-bubbles. But
                  the coloring was laid on fifteen hundred feet deep. It consisted of sandstone
                  marls, red, blue, green, orange, purple, white, brown, lilac, and yellow,
                  interstratified with magnesian limestone in bands of purple, bluish-white, and
                  mottled, with here and there shining flecks or great glares of gypsum.
               Among the more delicate wonders of the scene were the petrified trunks which had
                  once been pines and cedars, but which were now flint or jasper. The washings of
                  geologic æons have exposed to view immense quantities of these enchanted forests.
                  Fragments of silicified trees are not only strewn over the lowlands, but are piled
                  by the hundred cords at the bases of slopes, seeming like so much drift-wood from
                  wonder-lands far up the stream of time. Generally they are in short bits, broken
                  square across the grain, as if sawed. Some are jasper, and look like masses of red
                  sealing-wax; others are agate, or opalescent chalcedony, beautifully lined and
                  variegated; many retain the graining, layers, knots, and other details of their
                  woody structure.
               ln places where the marls had been washed away gently, the emigrants found trunks
                  complete, from root to summit, fifty feet in length and three in diameter. All the
                  branches, however, were gone; the tree had been uprooted, transported, whirled and
                  worn by deluges; then to commemorate the victory of the water sprites, it had been
                  changed into stone. The sight of these remnants of antediluvian woodlands made
                  history seem the reminiscence of a child. They were already petrifactions when the
                  human race was born.
               The Painted Desert has other marvels. Throughout vast stretches you pass between
                  tinted mesas, or tables, which face each other
                  across flat valleys like painted palaces across the streets of Genova la Superba.
                  They are giant splendors, hundreds of feet in height, built of blood-red sandstone
                  capped with variegated marls. The torrents, which scooped out the intersecting
                  levels, amused their monstrous leisure with carving the points and abutments of
                  the mesa into fantastic forms, so that the
                  traveller sees towers, minarets, and spires loftier than the pinnacles of
                  cathedrals.
               The emigrants were often deceived by these freaks of nature. Beheld from a
                  distance, it seemed impossible that they should not be ruins, the monuments of
                  some Cyclopean race. Aunt Maria, in particular, discovered casas grandes and casas
                  de Montezuma very frequently.
               "There is another casa," she would say, staring through her spectacles (broken) at
                  a butte three hundred feet high. "What a people it must have been which raised
                  such edifices!"
               And she would stick to it, too, until she was close up to the solid rock, and then
                  would renew the transforming miracle five or ten miles further on.
               During this long and marvellous journey Coronado renewed his courtship. He was
                  cautious, however; he made a confidant of his friend Aunt Maria; begged her
                  favorable intercession.
               "Clara," said Mrs. Stanley, as the two women jolted along in one of the lumbering
                  wagons, "there is one thing in your life which perhaps you don't suspect."
               The girl, who wanted to hear about Thurstane all the time, and expected to hear
                  about him, asked eagerly, "What is it?"
               "You have made Mr. Coronado fall in love with you," said Aunt Maria, thinking it
                  wise to be clear and straightforward, as men are reputed to be.
               The young lady, instantly revolting from the subject, made no reply.
               "I think, Clara, that if you take a husband—and most women do—he would be just the
                  person for you."
               Clara, once the gentlest of the gentle, was perfectly angelic no longer. She gave
                  her relative a stare which was partly intense misery, but which had much the look
                  of pure anger, as indeed it was in a measure.
               The expressions of violent emotion are alarming to most people. Aunt Maria,
                  beholding this tortured soul glaring at her out of its prison windows, recoiled in
                  surprise and awe. There was not another word spoken at the time concerning the obnoxious match-making. A single
                  stare of Warms had put to flight the executioner.
               In one way and another Clara continued to baffle her suitor and her advocate. The
                  days dragged on; the expedition steadily traversed the desert; the Santa Anna
                  region was crossed, and the Bernalillo trail reached; one hundred, two hundred,
                  three hundred miles and more were left behind; and still Coronado, though without
                  a rival, was not accepted.
               Then came an adventure which partly helped and partly hindered his plans. The
                  train was overtaken by a detachment of the Fifth United States Cavalry, commanded
                  by Major John Robinson, pushing for California. Of course Sergeant Meyer reported
                  himself and Kelly to the Major, and of course the Major ordered them to join his
                  party as far as Fort Yuma. This deprived Clara of her trusted protectors; but on
                  the other hand, she threatened to take advantage of the escort of Robinson for the
                  rest of her journey; and the mere mention of this at once brought Coronado on his
                  soul's marrow-bones. He swore by the heaven above, by all the saints and angels,
                  by the throne of the Virgin Mary, by every sacred object he could think of, that
                  not another word of love should pass his lips during the journey, that he would
                  live the life of a dead man, etc. Overcome by his pleadings, and by the
                  remonstrances of Aunt Maria, who did not want to have her favorite driven to
                  commit suicide, Clara agreed to continue with the train.
               After this scene followed days of hot travelling over hard, gravelly plains,
                  thinly coated with grass and dotted with cacti, mezquit trees, the leafless palo
                  verde, and the greasewood bush. Here and there towered that giant cactus, the
                  saguarra, a fluted shaft, thirty, forty, and even sixty feet high, with a coronet
                  of richly-colored flowers, the whole fabric as splendid as a Corinthian column.
                  Prickly pears, each one large enough to make a thicket, abounded. Through the
                  scorching sunshine ran scorpions and lizards, pursued by enormous rattlesnakes.
                  During the days the heat ranged from 100 to 115 deg. in the shade, while the
                  nights were swept by winds as parching as the breath of an oven. The distant
                  mountains glared at the eye like metals brought to a white heat. Not seldom they
                  passed horses, mules, cattle, and sheep, which had perished in this terrible
                  transit and been turned to mummies by the dry air and baking sun. Some of these
                  carcasses, having been set on their legs by passing travellers, stood upright,
                  staring with blind eyeballs, grinning through dried lips, mockeries of life,
                  statues of death.
               In spite of these hardships and horrors, Clara kept up her courage and was almost
                  cheerful; for in the first place Coronado had ceased his terrifying attentions,
                  and in the second place they were nearing Cactus Pass, where she hoped to meet
                  Thurstane. When love has not a foot of certainty to stand upon, it can take wing
                  and soar through the incredible. The idea that they two, divided hundreds of miles
                  back, should come together at a given point by pure accident, was obviously
                  absurd. Yet Clara could trust to the chance and live for it.
               The scenery changed to mountains. There were barren, sublime, awful peaks to the
                  right and left. To the girl's eyes they were beautiful, for she trusted that
                  Thurstane beheld them. She was always on horseback now, scanning every feature of
                  the landscape, searching of course for him. She did not pass a cactus, or a
                  thicket of mezquit, or a bowlder without anxious examination. She imagined herself
                  finding him helpless with hunger, or passing him unseen and leaving him to die,
                  She was so pale and thin with constant anxiety that you might have thought her
                  half starved, or recovering from some acute malady.
               About five one afternoon, as the train was approaching its halting-place at a
                  spring on the western side of the pass, Clara's feverish mind fixed on a group of
                  rocks half a mile from the trail as the spot where she would find Thurstane. In
                  obedience to similar impressions she had already made many expeditions of this
                  nature. Constant failure, and a consciousness that all this searching was folly,
                  could not shake her wild hopes. She set off at a canter alone; but after going
                  some four hundred yards she heard a gallop behind her, and, looking over her
                  shoulder, she saw Coronado. She did, not want to be away from the train with him;
                  but she must at all hazards reach that group of rocks; something within impelled
                  her. Better mounted than she, he was soon by her side, and after a while struck
                  out in advance, saying, "I will look out for an ambush."
               When Coronado reached the rocks he was fifty yards ahead of Clara. He made the
                  circuit of them at a slow canter; in so doing he discovered the starving and
                  fainted Thurstane lying in the high grass beneath a low shelf of stone; he saw
                  him, he recognized him, and in an instant he trembled from head to foot. But such
                  was his power of self-control that he did not check his horse, nor cast a second
                  look to see whether the man was alive or dead. He turned the last stone in the
                  group, met Clara with a forced smile, and said gently, "There is nothing."
               She reined up, drew a long sigh, thought that here was another foolish hope
                  crushed, and turned her horse's head toward the train.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               THE tread of Coronado's horse passing within fifteen feet of Thurstane roused him
                  from the troubled sleep into which he had sunk after his long fainting fit.
               Slowly he opened his eyes, to see nothing but long grasses close to his face, and
                  through them a haze of mountains and sky. His first moments of wakening were so
                  far from being a full consciousness that he did not comprehend where he was. He
                  felt very, very weak, and he continued to lie still.
               But presently he became aware of sounds; there was a trampling, and then there
                  were words; the voices of life summoned him to live. Instantly he remembered two
                  things: the starving comrades whom it was his duty to save, and the loved girl
                  whom he longed to find. Slowly and with effort, grasping at the rock to aid his
                  trembling knees, he rose to his feet just as Clara turned her horse's head toward
                  the plain.
               Coronado threw a last anxious glance in the direction of the wretch whom he meant
                  to abandon to the desert. To his horror he saw a lean, smirched, ghostly face
                  looking at him in a dazed way, as if out of the blinding shades of death. The
                  quickness of this villain was so wonderful that one is almost tempted to call it
                  praiseworthy. He perceived at once that Thurstane would be discovered, and that
                  he, Coronado, must make the discovery, or he might be charged with attempting to
                  leave him to die.
               "Good heavens!" he exclaimed loudly, "there he is!"
               Clara turned: there was a scream of joy: she was on the ground, running: she was
                  in Thurstane's arms. During that unearthly moment there was no thought in those two of Coronado, or of any being
                  but each other. It is impossible fully to describe such a meeting; its exterior
                  signs are beyond language; its emotion is a lifetime. If words are feeble in
                  presence of the heights and depths of the Colorado, they are impotent in presence
                  of the altitudes and abysses of great passion. Human speech has never yet
                  completely expressed human intellect, and it certainly never will completely
                  express human sentiments. These lovers, who had been wandering in chasms
                  impenetrable to hope, were all of a sudden on mountain summits dizzy with joy.
                  What could they say for themselves, or what can another say for them?
               Clara only uttered, inarticulate murmurs, while her hands crawled up Thurstane's
                  arms, pressing and clutching him to make sure that he was alive. There was an
                  indescribable pathos in this eagerness which could not trust to sight, but must
                  touch also, as if she were blind. Thurstane held her firmly, kissing hair,
                  forehead, and temples, and whispering, "Clara! Clara!" Her face, which had turned
                  white at the first glimpse of him, was now roseate all over and damp with a sweet
                  dew. It became smirched with the dust of his face; but she would only have
                  rejoiced, had she known it; his very squalor was precious to her.
               At last she fell back from him, held him at arm's length with ease, and stared at
                  him. "Oh, how sick!" she gasped. "How thin! You are starving."
               She ran to her horse, drew from her saddle-bags some remnants of food, and brought
                  them to him. He had sunk down faint upon a stone, and he was too weak to speak
                  aloud; but he gave her a smile of encouragement which was at once pathetic and
                  sublime. It said, "I can bear all alone; you must not suffer for me." But it said
                  this out of such visible exhaustion, that, instead of being comforted, she was
                  terrified.
               "Oh, you must not die," she whispered with quivering mouth. "If you die, I will
                  die."
               Then she checked her emotion and added, "There! Don't mind me. I am silly.
                  Eat."
               Meanwhile Coronado looked on with such a face as Iago might have worn had he felt
                  the jealousy of Othello. For the first time he positively knew that the woman he
                  loved was violently in love with another. He suffered so horribly that we should
                  be bound to pity him, only that he suffered after the fashion of devils, his
                  malignity equalling his agony. While he was in such pain that his heart ceased
                  beating, his fingers curled like snakes around the handle of his revolver. Nothing
                  kept him from shooting that man, yes, and that woman also, but the certainty that
                  the deed would make him a fugitive for life, subject everywhere to the summons of
                  the hangman.
               Once, almost overcome by the temptation, he looked around for the train. It was
                  within hearing; he thought he saw Mrs. Stanley watching him; two of his Mexicans
                  were approaching at full speed. He dismounted, sat down upon a stone, partially
                  covered his face with his hand, and tried to bring himself to look at the two
                  lovers. At last, when he perceived that Thurstane was eating and Clara merely
                  kneeling by, he walked tremulously toward them, scarcely conscious of his
                  feet.
               "Welcome to life, lieutenant," he said. "I did not wish to interrupt. Now I
                  congratulate."
               Thurstane looked at him steadily, seemed to hesitate for a moment, and then put
                  out his hand.
               "It was I who discovered you," went on Coronado, as he took the lean, grimy
                  fingers in his buckskin gauntlet.
               "I know it," mumbled the young fellow; then with a visible effort he added,
                  "Thanks."
               Presently the two Mexicans pulled up with loud exclamations of joy and wonder. One
                  of them took out of his haversack a quantity of provisions and a flask of
                  aguardiente; and Coronado handed them to Thurstane with a smile, hoping that he
                  would surfeit himself and die.
               "No," said Clara, seizing the food. "You have eaten enough. You may drink."
               "Where are the others?" she presently asked.
               "In the hills," he answered. "Starving. I must go and find them."
               "No, no!" she cried. "You must go to the train. Some one else will look for
                  them."
               One of the rancheros now dismounted and helped Thurstane into his saddle. Then,
                  the Mexican steadying him on one side and Clara riding near him on the other, he
                  was conducted to the train, which was at that moment going into park near a
                  thicket of willows.
               In an amazingly short time he was very like himself. Healthy and plucky, he had
                  scarcely swallowed his food and brandy before he began to draw strength from them;
                  and he had scarcely begun to breathe freely before he began to talk of his
                  duties.
               "I must go back," he insisted. "Glover and Sweeny are starving. I must look them
                  up."
               "Certainly," answered Coronado.
               "No!" protested Clara. "You are not strong enough."
               "Of course not," chimed in Aunt Maria with real feeling, for she was shocked by
                  the youth's haggard and ghastly face.
               "Who else can find them?" he argued. "I shall want two spare animals. Glover can't
                  march, and I doubt whether Sweeny can."
               "You shall have all you need," declared Coronado.
               "He mustn't go," cried Clara, Then, seeing in his face that he would
                  go, she added, "I will go with him."
               "No, no," answered several voices. "You would only be in the way."
               "Give me my horse," continued Thurstane. "Where are Meyer and Kelly?"
               He was told how they had gone on to Fort Yuma with Major Robinson, taking his
                  horse, the government mules, stores, etc.
               "Ah! unfortunate," he said. "However, that was right. Well, give me a mule for
                  myself, two mounted muleteers, and two spare animals; some provisions also, and a
                  flask of brandy. Let me start as soon as the men and beasts have eaten. It is
                  forty miles there and back."
               "But you can't find your way in the night," persisted Clara.
               "There is a moon," answered Thurstane, looking at her gratefully; while Coronado
                  added encouragingly, "Twenty miles are easily done."
               "Oh yes!" hoped Clara. "You can almost get there before dark. Do start at
                  once."
               But Coronado did not mean that Thurstane should set out immediately. He dropped
                  various obstacles in the way: for instance, the animals and men must be thoroughly
                  refreshed; in short, it was dusk before all was ready.
               Meantime Clara had found an opportunity of whispering to Thurstane.
                     "Must you?" And he had answered, looking at her as the Huguenot
                  looks at his wife in Millais's picture, "My dear love, you know that I must."
               
               "You will be careful of yourself?" she begged.
               "For your sake."
               "But remember that man," she whispered, looking about for Texas Smith.
               "He is not going. Come, my own darling, don't frighten yourself. Think of my poor
                  comrades."
               "I will pray for them and for you all the time you are gone. But oh, Ralph, there
                  is one thing. I must tell you. I am so afraid. I did wrong to let Coronado see how
                  much I care for you. I am afraid——"
               He seemed to understand her. "It isn't possible," he murmured. Then, after eyeing
                  her gravely for a moment, he asked, "I may be always sure of you? Oh yes! I knew
                  it. But Coronado? Well, it isn't possible that he would try to commit a treble
                  murder. Nobody abandons starving men in a desert. Well, I must go. I must save
                  these men. After that we will think of these other things. Good-by, my
                  darling."
               The sultry glow of sunset had died out of the west, and the radiance of a full
                  moon was climbing up the heavens in the east when Thurstane set off on his
                  pilgrimage of mercy. Clara watched him as long as the twilight would let her see
                  him, and then sat down with drooped face, like a flower which has lost the sun. If
                  any one spoke to her, she answered tardily and not always to the purpose. She was
                  fulfilling her promise; she was praying for Thurstane and the men whom he had gone
                  to save; that is, she was praying when her mind did not wander into reveries of
                  terror. After a time she started up with the thought, "Where is Texas Smith?" He
                  was not visible, and neither was Coronado. Suspicious of some evil intrigue, she
                  set out in search of them, made the circuit of the fires, and then wandered into
                  the willow thickets. Amid the underwood, hastening toward the wagons, she met
                  Coronado.
               "Ah!" he started. "Is that you, my little cousin? You are as terrible in the dark
                  as an Apache."
               "Coronado, where is your hunter?" she asked with a beating heart.
               "I don't know. I have been looking for him. My dear cousin, what do you want?"
               "Coronado, I will tell you the truth. That man is a murderer. I know it."
               Coronado just took the time to draw one long breath, and then replied with sublime
                  effrontery, "I fear so. I learn that he has told horrible stories about himself.
                  Well, to tell the truth, I have discharged him."
               "Oh, Coronado!" gasped Clara, not knowing whether to believe him or not.
               "Shall I confess to you," he continued, "that I suspect him of having weakened
                  that towline so as to send our friend down the San Juan?"
               "He never went near the boat," heroically answered Clara, at the same time wishing
                  she could see Coronado's face.
               "Of course not. He probably hired some one. I fear our rancheros are none too good
                  to be bribed. I will confess to you, my cousin, that ever since that day I have
                  been watching Smith."
               "Oh, Coronado!" repeated Clara. She was beginning to believe this prodigious liar,
                  and to be all the more alarmed because she did believe him. "So you have sent him
                  away? I am so glad. Oh, Coronado, I thank you. But help me look for him now. I
                  want to know if he is in camp."
               It is almost impossible to do Coronado justice. While he was pretending to aid
                  Clara in searching for Texas Smith, he knew that the man had gone out to murder
                  Thurstane. We must remember that the man was almost as wretched as he was wicked;
                  if punishment makes amends for crime, his was in part absolved solved. As he
                  walked about with the girl he thought over and over, Will it kill her? He tried to
                  answer, No. Another voice persisted in saying, Yes. In his desperation he at last
                  replied, Let it!
               We must follow Texas Smith. He had not started on his errand until he had received
                  five hundred dollars in gold, and five hundred in a draft on San Francisco. Then
                  he had himself proposed, "I mought quit the train, an' take my own resk acrost the
                  plains." This being agreed to, he had mounted his horse, slipped away through the
                  willows, and ridden into the desert after Thurstane.
               He knew the trail; he had been from Cactus Pass to Diamond River and back again;
                  he knew it at least as well as the man whose life he was tracking. He thought he
                  remembered the spring where Glover had broken down, and felt pretty sure that it
                  could not be less than twenty miles from the camp. Mounted as he was, he could put
                  himself ahead of Thurstane and ambush him in some ravine. Of a sudden he laughed.
                  It was not a burst of merriment, but a grim wrinkling of his dark, haggard cheeks,
                  followed by a hissing chuckle. Texas seldom laughed, and with good reason, for it
                  was enough to scare people.
               "Mought be done," he muttered. "Mought git the better of 'em all that way. Shute,
                  'an then yell. The greasers 'ud think it was Injuns, an' they'd travel for camp.
                  Then I'd stop the spare mules an' start for Californy."
               For Texas this plan was a stroke of inspiration. He was not an intelligent
                  scoundrel. All his acumen, though bent to the one point of roguery, had barely
                  sufficed hitherto to commit murders and escape hanging. He had never prospered
                  financially, because he lacked financial ability. He was a beast, with all a
                  tiger's ferocity, but with hardly more than a tiger's intelligence. He was a
                  savage numskull. An Apache Tonto would have been more than his match in the arts
                  of murder, and very nearly his match in the arts of civilization.
               Instead of following Thurstane directly, he made a circuit of several miles
                  through a ravine, galloped across a wide grassy plain, and pulled up among some
                  rounded hillocks. Here, as he calculated, he was fifteen miles from camp, and five
                  from the spot where lay Glover and Sweeny. The moon had already gone down and left
                  the desert to the starlight Posting himself behind a thicket, he waited for half
                  an hour or more, listening with indefatigable attention.
               He had no scruples, but he had some fears. If he should miss, the lieutenant would
                  fire back, and he was cool enough to fire with effect. Well, he wouldn't miss;
                  what should he miss for? As for the greasers, they would run at the first shot.
                  Nevertheless, he did occasionally muddle over the idea of going off to California
                  with his gold, and without doing this particular job. What kept him to his
                  agreement was the hope of stealing the spare mules, and the fear that the draft
                  might not be paid if he shirked his work.
               "I s'pose I must show his skelp," thought Texas, "or they won't hand over the
                  dust."
               At last there was a sound; he had set his ambush just right; there were voices in
                  the distance; then hoofs in the grass. Next he saw something; it was a man on a
                  mule; yes, and it was the right man.
               He raised his cocked rifle and aimed, sighting the head, three rods away. Suddenly
                  his horse whinnied, and then the mule of the other reared; but the bullet had
                  already sped. Down went Thurstane in the darkness, while, with an Apache yell,
                  Texas Smith burst from his ambush and charged upon the greasers.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               THE chase after the spare mules carried Texas Smith several miles from the scene
                  of the ambush, so that when he at last caught the frightened beasts, he decided
                  not to go back and cut Thurstane's throat, but to set off at once westward and put
                  himself by morning well on the road to California.
               Meanwhile the two muleteers continued their flight at full gallop, and eventually
                  plunged into camp with a breathless story to the effect that Apaches had attacked
                  them, captured the spare mules, and killed the lieutenant. Coronado, no more able
                  to sleep than Satan, was the first to hear their tale.
               "Apaches!" he said, surprised and incredulous. Then, guessing at what had
                  happened, he immediately added, "Those devils again! We must push on, the moment
                  we can see."
               Apaches! It was a capital idea. He had an excuse now for hurrying, away from a
                  spot which he had stained with murder. If anyone demanded that Thurstane's body
                  should be sought for, or that those incumbrances Glover and Sweeny should be
                  rescued, he could respond, Apaches! Apaches! He gave orders to commence
                  preparations for moving at the first dawn.
               He expected and feared that Clara would oppose the advance in some trying way. But
                  one of the fugitives relieved him by blurting out the death of Thurstane, and
                  sending her into spasms of alternate hysterics and fainting which lasted for
                  hours. Lying in a wagon, her head in the lap of Mrs. Stanley, a sick, very sick,
                  dangerously sick girl, she was jolted along as easily as a corpse.
               Coronado rode almost constantly beside her wagon, inquiring about her every few
                  minutes, his face changing with contradictory emotions, wishing she would die and
                  hoping she would live, loving and hating her in the same breath. Whenever she came
                  to herself and recognized him, she put out her hands and implored, "Oh, Coronado,
                  take me back there!"
               'Apaches!" growled Coronado, and spurred away repeating his lie to himself,
                  "Apaches! Apaches!"
               Then he checked his horse and rode anew to her side, hoping that he might be able
                  to reason with her.
               "Oh, take me back!" was all the response he could obtain, "Take me back and let me
                  die there."
               "Would you have us all die?" he shouted—" like Pepita!"
               "Don't scold her," bagged Aunt Maria, who was sobbing like a child. "She doesn't
                  know what she is asking."
               But Clara knew too much; at the word Pepita she
                  guessed the torture scene; and then it came into her mind that Thurstane might be
                  even now at the stake. She immediately broke into screens, which ended in
                  convulsions and a long fit of insensibility.
               "It is killing her," wailed Aunt Maria. "Oh, my child! my child!"
               Coronado spurred at full speed for a mile, muttering to the desert, "Let it kill
                  her! let it!"
               At last he halted for the train to overtake him, glanced anxiously at Clara's
                  wagon, saw that Mrs. Stanley was still bending over her, guessed that she was
                  still alive, drew a sigh of relief, and rode on alone.
               "Oh, this love-making!" sighed Aunt Maria scores of times, for she had at last
                  learned of the engagement. "When will my sex get over the weakness? It kills them,
                  and they like it."
               That night Clara could not sleep, and kept Coronado awake with her moanings. All
                  the next day she lay in a semi-unconsciousness which was partly lethargy and
                  partly fever. It was well; at all events he could bear it so—bear it better than
                  when she was crying and praying for death. The next night she fell into such a
                  long silence of slumber that he came repeatedly to her wagon to hearken if she
                  still breathed. Youth and a strong constitution were waging a doubtful battle to
                  rescue her from the despair which threatened to rob her of either life or
                  reason.
               So the journey continued. Henceforward the trail followed Bill Williams's river to
                  the Colorado, tracked that stream northward to the Mohave valley, and, crossing
                  there, took the line of the Mohave river toward California. It was a prodigious
                  pilgrimage still, and far from being a safe one. The Mohaves, one of the tallest
                  and bravest races known, from six feet to six and a half in height, fighting hand
                  to hand with short clubs, were not perfectly sure to be friendly. Coronado felt
                  that, if ever he got his wife and his fortune, he should have earned them. He was
                  resolute, however; there was no flinching yet in this versatile, yet obstinate
                  nature; he was as wicked and as enduring as a Pizarro.
               We will not make the journey; we must suppose it. Weeks after the desert had for a
                  second time engulfed Thurstane, a coasting schooner from Santa Barbara entered the
                  Bay of San Francisco, having on board Clara, Mrs. Stanley, and Coronado.
               The latter is on deck now, smoking his eternal cigarito without knowing it, and
                  looking at the superb scenery without seeing it. A landscape mirrored In the eye
                  of a horse has about as much effect on the brain within as a landscape mirrored in
                  the eye of Coronado. He is a Latin; he has a fine ear for music, and he would
                  delight in museums of painting and sculpture; but he has none of the passion of
                  the sad, grave, imaginative Anglican race for nature. Mountains, deserts, seas,
                  and storms are to him obstacles and hardships. He has no more taste for them than
                  had Ulysses.
               He has agonized with sea-sickness during the voyage, and this is the first clay
                  that he has found tolerable. Once more he is able to eat and stand up; able to
                  think, devise, resolve, and execute; able, in short, to be Coronado. Look at the
                  little, sunburnt, sinewy, earnest, enduring man; study his diplomatic countenance,
                  serious and yet courteous, full of gravity and yet ready for gayety; notice his
                  ready smile and gracious wave of the hand as he salutes the skipper He has been
                  through horrors; he has fought a tremendous fight of passion, crime, and peril;
                  yet he scarcely shows a sign of it There is some such lasting stuff in him as goes
                  to make the Bolivars, Francias, and Lopez, the restless and indefatigable
                  agitators of the Spanish-American communities. You cannot help sympathizing with
                  him somewhat, because of his energy and bottom. You are tempted to say that he
                  deserves to win.
               He has made some progress in his conspiracy to entrap love and a fortune. It must
                  be understood that the two muleteers persisted in their story concerning Apaches,
                  and that consequently Clara has come to think of Thurstane as dead. Meantime
                  Coronado, after the first two days of wild excitement, has conducted ducted himself with rare intelligence,
                  never alarming her with talk of love, always courteous, kind, and useful. Little
                  by little he has worn away her suspicions that he planned murder, and her only
                  remaining anger against him is because he did not attempt to search for Thurstane;
                  but even for that she is obliged to see some excuse in the terrible word
                  "Apaches."
               "I have had no thought but for her safety," Coronado often said to
                  Mrs. Stanley, who as often repeated the words to Clara. "I have made mistakes," he
                  would go on. "The San Juan journey was one. I will not even plead Garcia's
                  instructions to excuse it. But our circumstances have been terrible. Who could
                  always take the right step amid such trials? All I ask is charity. If humility
                  deserves mercy, I deserve it."
               Coronado even schooled himself into expressing sympathy with Clara for the loss of
                  Thurstane. He spoke of him as her affianced, eulogized his character, admitted
                  that he had not formerly done him justice, hinting that this blindness had sprung
                  from jealousy, and so alluded to his own affection. These things he said at first
                  to Aunt Maria, and she, his steady partisan, repeated them to Clara, until at last
                  the girl could bear to hear them from Coronado. Sympathy! the bleeding heart must
                  have it; it will accept this balm from almost any hand, and it will pay for it in
                  gratitude and trust.
               Thus in two months from the disappearance of Thurstane his rival had begun to hope
                  that he was supplanting him. Of course he had given up all thought of carrying out
                  the horrible plan with which he had started from Santa Fé. Indeed, he began to
                  have a horror of Garcia, as a man who had set him on a wrong track and nearly
                  brought him into folly and ruin. One might say that Satan was in a state of mind
                  to rebuke sin.
               Let us now glance at Clara. She is seated beside Aunt Maria on the quarter-deck of
                  the schooner. Her troubles have changed her; only eighteen years old, she has the
                  air of twenty-four; her once rounded face is thin, and her childlike sweetness has
                  become tender gravity. When she entered on this journey she resembled the girl
                  faces of Greuze; now she is sometimes a mater
                     amabilis, and sometimes a mater
                     dolorosa; for her grief has been to her as a maternity. The great
                  change, so far from diminishing her beauty, has made her seem more fascinating and
                  nobler. Her countenance has had a new birth, and exhibits a more perfect soul.
               We have hitherto had little more than a superficial view of the characters of our
                  people. Events, incidents, adventures, and even landscapes have been the leading
                  personages of the story, and have been to its human individualities what the
                  Olympian gods are to Greek and Trojan heroes in the Iliad. Just as Jove or Neptune
                  roles or thwarts Agamemnon and Achilles, so the monstrous circumstances of the
                  desert have overborne, dwarfed, and blurred these travellers. It is only now, when
                  they have escaped from the dii majores, and have
                  become for a brief period tranquil free agents, that we can see them as they are.
                  Even yet they are not altogether untrammelled. Man is never quite himself; he is
                  always under some external influence, past or present; he is always being
                  governed, if not being created.
               Clara, born anew of trouble, is admirable. There is a sweet, sedate, and almost
                  solemn womanliness about her, which even overawes Mrs. Stanley, conscious of
                  aunthood and strongmindedness, and insisting upon it that her niece is "a mere
                  child." It is a great victory to gain over a lady who has that sort of
                  self-confidence that if she had been a sunflower and obliged to turn toward the
                  sun for life, she would yet have believed that it was she who made him shine. When
                  Clara decides a matter Mrs. Stanley, while still mentally saying "Young thing,"
                  feels nevertheless that her own decision has been uttered. And in every successive
                  resistance she is overcome the easier, for habit is a conqueror.
               They have just had a discussion. Aunt Maria wants Clara to stand on her dignity in
                  a hotel until old Muñoz goes down on his marrow-bones, makes her a handsome
                  allowance, and agrees to leave her at least half his fortune. Clara's reply is
                  substantially, "He is my grandfather and the proper head of my family. I think I
                  ought to go straight to him and say, Grandfather, here I am."
               Beaten by this gentle conscientiousness, Aunt Maria endeavored to appeal the
                  matter to Coronado.
               "I am so glad to see you enjoying your cigarito once more," she called to him with
                  as sweet a smile as if she didn't hate tobacco.
               He left his smoking retreat amidships, took off his hat with a sort of airy
                  gravity, and approached them.
               "Mr. Coronado, where do you propose to take us when we reach land?" asked Aunt
                  Maria.
               "We will, if you please, go direct to my excellent relative's," was the reply.
               Aunt Maria held her head straight up, as if stiff-neckedly refusing to go there,
                  but made no opposition.
               Coronado had meditated everything and decided everything. It would not do to go to
                  a hotel, because that might lead to a suspicion that he knew all the while about
                  the death of Muñoz. His plan was to drive at once to the old man's place, demand
                  him as if he. expected to see him, express proper surprise and grief over the
                  funereal response, put the estate as soon as possible into Clara's hands, become
                  her man of affairs and trusted friend, and so climb to be her husband. He was
                  anxious; during all his perils in the desert he had never been more so; but he
                  bore the situation heroically, as he could bear; his face revealed nothing but its
                  outside—a smile.
               "My dear cousin," he presently said, "when I once fairly set you down in your
                  home, you will owe me, in spite of all my blunders, a word of thanks."
               "Coronado, I shall owe you more than I ever can repay," she replied frankly,
                  without remembering that he wanted to marry her, The next instant she remembered
                  it, and her face showed the first blush that had tinted it for two months. He saw
                  the significant color, and turned away to conceal a joy which might have been
                  perilous had she observed it.
               Immediately on landing he proceeded to carry out his programme. He took a hack,
                  drove the ladies direct to the house of Muñoz, and there went decorously through
                  the form of learning that the old man was dead. Then, consoling the sorrowful and
                  anxious Clara, he hurried to the best hotel in the city and made arrangements for
                  what he meant should be an impressive scene, the announcement of her fortune. He
                  secured fine rooms for the ladies, and ordered them a handsome lunch, with wine,
                  etc., all without regard to expense. The girl must be perfectly comfortable and
                  under a sense of all sorts of obligations to him when she received his coup de théâtre.
               
               He was not so preoccupied but that he quarrelled with his coachman about the hack
                  hire and dismissed him with some disagreeable epithets in Spanish, Next he took a
                  saddle-horse, as being the cheapest conveyance attainable, and cantered off to
                  find the executors of Muñoz, enjoying heartily such stares of admiration as he got
                  for his splendid riding. In an hour he returned, found the ladies in their
                  freshest dresses, and complimented them suitably. At this very moment his anguish
                  of anxiety and suspense was terrible. When Clara should earn that she was a millionaire, what would she do?
                  Would she throw off the air of friendliness which she had lately worn, and scout
                  him as one whom she had long known as a scoundrel? Would all his plots, his
                  labors, his perils, and his love prove in one moment to have been in vain? As he
                  stood there smiling and flattering, he was on the cross.
               "But I am talking trifles," he said at last, fairly catching his breath. "Can you
                  guess why I do it? I am prolonging a moment of intense pleasure."
               Such was his control over himself that he looked really benign and noble as he
                  drew from his pocket a copy of the will and held it out toward Clara.
               "My dear cousin," he murmured, his dark eyes searching her face with intense
                  anxiety, "you cannot imagine my joy in announcing to you that you are the sole
                  heir of the good Pedro Muñoz."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               AT the announcement that she was a millionaire Clara turned pale, took the
                  proffered paper mechanically with trembling fingers, and then, without looking at
                  it, said, "Oh, Coronado!"
               It was a tone of astonishment, of perplexity, of regret, of protest; it seemed to
                  declare, Here is a terrible injustice, and I will none of it. Coronado was
                  delighted; in a breath he recovered all his presence of mind; he recovered his
                  voice, too, and spoke out cheerfully:
               "Ah, you are surprised, my cousin. Well, it is your grandfather's will. You, as
                  well as all others, must submit to it."
               Aunt Maria jumped up and walked or rather pranced about the room, saying loudly,
                  "He must have been the best man in the whole world." After repeating this two or
                  three times, she halted and added with even more emphasis, "Except
                     you, Mr. Coronado!"
               The Mexican bowed in silence; it was almost too much to be praised in that way,
                  feeling as he did; he bowed twice and waved his hand, deprecating the compliment.
                  The interview was a very painful one to him, although he knew that he was gaining
                  admiration with every breath that he drew, and admiration just where it was
                  absolutely necessary to him. Turning to Clara now, he begged, "Read it, if you
                  please, my cousin."
               The girl, by this time flushed from chin to forehead, glanced over the paper, and
                  immediately said, "This should not be so. It must not be."
               Coronado was overjoyed; she evidently thought that she owed him and Garcia a part
                  of this fortune; even if she kept it, she would feel bound to consider his
                  interests, and the result of her conscientiousness might be marriage.
               "Let us have no contest with the dead," he replied grandly. "Their wishes are
                  sacred."
               "But Garcia and you are wronged, and I cannot have it so," persisted Clara.
               "How wronged?" demanded Aunt Maria. "I don't see it. Mr. Garcia was only a cousin,
                  and he is rich enough already."
               Coronado, remembering that he and Garcia were bankrupt, wished he could throw the
                  old lady out of a window.
               "Wait," said Clara in a tone of vehement resolution. "Give me time. You shall see
                  that I am not unjust or ungrateful."
               "I beg that you will not bestow a thought upon me," implored the sublime
                  'hypocrite. "Garcia, it is true, may have had claims. I have none."
               Aunt Maria walked up to him, squeezed both his hands, and came near hugging him.
                  Once out of this trial, Coronado could bear, no more, but kissed his fingers to
                  the ladies, hastened to his own room, locked the door, and swore all the oaths
                  that there are in Spanish, which is no small multitude.
               In a few days after this terrible interview things were going swimmingly well with
                  him. To keep Clara out of the hands of fortune-hunters, but ostensibly to enable
                  her to pass her first mourning in decent retirement, he had induced her to settle
                  in one of Muñoz's haciendas, a few miles from the city, where he of course had her
                  much to himself. He was her adviser; he was closeted frequently with the
                  executors; he foresaw the time when he would be the sole manager of the estate; he
                  began to trust that he would some day possess it. What woman could help leaning
                  upon and confiding in a man who was so useful, so necessary as Coronado, and who
                  had shown such unselfish, such magnanimous sentiments?
               Meantime the girl was as admirable in reality as the man was in appearance.
                  Unexpected inheritance of large wealth is almost sure to alter, at least for a
                  time, and generally for the worse, the manner and morale of a young person,
                  whether male or female. Conceit or haughtiness or extravagance or greediness, or
                  some other vice, pretty surely enters into either deportment or conduct. If this
                  girl was changed at all by her great good fortune, she was changed for the better.
                  She had never been more modest, gentle, affable, and sensible than she was now.
                  The fact shows a clearness of mind and a nobleness of heart which place her very
                  high among the wise and good. Such behavior under such circumstances is equal to
                  heroism. We are conscious that in saying these things of Clara we are drawing
                  largely upon the reader's faith. But either her present trial of character was
                  peculiarly fitted to her, or she was one of those select spirits who are purified
                  by temptation.
               She remembered Garcia's claims upon her grandfather, and her own supposed
                  obligations to Coronado. She informed the executors that she wished to make over
                  half her property to the old man, trusteeing it so that it should descend to his
                  nephew. Their reply, translated from roundabout and complimentary Spanish into
                  plain English, was this: "Yon can't do it. The estate is not settled, and will not
                  be for a year. Moreover, you have no power to part with it until you are of age,
                  which will not be for three years. Finally, your proposition defies your
                  grandfather's wishes, and it is altogether too generous."
               Clara's simple and firm reply was, "Well, I must wait. But it would seem better if
                  I could do it now."
               There was one reason why Clara should be so calm and unselfish in her elevation;
                  her sorrows served her as ballast. Why should she let riches turn her head when
                  she found that they could not lighten her heart? There was a certain night in her
                  past which gold could not illuminate; there had once been a precious life near
                  her, which was gone now beyond the power of ransom. Thurstane! How she would have
                  lavished this wealth upon him. He would have refused it; but she would have prayed
                  and forced him to accept it; she would have been the meeker to him because of it.
                  How noble he had been! not now to be brought back! gone forever! And his going had
                  been like the going away of the sun, leaving no beautiful color in all nature, no
                  guiding light for wandering footsteps. She exaggerated him, as love will
                  exaggerate the lost.
               Of course she did not always believe that he could be dead, and in her hours of
                  hope she wrote letters inquiring about his fate. In other days he had told her much of himself, stories of his
                  childhood and his battles, the number of his old regiment and his new one, titles
                  of his superiors, names of comrades, etc. To which among all these unknown ones
                  should she address herself? She fixed on the commander of his present regiment,
                  and that awfully mysterious personage the Adjutant-General of the army, a title
                  which seemed to represent omniscience and omnipotence. To each of these gentlemen
                  she sent an epistle recounting where, when, and how Lieutenant Ralph Thurstane had
                  been ambushed by unknown Indians, supposed to be Apaches.
               These letters she wrote and mailed without the knowledge of Coronado. This was not
                  caution, but pity; she did not suspect that he would try to intercept them; only
                  that it would pain him to learn how much she yet thought of his rival. Indeed, it
                  would have been cruel to show them to him, for he would have seen that they were
                  blurred with tears. You perceive that she had come to be tender of the feelings of
                  this earnest and scoundrelly lover, believing in his sincerity and not in his
                  villany.
               "Surely some of those people will know," thought Clara, with a trust in men and
                  dignitaries which makes one say sancta
                     simplicitas. "If they do not know," she added, with a prayer in her
                  heart, "God will discover it to them."
               But no answers came for months. The colonel was not with his regiment, but on
                  detached service at New York, whither Clara's letter travelled to find him, being
                  addressed to his name and not marked "Official business." What he did of course
                  was to forward it to the Adjutant-General of the army at Washington. The
                  Adjutant-General successively filed both communications, and sent a copy of each
                  to headquarters at Santa Fé and San Francisco, with an endorsement advising
                  inquiries and suitable search. The mails were slow and circuitous, and the
                  official routine was also slow and circuitous, so that it was long before
                  headquarters got the papers and went to work.
               Does any one marvel that Clara did not go directly to the military authorities in
                  the city? It must be remembered that man has his own world, as woman has hers, and
                  that each sex is very ignorant of the spheres and missions of the other, the
                  retired sex being especially limited in its information. The girl had never been
                  told that there was such a thing as district headquarters, or that soldiers in San
                  Francisco had anything to do with soldiers at Fort Yuma. Nor was she in the way of
                  learning such facts, being miles away from a uniform, and even from an
                  American.
               One day, when she was fuller of hope than usual, she dared to write to that ghost,
                  Thurstane. Where should the letter be addressed? It cost her much reflection to
                  decide that it ought to go to the station of his company, Fort Yuma. This gave her
                  an idea, and she at once penned two other letters, one directed "To the Captain of
                  Company I," and one to Sergeant Meyer. But unfortunately those three epistles were
                  not sent off before it occurred to Coronado that he ought to overlook the packages
                  that were sent from the hacienda to the city. By the way, he had from the first
                  assumed a secret censorship over the mails which arrived.
               Meantime he also had his anxiety and his correspondence. He feared lest Garcia
                  should learn how things had been managed, and should hasten to San Francisco to
                  act henceforward as his own special providence. In that case there would be
                  awkward explanations, there would be complicated and perilous plottings, there
                  might be stabbings or poisonings. Already, as soon as he reached the Mohave
                  valley, he had written one cajoling letter to his uncle. Scattered through six
                  pages on various affairs were underscored phrases and words, which, taken in
                  sequence, read as follows:
               "Things have gone well and ill. What was most desirable has not been fully
                  accomplished. There have been perils and deaths, but not the one required. The
                  wisest plans have been foiled by unforeseen circumstances. The future rests upon
                  slow poison. A few weeks more will suffice. Do not come here. It would rouse
                  suspicion. Trust all to me."
               He now sent other letters, reporting the progress of the malady caused by the
                  poison, urging Garcia to remain at a distance, assuring him that all would be
                  well, etc.
               "There will be no will," declared one of these lying messengers. "If there is a
                  will, you will be the inheritor. In all events, you will be safe. Rely upon my
                  judgment and fidelity."
               It is curious, by the way, that such men as Coronado and Garcia, knowing
                  themselves and each other to be liars, should nevertheless expect to be believed,
                  and should frequently believe each other. One is inclined to admit the seeming
                  paradox that rogues are more easily imposed upon than honest men.
               No responses came from Garcia. But, by way of consolation, Coronado had Clara's
                  correspondence to read. One day this hidalgo, securely locked in his room, held in
                  his delicate dark fingers a letter addressed to Miss Clara Van Die-men, and
                  postmarked in writing "Fort Yuma." Hot as the day was, there was a brazier by his
                  side, and a kettle of water bubbling on the coals. He held the letter in the
                  steam, softened the wafer to a pulp, opened the envelope carefully, threw himself
                  on a sofa, scowled at the beating of his heart, and began to read.
               Before he had glanced through the first line he uttered an exclamation, turned
                  hastily to the signature, and then burst into a stream of whispered curses. After
                  he had blasphemed himself into a certain degree of calmness, he read the letter
                  twice through carefully, and learned it by heart. Then he thrust it deep into the
                  coals of the brazier, watched it steadily until its slight flame had flickered
                  away, lighted a cigarito, and meditated.
               This epistle was not the only one that troubled him. He already knew that Clara
                  was inquiring about this man of whom she never spoke, and conducting her inquiries
                  with an intelligence and energy which showed that her heart was in the business.
                  If things went on so, there might be trouble some day, and there might be
                  punishment. For a time he was so disturbed that he felt somewhat as if he had a
                  conscience, and might yet know what it is to be haunted by remorse.
               As for Clara, he was furious with her, notwithstanding his love for her, and
                  indeed because of it. It was outrageous that a woman whom he adored should seek to
                  ferret out facts which might send him to State's Prison. It-was abominable that
                  she would not cease to care for that stupid officer after he had been so carefully
                  put out of her way, Coronado felt that he was persecuted.
               Well, what should be done? He must put a stop to Clara's inquiries, and he would
                  do it by inquiring 'himself. Yes, he would write to people about Thurstane, show
                  the letters to the girl (but never send them), and so gradually get this sort of
                  correspondence into his own hands, when he would drop it. She would be led thereby
                  to trust him the more, to be grateful to him, perhaps to love him. It was a
                  hateful mode of carrying on a courtship, but it seemed to be the best that he had
                  in his power. Having so decided, this master hypocrite, "full of all subtlety and
                  wiles of the devil," turned his attention to his siesta.
               For twenty minutes he slept the sleep of the just; then he was awakened by a timid
                  knock at his, door. Guessing from the shyness of the demand for entrance that it
                  came from a servant, he called pettishly, "What do you want? Go away."
               
               "I must see you," answered a voice which, feeble and indistinct as it was, took
                  Coronado to the door in an instant, trembling in every nerve with rage and
                  alarm.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               OPENING the door softly and with tremulous fingers, Coronado looked out upon an
                  old gray-headed man, short and paunchy in build, with small, tottering, uneasy
                  legs, skin mottled like that of a toad, cheeks drooping and shaking, chin
                  retiring, nose bulbous, one eye a black hollow, the other filmy and yet shining,
                  expression both dull and cunning, both eager and cowardly.
               The uncle seemed to be even more agitated at the sight of the nephew than the
                  nephew at the sight of the uncle. For an instant each stared at the other with a
                  strange expression of anxiety and mistrust. Then Coronado spoke. The words which
                  he had in his heart were, What are you here for, you scoundrelly old marplot? The
                  words which he actually uttered were, "My dear uncle, my benefactor, my more than
                  parent! How delighted I am to see you! Welcome, welcome!"
               The two men grasped each other's arms, and stuck their heads over each other's
                  shoulders in a pretence of embracing. Perhaps there never was anything of the kind
                  more curious than the contrast between their affectionate attitude and the
                  suspicion and aversion painted on their faces.
               "Have you been seen?" asked Coronado as soon as he had closed and locked the door.
                  "I must contrive to get you away unperceived. Why have you come? My dear uncle, it
                  was the height of imprudence. It will expose you to suspicion. Did you not get my
                  letters?"
               "Only one," answered Garcia, looking both frightened and obstinate, as if he were
                  afraid to stay and yet determined not to go. "One from the Mohave valley."
               "But I urged you in that to remain at a distance, until all had been
                  arranged."
               "I know, my son, I know. I thought like you at first. But presently I became
                  anxious."
               "Not suspicious of my good faith!" exclaimed Coronado in a horrified whisper. "Oh,
                     that is surely impossible."
               "No, no—not suspicious—no, no, my son," chattered Garcia eagerly. "But I began to
                  fear that you needed my help. Things seemed to move so slowly. Madre de Dios! All
                  across the continent, and nothing done yet."
               "Yes, much has been done. I had obstacles. I had people to get rid of. There was a
                  person who undertook to be lover and protector."
               "Is he gone?" inquired the old man anxiously.
               "Ask no questions. The less told, the better. I wish to spare you all
                  responsibility."
               "Carlos, you are my son and heir. You deserve everything that I can give. All
                  shall be yours, my son."
               "That Texas Smith of yours is a humbug," broke out Coronado, his mind reverting to
                  the letter which he had just burned. "I put work on him which he swore to do and
                  aid not do. He is a coward and a traitor."
               "Oh, the pig! Did you pay him?"
               "I had to pay him in advance—and then nothing done right," confessed Coronado.
               "Oh, the pig, the dog, the toad, the villanous toad, the pig of hell!" chattered
                  Garcia in a rage. "How much did you pay him? Five hundred dollars! Oh, the pig and
                  the dog and the toad!"
               "Well, I have been frank with you," said Coronado. (He had diminished by one half
                  the sum paid to Texas Smith.) "I will continue to be frank. You must not stay
                  here. The question is how to get you away unseen."
               "It is useless; I have been recognized," lied Garcia, who was determined not to
                  go.
               "All is lost!" exclaimed Coronado. "The presence of us two—both possible
                  heirs—will rouse suspicion. Nothing can be done."
               But no intimidations could move the old man; he was resolved to stay and oversee
                  matters personally; perhaps he suspected Coronado's plan of marrying Clara.
               "No, my son," he declared. "I know better than you. I am older and know the world
                  better. Let me stay and take care of this. What if I am suspected and denounced
                  and hung? The property will be yours."
               "My more than father!" cried Coronado. "You shall never sacrifice yourself for me.
                  God forbid that I should permit such an infamy!"
               "Let the old perish for the young!" returned Garcia, in a tone of meek obstinacy
                  which settled the controversy.
               It was a wonderful scene; it was prodigious acting. Each of these men, while
                  endeavoring to circumvent the other, was making believe offer his life as a
                  sacrifice for the other's prosperity. It was amazing that neither should lose
                  patience; that neither should say, You are trying to deceive me, and I know it. We
                  may question whether two men of northern race could have carried on such a
                  dialogue without bursting out in open anger, or at least glaring with eyes full of
                  suspicion and defiance.
               "You will find her changed," continued Coronado, when he had submitted to the old
                  man's persistence. "She has grown thinner and sadder. You must not notice it,
                  however; you must compliment her on her health."
               "What is she taking?" whispered Garcia.
               "The less said, the better. My dear uncle, you must know nothing. Do not talk of
                  it. The walls have ears."
               "I know something that would be both safe and sure," persisted the old man in a
                  still lower whisper.
               "Leave all with me," answered Coronado, waving his hand authoritatively. "Too many
                  cooks spoil the broth. What has begun well will end well."
               After a time the two men went down to a shady veranda which half encircled the
                  house, and found Mrs. Stanley taking an accidental siesta on a sort of lounge or
                  sofa. Being a light sleeper, like many other active-minded people, she awoke at
                  their approach and sat up to give reception.
               "Mrs. Stanley, this is my uncle Garcia, my more than father," bowed Coronado.
               "I have not forgotten him?" replied Aunt Maria, who indeed was not likely to
                  forget that mottled face, dyed blue with nitrate of silver.
               Warmly shaking the puffy hand of the old toad, and doing her very best to smile
                  upon him, she said, "How do you do, Mr. Gracia? I hope you are well. Mr. Coronado,
                  do tell him that, and that I am rejoiced to see him."
               Garcia's snaky glance just rose to the honest woman's face, and then crawled
                  hurriedly all about the veranda, as if trying to hide in corners. Thanks to
                  Coronado's fluency and invention, there was a mutually satisfactory
                     conversation between the couple, He
                  amplified the lady's compliments and then amplified the Mexican's compliments,
                  until each looked upon the other as a person of unusual intelligence and a fast
                  friend, Aunt Maria, however, being much the more thoroughly humbugged of the
                  two.
               "My uncle has come on urgent mercantile business, and he crowds in a few days with
                  us," Coronado presently explained. "I have told him of my little cousin's good
                  fortune, and he is delighted."
               "I am so glad to hear it," said Mrs. Stanley. "What an excellent old man he is, to
                  be sure! And you are just like him, Mr. Coronado—just as good and unselfish."
               "You overestimate me," answered Coronado, with a smile which was almost
                  ironical.
               Before long Clara appeared. Garcia's eye darted a look at her which was like the
                  spring of an adder, dwelling for just a second on the girl's face, and then
                  scuttling off in an uncleanly, poisonous way for hiding corners. He saw that she
                  was thin, and believed to a certain extent in Coronado's hints of poison, so that
                  his glance was more cowardly than ordinary.
               Liking the man not overmuch, but pleased to see a face which had been familiar to
                  her childhood, and believing that she owed him large reparation for her
                  grandfather's will, Clara advanced cordially to the old sinner.
               "Welcome, Señor Garcia," she said, wondering that he did not kiss her cheek.
                  "Welcome to your own house. It is all yours. Whatever you choose is yours."
               "I rejoice in your good fortune," sighed Garcia.
               "It is our common fortune," returned Clara, winding her arm in his and walking him
                  up and down the veranda.
               "May God give you long life to enjoy it," prayed Garcia.
               "And you also," said Clara.
               Coronado translated this conversation as fast as it was uttered to Mrs.
                  Stanley.
               "This is the golden age," cried that enthusiastic woman. "You Spaniards are the
                  best people I ever saw. Your men absolutely emulate women in unselfishness."
               "We would do it if it were possible," bowed Coronado.
               "You do it," magnanimously insisted Aunt Maria, who felt that the baser sex ought
                  to be encouraged.
               "Señor Garcia, I ask a favor of you," continued Clara. "You must charge all the
                  costs of the journey overland to me."
               "It is unjust," replied the old man. "Madre de Dios! I can never permit it."
               "If you need the money now, I will request my guardians, the executors, to advance
                  it," persisted Clara, seeing that he refused with a faint heart.
               "I might borrow it," conceded Garcia. "I shall have need of money presently. That
                  journey was a great cost—a terribly bad speculation," he went on, shaking his
                  mottled, bluish head wofully. "Not a piaster of profit."
               "We will see to that," said Clara. "And then, when I am of age—but wait."
               She shook her rosy forefinger gayly, radiant with the joy of generosity, and
                  added, "You shall see. Wait!"
               Coronado, in a rapid whisper, translated this conversation phrase by phrase to
                  Mrs. Stanley, his object being to make Clara's promises public and thus engage her
                  to their fulfilment.
               "Of course!" exclaimed the impulsive Aunt Maria, who was amazingly generous with
                  other people's money, and with her own when she had any to spare. "Of course Clara
                  ought to pay. It is quite a different thing from giving up her rights. Certainly,
                  she must pay. That train did nothing but bring us two women. I really believe Mr.
                  Garcia sent it for that purpose alone. Besides, the expense won't be much, I
                  suppose."
               "No," said Coronado, and he spoke the exact truth; that is, supposing an honest
                  balance. The expedition proper had cost seven or eight thousand dollars, and about
                  two thousand more had been sunk in assassination fees and other "extras." On the
                  other hand, he had sold his wagons and beasts at the high prices of California,
                  making a profit of two thousand dollars. In short, even deducting all that
                  Coronado meant to appropriate to himself, Garcia would obtain a small profit from
                  the affair.
               Now ensued a strange underhanded drama. Garcia stayed week after week, riding
                  often to the city on business or pretence of business, but passing most of his
                  time at the hacienda, where he wandered about a great deal in a ghost-like manner,
                  glancing slyly at Clara a hundred times a day without ever looking her in the
                  eyes, and haunting her steps without overtaking or addressing her. Every time that
                  she returned from a ride he shambled to the door to see if the saddle were empty.
                  During the night he hearkened in the passages for outcries of sudden illness. And
                  while he thus watched the girl, he was himself incessantly watched by his
                  nephew.
               "She gets no worse," the old man at last complained to the younger one. "I think
                  she is growing fat."
               "It is one of the symptoms," replied Coronado. "By the way, there is one thing
                  which we ought to consider. If she gives you half of this estate——?"
               "Madre de Dios! I would take it and go. But she cannot give until she is of age.
                  And meantime she may marry."
               He glanced suspiciously at his nephew, but Coronado kept his bland composure,
                  merely saying, "No present danger of that. She sees no one but us."
               He thought of adding, "Why not marry her yourself, my dear uncle?" But Garcia
                  might retort, "And you?" which would be confusing.
               "Suppose she should make a will in your favor?" the nephew preferred to
                  suggest.
               "I cannot wait. I must have money now. Make a will? Madre de Dios! She would
                  outlive me. Besides, he who makes a will can break a will."
               After a minute of anxious thought, he asked, "How much do you think she will give
                  me?"
               "I will ask her."
               "Not her," returned Garcia petulantly. "Are you a pig, an ass, a
                  fool? Ask the old one—the duenna. It ought to be a great deal; it ought to be
                  half—and more."
               To satisfy the old man as well as himself, Coronado sounded Mrs. Stanley as to the
                  proposed division.
               "Yes, indeed!" said the lady emphatically. "Clara must do something for Garcia.
                  who has been such an excellent friend, and who ought to have been named in the
                  will. But you know she has her duties toward herself as well as toward others. Now
                  the property is not a million; it may be some day or other, but it isn't now. The executors say it might
                  bring three hundred thousand dollars in ready money."
               The executors, by the way, had been sedulously depreciating the value of the
                  estate to Clara, in order to bring down her vast notions of generosity.
               "Well," continued Aunt Maria, "my niece, who is a true woman and magnanimous,
                  wanted to give up half. But that is too much, Mr. Coronado. You see money" (here
                  she commenced on something which she had read)—"money is not the same thing in our
                  hands that it is in yours. When a man has a hundred and fifty thousand dollars, he
                  puts it into business and doubles it, trebles it, and so on. But a woman can't do
                  that; she is trammelled and hampered by the prejudices of this male world; she has
                  to leave her money at small interest. If it doubles once in her life, she is
                  lucky. So, you see. one half given to Garcia would be, practically speaking, much
                  more than half," concluded Aunt Maria, looking triumphantly through her argument
                  at Coronado.
               The Mexican assented; he always assented to whatever she advanced; he did so
                  because he considered her a fool and incapable of reasoning. Moreover, he was not
                  anxious to see half of this estate drop into the hands of Garcia, believing that
                  whatever Clara kept for herself would shortly be his own by right of marriage.
               "You are the greatest woman of our times," he said, stepping backward a pace or
                  two and surveying her as if she were a cathedral. "I should never have thought of
                  those ideas. You ought to be a legislator and reform our laws."
               "I never had a doubt that you would agree with me, Mr. Coronado," returned the
                  gratified Aunt Maria. "Well, so does Clara; at least I trust so," she hesitated.
                  "Now as to the sum winch our good Garcia should receive. I have settled upon
                  thirty thousand dollars. In his hands, you know, it would soon be a hundred and
                  fifty thousand; that is to say, practically speaking, it would be half the
                  estate."
               "Certainly," bowed Coronado, meanwhile thinking, "You old ass!" "And my little
                  cousin is of your opinion, I trust?" he added.
               "Well—not quite—as yet," candidly admitted Aunt Maria. "But she is coming to it. I
                  have no sort of doubt that she will end there."
               So Coronado had learned nothing as yet of Clara's opinions. As he sauntered away
                  to find Garcia, he queried whether he had best torment him with this unauthorized
                  babble of Mrs. Stanley. On the whole, yes; it might bring him down to reasonable
                  terms; the rapacious old man was expecting too large a slice of the dead Muñoz. So
                  he told his tale, giving it out as something which could be depended on, but
                  increasing the thirty thousand dollars to fifty thousand, on his own
                  responsibility. To his alarm Garcia broke out in a venomous rage, calling
                  everybody pigs, dogs, toads, etc., and crying and cursing alternately.
               "Fifty thousand piasters!" he squeaked, tottering about the room on his short weak
                  legs and wringing his hands, so that he looked like a fat dog walking on his hind
                  feet. "Fifty thousand piasters! O Madre de Dios! It is nothing. It is nothing. It
                  will not save me from ruin. It will not cover my debts. I shall be sold out. I am
                  ruined. Fifty thousand piasters! O Madre de Dios!"
               Fifty thousand dollars would have left him more than solvent; but ten times that
                  sum would not have satisfied his grasping soul.
               Coronado saw that he had made a blunder, and sought to rectify it by lying
                  copiously. He averred that he had been merely trying his uncle; he begged his
                  pardon for this absurd and ill-timed joke; he admitted that he was a pig and a dog
                  and everything else ignoble; he should not have trifled with the feelings of his
                  benefactor, his more than father; those feelings were to him sacred, and should be
                  held so henceforward and forever
               But he was not believed. He could fool the old man sometimes, but not on this
                  occasion. Garcia, greedy and anxious, apt by nature to see the dark side of
                  things, judged that the fifty-thousand-dollar story was the true one. Although he
                  pretended at last to accept Coronado's explanation for fact, he remained at,
                  bottom unconvinced, and showed it in his swollen and trembling visage.
               Thenceforward the nephew watched the uncle incessantly t during his absence he
                  stole into his room, opened his baggage, and examined his drawers, and if he saw
                  him near Clara at table, or when refreshments were handed around, he never took
                  his eyes off him.
               But he could not be always at hand. One day the two men rode to the city in
                  company. Garcia dodged Coronado, hastened back to the hacienda, asked to have some
                  chocolate prepared, poured out a cup for Clara, looked at her eagerly while she
                  drank it, and then fell down in a fit.
               An hour later Coronado returned at a full run, to find the old man just recovering
                  his senses and Clara alarmingly ill.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               CLARA had been taken ill while waiting on the unconcious Garcia, and the attack
                  had been so violent as to drive her at once, to her room and bed.
               The first person whom Coronado met when he reached the house was Aunt Maria,
                  oscillating from one invalid to the other in such fright and confusion that she
                  did riot know whether she was strong-minded or not; but thus far chiefly troubled
                  about Garcia, who seemed to her to be in a dying state.
               "Your uncle!" she exclaimed, beckoning wildly to Coronado as he rushed in at the
                  door.
               "I know," he answered hastily. "A servant told me. How is Clara?"
               He was as pale as a man of his dark complexion could be. Aunt Mara caught his
                  alarm, and, forgetting at once all about Garcia, ran on with him to Clara's room.
                  The girl was just then in one of her spasms, her features contracted and white,
                  and her forehead covered with a cold sweat.
               "What is it?" whispered Mrs. Stanley, clutching Coronado by the arm and staring
                  eagerly at his anxious eyes.
               "It is—fever," he returned, making a great effort to control his rage and terror.
                  "Give her warm water to drink. My God I give her something."
               
               He sent three servants in succession to search for three different physicians
                  swearing at them violently while they made their preparations, telling them to
                  ride like the devil, to kill their horses, etc. When he returned to Clara's room
                  she had come out of her paroxysm, and was feebly trying to smile away Aunt Maria's
                  terrors.
               "My cousin!" he whispered in unmistakable anguish of spirit.
               "I am better," she replied. "Thank you, Coronado. How is Garcia?"
               Coronado looked as if he were devoting some one to the infernal furies; but he
                  suppressed his emotion and replied in a smothered voice, "I will go and see."
               Hurrying to his uncle's room, he motioned out the attendants, closed the door,
                  locked it, and then, with a scowl of rage and alarm, advanced upon the invalid,
                  who by this time was perfectly conscious.
               "What have you given her?" demanded Coronado, in a hoarse mutter.
               "I don't know what you mean," stammered the old man. He shut his one eye, not
                  because he could not keep it open, but to evade the conflict which was coming upon
                  him.
               Taking quick advantage of the closed eye, Coronado turned to a dressing-table,
                  pulled out a drawer, seized a key, and opened Garcia's trunk. Before the old man
                  could interfere, the younger one held in his hand a paper containing two ounces or
                  so of white powder.
               "Did you give her this?" demanded Coronado.
               Garcia stared at the paper with such a scared and guilty face, that it was
                  equivalent to a confession.
               Coronado turned away to hide his face. There was a strange smile upon it; at first
                  it was a joy which made him half angelic; then it became amusement. He tottered to
                  a chair, threw himself into it with the air of a thoroughly wearied man who finds
                  rest delicious, put a grain of the powder on his tongue, and then drew a long
                  sigh, a sigh of entire relief.
               We must explain. The inner history of this scene is not a tragedy, but a farce.
                  For two weeks or more Coronado had been watching his uncle day and night, and at
                  last had found in his trunk a paper of powder which he suspected to be arsenic. A
                  blunderer would have destroyed or hidden it, thereby warning Garcia that he was
                  being looked after, and causing him to be more careful about his hiding places.
                  Coronado emptied the paper, snapped off every grain of the powder with his finger,
                  wiped it clean with his handkerchief, and refilled it with another powder. The
                  selection of this second powder was another piece of cleverness. He had at hand
                  both flour and finely pulverized sugar; but he wanted to learn whether Garcia
                  would really dose the girl, and he wanted a chance to frighten him; so he chose a
                  substance which would be harmless, and yet would cause illness.
               "You will he hung," said Coronado, staring sternly at his uncle.
               "I don't know what you mean," mumbled the old man, trembling all over.
               "What a fool you were to use a poison so easily detected as arsenic! I have sent
                  for doctors. They will recognize her symptoms. You prepared the chocolate. Here is
                  the arsenic in your trunk. You will be hung."
               "Give me that paper," whimpered Garcia, rising from his bed and staggering toward
                  Coronado. "Give it to men. It is mine."
               Coronado put the package behind him with one hand and held off his uncle with the
                  other.
               "You must go," he persisted. "She won't live two hours. Be off before you are
                  arrested. Take horse for San Francisco. If there is a steamer, get aboard of it.
                  Never mind where it sails to."
               "Give me the paper," implored Garcia, going down on his knees. "O Madre de Dios!
                  My head, my head! Oh, what extremities! Give me the paper. Carlos, it was all for
                  your sake."
               "Are you going?" demanded Coronado.
               "Oh yes. Madre de Dios! I am going."
               "Come along. By the back way. Do you want to pass her room? Do you
                  want to see your work? I will send your trunk to the bankers. Quit California at
                  the first chance. Quit it at once, if you go to China."
               As Coronado looked after the flying old man he-heard himself called by Mrs.
                  Stanley, who was by this time in great terror about Clara, trotting hither and
                  thither after help and counsel.
               "Oh, Mr. Coronado, do come!" she urged. Then, catching sight of the galloping
                  Garcia, "But what does that mean? Has he gone mad?"
               "Nearly," said Coronado. "I brought him news of pressing business. How is my
                  cousin?"
               "Oh dear! I am terribly alarmed. Do look at her. Will those doctors never
                  come!"
               Coronado, who had been a little in advance of Mrs. Stanley as they hurried toward
                  Clara's room, suddenly stopped, wheeled about with a smile, seized her hands, and
                  shook them heartily.
               "I have it," he exclaimed with a fine imitation of joyful astonishment. "There is
                  no danger. I can explain the whole trouble. My poor uncle has these attacks, and
                  he is extravagantly fond of chocolate. To relieve the attacks he always carries a
                  paper of medicine in one of his vest pockets. To sweeten his chocolate he carries
                  a paper of sugar in the companion pocket. You may be sure that he has made a mistake between the two. He
                  has dosed Clara with his physic. There is no danger."
               He laughed in the most natural manner conceivable; then he checked himself and
                  said: "My poor little cousin! It is no joke for her."
               "Certainly not," snapped Aunt Maria, relieved and yet angry. "How excessively
                  stupid! Here is Clara as sick as can be, and I frightened out of my senses. Men
                  ought not to meddle with cookery. They are such botches, even in their own
                  business!"
               But presently, after she had given Coronado's explanation to Clara, and the girl
                  had laughed heartily over it and declared herself much better, Aunt Maria
                  recovered her good humor and began to pity that poor, sick, driven Garcia.
               "The brave old creature!" she said. "Out of his fits and off on his business. I
                  must say he is a wonder. Let us hope he will come out all right, and soon return
                  to us. But really he ought to be seen to. He may fall off his horse in a fit, or
                  he may dose somebody dreadfully with his chocolate and get taken up for poisoning.
                  Mr. Coronado, you ought to ride into town to-morrow and look after him."
               "Certainly," replied Coronado. He did so, and returned with the news that Garcia
                  had sailed to San Diego, having been summoned back to Santa Fé by the state of his
                  affairs. That day and the night following he slept fourteen hours, making up the
                  arrears of rest which he had lost in watching his uncle. Henceforward he was
                  easier; he had a pretty clear field before him; there 'was no one present to
                  poison Clara; no one but himself to court her. And the courtship went forward with
                  a better prospect of success than is quite agreeable to contemplate.
               Coronado and Clara were Adam and Eve; they were the only man and woman in this
                  paradise. People thus situated are claimed by a being whom most call a goddess,
                  and some a demon. She is protean; she is at once an invariable formula and an
                  individual caprice; she is a law governing the universal multitude, and a passion
                  swaying the unit. She seems to be under an impression that, where a couple are
                  left alone together, they are the last relics of the human race, and that if they
                  do not marry the type will perish. Indifferent to all considerations but one, she
                  pushes them toward each other.
               There is comparative safety from her in a crowd. Bachelors and maidens "who mingle
                  by hundreds may remain bachelors and maidens. But pair them off in lonely places
                  and see if the result is not amazingly hymeneal. A fellow who has run the gauntlet
                  of seven years of patties in New York will marry the first agreeable girl whom he
                  meets in Alaska. There is such a thing as leaving the haunts of men and repairing
                  to waste places to find a husband. We are told that English girls have reduced
                  this to a system, and that fair archers who have failed at Brighton go out to hunt
                  successfully in India.
               Well, Coronado had the favoring chances of solitude, propinquity, and daily
                  opportunity. Seldom away from Clara for a day together, he was in condition to
                  take advantage of any of those moods which lay woman open to courtship, such as
                  gratitude for attentions, a disgust with loneliness, a desire for something to
                  love. It was a great thing for him that there was work about the hacienda which no
                  woman could easily do; that there were men servants to govern, horses to be
                  herded, valued, and sold, and lands to be cultivated. All these male mysteries
                  were soon handed over to Coronado, subject to the advice of Aunt Maria and the
                  final judgment of Clara. The result was that he and she
                  got into a way of frequently discussing many things which threatened to habituate
                  her to the idea of being at one with him through life.
               Have you ever watched two specks floating in a vessel of water? For a long time
                  they approach each other so slowly that the movement is imperceptible; but at last
                  they are within range of each other's magnetism; there is a start, a swift rush,
                  and they are together. Thus it was that Clara was gently, very gently, and
                  unconsciously to herself, approaching Coronado. A mote on the wave of life, she
                  was subject to attraction, as all of us motes are, and this man was the only
                  tractor at hand. Aunt Maria did not count, for woman cnnnot absorb woman. As to
                  Thurstane, he not only was not there, but he was not anywhere, as she at last
                  believed.
               Not a word from him or about him, except one letter from the Adjutant-General,
                  which somehow evaded Coronado's brazier, gave her a moment of choking hope and
                  fear, opened its white, official lips, acknowledged her "communication," and
                  stopped there. The unseen tragedies in which souls suffer are numberless. Here was
                  one. The girl had written with tears and heart-beats, and then with tears and
                  heart-beats had waited. At last came the words, "I have the honor to acknowledge,
                  etc., very respectfully, etc." It was one of the business-like facts of life
                  unknowingly trampling upon a bleeding sentiment.
               Imagine Clara's agitations during this long suspense; her plans and hopes and
                  despairs would furnish matter for a library. There was not a day, if indeed there
                  was an hour, during which her mind was not the theatre of a dozen dramas whereof
                  Thurstane was the hero, either triumphant or perishing. They were horribly
                  fragmentary; they broke off and pieced on to each other like nightmares; one
                  moment he was rescued, and the next tomahawked. And this last fancy, despite all
                  her struggles to hope, was for the most part victorious. Meantime Coronado,
                  guessing her sufferings, and suffering horribly himself with jealousy, talked much
                  and sympathetically to her of Thurstane. So much did this man bear, and with such
                  outward sweetness did he bear it, that one half longs to consider him a martyr and
                  saint. Pity that his goodness should not bear dissection; that it should have no
                  more life in it than a stuffed mannikin; that it should be just fit to scare crows
                  with.
               But hypocrite as Coronado was, he was clever enough to win every day more of
                  Clara's confidence; and perhaps she might have walked into this whited sepulchre
                  in due time had it not been for an accident. Cantering into San Francisco to hold
                  a consultation with her lawyer, she was saluted in the street by a United States
                  officer, also on horseback. She instinctively drew rein, her pulse throbbing at
                  sight of the uniform, and wild hopes beating at her heart.
               "Miss Van Diemen, I believe," said the officer, a dark, stout, bold-looking
                  trooper. "I am glad-to see that you reached here in safety. You have forgotten me.
                  I am Major Robinson."
               "I remember," said Clara, who had not recollected him at first because she was
                  looking solely for Thurstane. "You passed us in the desert."
               "Yes, I took your soldiers away from you, and you declined my escort. I was
                  anxious about you afterwards. Well, it has ended right in spite of me. Of course
                  you have heard of Thurstane's escape."
               "Escape!" exclaimed Clara, her face turning scarlet and then pale. "Oh! tell
                  me!"
               The major stared. He had guessed a love affair between these two; he had inferred
                  it in the desert from the girl's anxiety about the young man. How came it that she
                  knew nothing of the escape?
               "So I have heard," he went on. "I think there can be no mistake about it. I
                  learned it from a civilian who left Fort Yuma some weeks ago. I don't think he could have been mistaken. He told me
                  that the lieutenant was there then. Not well, I am sorry to say; rather broken
                  down by his hardships. Oh, nothing serious, you know. But he was a trifle under
                  the weather, which may account for his not letting his friends hear from him."
               At the story that Thurstane was alive, all Clara's love had arisen as if from a
                  grave, and the mightier because of its resurrection. She was full of
                  self-reproaches. It seemed to her that she had neglected him; that she had cruelly
                  left him to die. Why had she not guessed that he was sick there, and flown to
                  nurse him to health? What had he thought of her conduct? She must go to him at
                  once.
               "I am sorry to say that I can tell you no more," continued the major in response
                  to her eager gaze.
               "I am so obliged to you!" gasped Clara. "If you hear anything more, will you
                  please Jet me know? Will you please come and see me?"
               The major promised and took down her address, but added that he was just starting
                  on an inspecting tour, and that for a fortnight to come he should be able to give
                  her no further information.
               They had scarcely parted ere Clara had resolved to go at once to Fort Yuma. The
                  moment was favorable, for she had with her an intelligent and trustworthy servant,
                  and Coronado had been summoned to a distance by business, so that he could make no
                  opposition. She hastened to her lawyer's, finished her affairs there, drew what
                  money she needed for her journey, learned that a brig was about to start for the
                  Gulf, and sent her man to secure a passage. When he returned with news that the
                  Lolotte would sail next day at noon, she decided not to go back to the hacienda,
                  and took rooms at a hotel.
               What would people say? She did not care; she was going. She had been womanish and
                  timorous too long; this was the great crisis which would decide her future; she
                  must be worthy of it and of him. But remembering Aunt Maria, she sent a letter by
                  messenger to the hacienda, explaining that pressing business called her to be
                  absent for some weeks, and confessing in a postscript that her business referred
                  to Lieutenant Thurstane. This letter brought Coronado down upon her next morning.
                  Returning home unexpectedly, he learned the news from his friend Mrs. Stanley, and
                  was hammering at Clara's door not more than an hour later, all in a tremble with
                  anxiety and rage.
               "This must not be," he stormed. "Such a journey! Twenty-five hundred miles! And
                  for a man who has not deigned to write to you! It is degrading. I will not have
                  it. I forbid it."
               "Coronado, stop!" ordered Clara; and it is to be feared that she stamped her
                  little foot at him; at all events she quelled him instantly.
               He sat down, glared like a mad dog, sprang up and rushed to the door, halted there
                  to stare at her imploringly, and finally muttered in a hoarse voice, "Well—let it
                  be so—since you are crazed. But I shall go with you."
               "You can go," replied Clara haughtily, after meditating for some seconds, during
                  which he looked the picture of despair. "You can go, if you wish it."
               An hour later she said, in her usually gentle tone, "Coronado, pardon me for
                  having spoken to you angrily. You are kinder than I deserve."
               The reader can infer from this speech how humble, helpful, and courteous the man
                  had been in the mean time. Coronado was no half-way character; if he did not like
                  you, he was the fellow to murder you; if he decided to be sweet, he was all honey.
                  Perhaps we ought to, ask excuse for Clara's tartness by explaining that she was in
                  a state of extreme anxiety, remembering that Robinson had hesitated when he said
                  Thurstane was not so very ill, and fearing lest he knew worse things than he had
                  told.
               Meanwhile, let no one suppose that the Mexican meant to let his lady love go to.
                  Fort Yuma. He had his plan for stopping her, and we may put confidence enough in
                  him to believe that it was a good one; only at the last moment circumstances
                  turned up which decided him to drop it. Yes, at the last moment, just as he was
                  about to pull his leading strings, he saw good reason for wishing her far away
                  from San Francisco.
               A face appeared to him; at the first glimpse of it Coronado slipped into the
                  nearest doorway, and from that moment his chief anxiety was to cause the girl to
                  vanish. Yes, he must get her started on her voyage, even at the risk of her
                  continuing it.
               "What the devil is he here for?" he muttered. "Has he found out that she is
                  living?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               AT noon the Lolotte, a broad-beamed, flat-floored brig of light draught and good
                  sailing qualities, hove up her anchor and began beating out of the Bay of San
                  Francisco, with Coronado and Clara on her quarter-deck.
               "You have no other passengers, I understood you to say, captain," observed
                  Coronado, who was anxious on that point, preferring there should be none.
               The master, a Dane by birth named Jansen, who had grown up in the American
                  mercantile service, was a middle-sized, broad-shouldered man, with a red
                  complexion, red whiskers, and a look which was at once grave and fiery. He paused
                  in his heavy lurching to and fro, looked at the Mexican with an air which was
                  civil but very stiff, and answered in that discouraging tone with which skippers
                  are apt to smother conversation when they have business on hand, "Yes, sir, one
                  other."
               Coronado presently slipped down the companionway, found the colored steward,
                  chinked five dollars into his horny palm, and said, "My good fellow, you must look
                  out for me; I shall want a good deal of help during the passage."
               "Yes, sah, very good, sah," was the answer, uttered in a greasy chuckle, as though
                  it were the speech of a slab of bacon fat. "Make you up any little thing, sah.
                  Have a sup now, sah? Little gruel? Little brof?"
               "No, thank you," returned Coronado, turning half sick at the mention of those
                  delicacies. "Nothing at present. By the way, one of the staterooms is occupied I
                  see. Who is the other passenger?"
               "Dunno, sah; keeps hisself shut up, an' says nothin' to nobody. 'Pears like he is
                  sailin' under secret orders. Cur'ous' lookin' old gent; got only one eye."
               One eye! Coronado thought of the face which had frightened him out of San
                  Francisco, and wondered whether he were shut up in the Lolotte with it.
               "One eye?" he asked. "Short, stout, dark old gentleman? Indeed! I think I know
                  him."
               Stepping to the door of a stateroom which he had already noticed as being kept
                  closed, he tapped lightly. There was a muttering inside, a shuffling as of some
                  one getting out of a berth, and then a low inquiry in Spanish, "Who is there?"
               "Me, sah," returned Coronado, imitating, and imitating perfectly, the accent of
                  the steward, who meantime had gone forward, talking and sniggering to himself,
                  after an idiotic way that he had.
               
               The door opened a trifle, and Coronado instantly slipped the toe of his little
                  boot into the crack, at the same time saying in his natural tone, "My dear
                  uncle!"
               Seeing that he was discovered, Garcia gave his nephew entrance, closed the door
                  after him, locked it, and sat down trembling on the edge of the lower berth,
                  groaning and almost whimpering, "Ah, my son! Ah, my dear Carlos! Oh, what a life I
                  have to lead! Madre de Dios, what a life! I thought you were one of my creditors.
                  I did indeed, my dear Carlos, my son."
               "I thought you went back to Santa Fé," was Coronado's reply.
               "No, I did not go; I started, but I came back," mumbled Garcia. Then, plucking up
                  a little spirit, he turned his one eye for? moment on his nephew's face, and
                  added, "Why should I go to Santa Fé? I had no business there. My business is
                  here."
               "But after your attempt at the hacienda?"
               "My attempt! I made no attempt. All that was a mistake. Because I was sick, I was
                  frightened and did not know what to do. I ran away because you told me to run. I
                  had given her nothing. Yes, I did put something in her chocolate, but it was my
                  medicine. I meant to put in sugar, but I made a mistake and went to the wrong
                  pocket, the pocket of my medicine. That was it, Carlos. I give you my word, word
                  of a hidalgo, word of a Christian."
               It was the same explanation which Coronado had invented to forestall suspicions at
                  the hacienda. It was surely a wonderful coincidence of lying, and shows how great
                  minds work alike, Vexed and angry as the nephew was, he could scarcely help
                  smiling.
               "My dear uncle!" he exclaimed, grasping Garcia's pudgy hand melodramatically. "The
                  very thing that occurred to me! I told them so."
               "Did you?" replied the old man, not much believing it. "Then all is well."
               He wanted to ask how it was that Clara had survived her dose; but of course
                  curiosity on that subject must not find vent; it would be equivalent to a
                  confession.
               "Where is she going?" were his next words.
               "To Fort Yuma."
               "To Fort Yuma! What for?"
               "I may as well tell it," burst out Coronado angrily. "She is going there to nurse
                  that officer. He escaped, but he has been sick, and she will go."
               "She must not go," whispered Garcia. "Oh, the ——." And here he called Clara a
                  string of names which cannot be repeated. "She shall not go there," he continued.
                  "She will marry him. Then the property is gone, and we are ruined. Oh, the ——."
                  And then came another assortment of violent and vile epithets, such as are not
                  found in dictionaries.
               Coronado was anxious to divert and dissipate a rage which might make trouble; and
                  as soon as he could get in a word, he asked, "But what have you been doing, my
                  uncle?"
               By dint of questioning and guessing he made out the story of the old man's
                  adventures since leaving the hacienda. Garcia, in extreme terror of hanging, had
                  gone straight to San Francisco and taken passage for San Diego, with the intention
                  of not stopping until he should be at least as far away as Santa Fé. But after a
                  few hours at sea, he had recovered his wits and his courage, and asked himself,
                  why should he fly? If Clara died, the property would be his, and if she survived,
                  he ought to be near her; while as for Carlos, he would surely never expose and
                  hang a man who could cut him off with a shilling. So he landed at Monterey, took
                  the first coaster back to San Francisco, lurked about the city until he learned
                  that the girl was still living, and was just about to put a bold front on the
                  matter by going to see her at the hacienda, when he learned accidentally that she
                  was on the point of voyaging southward. Puzzled and alarmed by this, he resolved
                  to accompany her in her wanderings, and succeeded in getting himself quietly on
                  board the Lolotte.
               "Well, let us go on deck," said Coronado, when the old man had regained his
                  tranquillity. "But let us be gentle, my uncle. We know how to govern ourselves, I
                  hope. You will of course behave like a mother to our little cousin. Congratulate
                  her on her recovery; apologize, for your awkward mistake. It was caused by the
                  coming on of the fit, you remember. A man who is about to have an attack of
                  epilepsy can't of course tell one pocket from another. But such a man is all the
                  more bound to be unctuous."
               Clara received the old man cordially, although she would have preferred not to see
                  him there, fearing lest he should oppose her nursing project But as nothing was
                  said on this matter, and as Garcia put his least cloven foot foremost, the trio
                  not only got on amicably together, but seemed to enjoy one another's society. This
                  was no common feat by the way; each of the three had a great load of anxiety; it
                  was wonderful that they should not show it. Coronado, for instance, while talking
                  like a bird song, was planning how he could get rid of Garcia, and carry Clara
                  back to San Francisco. The idea of pushing the old man overboard was inadmissible;
                  but could he not scare him ashore at the next port by stories of a leak? As for
                  Clara, he could not imagine how to manage her, she was so potent with her wealth
                  and with her beauty. He was still thinking of these things, and prattling
                  mellifluously of quite other things, when the Lolotte luffed up under the lee of
                  the little island of Alcatraz.
               "What does this mean?" he asked, looking suspiciously at the fortifications, with
                  the American flag waving over them.
               "Stop here to take in commissary stores for Fort Yuma," explained the thin,
                  sallow, grave, meek-looking, and yet resolute Yankee mate.
               The chain cable rattled through the hawse hole, and in no loug while the loading
                  commenced, lasting until nightfall. During this time Coronado chanced to learn
                  that an officer was expected on board who would sail as far as San Diego; and, as
                  all uniforms were bugbears to him, he watched for the new passenger with a certain
                  amount of anxiety; taking care, by the way, to say nothing of him to Clara. About
                  eight in the evening, as the girl was playing some trivial game of cards with
                  Garcia in the cabin, a splashing of oars alongside called Coronado on deck. It was
                  already dark; a sailor was, standing by the manropes with a lantern; the captain
                  was saying in a grumbling tone, "Very late, sir."
               "Had to wait for orders, captain," returned a healthy, ringing young voice which
                  struck Coronado like a shot.
               "Orders!" muttered the skipper. "Why couldn't they have had them ready? Here we
                  are going to have a southeaster."
               There was anxiety as well as impatience in his voice; but Coronado just now could
                  not think of tempests; his whole soul was in his eyes. The next instant he beheld
                  in the ruddy light of the lantern the face of the man who was his evil genius, the
                  man whose death he had so long plotted for and for a time believed in, the man
                  who, as he feared, would yet punish him for his misdeeds. He was so thoroughly
                  beaten and cowed by the sight that he made a step or two toward the companionway,
                  with the purpose of hiding in the cabin. Then desperation gave him courage, and he
                  walked straight up to Thurstane.
               
               "My dear Lieutenant!" he cried, trying to seize the young fellow's hand. "Once
                  more welcome to life! What a wonder! Another escape. You are a second
                  Orlando—almost a Don Quixote. And where are your two Sancho Panzas?"
               "You here!" was Thurstane's grim response, and he did not take the proffered
                  hand.
               "Come!" implored Coronado, stepping toward the waist of the vessel and away from
                  the cabin. "This way, if you please," he urged, beckoning earnestly. "I have a
                  word to say to you in private."
               Not a tone of this conversation had been heard below. Before the boat had touched
                  the side the crew were laboring at the noisy windlass with their shouts of "Yo
                  heave ho! heave and pawl! heave hearty ho!" while the mate was screaming from the
                  knight-heads, "Heave hearty, men—heave hearty. Heave and raise the dead. Heave and
                  away."
               Amid this uproar Coronado continued: "You won't shake hands with me, Lieutenant
                  Thurstane. As a gentleman, speaking to another gentleman, I ask an
                  explanation."
               Thurstane hesitated; he had ugly suspicions enough, but no proofs; and if he could
                  not prove guilt, he must not charge it.
               "Is it because we abandoned you?" demanded Coronado. "We had reason. We heard that
                  you were dead. The muleteers reported Apaches. I feared for the safety of the
                  ladies. I pushed on. You, a gentleman and an officer—what else would you have
                  advised?"
               "Let it go," growled Thurstane. "Let that pass. I won't talk of it—nor of other
                  things. But," and here he seemed to shake with emotion, "I want nothing more to do
                  with you—you nor your family. I have had suffering enough."
               "Ah, it is with her that you quarrel rather than with me," inferred
                  Coronado impudently, for he had recovered his self-possession. "Certainly, my poor
                  Lieutenant! You have reason. But remember, so has she. She is enormously rich and
                  can have any one. That is the way these women understand life."
               "You will oblige me by saying not another word on that subject," broke in
                  Thurstane savagely. "I got her letter dismissing me, and I accepted my fate
                  without a word, and I mean never to see her again. I hope that satisfies you."
               "My dear Lieutenant," protested Coronado, "you seem to intimate that I influenced
                  her decision. I beg you to believe, on my word of honor as a gentleman, that I
                  never urged her in any way to write that letter."
               "Well—no matter—I don't care," replied the young fellow in a voice like one long
                  sob. "I don't care whether you did or not. The moment she could write it, no
                  matter how or why, that was enough. All I ask is to be left alone—to hear no more
                  of her."
               "I am obliged to speak to you of her," said Coronado. "She is aboard.
               "Aboard!" exclaimed Thurstane, and he made a step as if to reach the shore or to
                  plunge into the sea.
               "I am sorry for you," said Coronado, with a simplicity which seemed like
                  sincerity. "I thought it my duty to warn you."
               "I cannot go back," groaned the young fellow. "I must go to San Diego. I am under
                  orders."
               "You must avoid her. Go to bed late. Get up early. Keep out of her way."
               Turning his back, Thurstane walked away from this cruel and hated counsellor lor,
                  not thinking at all of him however, but rather of the deep beneath, a refuge from
                  trouble.
               We must slip back to his last adventure with Texas Smith, and learn a little of
                  what happened to him then and up to the present time.
               It will be remembered how the bushwhacker sat in, ambush; how, just as he was
                  about to fire at his proposed victim, his horse whinnied; and how this whinny
                  caused Thurstane's mule to rear suddenly and violently. The rearing saved the
                  rider's life, for the bullet which was meant for the man buried itself in the
                  forehead of the beast, and in the darkness the assassin did not discover his
                  error. But so severe was the fall and so great Thurstane's weakness that he lost
                  his senses and did not come to himself until daybreak.
               There he was, once more abandoned to the desert, but rich in a full haversack and
                  a dead mule. Having breakfasted, and thereby given head and hand a little
                  strength, he set to work to provide for the future by cutting slices from the
                  carcass and spreading them out to dry, well knowing that this land of desolation
                  could furnish neither wolf nor bird of prey to rob his larder. This work done, he
                  pushed on at his best speed, found and fed his companions, and led them back to
                  the mule, their storehouse. After a day of rest and feasting came a march to the
                  Cactus Pass, where the three were presently picked up by a caravan bound to Santa
                  Fé, which carried them on for a number of days until they met a train of emigrants
                  going west. Thus it was that Glover reached California, and Thurstane and Sweeny
                  Fort Yuma.
               Once in quiet, the young fellow broke down, and for weeks was too sick to write to
                  Clara, or to any one. As soon as he could sit up he sent off letter after letter,
                  but after two months of anxious suspense no answer had come, and he began to fear
                  that she had never reached San Francisco. At last, when he was half sick again
                  with worrying, arrived a horrible epistle in Clara's hand and signed by her name,
                  informing him of her monstrous windfall of wealth and terminating the engagement.
                  The cruelest thing in this cruel forgery was the sentence, "Do you not think that
                  in paying courtship to me in the desert you took unfair advantage of my
                  loneliness?"
               She had trampled on his heart and flouted his honor; and while he writhed with
                  grief he writhed also with rage. He could not understand it; so different from
                  what she had seemed; so unworthy of what he had believed her to be! Well, her head
                  had been turned by riches; it was just like a woman; they were all thus. Thus said
                  Thurstane, a fellow as ignorant of the female kind as any man in the army, and
                  scarcely less ignorant than the average, man of the navy. He declared to himself
                  that he would never have anything more to do with her, nor with any of her false
                  sex. At twenty-three he turned woman-hater, just as Mrs. Stanley at forty-five had
                  turned man-hater, and perhaps for much the same sort of reason.
               Shortly after Thurstane had received what he called his cashiering, his company
                  was ordered from Fort Yuma to San Francisco. It had garrisoned the Alcatraz fort
                  only two days, and he Had not yet had a chance to visit the city, when he was sent
                  on this expedition to San Diego to hunt down a deserting quartermaster-sergeant.
                  The result was that he found himself shipped for a three days' voyage with the
                  woman who had made him first the happiest man in the army and then the most
                  miserable.
               How should he endure it? He would not see her; the truth is that he could not
                  endure the trial; but what he said to himself was that he would not.
                  In the darkness tears forced their way out of his eyes and mingled with the
                     spray which the wind was already
                  flinging over the bows. Crying! Three months ago, if any man had told him that he
                  was capable of it, he would have considered himself insulted and would have felt
                  like fighting. Now he was not even ashamed of it, and would hardly have been
                  ashamed if it had been daylight. He was so thoroughly and hopelessly miserable
                  that he did not care what figure he cut.
               But, once more, what should he do? Oh, well, he would follow Coronado's advice;
                  yes, damn him! follow the scoundrel's advice; he could think of nothing for
                  himself. He would stay out until late; then he would steal below and go to bed;
                  after that he would keep his stateroom. However, it was unpleasant to remain where
                  he was, for the spray was beginning to drench the waist as well as the forecastle;
                  and, the quarter-deck being clear of passengers, he staggered thither, dropped
                  under the starboard bulwark, rolled himself in his cloak, and lay brooding.
               Meanwhile Coronado had amused Clara below until he felt seasick and had to take to
                  his berth. Escaping thus from his duennaship, she wanted to see a storm, as she
                  called the half-gale which was blowing, and clambered bravely alone to the
                  quarter-deck, where the skipper took her in charge, showed her the compass, walked
                  her up and down a little, and finally gave her a post at the foot of the shrouds.
                  Thurstane had recognized her by the light of the binnacle, and once more he
                  thought, as weakly as a scared child, "What shall I do?" After hiding his face for
                  a moment he uncovered it desperately, resolving to see whether she would speak.
                  She did look at him; she even looked steadily and sharply, as if in recognition;
                  but after a while she turned tranquilly away to gaze at the sea.
               Forgetting that no lamp was shining upon him, and that she probably had no cause
                  for expecting to find him here, Thurstane believed that she had discovered who he
                  was and that her mute gesture confirmed his rejection. Under this throttling of
                  his last hope he made no protest, but silently wished himself on the battle-field,
                  falling with his face to the foe. For several minutes they remained thus side by
                  side.
               The Lolotte was now well at sea, the wind and waves rising rapidly, the motion
                  already considerable. Presently there was an order of "Lay aloft and furl the
                  skysails," and then short shouts resounded from the darkness, showing that the
                  work was being done. But in spite of this easing the vessel labored a good deal,
                  and heavy spurts of spray began to fly over the quarter-deck rail.
               "I think, Miss, you had better go below unless you want to get wet," observed the
                  skipper, coming up to Clara. "We shall have a splashing night of it."
               Taking the nautical arm, Clara slid and tottered away, leaving Thurstane lying on
                  the sloppy deck.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               HAD Clara recognized Thurstane, she would have thrown herself into his arms, and
                  he would hardly have slept that night for joy.
               As it was, he could not sleep for misery; festering at heart because of that
                  letter of rejection; almost maddened by his supposed discovery that she would not
                  speak to him, yet declaring to himself that he never would have married her,
                  because of her money; at the same time worshipping and desiring her with passion;
                  longing to die, but longing to die for her; half enraged, and altogether
                  wretched.
               Meantime the southeaster, dead ahead and blowing harder every minute, was sending
                  its seas further and further aft. He left his wet berth on the deck, reeled, or
                  rather was flung, to the stern of the vessel, lodged himself between the little
                  wheel-house and the taffrail, and watched a scene in consonance with his feelings.
                  Innumerable twinklings of stars faintly illuminated a cloudless, serene heaven,
                  and a foaming, plunging ocean. The slender, dark outlines of the sailless upper
                  masts were leaning sharply over to leeward, and describing what seemed like mystic
                  circles and figures against the, lighter sky. The crests of seas showed with
                  ghostly whiteness as they howled themselves to death near by, or dashed with a jar
                  and a hoarse whistle over the bulwarks, slapping against the sails and pounding
                  upon the decks. The waves which struck the bows every few seconds gave forth
                  sounds like the strokes of Thor's hammer, and made everything tremble from cathead
                  to sternpost.
               Every now and then there were hoarse orders from the captain on the quarter-deck,
                  echoed instantly by sharp yells from the mate in the waist. Now it was, "Lay aloft
                  and furl the fore royal;" and ten minutes later, "Lay aloft and furl the main
                  royal." Scarcely was this work done before the shout came, "Lay aloft and reef the
                  fore-t'gallant-s'l;" followed almost immediately by "Lay aloft and reef the
                  main-t'gallant-s'l." Next came, "Lay out forrard and furl the flying jib." Each
                  command was succeeded by a silent, dark darting of men into the rigging, and
                  presently a trampling on deck and a short, sharp singing out at the ropes, with
                  cries from aloft of "Haul out to leeward; taut hand; knot away."
               Under the reduced sail the brig went easier for a while; but the half gale had
                  made up its mind to be a hurricane. It was blowing more savagely every second. One
                  after another the topgallant sails were double-reefed, close-reefed, and at last
                  furled. The watch on deck had its hands full to accomplish this work, so
                  powerfully did the win4 drag on the canvas. Presently, far away forward—it seemed
                  on board some other craft, so faint was the sound—there came a bang, bang, bang!
                  on the scuttle of the forecastle, and a hollow shout of "All hands reef tops'ls
                  ahoy!"
               Up tumbled the "starbowlines," or starboard watch, and joined the "lar-bowlines"
                  in the struggle with the elements. No more sleep that night for man, boy. mate, or
                  master. Reef after reef was taken in the topsails, until they were two long,
                  narrow shingles of canvas, and still the wind brought the vessel well down on her
                  beam ends, as if it would squeeze her by main force under water. The men were
                  scarcely on deck from their last reefing job, when boom! went the jib, bursting
                  out as if shot from a cannon, and then whipping itself to tatters.
               "Lay out forrard!" screamed the mate. "Lay out and furl it."
               After a desperate struggle, half the time more or less under Water, two men
                  dragged in and fastened the fragments of the jib, while others set the
                  foretop-mast staysail in its place. But the wind was full of mischief; it seemed
                  to be playing with the ship's company; it furnished one piece of work after
                  another with dizzying rapidity. Hardly was the jib secured before the great
                  mainsail ripped open from top to bottom, and in the same puff the close-reefed
                  foretop-sail split in two with a bang, from earing to earing. Now came the orders
                  fast and loud: "Down yards! Haul out reef tackle! Lay out and furl! Lay out and
                  reef!"
               It was a perfect mess; a score of ropes flying at once; the men rolling about and holding on; the sails
                  slapping like mad, and ends of rigging streaming off to leeward. After an
                  exhausting fight the mainsail was furled, the upper half of the topsail set
                  close-reefed, and everything hauled taut again. Now came an hour or so without
                  accident, but not without incessant and fatiguing labor, for the two royal yards
                  were successively sent down to relieve the upper masts, and the foretopgallant
                  sail, which had begun to blow loose, was frapped with long pieces of sinnet.
               During this period of comparative quiet Thurstane ventured an attempt to reach his
                  stateroom. The little gloomy cabin was going hither and thither in a style which
                  reminded him of the tossings of Gulliver's cage after it had been dropped into the
                  sea by the Brobdingnag eagle. The steward was seizing up mutinous trunks and
                  chairs to the table legs with rope-yarns. The lamp was swinging and the captain's
                  compass see-sawing like monkeys who had gone crazy in bedlams of tree-tops. From
                  two of the staterooms came sounds which plainly confessed that the occupants were
                  having a bad night of it.
               "How is the lady passenger?" Thurstane could not help whispering.
               "Guess she's asleep, sah," returned the negro. "Fus-rate sailor, sah. But them
                  greasers is having tough times," he grinned. "Can't abide the sea, greasers can't,
                  sah."
               Smiling with a grim satisfaction at this last statement, Thurstane gave the man a
                  five-dollar piece, muttered, "Call me if anything goes wrong," and slipped into
                  his narrow dormitory. Without undressing, he lay down and tried to sleep; but,
                  although it was past midnight, he stayed broad awake for an hour or more; he was
                  too full of thoughts and emotions to find easy quiet in a pillow. Near him—yes, in
                  the very next stateroom—lay the being who had made his life first a heaven and
                  then a hell. The present and the past struggled in him, and tossed him with their
                  tormenting contest. After a while, too, as the plunging of the brig increased, and
                  he heard renewed sounds of disaster on deck, he began to fear for Clara's safety.
                  It was a strange feeling, and yet a most natural one. He had not ceased to love;
                  he seemed indeed to love her more than ever; to think of her struggling in the
                  billows was horrible; he knew even then that he would willingly die to save her.
                  But after a time the incessant motion affected him, and he dozed gradually into a
                  sound slumber.
               Hours later the jerking and pitching became so furious that it awakened him, and
                  when he rose on his elbow he was thrown out of his berth by a tremendous lurch.
                  Sitting up with his feet braced, he listened for a little to the roar of the
                  tempest, the trampling feet on deck, and the screaming orders. Evidently things
                  were going hardly above; the storm was little less than a tornado. Seriously
                  anxious at last for Clara—or, as he tried to call her to himself, Miss Van
                  Diemen—he stole out of his room, clambered or fell up the companionway, opened the
                  door after a struggle with a sea which had just come inboard, got on to the
                  quarter-deck, and, holding by the shrouds, quailed before a spectacle as sublime
                  and more terrible than the Great Cañon of the Colorado.
               It was daylight. The sun was just rising from behind a waste of waters; it
                  revealed nothing but a waste of waters. All around the brig, as far as the eye
                  could reach, the Pacific was one vast tumble of huge blue-gray, mottled masses,
                  breaking incessantly in long, curling ridges, or lofty, tossing steeps of foam.
                  Each wave was composed of scores of ordinary waves, just as the greater mountains
                  are composed of ranges and peaks. They seeded moving volcanoes, changing form with
                  every minute of their agony, and spouting lavas of froth. All over this immense
                  riot of tormented deeps rolled beaten and terrified armies of clouds. The wind
                  reigned supreme, driving with a relentless spite, a steady and obdurate pressure,
                  as if it were a current of water. It pinned the sailors to the yards, and nearly
                  blew Thurstane from the deck.
               The Lolotte was down to close-reefed topsails, close-reefed spencer and spanker,
                  and storm-jib. Even upon this small and stout spread of canvas the wind was
                  working destruction, for just as Thurstane reached the deck the jib parted and
                  went to leeward in ribbons. Sailors were seen now on the bowsprit fighting at once
                  with sea and air, now buried in water, and now holding on against the storm, and
                  slowly gathering in the flapping, snapping Fragments. Next a new jib (a third one)
                  was bent on, hoisted half-way, and blown out like a piece of wet paper. Almost at
                  the same moment the captain saw threatening mouths grimace in the mainsail, and
                  screamed "Never mind there forrard. Lay up on the maintawps'l yard. Lay up and
                  furl."
               After half ah hour's fight, the sail bagging and slatting furiously, it was lashed
                  anyway around the yard, and the men crawled slowly down again, jammed and bruised
                  against the shrouds by the wind. Every jib and forestaysail on board having now
                  been torn out, the brig, remained under close-reefed foretopsail, spencer, and
                  spanker, and did little but drift to leeward. The gale was at its height, blowing
                  as if it were shot out of the mouths of cannon, and chasing the ocean before it in
                  mountains of foam. One thing after another went; the topgallants shook loose and
                  had to be sent down; the chain bobstays parted and the martingale slued out of
                  place; one of the anchors broke its fastenings and hammered at the side; the
                  galley gave way and went slopping into the lee scuppers. No food that morning
                  except dry crackers and cold beef; all hands laboring exhaustingly to repair
                  damages and make things taut. For more than half an hour three men were out on the
                  guys and backropes endeavoring to reset the martingale, deluged over and over by
                  seas, and at last driven in beaten. Others were relashing the galley, hauling the
                  loose anchor and all the anchors up on the rail, and resetting the loose lee
                  rigging, which threatened at every lurch to let the masts go by the board.
               Thurstane presently learned that the wind had changed during the night, at first
                  dropping away for a couple of hours, then reopening with fresh rage from the west,
                  and finally hauling around into the northwest, whence it now came in a steady
                  tempest. The vessel too had altered her course; she was no longer beating in long
                  tacks toward the southeast; she was heading westward and struggling to get away
                  from the land. Thurstane asked few questions; he, was a soldier and had learned to
                  meet fate in silence; he knew too that men weighted with responsibilities do not
                  like to be catechised. But he guessed from the frequent anxious looks of the
                  captain eastward that the California coast was perilously near, and that the brig
                  was more likely to be drifting toward it than making headway from it. Surveying
                  through his closed hands the stormy windward horizon, he gave up all thoughts of
                  getting away from Clara by reaching San Diego, and turned toward the idea of
                  saving her from shipwreck.
               None of the other passengers came on deck this morning. Garcia, horribly seasick
                  and frightened, held on desperately to his berth, and passed the time in screaming
                  for the "stewrt," cursing his evil surroundings, calling everybody he could think
                  of pigs, dogs, etc., and praying to saints and angels. Coronado, not less sick and
                  blasphemous, had more command over his fears, and kept his prayers for the last
                  pinch. Clara, a much better sailor, and indeed an uncommonly good one, was so far
                  beaten by the motion that she did not get up, but lay as quiet as the brig would
                  let her, patiently awaiting results, now and then smiling at Garcia's shouts, but
                  more frequently thinking of Thurstane, and sometimes praying that she might find
                  him alive at Fort Yuma.
               
               The steward carried cold beef, hard bread, brandy, coffee, and gruel (made in his
                  pantry) from stateroom to stateroom. The girl ate heartily, inquired about the
                  storm, and asked, "When shall we get there?" Garcia and Coronado tried a little of
                  the gruel and a good deal of the brandy and water, and found, as people usually do
                  under such circumstances, that nothing did them any good. The old man wanted to
                  ask the steward a hundred questions, and yelled for his nephew to come and
                  translate for him. Coronado, lying on his back, made no answer to these cries of
                  despair, except in muttered curses and sniffs of angry laughter. So passed the
                  morning in the cabin.
               Thurstane remained on deck, eating in soldierly fashion, his pockets full of cold
                  beef and crackers, and his canteen (for every infantry officer learns to carry
                  one) charged with hot coffee. He was pretty wet, inasmuch as the spray showered
                  incessantly athwart ships, while every few minutes heavy seas came over the
                  quarter bulwarks, slamming upon the deck like the tail of a shark in his agonies.
                  During the morning several great combers had surmounted the port bow and rushed
                  aft, carrying along everything loose or that could be loosened, and banging
                  against the companion door with the force of a runaway horse. And these deluges
                  grew more frequent, for the gale was steadily increasing in violence, howling and
                  shrieking out of the gilded eastern horizon as if Lucifer and his angels had been
                  hurled anew from heaven.
               About noon the close-reefed foretopsail burst open from earing to earing, and then
                  ripped up to the yard, the corners stretching out before the wind and cracking
                  like musket shots. To set it again was impossible; the orders came, "Down
                  yard—haul out reef tackle;" then half a dozen men laid out on the spar and began
                  furling. Scarcely was this terrible job well under way When a whack of the
                  slatting sail struck a Kanaka boy from his hold, and he was carried to leeward by
                  the gale as if he had been a bag of old clothes, dropping forty feet from the side
                  into the face of a monstrous billow. He swam for a moment, but the next wave
                  combed over him and he disappeared. Then he was seen further astern, still
                  swimming and with his face toward the brig; then another vast breaker rushed upon
                  him with a lion-like roar, and he was gone. Nothing could be done; no boat might
                  live in such a sea; it would have been perilous to change course. The captain
                  glanced at the unfortunate, clenched his fists desperately, and turned to his
                  rigging. Another man took the vacant place on the yard, and the hard, dizzy,
                  frightful labor there went on unflaggingly, with the usual cries of "Haul out,
                  knot away," etc. It was one of the forms of a sailor's funeral.
               No time for comments or emotions; the gale filled every mind every minute. It was
                  soon found that the spanker, a pretty large sail, well aft and not balanced by any
                  canvas at the bow, drew too heavily on the stern and made steering almost
                  impossible. A couple of Kanakas were ordered to reef it, but could do nothing with
                  it; the skipper cursed them for "sojers" (our infantryman smiling at the epithet)
                  and sent two first-class hands to replace them; but these also were completely
                  beaten by the hurricane. It was not till a whole watch was put at the job that the
                  big, bellying sheet could be hauled in and made fast in the reef knots. The brig
                  now had not a rag out but her spencer and reduced spanker, both strong, small, and
                  low sails, eased a good deal by their slant, shielded by the elevated port-rail,
                  and thus likely to hold. But it was not sailing; it was simply lying to. The
                  vessel rose and fell on the monstrous waves, but made scarcely more headway than
                  would a tub, and drifted fast toward the still unseen California coast.
               All might still have gone well had the northwester continued as it was. But about
                  noon this tempest, which already seemed as furious as it could possibly be,
                  suddenly increased to an absolute hurricane, the wind fairly shoving the brig
                  sidelong over the water. Bang went the spanker, and then bang the spencer, both
                  sails at once flying out to leeward in streamers, and flapping to tatters before
                  the men could spring on the booms to secure them. The destruction was almost as
                  instant and complete as if it had been effected by the broadside of a seventy four
                  fired at short range.
               "Bend on the new spencer," shouted the captain. "Out with it and up with it before
                  she rolls the sticks out of her."
               But the rolling commenced instantly, giving the sailors no time for their work. No
                  longer steadied by the wind, the vessel was entirely at the mercy of the sea, and
                  went twice on her beam ends for every billow, first to lee and then to windward.
                  Presently a great, white, hissing comber rose above her larboard bulwark, hung
                  there for a moment as if gloating on its prey, and fell with the force of an
                  avalanche, shaking every spar and timber into an ague, deluging the main deck
                  breast high, and swashing knee-deep over the quarter-deck. The galley, with the
                  cook in it, was torn from its lashings and slung overboard as if it had been a
                  hencoop. The companion doors were stove in as if by a battering ram, and the cabin
                  was flooded in an instant with two feet of water, slopping and lapping among the
                  baggage, and stealing under the doors of the staterooms. The sailors in the waist
                  only saved themselves by rushing into the rigging during the moment in which the
                  breaker hung suspended.
               Nothing could be done; the vessel must lift herself from this state of
                  submergence; and so she did, slowly and tremulously, like a sick man rising from
                  his bed. But while the ocean within was still running out of her scuppers, the
                  ocean without assaulted her anew. Successive billows rolled under her, careening
                  her dead weight this way and that, and keeping her constantly wallowing. No
                  rigging could bear such jerking long, and presently the dreaded catastrophe
                  came.
               The larboard stays of the foremast snapped first; then the shrouds on the same
                  side doubled in a great bight and parted; next the mast, with a loud, shrieking
                  crash, splintered and went by the board. It fell slowly and with an air of
                  dignified, solemn resignation, like Cæsar under the daggers of the conspirators.
                  The cross stays flew apart like cobwebs, but the lee shrouds unfortunately held
                  good; and scarcely was the stick overboard before there was an ominous thumping at
                  the sides, the drum-beat of death. It was like guns turned on their own columns;
                  like Pyrrhus's elephants breaking the phalanx of Pyrrhus.
               "Axes!" roared the captain at the first crack. "Axes!" yelled the mate as the spar
                  reeled into the water. "Lay forward and clear the wreck," were the next orders;
                  "cut away with your knives."
               Two axes were got up from below; the sailors worked like beavers, waist-deep in
                  water; one, who had lost his knife, tore at the ropes with his teeth. After some
                  minutes of reeling, splashing, chopping, and cutting, the fallen mast, the friend
                  who had become an enemy, the angel who had become a demon, was sent drifting
                  through the creamy foam to leeward. Meantime the mate had sounded the pumps, and
                  brought out of them a clear stream of water, the fresh invasion of ocean.
               Directly on this cruel discovery, and as if to heighten Its horror to the utmost,
                  the captain, clinging high up the mainmast shrouds, shouted; "Landalee! Get ready
                  the boats."
               Without a word Thurstane hurried down into the cabin to save Clara from this
                  twofold threatening of death.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XL.
               WHEN Thurstane got into the cabin, he found it pretty nearly clear of water, the
                  steward having opened doors and trap-doors and drawn off the deluge into the
                  hold.
               The first object that he saw, or could see, was Clara, curled up in a chair which
                  was lashed to the mast, and secured in it by a lanyard. As he paused at the foot
                  of the stairway to steady himself against a sickening lurch, she uttered a cry of
                  joy and astonishment, and held out her hand. The cry was not speech; her gladness
                  was far beyond words; it was simply the first utterance of nature; it was the
                  primal inarticulate language.
               He had expected to stand at a distance and ask her leave to save Instead of that,
                  he hurried toward her, caught her in his arms, kissed her hand over and over,
                  called her pet names, uttered a pathetic moan of grief and affection, and shook
                  with inward sobbing. He did not understand her; he still believed that she had
                  rejected him—believed that she only reached out to him for help. But he never
                  thought of charging her with being false or hard-hearted or selfish. At the mere
                  sight of her asking rescue of him he devoted himself to her. He dared to kiss her
                  and call her dearest, because it seemed to him that in this awful moment of
                  perhaps mortal separation he might show his love. If they were to be torn apart by
                  death, and sepulchred possibly in different caves of the ocean, surely his last
                  farewell might be a kiss.
               If she talked to him, he scarcely heard her words, and did not realize their
                  meaning. If it was indeed true that she kissed his cheek, he thought it was
                  because she wanted rescue and would thank any one for it. She was, as he
                  understood her, like a pet animal, who licks the face of any friend in need,
                  though a stranger. Never mind; he loved her just the same as if she were not
                  selfish; he would serve her just the same as if she were still his. He Unloosed
                  her arms from his shoulders, wondering that they should be there, and crawling
                  with difficulty to the cabin locker, groped in it for life-preservers. There was
                  only one in the vessel; that one he buckled around Clara.
               "Oh, my darling!" she exclaimed; "what do you mean?"
               "My darling!" he echoed, "bear it bravely. There is great danger; but don't be
                  afraid—I will save you."
               He had no doubts in making this promise; it seemed to him that he could overcome
                  the billows for her sake—that he could make himself stronger than the powers of
                  nature.
               "Where did you come from? from another vessel?" she asked, stretching out her arms
                  to him again.
               "I was here," he said, taking and kissing her hands; "I was here, watching over
                  you. But there is no time to lose. Let me carry you."
               "They must be saved," returned Clara, pointing to the staterooms. "Garcia and
                  Coronado are there."
               Should he try to deliver those enemies from death? He did not hesitate a moment
                  about it, but bursting open the doors of the two rooms he shouted, "On deck with
                  you! Into the boats! We are sinking!"
               Next he set Clara down, passed his left arm around her waist, clung to things with
                  his right hand, dragged her up the companionway to the quarter-deck, and lashed
                  her to the weather shrouds, with her feet on the wooden leader. Not a word was
                  spoken during the five minutes occupied by this short journey. Even while Clara
                  was crossing the deck a frothing comber deluged her to her waist, and Thurstane
                  had all he could do to keep her from being flung into the lee scuppers. But once
                  he had her fast and temporarily safe, he made a great effort to smile cheerfully,
                  and said, "Never fear; I won't leave you."
               "Oh! to meet to die! "she sobbed,-for the strength of the water and the rage of
                  the surrounding sea had frightened her. "Oh, it is cruel!"
               Presently she smothered her crying, and implored, "Come up here and tie yourself
                  by my side; I want to hold your hand."
               He wondered whether she loved him again, now that she saw him; and in spite of the
                  chilling seas and the death at hand, he thrilled warm at the thought. He was about
                  to obey her when Coronado and Garcia appeared, pale as two ghosts, clinging to
                  each other, tottering and helpless. Thurstane went to them, got the old man lashed
                  to one of the backstays, and helped Coronado to secure himself to another. Garcia
                  was jabbering prayers and crying aloud like a scared child, his jaws shaking as if
                  in a palsy. Coronado, although seeming resolved to bear himself like an hidalgo
                  and maintain a grim silence, his face was wilted and seamed with anxiety, as if he
                  had become an old man in the night. It was rather a fine sight to see him looking
                  into the face of the storm with an air of defying death and all that it might
                  bring; and perhaps he would have been helpful, and would have shown himself one of
                  the bravest of the brave, had he not been prostrated by sickness. As it was, he
                  took little interest in the fate of others, hardly noticing Thurstane as he
                  resumed his post beside Clara, and only addressing the girl with one word:
                  "Patience!"
               Clara and Thurstane, side by side arid hand in hand, were also for the most part
                  silent, now looking around them upon their fate, and then at each other for
                  strength to bear it.
               Meantime part of the crew had tried the pumps, and been washed away from them
                  twice by seas, floating helplessly about the main deck, and clutching at rigging
                  to save themselves, but nevertheless discovering that the brig was filling but
                  slowly, and would have full time to strike before she could founder.
               "'Vast there!" called the captain; "'vast the pumps! All hands stand by to launch
                  the boats!"
               "Long boat's stove!" shouted the mate, putting his hands to his mouth so as to be
                  heard through the gale.
               "All hands aft!" was the next order. "Stand by to launch the quarter-boats!"
               So the entire remaining crew—two mates and eight men, including the
                  steward—splashed and clambered on to the quarter-deck and took station by the
                  boat-falls, hanging on as they could.
               "Can I do anything?" asked Thurstane.
               "Not yet," answered the captain; "you are doing what's right; take care of the
                  lady."
               "What are the chances?" the lieutenant ventured now to inquire.
               With fate upon him, and seemingly irresistible, the skipper had dropped his grim
                  air of conflict and become gentle, almost resigned. His voice was friendly,
                  sympathetic, and quite calm, as he stepped up by Thurstane's side and said, "We
                  shall have a tough time of it. The land is only about ten miles away. At this rate
                  we shall strike it inside of three hours. I don't see how it can be helped."
               "Where shall we strike?"
               "Smack into the Bay of Monterey, between the town and Point Pinos.'
               
               "Can I do anything?"
               "Do just what you've got in hand. Take care of the lady. See that she gels into
                  the biggest boat—if we try the boats."
               Clara overheard, gave the skipper a kind look, and said, "Thank you, captain."
               "You're fit to be capm of a liner, miss," returned the sailor. "You're one of the
                  best sort."
               For some time longer, while waiting for the final catastrophe, nothing was done
                  but to hold fast and gaze. The voyagers were like condemned men who are preceded,
                  followed, accompanied, jostled, and hurried to the place of death by a vindictive
                  people. The giants of the sea were coming in multitudes to this execution which
                  they had ordained; all the windward ocean was full of rising and falling billows,
                  which seemed to trample one another down in their savage haste. There was no mercy
                  in the formless faces which grimaced around the doomed ones, nor in the
                  tempestuous voices which deafened them with threatenings and insult. The breakers
                  seemed to signal to each other; they were cruelly eloquent with menacing gestures.
                  There was but one sentence among them, and that sentence was a thousand times
                  repeated, and it was always DEATH.
               To paint the shifting sublimity of the tempest is as difficult as it was to paint
                  the steadfast sublimity of the Great Carton. The waves were in furious movement,
                  continual change, and almost incessant death. They destroyed themselves and each
                  other by their violence. Scarcely did one become eminent before it was torn to
                  pieces by its comrades, or perished of its own rage. They were like barbarous
                  hordes, exterminating one another or falling into dissolution, while devastating
                  everything in their course.
               There was a frantic revelry, an indescribable pandemonium of transformations.
                  Lofty plumes of foam fell into hoary, flattened sheets; curling and howling
                  cataracts became suddenly deep hollows. The indigo slopes were marbled with white,
                  but not one of these mottlings retained the same shape for an instant; it was
                  broad, deep, and creamy when the eye first beheld it; in the next breath it was
                  waving, shallow, and narrow; in the next it was gone. A thousand eddies, whirls,
                  and ebullitions of all magnitudes appeared only to disappear. Great and little
                  jets of froth struggled from the agitated centres toward the surface, and never
                  reached it. Every one of the hundred waves which made up each billow rapidly
                  tossed and wallowed itself to death.
               Yet there was no diminution in the spectacle, no relaxation in the combat. In the
                  place of what vanished there was immediately something else. Out of the quick
                  grave of one surge rose the white plume of another. Marbling followed marbling,
                  and cataract overstrode cataract. Even to their bases the oceanic ranges and peaks
                  were full of power, activity, and, as it were, explosions. It seemed as if endless
                  multitudes of transformations boiled up through them from their abodes in sea-deep
                  caves. There was no exhausting this re-productiveness of form and power. At every
                  glance a thousand worlds of waters had perished, and a thousand worlds of waters
                  had been created. And all these worlds, the new even more than the old, were full
                  of malignity toward the wreck, and bent on its destruction.
               The wind, though invisible, was not less wonderful. It surpassed the ocean in
                  strength, for it chased, gashed, and deformed the ocean. It inflicted upon it
                  countless wounds, slashing fresh ones as fast as others healed. It not only tore
                  off the hoary scalps of the billows and flung them through the air, but it
                  wrenched out and hurled large masses of water, scattering them in rain and mist,
                  the blood of the sea. Now and then it made all the air dense with spray causing
                  the Pacific to resemble the Sahara in a simoom. At other times it levelled the
                  tops of scores of waves at once, crushing and kneading them by the immense force
                  that lay in its swiftness.
               It would not be looked in the face; it blinded the eyes that strove to search it;
                  it seemed to flap and beat them with harsh, churlish wings; it was as full of
                  insult as the billows. Its cry was not multitudinous like that of the sea, but one
                  and incessant and invariable, a long scream that almost hissed, On reaching the
                  wreck, however, this shriek became hoarse with Page, and howled as it shook the
                  rigging. It used the shrouds and stays of the still upright mainmast as an æolian
                  harp from which to draw horrible music. It made the tense ropes tremble and
                  thrill, and tortured the spars until they wailed a death-song. Its force as felt
                  by the shipwrecked ones was astonishing; it beat them about as if it were a sea,
                  and bruised them against the shrouds and bulwarks; it asserted its mastery over
                  them with the long-drawn cruelty of a tiger.
               Just around the wreck the tumult of both wind and sea was of course more horrible
                  than anywhere else. These enemies were infuriated by the sluggishness of the
                  disabled hulk; they treated it as Indians treat a captive who cannot keep up with
                  their march; they belabored it with blows and insulted it with howls. The brig,
                  constantly tossed and dropped and shoved, was never still for an instant. It
                  rolled heavily and somewhat slowly, but with perpetual jerks and jars, shuddering
                  at every concussion. Its only regularity of movement lay in this, that the force
                  of the wind and direction of the waves kept it larboard, side on, drifting
                  steadily toward the land.
               One moment it was on a lofty crest, seeming as if it would be hurled into air. The
                  next it was rolling in the trough of the sea, between a wave which hoarsely
                  threatened to engulf it, and another which rushed seething and hissing from
                  beneath the keel. The deck stood mostly at a steep angle, the weather bulwarks
                  being at a considerable elevation, and the lee ones dipping the surges. Against
                  this helpless and partially water-logged mass the combers rushed incessantly,
                  hiding it every few seconds with sheets of spray, and often sweeping it with
                  deluges. Around the stern and bow the rush of bubbling, roaring whirls was
                  uninterrupted.
               The motion was sickly and dismaying, like the throes of one who is dying. It could
                  not be trusted; it dropped away under the feet traitorously; then, by an insolent
                  surprise, it violently stopped or lifted. It was made the more uncertain and
                  distressing by the swaying of the water which had entered the hull. Sometimes,
                  too, the under boiling of a crushed billow caused a great lurch to windward; and
                  after each of these struggles came a reel to leeward which threatened to turn the
                  wreck bottom up; the breakers meantime leaping aboard with loud stampings as if
                  resolved to beat through the deck.
               During hours of this tossing and plunging, this tearing of the wind and battering
                  of the sea, no one was lost. The sailors were clustered around the boats, some
                  clinging to the davits and others lashed to belaying pins, exhausted by long
                  labor, want of sleep, and constant soakings, but ready to fight for life to the
                  last. Coronado and Garcia were still fast to the backstays, the former a good deal
                  wilted by his hardships, and the latter whimpering. Thurstane had literally seized
                  up Clara to the outside of the weather shrouds, so that, although she was terribly
                  jammed by the wind, she could not be carried away by it, while she was above the heaviest pounding of the seas.
                  His own position was alongside of her, secured in like manner by ends of
                  cordage.
               Sometimes he held her hand, and sometimes her waist. She could lean her shoulder
                  against his, and she did so nearly all the while. Her eyes were fixed as often on
                  his face as on the breakers which threatened her life. The few words that she
                  spoke were more likely to be confessions of love than of terror. Now and then,
                  when a billow of unusual size had slipped harmlessly by, he gratefully and almost
                  joyously drew her close to him, uttering a few syllables of cheer. She thanked him
                  by sending all her affectionate heart through her eyes into his.
               Although there had been no explanations as to the past, they understood each
                  other's present feelings. It could not be, he was sure, that she clung to him thus
                  and looked at him thus merely because she wanted him to save her life. She had
                  been detached from him by others, he said; she had been drawn away from thinking
                  of him during his absence; she had been brought to judge, perhaps wisely, that she
                  ought not to marry a poor man; but now that she saw him again she loved him as of
                  old, and, standing at death's door, she felt at liberty to confess it. Thus did he
                  translate to himself a past that had no existence. He still believed that she had
                  dismissed him, and that she had done it with cruel harshness. But he could not
                  resent her conduct; he believed what he did and forgave her; he believed it, and
                  loved her.
               There were moments when it was delightful for them to be as they were. As they
                  held fast to each other, though drenched and exhausted and in mortal peril, they
                  had a sensation as if they were warm. The hearts were beating hotly clean through
                  the wet frames and the dripping clothing.
               "Oh, my love!" was a phrase which Clara repeated many times with an air of deep
                  content.
               Once she said, "My love, I never thought to die so easily. How horrible it would
                  have been without you!"
               Again she murmured, "I have prayed many, many times to have you. I did not know
                  how the answer would come. But this is it."
               "My darling, I have had visions about you," was another of these confessions.
                  "When I had been praying for you nearly all one night, there was a great light
                  came into the room. It was some promise for you. I knew it was then; something
                  told me so. Oh, how happy I was!"
               Presently she added, "My dear love, we shall be just as happy as that: We shall
                  live in great light together. God will be pleased to see plainly how we love each
                  other."
               Her only complaints were a patient "Isn't it hard?" when a new billow had covered
                  her from head to foot, crushed her pitilessly against the shrouds, and nearly
                  smothered her.
               The next words would perhaps be, "I am so sorry for you, my darling. I wish for
                  your sake that you had not come. But oh, how you help me!"
               "I am glad to be here," firmly and honestly and passionately responded the young
                  man, fusing her wet hand and covering it with kisses. "But you shall not die."
               He was bearing like a man and she like a woman. He was resolved to fight his
                  battle to the last; she was weak, resigned, gentle, and ready for heaven. The
                  land, even to its minor features, was now distinctly visible, not more than a mile
                  to leeward. As they rose on the billows they could distinguish the long beach, the
                  grassy slopes, and wooded knolls beyond it, the green lawn on which stood the
                  village of Monterey, the whitewashed walls and red-tiled roofs of the houses, and
                  the groups of people who were watching the oncoming tragedy.
               "Are you not going to launch the boats?" shouted Thurstane after a glance at the
                  awful line of frothing breakers which careered back and forth athwart the
                  beach.
               "They are both stove," returned the captain calmly. "We must go ashore as we
                  are."
            
            
               CHAPTER XLI.
               WHEN Thurstane heard, or rather guessed from the captain's gestures, that the
                  boats were stove, he called, "Are we to do nothing?"
               The captain shouted something in reply, but although he put his hands to his mouth
                  for a speaking trumpet, his words were inaudible, and he would not have been
                  understood had he not pointed aloft.
               Thurstane looked upward, and saw for the first time that the main topmast had
                  broken off and been cut clear, probably hours ago when he was in the cabin
                  searching for Clara. The top still remained, however, and twisted through its
                  openings was one end of a hawser, the other end floating off to leeward two
                  hundred yards in advance of the wreck. Fastened to the hawser by a large loop was
                  a sling of cordage, from which a long halyard trailed shoreward, while another
                  connected it with the top. All this had been done behind his back and, without his
                  knowledge, so deafening and absorbing was the tempest. He saw at once what was
                  meant and what he would have to do. When the brig struck he must carry Clara into
                  the top, secure her in the sling, and send her ashore. Doubtless the crowd on the
                  beach would know enough to make the hawser fast and pull on the halyard.
               The captain shouted again, and this time he could be understood: "When she strikes
                  hold hard."
               "Did you hear him?" Thurstane asked, turning to Clara.
               "Yes," she nodded, and smiled in his face, though faintly like one dying. He
                  passed one arm around the middle stay of the shrouds and around her waist, passed
                  the other in front of her, covering her chest; and so, with every muscle set, he
                  waited.
               Surrounded, pursued, pushed, and hammered by the billows, the wreck drifted,
                  rising and falling, starting and wallowing toward the awful line where the
                  breakers plunged over the undertow and dashed themselves to death on the
                  resounding Shore. There was a wide debatable ground between land and water. One
                  moment it belonged to earth, the next lofty curling surges foamed howling over it;
                  then the undertow was flying back in savage torrents. Would the hawser reach
                  across this flux and reflux of death? Would the mast hold against the grounding
                  shock? Would the sling work?
               They lurched nearer; the shock was close at hand; every one set teeth and
                  tightened grip. Lifted on a monstrous billow, which was itself lifted by the
                  undertow and the shelving of the beach, the hulk seemed as if it were held aloft
                  by some demon in order that it might be dashed to pieces. But the wave lost its
                  hold, swept under the keel, staggered wildly up the slope, broke in a huge white
                  deafening roll, and rushed backward in torrents. The brig was between two forces;
                  it struck once, but not heavily; then, raised by the incoming surge, it struck
                  again; there was an awful consciousness and uproar of beating and grinding; the next instant it was on its beam ends
                  and covered with cataracts.
               Every one aboard was submerged. Thurstane and Clara were overwhelmed by such a
                  mass of water that they thought themselves at the bottom of the sea. Two men who
                  had not mounted the rigging, but tried to cling to the boat davits, were hurled
                  adrift and sent to agonize in the undertow. The brig trembled as if it were on the
                  point of breaking up and dissolving in the horrible, furious yeast of breakers.
                  Even to the people on shore the moment and the spectacle were sublime and
                  tremendous beyond description. The vessel and the people on board disappeared for
                  a time from their sight under jets and cascades of surf. The spray rose in a dense
                  sheet as high as the maintopmast would have been had it stood upright.
               When Thurstane came out of his state of temporary drowning, he was conscious of
                  two sailors clambering by him toward the top, and heard a shout in his ears of
                  "Cast loose."
               It was the captain. He had sprung alongside of Clara, and was already unwinding
                  her lashings. Thrice before the job was done they were buried in surf, and during
                  the third trial they had to hold on with their hands, the two men clasping the
                  girl desperately and pressing her against the rigging. It was a wonder that she
                  and all of them were not disabled, for the jamming of the water was enough to
                  break bones.
               They got her up a few ratlines; then came another surge, during which they gripped
                  hard; then there was a second ascent, and so on. The climbing was the easier and
                  the holding on the more difficult, because the mast was depressed to a low angle,
                  its summit being hardly ten feet higher than its base. Even in the top there was a
                  desperate struggle with the sea, and even after Clara was in the sling she was
                  half drowned by the surf.
               Meantime the people on shore had made fast the hawser to a tree and manned the
                  halyard. Not a word was uttered by Clara or Thurstane when they parted, for she
                  was speechless with exhaustion and he with anxiety and terror. The moment he let
                  go of her he had to grip a loop of top-hamper and hold on with all his might to
                  save himself from being pitched into the water by a fresh jerk of the mast and a
                  fresh inundation of flying surge. When he could look at her again she was far out
                  on the hawser, rising and falling in quick, violent, perilous swings, caught at by
                  the toppling breakers and howled at by the undertow. Another deluge blinded him;
                  as soon as he could he gazed shoreward again, and shrieked with joy; she was being
                  carefully lifted from the sling; she was saved—if she was not dead.
               When the apparatus was hauled back to the top the captain said to Thurstane, "Your
                  turn now."
               The young man hesitated, glanced around for Coronado and Garcia, and replied,
                  "Those first."
               It was not merely humanity, and not at all good-will toward these two men, which
                  held him back from saving his life first; it was mainly that motto of nobility,
                  that phrase which has such a mighty influence in the army, "An officer and a
                     gentleman." He believed that he would disgrace his profession and
                  himself if he should quit the wreck while any civilian remained upon it.
               Coronado, leaving his uncle to the care of a sailor, had already climbed the
                  shrouds, and was now crawling through the lubber hole into the top. For once his
                  hardihood was beaten; he was pale, tremulous and obviously in extreme terror; he
                  clutched at the sling the moment he was pointed to it. With the utmost most care,
                  and without even a look of reproach, Thurstane helped secure him in the loops and
                  launched him on his journey. Next came the turn of Garcia. The old man seemed
                  already dead. He was livid, his lips blue, his hands helpless, his voice gone, his
                  eyes glazed and set. It was necessary to knot him into the sling as tightly as if
                  he were a corpse; and when he reached shore it could be seen that, he was borne
                  off like a dead weight.
               "Now then," said the captain to Thurstane. "We can't go till you do. Passengers
                  first."
               Exhausted by his drenchings, and by a kind of labor to which he was not
                  accustomed, the lieutenant obeyed this order, took his place in the sling, nodded
                  good-by to the brave sailors, and was hurled out of the top by a plunge of surf,
                  as a criminal is pushed from the cart by the hangman.
               No idea has been given, and no complete idea can be given, of the difficulties,
                  sufferings, and perils of this transit shoreward. Owing to the rising and falling
                  of the mast, the hawser now tautened with a jerk which flung the voyager up
                  against it or even over it, and now drooped in a large bight which let him down
                  into the seethe of water and foam that had just rushed over the vessel, forcing it
                  down on its beam ends. Thurstane was four or five times tossed and as often
                  submerged. The waves, the wind, and the wreck played with him successively or all
                  together. It was an outrage and a torment which surpassed some of the tortures of
                  the Inquisition. First came a quick and breathless plunge; then he was imbedded in
                  the rushing, swirling waters, drumming in his ears and stifling his breath; then
                  he was dragged swiftly upward, the sling turning him out of it. It seemed to him
                  that the breath would depart from his body before the transit was over. When at
                  last he landed and was detached from the cordage, he was so bruised, so nearly
                  drowned, so every way exhausted, that lift could not stand. He lay for quite a
                  while motionless, his head swimming, his legs and arms twitching convulsively,
                  every joint and muscle sore, catching his breath with painful gasps, almost
                  fainting, and feeling much as if he were dying.
               He had meant to help save the captain and sailors. But there was no more work in
                  him, and he just had strength to walk up to the village, a citizen holding him by
                  either arm. As soon as he could speak so as to be understood, he asked, first in
                  English and then in Spanish, "How is the lady?"
               "She is insensible," was the reply—a reply of unmeant cruelty.
               Remembering how he had suffered, Thurstane feared lest Clara had received her
                  death-stroke in the slings, and he tottered forward eagerly, saying, "Take me to
                  her."
               Arrived at the house where she lay, he insisted upon seeing her, and had his way.
                  He was led into a room; he did not see and could never remember what sort of a
                  room it was; but there she was in bed, her face pale and her eyes closed; he
                  thought she was dead, and he nearly fell. But a pitying womanly voice murmured to
                  him, "She lives," with other words that he did not understand, or could not
                  afterward recall. Trusting that this unconsciousness was a sleep, he suffered
                  himself to be drawn away by helping hands, and presently was himself in a bed, not
                  knowing how he got there.
               
               Meantime the tragedy of the wreck was being acted out. The sling broke once, the
                  sailor who was in it falling into the undertow, and perishing there in spite of a
                  rush of the townspeople. One of the two men who were washed overboard at the first
                  shock was also drowned. The rest escaped, including the heroic captain, who was
                  the last to come ashore.
               When Thurstane was again permitted to see Clara, it was, to his great
                  astonishment, the morning of the following day. He had slept like the dead; if any
                  one had sought to awaken him, it would have been almost impossible; there was no
                  strength left in body or spirt but for sleep. Clara's story had been much the
                  same: insensibility, then swoons, then slumber; twelve hours of utter
                  unconsciousness. On waking the first words of each were to ask for the other.
                  Thurstane put on his scarcely dried uniform and hurried to the girl's room. She
                  received him at the door, for she had heard his step although it was on tiptoe,
                  and she knew his knock although as light as the beating of a bird's wing.
               It was another of those interviews which cannot be described, and perhaps should
                  not be. They were uninterrupted, for the ladies of the house had learned from
                  Clara that this was her betrothed, and they had woman's sense of the sacredness of
                  such meetings. Presents came, and were not sent in: Coronado called and was not
                  admitted. The two were alone for two hours, and the two hours passed like two
                  minutes. Of course all the ugly past was explained.
               "A letter dismissing you!" exclaimed Clara with tears. "Oh! how could you think
                  that I would write such a letter? Never—never! Oh, I never could. My hand should
                  drop off first. I should die in trying to write such wickedness. What! don't you
                  know me better? Don't you know that I am true to you? Oh, how could you believe it
                  of me? My darling, how could you?"
               "Forgive me," begged the humbled young fellow, trembling with joy in his humility.
                  "It was weak and wicked in me. I deserved to be punished as I have been. And, oh,
                  I did hot deserve this happiness. But, my little girl, how could I help being
                  deceived? There was your handwriting and your signature."
               "Ah! I know who it was," broke out Clara. "It has been he all through. He shall
                  pay for this, and for all," she added, her Spanish blood rising in her cheeks, and
                  her soft eyes sparkling angrily for a minute.
               "I have saved his life for the last time," returned Thurstane. "I have spared it
                  for the last time. Hereafter——"
               "My darling, my darling!" begged Clara, alarmed by his blackening brow. "Oh, my
                  darling, I don't love to see you angry. Just now, when we have just been spared to
                  each other, don't let us be angry. I spoke angrily first. Forgive me."
               "Let him keep out of my way," muttered Thurstane, only in part pacified.
               "Yes," answered Clara, thinking that she would herself send Coronado off, so that
                  there might be no duel between him and this dear one.
               Presently the lover added one thing which he had felt all the time ought to have
                  been said at first.
               "The letter——it was right. Although he wrote it, it was right I have
                  no claim to marry a rich woman, and you have no right to marry a poor man."
               He uttered this in profound misery, and yet with a firm resolution. Clara turned
                  pale and stared at him with anxious eyes, her lips parted as though to speak, but
                  saying nothing. Knowing his fastidious sense of honor, she guessed the full force
                  with which this scruple weighed upon him, and she did not know how to drag it off
                  his soul.
               "You are worth a million," he went on, in a broken-hearted sort of voice which to
                  us may seem laughable, but which brought the tears into Clara's eyes.
               The next instant she brightened; she knew, or thought she knew, that she was not
                  worth a million; so she smiled like a sunburst and caught him gayly by the
                  wrists.
               "A million!" she scoffed, laughingly. "Do you believe all Coronado tells you?"
               "What! isn't it true?" exclaimed Thurstane, reddening with joy. "Then you are not
                  heir to your grandfather's fortune? It was one of his lies? Oh, my
                  little girl, I am forever happy."
               She had not meant all this; but how could she undeceive him? The tempting thought
                  came into her mind that she would marry him while he was in this ignorance, and so
                  relieve him of his noble scruples about taking an heiress. It was one of those
                  white lies which, it seems to us, must fade out of themselves from the record
                  book, without even needing to be blotted by the tear of an angel.
               "Are you glad?" she smiled, though anxious at heart, for deception alarmed her.
                  "Really glad to find me poor?"
               His only response was to cover her hands, and hair, and forehead with kisses.
               At last came the question, When? Clara hesitated; her face and neck bloomed with
                  blushes as dewy as flowers; she looked at him once piteously, and then her gaze
                  fell in beautiful shame.
               "When would you like?" she at last found breath to whisper.
               "Now—here," was the answer, holding both her hands and begging with his blue-black
                  eyes, as soft then as a woman's.
               "Yes, at once," he continued to implore. "It is best every way. It will save you
                  from persecutions. My love, is it not best?"
               Under the circumstances we cannot wonder that this should be just as she
                  desired.
               "Yes—it is—best," she murmured, hiding her face against his shoulder. "What you
                  say is true. It will save me trouble."
               After a short heaven of silence he added, "I will go Aid see what is needed. I
                  must find a priest."
               As he was departing she caught him; it seemed to her just then that she could not
                  be a wife so soon; but the result was that after another silence and a faint
                  sobbing, she let him go.
               Meantime Coronado, that persevering and audacious but unlucky conspirator, Was in
                  treble trouble. He was afraid that he would lose Clara; afraid that his plottings
                  had been brought, to light, and that he would be punished; afraid that his uncle
                  would die and thus deprive him of all chance of succeeding to any part of the
                  estate of Muñoz. Garcia had been brought ashore apparently at his last gasp, and
                  he had not yet come out of his insensibility. For a time Coronado hoped that he
                  was in one of his fits; but after eighteen hours he gave up that feeble
                  consolation; he became terribly anxious about the old man; he felt as though he
                  loved him. The people of Monterey universally admitted that they had never before
                  known such an affectionate nephew and tender-hearted Christian as Coronado.
               He tried to see Clara, meaning to make the most with her of Garcia's condition,
                  and hoping that thus he could divert her a little from Thurstane. But somehow all
                  his messages failed; the little house which' held her repelled him as if it had been a nunnery; nor could he get a
                  word or even a note from her. The truth is that Clara, fearing lest Coronado
                  should tell more stories about her million to Thurstane, had taken the women of
                  the family into her confidence and easily got them to lay a sly embargo on callers
                  and correspondents.
               On the second day Garcia came to himself for a few minutes, and struggled hard to
                  say something to his nephew, but could give forth only a feeble jabber, after
                  which he turned blank again. Coronado, in the extreme of anxiety, now made another
                  effort to get at Clara. Reaching her house, he learned from a bystander that she
                  had gone out to walk with the Americano, and then he thought he discovered them
                  entering the distant church.
               He set off at once in pursuit, asking himself with an anxiety which almost made
                  him faint, "Are they to be married?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XLII.
               IN those days the hymeneal laws of California were as easy as old shoes, and
                  people could espouse each other about as rapidly as they might want to.
               The consequence was that, although Ralph Thurstane and Clara Van Die-men had only
                  been two days in Monterey and had gone through no forms of publication, they were
                  actually being married when Coronado reached the village church.
               Leaning against the wall, with eyes as fixed and face as livid as if he were a
                  corpse from the neighboring cemetery, he silently witnessed a ceremony which it
                  would have been useless for him to interrupt, and then, stepping softly out oft a
                  side door, lurked away.
               He walked a quarter of a mile very fast, ran nearly another quarter of a mile,
                  turned into a by-road, sought its thickest underbrush, threw himself on the
                  ground, and growled. For once he had a heavier burden upon him than he could bear
                  in human presence, or bear quietly anywhere. He must be alone; also he must weep
                  and curse. He was in a state to tear his hair and to beat his head against the
                  earth. Refined as Coronado usually was, admirably as he could imitate the tranquil
                  gentleman of modern civilization, he still had in him enough of the natural man to
                  rave. For a while he was as simple and as violent in his grief as ever was any
                  Celtiberian cave-dweller of the stone age.
               Jealousy, disappointed love, disappointed greed, plans balked, labor lost, perils
                  incurred in vain! All the calamities that he could most dread seemed to have
                  fallen upon him together; he was like a man sucked by the arms of a polypus, dying
                  in one moment many deaths. We must, however, do him the justice to believe that
                  the wound which tore the sharpest was that which lacerated his heart. At this
                  time, when he realized that he had altogether and forever lost Clara, he found
                  that he loved her as he had never yet believed himself capable of loving.
                  Considering the nobility of this passion, we must grant some sympathy to
                  Coronado.
               Unfortunate as he was, another misfortune awaited him. When he returned to the
                  house where Garcia lay, he found that the old man, his sole relative and sole
                  friend, had expired. To Coronado this dead body was the carcass of ail remaining
                  hope. The exciting drama of struggle and expectation which had so violently
                  occupied him for the last six months, and which had seemed to promise such great
                  success, was over. Even if he could have resolved to kill Clara, there was no
                  longer anything to be gained by it, for her money would not descend to Coronado.
                  Even if he should kill Thurstane, that would be a harm rather than a benefit, for
                  his widow would hate Coronado. If he did any evil deed now, it must be from
                  jealousy or from vindictiveness. Was murder of any kind worth while? For the time,
                  whether it were worth while or not, he was furious enough to do it.
               If he did not act, he must go; for as everything had miscarried, so much had
                  doubtless been discovered, and he might fairly expect chastisement. While he
                  hesitated a glance into the street showed him something which decided him, and
                  sent him far from Monterey before sundown. Half a dozen armed horsemen, three of
                  them obviously Americans, rode by with a pinioned prisoner, in whom Coronado
                  recognized Texas Smith. He did not stop to learn that his old bravo had committed
                  a murder in the village, and that a vigilance committee had sent a deputation
                  after him to wait upon him into the other world. The sight of that haggard,
                  scarred, wicked face, and the thought of what confessions the brute might be led
                  to if he should recognize his former employer, were enough to make Coronado buy a
                  horse and ride to unknown regions.
               Under the circumstances it would perhaps be unreasonable to blame him for leaving
                  his uncle to be buried by Clara and Thurstane.
               These two, we easily understand, were not much astonished and not at all grieved
                  by his departure.
               "He is gone," said Thurstane, when he learned the fact. "No wonder."
               "I am so glad!" replied Clara.
               "I suspect him now of being at the bottom of all our troubles."
               "Don't let us talk of it, my love. It is too ugly. The present is so
                  beautiful!"
               "I must hurry back to San Francisco and try to get a leave of absence," said the
                  husband, turning to pleasanter subjects. "I want full leisure to be happy."
               "And you won't let them send you to San Diego?" begged the wife. "No more voyages
                  now. If you do go, I shall go with you."
               "Oh no, my child. I can't trust the sea with you again. Not after this," and he
                  waved his hand toward the wreck of the brig.
               "Then I will beg myself for your leave of absence."
               Thurstane laughed; that would never do; no such condescension in his
                  wife!
               They went by land to San Francisco, and Clara kept the secret of her million
                  during the whole journey, letting her husband pay for everything out of his
                  shallow pocket, precisely as if she had no money. Arrived in the city, he left her
                  in a hotel and hurried to headquarters. Two hours later he returned smiling, with
                  the news that a brother officer had volunteered to take his detail, and that he
                  had obtained a honeymoon leave of absence for thirty days.
               "Barclay is a trump," he said, "It is all the prettier in him to go that he has a
                  wife of his own. The commandant made no objection to the exchange. In fact the old
                  fellow behaved like a father to me, shook hands, patted me on the shoulder,
                  congratulated me, and all that sort of thing. Old boy, married himself, and very
                  fond of his family. Upon my word, it seems to better a man's heart to marry
                  him."
               "Of course it does," chimed in Clara. "He is so much happier that of course he is
                  better."
               "Well, my little princess, where shall we go?"
               "Go first to see Aunt Maria. There! don't make a face. She is very good in the
                  long run. She will be sweet enough to you in three days."
               
               "Of course I will go. Where is she?"
               "Boarding at a hacienda a few miles from town. We can take horses, canter out
                  there, and pass the night."
               She was full of spirits; laughed and chattered all the way; laughed at everything
                  that was said; chattered like a pleased child. Of course she was thinking of the
                  surprise that she would give him, and how she had circumvented his sense of honor
                  about marrying a rich girl, and how hard and fast she had him. Moreover the
                  contrast between her joyous present and her anxious past was alone enough to make
                  her run over with gayety. All her troubles had vanished in a pack; she had gone at
                  one bound from purgatory to paradise.
               At the hacienda Thurstane was a little struck by the respect with which the
                  servants received Clara; but as she signed to them to be silent, not a word was
                  uttered which could give him a suspicion of the situation. Mrs. Stanley, moreover,
                  was taking a siesta, and so there was another tell-tale mouth shut.
               "Nobody seems to be at home," said Clara, bursting into a merry laugh over her
                  trick as they entered the house. "Where can the master and mistress be?"
               They were now in a large and handsomely furnished room, which was the parlor of
                  the hacienda.
               "Don't sit down," cried Clara, her eyes sparkling with joy. "Stand just there as
                  you are. Let me look at you a moment. Wait till I tell you something."
               She fronted him for a few seconds, watching his wondering face, hesitating,
                  blushing, and laughing. Suddenly she bounded forward, threw her arms around his
                  shoulders and cried excitedly, hysterically, "My love! my husband! all this is
                  yours. Oh, how happy I am!"
               The next moment she burst into tears on the shoulder to which she was
                  clinging.
               "What is the matter?" demanded Thurstane in some alarm; for he did not know that
                  women can tremble and weep with gladness and he thought that surely his wife was
                  sick if not deranged.
               "What! don't you guess it?" she asked, drawing back with a little more calmness,
                  and looking tenderly into his puzzled eyes.
               "You don't mean——?"
               "Yes, darling."
               "It can't be that——?"
               "Yes, darling."
               He began to comprehend the trick that had been played upon him, although as yet he
                  could not fully credit it. What mainly bewildered him was that Clara, whom he had
                  always supposed to be as artless as a child—Clara, whom he had cared for as an
                  elder and a father—should have been able to keep a secret and devise a plot and
                  carry out a mystification.
               "Great——Scott!" he gasped in his stupefaction, using the name of the then
                  commander-in-chief for an oath, as officers sometimes did in those days.
               "Yes,'yes, yes," laughed and chattered Clara. "Great Scott and great Thurstane!
                  All yours. Three hundred thousand. Half a million. A million. I don't know how
                  much. All I know is that it is all yours. Oh, my darling! oh, my darling! How I
                  have fooled" you! Are you angry with me? Say, are you angry? What will you do to
                  me?"
               We must excuse Thurstane for finding no other chastisement than to squeeze her in
                  his arms and choke her with kisses. Next he held her from him, set her down upon a
                  sofa, fell back a pace and stared at her much as if she were a totally new
                  discovery, something in the way of an arrival from the moon. He was; in a state of
                  profound amazement at the dexterity with which she had taken his destiny out of
                  his own hands into hers, without his knowledge. He had not supposed that she was a
                  tenth part so clever. For the first time he perceived that she was his match, if
                  indeed she were not the superior nature; and it is a remarkable fact, though not a
                  dark one if one looks well into it, that he respected her the more for being too
                  much for him.
               "It beats Hannibal," he said at last. "Who would have expected such generalship in
                  you? I am as much astonished as if you had turned into a knight in armor. Well,
                  how much it has saved me! I should have hesitated and been miserable; and I should
                  have married you all the same; and then been ashamed of marrying money, and had it
                  rankle in me for years. And now—oh, you wise little thing!—all I can say is, I
                  worship you."
               "Yes, darling," replied Clara, walking gravely up to him, putting her hands on his
                  shoulders, and looking him thoughtfully in the eyes. "It was the wisest thing I
                  ever did. Don't be afraid of me. I never shall be so clever again. I never shall
                  be so tempted to be clever."
               We must pass over a few months. Thurstane soon found that he had the Muñoz estate
                  in his hands, and that, for the while at least, it demanded all his time and
                  industry. Moreover, there being no war and no chance of martial distinction, it
                  seemed absurd to let himself be ordered about from one hot and cramped station to
                  another, when he had money enough to build a palace, and a wife who could make it
                  a paradise. Finally, he had a taste for the natural sciences, and his observations
                  in the Great Canon and among the other marvels of the desert had quickened this
                  inclination to a passion, so that he craved leisure for the study of geology,
                  mineralogy, and chemistry. He resigned his commission, established himself in San
                  Francisco, bought all the scientific books he could hear of, made expeditions to
                  the California mountains, collected garrets full of specimens, and was as happy as
                  a physicist always is.
               Perhaps his happiness was just a little increased when Mrs. Stanley announced her
                  intention of returning to New York. The lady had been amiable on the whole, as she
                  meant always to be; but she could not help daily taking up her parable concerning
                  the tyranny and stupidity of man and the superior virtue of woman; and sometimes
                  she felt it her duty to put it to Thurstane that he owed everything to his wife;
                  all of which was more or less wearing, even to her niece. At the same time she was
                  such a disinterested, well-intentioned creature that it was impossible not to
                  grant her a certain amount of admiration. For instance, when Clara proposed to
                  make her comfortable for life by settling upon her fifty thousand dollars, she
                  replied peremptorily that it was far too much for an old woman who had decided to
                  turn her back on the frivolities of society, and she could with difficulty be
                  brought to accept twenty thousand.
               Furthermore, she was capable, that is, in certain favored moments, of confessing
                  error. "My dear," she said to Clara, some weeks after the marriage, "I have made
                  one great mistake since I came to these countries. I believed that Mr. Coronado
                  was the right man and Mr. Thurstane the wrong one. Oh, that smooth-tongued,
                  shiny-eyed, meeching, bowing, complimenting hypocrite! I see at last what a
                  villain he was. I see it," she emphasized, as if nobody else had
                  discovered it. "To think that a person who was so right on the main question
                  [female suffrage] could be so wrong on everything else! The contradiction adds to
                  his guilt. Well, I have had my lesson. Every one must make Her mistake. I shall
                  never be so humbugged again."
               
               Some little time after Thurstane had received the acceptance of his resignation
                  and established himself in his handsome city house, Aunt Maria observed abruptly,
                  "My dears, I must go back."
               "Go back where? To the desert and turn hermit?" asked Clara, who was accustomed to
                  joke her relative about "spheres and missions."
               "To New Y9rk," replied Mrs. Stanley. "I can accomplish nothing here. This
                  miserable Legislature will take no notice of my petitions for female
                  suffrage."
               "Oh, that is because you sign them alone," laughed the younger lady.
               "I can't get anybody else to sign them," said Aunt Maria with some asperity. "And
                  what if I do sign them alone? A house full of men ought to have gallantry enough
                  to grant one lady's request. California is not ripe for any great and noble
                  measure. I can't remain where I find so little sympathy and collaboration. I must
                  go where I can be of use. It is my duty."
               And go she did. But before she shook off her dust against the Pacific coast there
                  was an interview with an old acquaintance.
               It must be understood that the fatigues and sufferings of that terrible pilgrimage
                  through the desert had bothered the constitution of little Sweeny, and that, after
                  lying in garrison hospital at San Francisco for several months, he had been
                  discharged from the service on "certificate of physical disability." Thurstane,
                  who had kept track of him, immediately took him to his house, first as an invalid
                  hanger-on, and then as a jack of all work.
               As the family were sitting at breakfast Sweeny's voice was heard in the veranda
                  outside, "colloguing" with another voice which seemed familiar.
               "Listen," whispered Clara. "That is Captain Glover. Let us hear what they say.
                  They are both so queer!"
               "An' what" ("fwat" he pronounced it) "the divil have ye been up to?" demanded
                  Sweeny. "Ye're a purty sailor, buttoned up in a long-tail coat, wid a white
                  hankerchy round yer neck. Have ye been foolin' paple wid makin' 'em think ye're a
                  Protestant praste?"
               "I've been blowin' glass, Sweeny," replied the sniffling voice of Phineas
                  Glover.
               "Blowin' glass! Och, yees was always powerful at blowin'. But I niver heerd ye
                  blow glass. It was big lies mostly whin I was a listing."
               "Yes, blowin' glass," returned the Fair Havener in a tone of agreeable
                  reminiscence, as if it had been a not unprofitable occupation. "Found there wasn't
                  a glass-blower in all Californy. Bought 'n old machine, put up to the mines with
                  it, blew all sorts 'f jigmarigs 'n' thingumbobs, 'n' sold 'em to the miners 'n'
                  Injuns. Them critters is jest like sailors ashore; they'll buy anything they set
                  eyes on. Besides, I sounded my horn; advertised big, so to speak; got up a
                  sensation. Used to mount a stump 'n' make a speech; told 'em I'd blow Yankee
                  Doodle in glass, any color they wanted; give 'em that sort 'f gospel, ye
                  know."
               "An' could ye do it?" inquired the Paddy, confounded by the idea of blowing a
                  glass tune.
               Lord, Sweeny! you're greener 'n the miners. When ye swaller things that way, don't
                  laugh 'r ye'll choke yerself to death, like the elephant did when he read the
                  comic almanac at breakfast."
               "I don't belave that nuther," asseverated Sweeny, anxious to clear himself from
                  the charge of credulity.
               "Don't believe that!" exclaimed Glover. "He did it twice."
               "Och, go way wid ye. He couldn't choke himself afther he was dead. I wouldn't
                  belave it, not if I see him turn black in the face. It's yerself 'll get choked
                  some day if yees don't quit blatherin'. But what did ye get for yer blowin'? Any
                  more 'n the clothes ye're got to yer back?"
               For answer Glover dipped into his pockets, took out two handfuls of gold pieces
                  and chinked them under the Irishman's nose.
               "Blazes! ye're lousy wid money," commented Sweeny. "Ye want somebody to scratch
                  yees."
               "Twenty thousan' dollars in bank," added Glover. "All by blowin' 'n' tradin'.
                  Goin' hum in the next steamer. Anythin' I can do for ye, old messmate? Say how
                  much."
               "It's the liftinant is takin' care av me. He's made a betther livin' nor yees, a
                  thousand times over, by jist marryin' the right leddy. An' he's going to put me in
                  charrge av a farrum that they call the hayshindy, where I'll sell the cattle for
                  myself, wid half to him, an' make slathers o' money."
               "Thunder, Sweeny! You'll end by ridin' in a coach. What'll ye take for yer
                  chances? Wal, I'm glad to hear ye're doin' so well. I am so, for old times'
                  sake."
               "Come in, Captain Glover," at this moment called Clara through the blinds. "Come
                  in, Sweeny. Let us all have a talk together about the old times and the new
                  ones."
               So there was a long talk, miscellaneous and delightful, full of reminiscences and
                  congratulations and good wishes.
               "Wal, we're a lucky lot," said Glover at last. "Sh'd like to hear 'f some good
                  news for the sergeant and Mr. Kelly. Sh'd go back hum easier for it."
               "Kelly is first sergeant," stated Thurstane, "and Meyer is quartermaster-sergeant,
                  with a good chance of being quartermaster. He is capable of it and deserves it. He
                  ought to have been promoted years ago for his gallantry and services during the
                  war. I hope every day to hear that he has got his commission as lieutenant."
               "Wal, God bless 'em, 'n' God bless the hull army!" said Glover, so gratified that
                  he felt pious. "An' now, good-by. Got to be movin'."
               "Stay over night with us," urged Thurstane. "Stay a week. Stay as long as you
                  will."
               "Do," begged Clara. "You can go geologizing with my husband. You can start Sweeny
                  on his farm."
               "Och, he's a thousin' times welkim," put in Sweeny, "though I'm afeard av him.
                  He'd tache the cattle to trade their skins wid ache other, an slather me wid lies
                  till I wouldn't know which was the baste an' which was Sweeny."
               Glover grinned with an air of being flattered, but replied, "Like to stay first
                  rate, but can't work it. Passage engaged for to-morrow mornin'."
               "Indeed!" exclaimed Aunt Maria, agreeably surprised by an idea.
               And the result was that she went to New York under the care of Captain Glover.
               As for Clara and Thurstane, they are surely in a state which ought to satisfy
                  their friends, and we will therefore say no more of them.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
